, had , in the course of their yesterday ' s party , received the delightful confession of an equal
elton ; and said , looking so very significantly at her , “that she did not pretend to understand what
offense .
chapel of st .
in hereafter !
and what possible claim could the miss dashwoods , who were related to him only by half blood , which
for her even to mention his name as they went , for neither lydia nor mr .
” and then whispering—“our companions are excessively stupid .
you will know , from this description , i must mean captain tilney , who , as you may remember
gardiner , who was several years younger than mrs .
they spoke , therefore , of mrs .
very frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by kitty and lydia , whose own misery was extreme , and
with respect to her father , it was a question soon answered .
at seven o ' clock , leaving marianne still sweetly asleep , she joined mrs .
agitation , to wait , at least , with the appearance of composure , till she might speak to him
do come in .
as she married .
ford the trouble of two parcels .
was first started to enter it ; and , at length , as there was no necessity for my having
—there is no understanding a word of it .
" mrs musgrove had not a word to say in dissent ; she could not accuse herself of having ever
after waiting at home every morning for a fortnight , and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for her ,
he feared that principle , active principle , had been wanting ; that they had never been properly taught to
take the necklace and say no more about it .
to old age , must probably sink more .
ever heard of conjugal infelicity in her life , or could have the smallest insight into the disposition of the
most unexceptionable applicant , on his own terms , and as a great favour , that he would let it
if they are tame and quiet .
radcliffe would have written in vain—or perhaps might not have written at all .
” and the gentlemen perhaps thought each to himself , “women will have their little nonsenses and needless cares .
around my neck , exclaimed , “acknowledge thee !
i do not think you will find your woods by any means worse stocked than they were .
“my dear harriet , you must not refine too much upon this charade .
to see any thing at all ; and calmly continuing her talk , as soon as marianne disappeared , she
it is a reasonable and laudable pride which resists such malevolence .
in my mind , every virtue that could adorn it was centered ; it was the rendez-vous of every good
just now—very like yours , only with coquelicot ribbons instead of green ; i quite longed for it .
a serious attachment .
" [ _num_ ] chapter xxxv elinor ' s curiosity to see mrs .
the two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery , where this conversation passed , by the arrival of the
but to what does all this lead ?
elton , the lover of harriet , was professing himself her lover .
excepting the moments of peculiar delight , which any marked or unlooked-for instance of edmund ' s consideration of her
anne saw them wherever she went .
; everything that money and taste could do , to give comfort and elegance to apartments , had been bestowed
turned from the house , and in such a way !
to the credit of their punctuality as sportsmen , were in very good time .
what a sweet little cottage there is among the trees—apple trees , too !
upon men who have no fortune at all .
you think of her ?
happy those , who can remain at highbury !
” miss fairfax , who had seldom spoken before , except among her own confederates , spoke now .
see that it was cold , and too well wrapt up to feel it .
it , but i wish it may be so .
such conduct made them of course most exceedingly laughed at ; but ridicule could not shame , and seemed hardly
visits from you .
you provide for the family , you know , (with a smile at his father) .
rushworth undertook to count his speeches .
' s ; the origin of one all selfish vanity , of the other all generous attachment .
it was her public place : there she met her acquaintance , heard a little news , talked over the
and to tell you the truth , ” speaking rather lower , “i do not think that i shall ever
the utmost care could not always secure the most valuable fruits .
grant , professing an indisposition , for which he had little credit with his fair sister-in-law , could not spare
at the time .
i am determined , you see , not to be denied admittance at churchhill .
—on her side , all was warmth , energy , and triumph—and she positively refused to take her friend '
for so young a woman it is remarkable !
fanny , now at liberty to speak openly , felt more than justified in adding to his knowledge of her
norris was sorry to say that the little girl ' s staying with them , at least as things then
it is my father himself .
" " colonel brandon ' s character , " said elinor , " as an excellent man , is well
i suppose you have not so many in this part of the world ; for my part , i think
when you have lived to my age , you will begin to think letters are never worth going through the
then i should say we were quite complete .
” “were you really ?
the room , their situation was just the same ; they saw nothing of the dancers but the high feathers
chapter vi emma could not feel a doubt of having given harriet ' s fancy a proper direction and raised
no , my dear little modest harriet , depend upon it the picture will not be in bond-street till just
felt for the first time that she was really in an abbey .
supplied the place of language in bidding each other adieu ; and , as they entered the hall , unable
but , on the other hand , she could not admit herself to be unhappy , nor , after the
great as was my astonishment , it was yet increased , when on looking out of windows , i beheld
envy on the other , and only such a consciousness of superiority in the miss musgroves , as made them
, one ought to overlook , and one does overlook a great deal .
i believe you equal to every important exertion , and to every domestic forbearance , so long as--if i may
" elinor bowed her assent .
” fanny could hardly have kept her seat any longer , or have refrained from at least trying to get
my object was accomplished in the visit .
of opening susan ' s heart to her , and giving her something more to love and be interested in
" sir walter would quit kellynch hall ; and after a very few days more of doubt and indecision ,
”—and on perceiving her , came forward with a kindness which astonished and penetrated her , calling her his dear
how are you all ?
she had been a friend and companion such as few possessed : intelligent , well-informed , useful , gentle ,
here consequently was an inexhaustible subject of discourse .
” “yes , yes , you can act well enough for us .
the dashwoods were two days on the road , and marianne bore her journey on both , without essential fatigue
road , the richmond road , which , though apparently public enough for safety , had led them into alarm
able to form her opinion of him ; but she scarcely heard his voice while his father remained in the
not afraid of what any body can do .
i have disconcerted him already by my calm reserve , and it shall be my endeavour to humble the pride
to love her husband , but she wanted at once to be the wife of captain weston , and miss
” “how should you have liked making sermons ?
come , jane , take my other arm .
" " she is only grown a little more grave than she was .
hour after hour passed away in sleepless pain and delirium on marianne ' s side , and in the most
to do and no variety to hope for .
upon this trust she dared still to remain in his presence , after the company left them , and nothing
udolpho to read , i feel as if nobody could make me miserable .
thousand pounds , were not quite so easily obtained as he had fancied , he would soon try for miss
he must have a pretty good opinion of himself .
—a woman with fewer resources than i have , need not have been at a loss .
, that emma would not allow herself entirely to form an opinion of the lady , and on no account
" " i entreat you to stay .
” “i certainly cannot return his affection , and as certainly never meant to encourage it .
to her hereafter , as circumstances may arise , the provision of a gentlewoman , if no such establishment should
harry was vastly pleased .
see , without being aware , and so it was quite hid , but i had it in my hand
they came from exeter , well provided with admiration for the use of sir john middleton , his family ,
jennings had assigned him for her own satisfaction , were now actually excited by her sister ; and that however
weston , on that score .
” “believe me , my dear sir , my gratitude is warmly excited by such affectionate attention ; and depend
darcy , and reading in her neighbours’ looks , their equal amazement in beholding it .
” elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word .
i think my father certainly ought to hear of it ; do mention all about him .
how he must have felt it !
the share of miss dashwood , whom she eyed with the spirited determination of disliking her at all events .
" by which the colonel was surprised to find that she was considering mr .
what he told me was merely this : that he congratulated himself on having lately saved a friend from the
but grief and disappointment in seeing him .
counteract her mother’s schemes .
“depend upon it , it is something not at all worth understanding .
my mother ; and if we can be the means of amusing that anxiety , and keeping up her spirits
that i am of any more use in the sick-room than charles , for i cannot be always scolding and
for a few minutes she saw nothing before her ; it was all confusion .
bingley has not much idea of ever returning to netherfield again ?
dashwood ' s happening to mention her design of improving the cottage in the spring , he warmly opposed every
rushworth did not come , the injury was increased , and she had not even the relief of shewing her
you must not run away from us now .
” said he , smiling .
everything real and imaginary—and put them round her neck , and seen and felt how full of william and edmund
if it is not very disagreeable to you .
was his belief (whether justly or not , of course i cannot decide) , that your father and sister ,
all those feelings , but he must consider it as very unfortunate that she had ; for , less willing
" oh no ; as to leaving the little boy , " both father and mother were in much too
; and , besides , it was such a pity that lydia should be taken from a regiment where she
but , my dearest jane , you cannot seriously imagine that because miss bingley tells you her brother greatly admires
her sister ; should it be otherwise , her exertions would be of a different nature—she must then learn to
, and they have been all closeted together .
she never did , you know .
sober pace in which the handsome , highly fed four horses of a gentleman usually perform a journey of thirty
did you , on reading it , give any credit to its contents ?
in the cecilia of madame d ' arblay—the forerunner , if not the model , of miss austen—is a sentence
way .
i do not think anything would justify me in wishing you to sacrifice all your happiness merely to oblige my
calling here .
so resolutely against the oppression of her feelings , that her success was speedy , and for the time complete
exactly what you deserve .
yes , aversion !
about making it , as if pleased to have the employment all to herself ; and with only a little
we cannot attempt to defend dr .
husband ; but anne could collect that their income had never been equal to their style of living , and
' s , and the child be appointed to meet her there .
” and she longed to be able to say something more to the purpose .
elton was wanting notice , which nobody had inclination to pay , and she was herself in a worry of
i always make a point of reading jane ' s letters through to myself first , before i read them
anne found captain benwick getting near her , as soon as they were all fairly in the street .
thorpe , pointing at three smart-looking females who , arm in arm , were then moving towards her .
susan , who had an innate taste for the genteel and well-appointed , was eager to hear , and fanny
it was a horrid sight !
elizabeth walked in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her .
he was precisely the height of mr .
his objections , the scruples of his integrity , seemed all done away , nobody could tell how ; and
collins took his station between his cousin elizabeth and mrs .
it is to be uncommonly dreadful .
ferrars was married , thomas ?
spite of mr .
children , had many fears and many nerves , and was as fond of her own mr .
poor little emma !
frank churchill are to be married , and that they have been privately engaged to one another this long while
they will only get a roll if it does break down ; and there is plenty of dirt ; it
churchill ?
she considered it as an act of indispensable duty to clear away the claims of creditors with all the expedition
ferrars ; but do you not perceive that my interest on such an occasion would be perfectly unnecessary ?
same conclusion as mary , from the present course of events , they served only to confirm the idea of
her plan for the morning thus settled , she sat quietly down to her book after breakfast , resolving to
“if we make haste , ” said lydia , as they walked along , “perhaps we may see something of
i ask only a comfortable home ; and considering mr .
grant had , with her usual good-humour , agreed to undertake the part for which fanny had been wanted ;
they were indeed two sweet , elegant-looking girls , and tho ' somewhat abashed from the peculiarity of their situation
this is brilliant indeed !
she was rather low all the evening , but emma could allow for her amiable regrets , and sometimes relieved
her resolution was supported by isabella ' s behaviour in their parting interview .
certainly have the avenue at sotherton down : the avenue that leads from the west front to the top of
but this will just give you a notion of the general rate of drinking there .
the new building was not only new , but declared itself to be so ; intended only for offices ,
consists in tormenting a respectable man .
why should your ladyship , at any rate , quarrel with my brother for an interference which , you must
" " if elinor is frightened away by her dislike of mrs .
communicating them to elinor .
it appears a neat job , however , as far as i could judge by candlelight , and does my
her next beginning was , “in one respect , perhaps , mr .
" " mamma , you are not doing me justice .
his house so comfortably , that it would be a shame to have him single any longer—and i thought when
of the last-mentioned hero , what shall i say ?
to call her sister , catherine took the opportunity of asking the other for some particulars of their yesterday '
the sister , mrs croft , had then been out of england , accompanying her husband on a foreign station
” “but now you love a hyacinth .
was due to the past , beyond a doubt , and in all likelihood much more than was justified by
we shall have no peace at longbourn if lydia does not go to brighton .
selina says it is quite horror to her—and i believe i have caught a little of her nicety .
" " and had you a great many smart beaux there ?
his situation indeed was more than commonly joyful .
“so many clever riddles as there used to be when he was young—he wondered he could not remember them !
she had no doubt of harriet ' s happiness with any good-tempered man ; but with him , and in
" repeated miss steele ; " mr .
“fitzwilliam darcy” chapter _num_ if elizabeth , when mr .
as a child , she was affectionate and pleasing , and extremely fond of me ; and i have devoted
“mr .
” “i know them a little .
for i know gentlemen do not like morning visits , and mr .
like other great men under reverses , " he added , with a smile .
very persons of whom they had been speaking ; mr .
out or not .
her to belong to them ; and believing so far , her doubts and anxieties were merely sportive irritations .
hanging up by that door .
those three or four weeks were worse than all .
miss darcy looked as if she wished for courage enough to join in it ; and sometimes did venture a
, cherishing a most tender affection for him .
” she shook her head , as if she felt the truth of what i said .
off , intending to return to dinner , but with no more important view that appeared than having his hair
perhaps she is full young to be much in company .
concurrence being readily gained , every thing relative to their return was arranged as far as it could be ;
charles , to assuage the feelings of captain wentworth .
they were in milsom street .
must have penetrated mine .
go likewise ; and till elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings to be disposed of , she
a mutual silence which had for some time reigned between us , was at length broke by my exclaiming—“what a
" " and mine , " added sir walter .
excellent fellow .
if she does wrong , she ought to feel it .
i hope your father and mother are quite happy with regard to both .
“we are sure of excellent fires , ” continued he , “and every thing in the greatest comfort .
this friend , and sir walter , did not marry , whatever might have been anticipated on that head by
, the full proof of that repining spirit to which she had now begun to attribute her want of cheerfulness
the open grove which edged that side of the park , where there was a nice sheltered path , which
the former she hoped at last might have been accidental , and the latter she could only attribute to her
your person , your disposition , accomplishments , manner ; they were all present to me .
a mile , and only to three people , still it was dining out , and all the little interests
the direction of others at their present most interesting time of life .
i was introducing her into good company , and giving her the opportunity of pleasing some one worth having ;
the substance of this letter was forwarded to emma , in a note from mrs .
" " i should be extremely happy ; i hope you cannot doubt my willingness to be of even the
” “not they indeed , ” cried thorpe ; “for , as we turned into broad street , i saw
of reproach .
if any thing could increase her delight , it was perceiving that the baby would soon have outgrown its first
they walked towards the lucases , because kitty wished to call upon maria ; and as elizabeth saw no occasion
the card was pointedly given , and sir walter and elizabeth arose and disappeared .
” “i am sick of mr .
than i gave maria ' s to mr .
” said fanny ; “come and shew it to me .
your friend harriet will make a much longer history when you see her .
sprung , were well founded .
so much time for dressing my own wedding-dinner , as for dressing that of my freinds .
elton , “as i got near the house , and he told me i should not find his master at
the son was to join in cutting off the entail , as soon as he should be of age ,
” “it is not that i am afraid of learning by heart , ” said fanny , shocked to find
and with regard to the resentment of his family , or the indignation of the world , if the former
be doing , and forced her , in spite of her anxious desire to penetrate this mystery , to proceed
how long we remained in this situation i know not ; but when we recovered we found ourselves alone ,
supposed that he could be all the time secretly engaged to another person !
stand in need of more money himself than to have any design of giving money away .
what is right than a young lady like yourself .
inhabit that house , and think them infinitely too well off in being permitted to rent it on the highest
to prevent harriet ' s being obliged to say a word .
anne could perfectly comprehend the exquisite relief , and was only the more inclined to wonder at the composure of
" " you should have distinguished , " replied anne .
” sir thomas paused , half smiled , glanced at his niece , and then gravely replied , “she will
in every meeting of the kind willoughby was included ; and the ease and familiarity which naturally attended these parties
lucy was naturally clever ; her remarks were often just and amusing ; and as a companion for half an
one moment ' s suspicion of any past scenes of horror being acted within the solemn edifice .
was safely delivered of a son and heir ; a very interesting and satisfactory paragraph , at least to all
her second duty now , inferior only to her father ' s claims , was to promote harriet ' s
not know what to do ; so she ran on directly , as fast as she could , and took
figure !
elinor , this eldest daughter , whose advice was so effectual , possessed a strength of understanding , and coolness
there will be the leg to be salted , you know , which is so very nice , and the
he was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place , and his intrigues , all honoured
” though elizabeth would not , for the mere purpose of obliging lady catherine , have answered this question ,
she is poor , and may naturally seek an alliance which must be advantageous to herself ; you know your
—and even if i have not underrated him hitherto , he may yet turn out well .
this moment , if you please .
could she have foreseen such a circumstance , nothing should have persuaded her to go out with the others ;
” “and who do you think came in while we were there ?
' as we pass , however .
have done , i am sure .
she is not the superior young woman which emma ' s friend ought to be .
her pleasure in the walk must arise from the exercise and the day , from the view of the last
to such an amount as to afford him a very comfortable income .
“what did william mean by it ?
goldsmith tells us , that when lovely woman stoops to folly , she has nothing to do but to die
comes within half an hour .
do half that we intended .
i have been at barton .
, equally ill-disposed to receive or communicate pleasure .
she could not quit that room in peace without seeing captain wentworth once more , without the interchange of one
support her sister ' s spirits , and drinking the health of mr .
but i dare say you know exactly—i always imagine you are—perhaps you do not think him likely to marry at
the first time he ever denied me his confidence !
the news of his cousin anne ' s engagement burst on mr elliot most unexpectedly .
“you excel so much in the dance , miss eliza , that it is cruel to deny me the happiness
“that you may have less difficulty in believing this boast , of my present perfect indifference , ” she continued
amused and her whole comprehension filled by his narratives , that she began particularly to feel how dreadfully she must
a clergyman cannot be high in state or fashion .
and fanny remained alone .
bingley and jane , however , soon allowed the others to outstrip them .
but to appear happy when i am so miserable—oh !
i leave you to your own reflections .
do not you go ?
he was not pleasant by any common rule : he talked no nonsense ; he paid no compliments ; his
throat .
phillips , appears to do so much credit to—but he gave up everything to be of use to the late
you will say that i am quite an invalid , and go no where , and therefore must decline their
anxious to mortify ; while she herself , who had comparatively no power to wound them , sat pointedly slighted
but , upon my word , i am scarcely sensible of his attentions being beyond those of other men .
and when you are her only companion , you must be important to her .
a capital piece of mansfield news as the certainty of the grants going to bath , occur at a time
lizzy , to fall in love merely because you are warned against it ; and , therefore , i am
—“it is so long since i have seen her , except now and then for a moment accidentally in town
because it began to drizzle , he darted away with so much gallantry , and borrowed two umbrellas for us
i am so entirely without any claim to it .
she could not think of darcy’s leaving kent without remembering that his cousin was to go with him ; but
darcy , however , should have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations , was bad enough , and she
them , i do not think they would fare much better with uncle knightley , who is absent from home
true , upon my honour !
—and marianne found some relief in drawing up a statement of the hours that were yet to divide her from
“you seemed to enjoy your drive here very much this morning .
you must know that i am thinking of his marrying one of them .
” after a short silence—“i hope , my catherine , you are not getting out of humour with home because
“are you not diverted ?
she went—she had driven once unsuccessfully to the door , but had not been into the house since the morning
, he had loved her , and watched over her from a girl , with an endeavour to improve her
of this letter must occasion , should have been spared , had not my character required it to be written
he perceived her inclination , and having again urged the plea of health in vain , was too polite to
as frank churchill ' s arrival had succeeded mr .
do not you think these kind of projects objectionable ?
cares to shut out every other care , or almost every other .
i was ready to have gone with her , but this will do just as well .
evil to harriet , all was light ; and she would gladly have submitted to feel yet more mistaken—more in
wingfield in town as her father could be of mr .
a kind to do away , she found herself occasionally called on to endure something worse .
one wishes to stand by .
for myself , at least , i must confess being not always so attentive as i ought to be” (here
secure in the affection of her husband (which did indeed appear if possible augmented by the birth of his child)
to me , who live so much alone , her conversation , i assure you , is a treat .
” “i wish it may .
your aunt norris has always been an advocate , and very judiciously , for young people ' s being brought
it was announced .
miss bates was out , which accounted for the previous tranquillity .
—he dared not stay longer than to see her well ; these several delays left him not another minute to
disposed to it , for the circumstance was in perfect unison with what she had heard and seen herself .
” “dear madam , ” cried catherine , “then why did not you tell me so before ?
i have told him that i am not quite well , and must be alone ; and should he call
go , and interfere .
elton , of my connexion with the family , nor of the treatment i have met with ; and ,
they were wretched comforters for one another .
which constituted the real misery of the business to her .
, the amusements so various and pleasing of london .
from this state of humiliation , she was roused , at the end of ten minutes , to a pleasanter
with the mention of derbyshire there were many ideas connected .
he had so much countenance , and his teeth were so good , and he was so well made ,
it was a busy morning with him .
elton , spruce , black , and smiling , was with them instantly .
—just colour enough for beauty .
little thought of , only out of civility , or to refresh the others , as she was well aware
dear—i think you play the best of the two .
, or his short , as the year varied ; and since mrs .
while at barton , and above all to that flattering proof of it which he constantly wore round his finger
” “and is mr .
—jane took mrs .
confidence in futurity , against that over-anxious caution which seems to insult exertion and distrust providence !
” (returned augusta) .
perry walking hastily by , mr .
, had been possible to the nice tone of her mind , the fastidiousness of her taste , in the
heart at ease , and incline him to be satisfied with the match .
" something a little inferior i shall of course put up with , but it must not be much .
in them perhaps that human nature , at least in the midland counties of england , was to be looked
and to boast of the past his only consolation .
if they were at home to grace the ball , a ball you would have this very christmas .
the particular circumstances between them made a difficulty of that which to any other person would have been the easiest
there was nothing in any of the party which could recommend them as companions to the dashwoods ; but the
” said edmund , with a look which , to fanny ' s eye , had a great deal of
to retreat was impossible .
him together , " whom every body speaks well of , and nobody cares about ; whom all are delighted
green ' s , and the party at mrs .
sure of meeting every day .
absence[ _num_ ] might have weakened his regard , and convenience might have determined him to overcome it , but
day ; but it would not do ; mr .
may and june .
” said edmund , “here ' s company , here ' s a carriage !
the event which it authorized soon followed : henry and catherine were married , the bells rang , and everybody
man and an officer , whom he had always valued highly , which must have stamped him well in the
“i do not know .
not yet ready for breakfast ; i shall be back again presently .
darcy is all politeness , ” said elizabeth , smiling .
no longer could he be suspected of indifference for a play ; his notice was never withdrawn from the stage
so full of wonder at the performance , and who shewed herself not wanting in taste .
if he had been in london ever since she had seen him last .
how nicely you talk ; i love to hear you .
she would be placed in the midst of those who loved her , and who had better sense than herself
day ; and he had the pleasure of returning for answer , that they were all very indifferent—which , though
john dashwood , as the[ _num_ ] nieces of the gentleman who for many years had had the care of
fanny , in her pity and kindheartedness , was at great pains to teach him how to learn , giving
” “and mr .
whatever may have changed him now , (and nothing but the blackest art employed against me can have done it)
for her to have much merit in planning it .
the chances are that she must be a gainer .
i heard him say all this as plain as could possibly be .
friend from james .
they did not always think alike .
mrs harville , her children , and captain benwick , remained with mr musgrove and louisa at uppercross .
every suspicion of good-will , she issued her decree of consent to the marriage of edward and elinor .
” “and when shall you do it ?
her sister , she hastened down to the drawing-room , where she knew he was generally to be found at
when she comes to know the truth she will , very likely , wish me in northamptonshire again ; for
mrs smith gave a most good-humoured acquiescence .
miss crawford , on walking up with her brother to spend the evening at mansfield park , heard the good
, told them that she was on the sofa .
” this was an answer i did not expect—i was quite silenced , and never felt so awkward in my
” “indifferent !
” “these are difficulties which you must settle for yourself .
lady we were speaking of , play ?
and just then i could not hear any more , for my cousin called from below to tell me mrs
knightley , had seen so much to blame in his conduct .
in a very few days , he was falling in love , shortly after actually fell , and before he
his coming might have nothing to do with her , but she must avoid seeing him if possible ; and
hurst and miss bingley .
” “oh , dear !
so that , in fact , you see , if people do but know how to set about it ,
poverty certainly has not contracted her mind : i really believe , if she had only a shilling in the
mary ' s birth-- " married , december _num_ , _num_ , charles , son and heir of charles musgrove
the moral will be perfectly fair .
it may make many things intelligible and excusable which now are not to be understood .
been merely the effect of a common and transient liking , which ceased when he saw her no more ;
number of her gowns altogether with better judgment than marianne herself , and was not without hopes of finding out
friends , whom , to lady middleton ' s regret , she had never dropped , she visited no one
—i really cannot venture to name her salary to you , miss woodhouse .
in such a situation as that , where there seemed nothing to tempt the avarice or the vanity of any
and twenty , they acknowledged considerable beauty ; her features were pretty , and she had a sharp quick eye
usual observances without any apparent want of spirits .
and is no allowance to be made for inadvertence , or for spirits depressed by recent disappointment ?
it deserved .
them twelve hours sooner , and seeing them arrive at last , as if heaven had given them wings ,
guided by reason ; and , in my opinion , exertion should always be in proportion to what is required
they are all for what they can get .
" you were living with your husband , and were the only woman on board .
wickham , after a few moments , touched his hat—a salutation which mr .
” there was yet another point which miss tilney was anxious to settle , though somewhat embarrassed in speaking of
anne was one of the few who did not choose to move .
jennings was perfectly true .
where could you hear of such a thing ?
anne , in receiving her compliments on the occasion , had the amusement of connecting them with the silent admiration
emma remained in a state of vexation too ; but there was more indistinctness in the causes of her '
it was the favourite wish of his mother , as well as of hers .
probable ?
the collinses will turn us out before he is cold in his grave , and if you are not kind
had the business out of his head since .
, to go and see her poor dear sister price .
i am considering your sister ' s health , ” said he , addressing himself to susan , “which i
i am the happiest creature in the world .
the greater seduction i pretended not to say) , but the manner in which she spoke of the crime itself
they were , consequently , to stay the night there , and not to be expected back till the next
” the base wretch was still unconvinced and continued to upbraid the justly-offended sophia in such opprobious language , that
pecuniary assistance , i cannot help thinking his pressing invitation to her to visit us at churchhill perfectly unnecessary .
hurst looked at her with astonishment .
tilney and his companion , who continued , though slowly , to approach , were immediately preceded by a lady
“you look tired and fagged , fanny .
talked a great deal , seemed very happy , and rather vulgar .
elinor grew impatient for some tidings of edward .
delaford .
power of performance ; and emma could not but pity such feelings , whatever their origin , and could not
" " upon my honour i did .
” “pray do not ask me such questions lady scudamore , said i turning away my head , for it
even lady susan seemed a little disconcerted by this forwardness ; in her heart i am persuaded she sincerely wished
but for that reason , i should imagine the likeness must be chiefly confined to the females , for boys
he pressed for an answer .
and all this , joined to the sense of being so very useful , had made really an agreeable fortnight
and brought a rather improving account of louisa .
i write rather slowly .
the day was uncommonly lovely .
we must not be over-precise , edmund .
at all , and her boots were so thick !
it is over !
—his feelings are warm , but i can imagine them rather changeable .
” “my dearest catherine , ” continued the other without at all listening to her , “i would not for
lady greville had thrown on it , in the eyes of all the old ladies who had heard her speech
to the office of instruction herself ; but she was too much beloved to be parted with .
on a visit to the port-admiral , nor the commissioner , nor yet with the intention of going over to
it was gratitude ; gratitude , not merely for having once loved her , but for loving her still well
do not attack me with your watch .
the carriage was sent to meet them at —— , and they were to return in it by dinner-time .
no great distance from the table .
“one was a very good-looking young man .
chapter _num_ sir walter , his two daughters , and mrs clay , were the earliest of all their party
” “i know nothing of the miss owens , ” said fanny calmly .
wickham’s happiness and her own were perforce delayed a little longer , and mr .
the appearance of the latter could not be more than the surprise of the moment .
jane had sent caroline an early answer to her letter , and was counting the days till she might reasonably
” before elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise , mrs .
“i assure you there is quite as much of that going on in the country as in town .
till four , without once sitting down .
four thousand a year is a pretty estate , and he seems a very genteel , steady young man ,
the ground .
elton , they were all taking the scheme as a particular compliment to themselves .
it was the only intelligible motive .
fallen in with the housekeeper , who was come out to feed the pheasants , was lingering behind in gossip
you misled me by the term gentleman .
i know now to whom it must relate , and am in no hurry for the rest .
guided .
“insufferable woman !
any greater difficulty in distinguishing the writing than what its ancient date might occasion , she hastily snuffed it .
dinner was soon followed by tea and coffee , a ten miles ' drive home allowed no waste of hours
in lydia’s imagination , a visit to brighton comprised every possibility of earthly happiness .
” said she , beginning again when they were all in the street .
a cold sweat stood on her forehead , the manuscript fell from her hand , and groping her way to
without his sanction i could not hope to be listened to again .
collins in describing the civility of mr .
anne was to leave them on the morrow , an event which they all dreaded .
of south park , in the county of gloucester , by which lady (who died _num_ ) he has issue
" what have wealth or grandeur to do with happiness ?
” “i hope not so .
for the purpose of devotion : with nothing more striking or more solemn than the profusion of mahogany , and
there now , you are going to laugh at me too .
, but did not ruin their comfort ; and the two girls agreeing in occupation , and improving in intimacy
for my own pleasure , i could stay with you as long again .
the name of walter i can drop , thank god !
gowns ; and you cannot imagine how well he looked !
bennet ; “and if i were to see you at it , i should take away your bottle directly .
perry ' s plan of setting up his carriage ?
grant was able , at the end of the first rubber , to go to her and pay her compliments
he is come—mr .
” “merely to the illustration of your character , ” said she , endeavouring to shake off her gravity .
”—and when mrs .
my best love , of course .
, submitted readily to the silence and quiet prescribed by every nurse around her .
that could never receive kindness without wishing to return it .
that the good opinion which all the neighbourhood had of him should then be overthrown ?
saw you listen to shakespeare the other night , will think you unfitted as companions ?
” “and of your infliction , ” cried elizabeth with energy .
this is what i believe to have happened .
was four years old .
objections against a second attachment ?
and so then , in my nonsense , i could not help making a treasure of it—so i put it
i believe i did not play with the children quite so much as usual .
you will be adored in highbury .
rehearse together .
it was long .
i assure you , my brother is quite in love with you already ; and as for mr .
youngest daughters ; and her mother , with manners so far from right herself , was entirely insensible of the
ten couple , in either of the randalls rooms , would have been insufferable !
interesting naivete , “oh !
an early abdication in her next neighbours , she found herself at the very end of the bench before the
before been unknown to her ; and in spite of every thing , was not wholly without hope that darcy
, [ _num_ ] too positive assurances of marianne , that belief of edward ' s continued affection for herself
and the mistress of the mansion .
weston , as he grew older—and even mr .
as she went up stairs to get ready , mrs .
lady bertram did not think deeply , but , guided by sir thomas , she thought justly on all important
” “christmas weather , ” observed mr .
" " but , upon my soul , i did not know it , " he warmly replied ; "
gone to mr .
i perfectly understand mr robinson ' s directions , and have no fears ; and indeed , mary , i
consequence of my repressing by the cool dignity of my deportment his insolent approach to direct familiarity .
being earnestly invited by the miss bertrams to join in a glee , she tripped off to the instrument ,
from their counsel , or their conversation , she knew she could receive no assistance , their tenderness and sorrow
” “what did you say of me , that i did not deserve ?
an eagerness which it did not often command .
knightley , with energy .
or , why did he thus come a day before he was expected ?
darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well ; and , as far as their acquaintance reached
why should not they explore to box hill though the sucklings did not come ?
her friend were not writing down a declaration of love .
everybody was satisfied ; and she was left to the tremors of a most palpitating heart , while the others
i will answer for it , he never cared three straws about her—who could about such a nasty little freckled
did come in ; and elinor , who was convinced that solicitude for marianne brought him thither , and who
” “but i hope there is no strong attachment on either side , ” said jane .
“aye , do , frank .
” as they walked home again , mrs .
” “why did not you all learn ?
to them .
she had no such object for her lingering thoughts to fix on , she left no creature behind , from
sussex while i was at bristol was obliged to be forwarded to me here , and from some unaccountable delay
weston directed the whole , officiating safely between hartfield and the vicarage , and every body was in good time
and most particular friend in london , who hearing and witnessing a good deal to alarm him in that quarter
” emma would be “very happy to wait on mrs .
” “i should be very happy , aunt ; but brighton is almost by beachey head ; and if i
of her .
so ill inclined , and lady bertram was so indolent !
of the night .
this was their history .
“write to james on her behalf !
passing with him and with every one as the children of a brother (tho ' i had ever been an
his punishment followed his conduct , as did a deeper punishment the deeper guilt of his wife .
—it is impossible to say—yes , indeed , i quite understand—dearest jane ' s prospects—that is , i do not
sussex , was more likely to be softened than she had thought it possible before , by the charms which
” “jane fairfax has feeling , ” said mr .
goddard ' s till it were certain that miss smith ' s disorder had no infection ?
your father would depend on your resolution and good conduct , i am sure .
—this did not want much of being finished , when i put it away in a pet , and vowed
, and the valley looks comfortable and snug , —with rich meadows and several neat farm houses scattered here and
you men have such restless curiosity !
you wrote in the cheerfullest manner , and said you were perfectly well , and in no hurry for me
of their party , they walked in that manner for some time , till catherine began to doubt the happiness
i think , miss price , we would have indulged ourselves with a week ' s calm in the atlantic
the knowledge of what her mother must be feeling as the carriage stopped the door , —of her doubt—her dread
; for while miss bates was speaking , a suspicion darted into my head , and i have never been
“i do pity you .
of all things in the world inconstancy is my aversion .
much as i abominate writing , i would not give up mr .
but it is done ; we are reconciled , dearer , much dearer , than ever , and no moment
vexatious interruptions of mr .
in ; and they have been five altogether .
quickness of mind .
” “when do you think of going ?
he insisted , moreover , on conveying all their letters to and from the post for them , and would
” and the morning wore away in satisfactions very sweet , if not very sound .
seeing mrs .
” “i hope she will not tease my poor pug , ” said lady bertram ; “i have but just
and regulating her notions , his worth would be finally wasted on her even in years of matrimony .
happy to have seen the young lady too , miss price , who had never been at sotherton yet ,
and the eyelashes , so remarkably fine , might be copied .
the rise in the world which must satisfy them .
even your constant little heart need not take fright at such a nominal change .
it is not to be supposed that any prior attachment on your side—in short , you know as to an
but i must observe that five is the very awkwardest of all possible numbers to sit down to table ;
at length the parsonage was discernible .
” “i dare say she would , but she has no influence with either tom or my sisters that could
very few characters in the whole , but every character first-rate , and three principal women .
cannot imagine .
she was safely down , and instantly , to show her enjoyment , ran up the steps to be jumped
how could i look on without agony ?
with , why should you hesitate ?
so up he flew directly , and a terrible scene took place , for lucy was come to them by
first as a comfort to fanny , then as an auxiliary , and last as her substitute , she was
of the like censure , is praise no less generally bestowed on you and your elder sister , than it
” and he smiled with such seeming pleasure at the conviction , that she must proceed another step .
—always wanting me to play and sing before anybody and everybody !
” said the postilion .
a happy couple in the world , i think i shall soon know where to look for them .
—it was but a very few days before i had my sore throat—just before mr .
mr elliot was there ; she avoided , but she could pity him .
collins could be forgotten , there was really an air of great comfort throughout , and by charlotte’s evident enjoyment
they had been long so arranged in the indulgence of her secret meditations , and nothing was more consolatory to
” to this mary very gravely replied , “far be it from me , my dear sister , to depreciate
i can support her myself .
engagement , however minute , and however it may make against his interest[ _num_ ] or pleasure .
they were on their way back to bath .
let her chuse for herself , as well as the rest of us .
marry themselves , have no business with the partners or wives of their neighbours .
i think you both excessively pretty , and so does mr .
our family , they seem shut out from all the world .
say ' no , ' if it is to be said .
” and “what have you settled ?
that any objections there had material weight with mr .
when she could make no advantage of it , and will admit that it must have been very mortifying to
game on the cards , and henry crawford ' s stepping forward with a most earnest request to be allowed
, lady stornaway , and is the determined supporter of everything mercenary and ambitious , provided it be only mercenary
it was before tea , because i remember thinking—oh !
than the other half , or always suspecting the other of being worse than it was .
we always say what we like to one another .
affection and endeavour to return it .
” catherine readily agreed .
allen were sorry to lose their young friend , whose good humour and cheerfulness had made her a valuable companion
“if every play is to be objected to , you will act nothing , and the preparations will be all
she knew he must be at some expense , that he would have many things to buy , though to
little know herself as to walk home to the parsonage , after this conversation , in the happy belief of
” elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection , but its meaning did not escape , nor was
your planning it , your saying to yourself one idle day , ' i think it would be a very
a reel at all—and now despise me if you dare .
creature ; and , in that case , she would have met with very different treatment .
what it must contain , and deprecated the necessity of reading it .
” she had nothing more to wish for .
i do not know anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than mr .
knightley and themselves .
as an old friend , you will allow me to hope , miss fairfax , that ten years hence you
—and the charade !
formal visit here , he will make his way over to kellynch one day by himself , you may depend
that she should ; but miss crawford , calling to mind an early expressed wish on the subject , was
sometimes quite as becoming .
lady susan , as i am now convinced how greatly they have traduced her .
” “i must see somebody very superior to any one i have seen yet , to be tempted ; mr
it was possible .
i am no card-player .
—“well , my dear , ” said he , as they entered the room—“i have brought her , and now
to start .
we set out a great deal too late .
the evening was heavy like the day .
was it unpardonable to think it worth my while to come ?
talking over the business .
crawford , that she had soon all the terror of other complaints from him .
will starve it entirely away .
to anything they had expected .
do anything rather than marry without affection .
i know very little of dorsetshire ; but , my dear elinor , i shall be exceedingly glad to know
, and , with mr .
it would save me many a heartache .
situation than the cottage , afforded a general view of the whole , which had exceedingly pleased him .
it could make no difference in the play , and as for cottager himself , when he has got his
i shall just go round by mrs .
miss hawkins was the youngest of the two daughters of a bristol—merchant , of course , he must be called
more , for i am sure he must be a most liberal-minded man .
a proof of love , with mr .
” henry was most happy to make it more intelligible , by beginning at an earlier stage , and explaining
end of the sofa , and , screened from notice herself , saw all that was passing before her .
everything was a friend , or bore her thoughts to a friend ; and though there had been sometimes much
soon regained her composure , and calmly replied : “why should you be surprised , my dear eliza ?
the intelligence however , which she would not give , soon flowed from another quarter .
and she had been particularly fortunate in her nurse , as a sister of her landlady , a nurse by
bennet’s sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away .
scorn to marry her in compliance with your wishes .
consider this visit from your son as by any means certain .
the tone implied some old acquaintance—and how could she possibly guess ?
” “but you should tell them of the letter , my dear , ” said her father .
why must their marriage be private ?
but jane was to go home with her , and at longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation .
day ; and no need to find excuses for mr .
of thought , had been able—and yet without losing a word—to catch and comprehend the exact truth of the whole
—three or four-and-twenty—cannot be without the means of doing as much as that .
him throughout the day were turned and fixed on crawford—fixed on him for minutes , fixed on him , in
was brought from mrs .
a slight appearance of ill-health seemed to point out the likeliest evil of the two .
brought home in consequence of a bad fall .
i should be mortified indeed if i did not believe i had been of some use ; but it is
knightley , first in interest and affection .
” (said augusta .
same kind of delicate flattery , in spite of her entreating him to have done .
i will take care to get good partners for them all .
they were going to take the two eldest boys to astley ' s .
they were , therefore , to go .
shall do very well with or without colonel brandon .
than by his subsequent malicious overthrow of it ; that in no sense of the word were they necessitous or
—i am so glad .
clay , for mrs clay was present : her father had driven her over , nothing being of so much
woodhouse would be alarmed—she had better go ; ”—with most ready encouragement from her friend , therefore , she passed
" but , however , one thing must be considered .
there is no use in these tears ; they can do no good .
doors , and without stopping to look or breathe , rushed forward to the one in question .
” henry smiled , and said , “how very little trouble it can give you to understand the motive of
variety of danger which sea and war together could offer .
where the wound had been given , there must the cure be found if anywhere ; and emma felt that
or to any distance .
a misplaced shame .
more than justice in imagining that i may be depended on .
edward is only to hold the living till the person to whom the colonel has really sold the presentation ,
a rumford , with slabs of plain though handsome marble , and ornaments over it of the prettiest english china
, whose tremulous inequality shewed indisposition so plainly , and she thought only of how she might best counteract this
what they could never have voluntarily suffered ; and that , in forcing her on such a measure , general
he happened to be murdered .
” “i do not admire it , ” said mr .
they were his juniors distant from that age of feeling and reason , which might suggest the expediency of making
her last months of perfect liberty with those kind relations to whom she was so very dear : and the
her uncle and aunt were all amazement ; and the embarrassment of her manner as she spoke , joined to
crawford told me that you were wishing to hear from me , but i found it impossible to write from
do not you know who miss williams is ?
such an invitation for attack could not be resisted ; and harriet was soon assailed by half a dozen children
as it could be .
pump-room , tasted the water , and laid out some shillings in purses and spars ; thence adjourned to eat
my dear fanny ; her life cannot be worth half that purchase .
she was humbled , she was grieved ; she repented , though she hardly knew of what .
“but why is it necessary , ” said edmund , “that crawford ' s carriage , or his only ,
he went away to his regiment two days ago , and i trust i shall never be plagued with him
she followed her father to the fire place , and they both sat down .
perry had said so much—but , except them , jane would really see nobody .
brighton , and a whole campful of soldiers , to us , who have been overset already by one poor
that time , however , did gradually come , forwarded by an affection on his side as warm as her
weston earned every present comfort before he endeavoured to gain it .
a very unexceptionable offer as this .
, and all in happy enjoyment of the future .
state of mind .
" if he would only have done as well by himself , " said john dashwood , " as all
it[ _num_ ] was an advantage that could not be too gratefully acknowledged , nor too speedily made use of
it will do just as well .
told you that monday .
found herself walking , burst forth into raptures of admiration and delight on the character of the navy ; their
it was treating her like her cousins !
might be the inconvenience or expense of so sudden a removal , her beloved elinor should not be exposed another
time of the year—the woods and walks thickly covered with dead leaves .
such a good-natured fellow !
insufficient , when required to depend on his affection for her—for a woman who had already refused him—as able to
was allowable ; and once she gave her lover a flat contradiction , and once she drew back her hand
the disappointment of the evening before seemed forgotten in the expectation of what was to happen that day .
he must be either indifferent or unwilling .
“henry , i think so highly of fanny price , that if i could suppose the next mrs .
there was one among them who ran more in her thoughts than the rest .
their being so fashionable ; because they were all cousins and must put up with one another .
she considered as no relationship at all , have on his generosity to so large an amount .
she is now about miss elizabeth bennet’s height , or rather taller .
certainly have troubled him with her best regards to his father and mother , and her kind compliments to all
, and even repeatedly to say , in an ill-natured tone , that she “wished they might be happy .
and hurrying off as if eager to escape from mrs .
" my brother , " whispered one of the girls ; " mamma is thinking of poor richard .
everybody likes to go their own way—to chuse their own time and manner of devotion .
regretting , as well she might , the loss of such a— .
to be relieved from her , therefore , was so great a felicity that , had she not left bitter
her youth , civil manners , and liberal pay procured her all the attention that a traveller like herself could
on the bench to think with pleasure of her cousin ' s care , but with great regret that she
the credit of inspiring such reflections .
” “well , all i know is , that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait on
” and it always ended in “kitty , a fair but frozen maid .
jennings and elinor readily consented , as having likewise some purchases to make themselves ; and marianne , though declining
well , i shall spirit up the colonel as soon as i can .
my father i should certainly be at home before him—but there was no getting away , no pause ; and
they are parting ; they are shaking hands .
, and never failed to see them .
he was quite delighted .
they are very important—and sorry i am that you cannot feel them sufficiently to act upon them .
we happened to sit by the mitchells , and they pretended to be quite surprised to see me out .
robert martin would never have proceeded so far , if he had not felt persuaded of her not being disinclined
woodhouse ' s drawing-room , and the smiles of his lovely daughter , was in no danger of being thrown
you may be sure that we were in a fine perspiration when we came to our place of resting .
bad news , and thought over every kind of distress that could have befallen him , with a fixed determination
after what had since passed , to provoke her .
otway , and miss otway and miss caroline .
i am so glad it is over !
subject before she left hertfordshire , and represent to her the imprudence of encouraging such an attachment .
temple , and it was as much as he could do to support the appearance of a gentleman .
” this was the only very severe thing i ever said in my life ; not but that i have
he was engaged to dinner already both for that day and the next ; he had met with some acquaintance
—they had determined that their marriage ought to be concluded while john and isabella were still at hartfield , to
this .
she should not miss the opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possible—advice which there was every reason to believe
but of course she did not mention my name to you .
" and was hastening to meet him , when elinor cried out— " indeed , marianne , i think you
she was persuaded , would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion .
your views for harriet are best known to yourself ; but as you make no secret of your love of
“since the party to box hill .
it rather unexpectedly .
he saw a short word prepared for emma , and given to her with a look sly and demure .
their mutual friend answered for the satisfaction which a visit from miss elliot would give mrs smith , and anne
besides , there was truth in his looks .
as her appearance and spirits improved , sir thomas and mrs .
i told you in the library , you know , that i should never speak to you again , and
” “no more have i , ” said mr .
the only surprise i can feel is , that this should be the first time of its being paid .
i scold them all amazingly about it .
most natural to take her almost daily walk to lady russell ' s , and keep out of the way
the loss of present pleasure .
for ever from that beloved place would be less painful than to inhabit or visit it while such a woman
it is bad for him , i know , to be shut up as he is ; but what can
equally formed for domestic life , and attached to country pleasures , their home was the home of affection and
applicants .
" " it would be unnecessary i am sure , for you to caution mrs .
my dear mother , —mr .
elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes .
they must not over-salt the leg ; and then , if it is not over-salted , and if it is
allen just then coming up to propose their returning home , she joined her and walked out of the pump-room
with your brother again .
and yet here are two gentlemen stuck up in it mightily at their ease , and looking about them at
separation from you .
by one of the suffering party within they were expected with such impatience as she had never known before .
no time was to be lost in undeceiving her , in making her acquainted with the real truth , and
elizabeth was the least dear to her of all her children ; and though the man and the match were
and farther , how could it be supposed that his sister , with all her high and worldly notions of
johnson leaves london next tuesday ; he is going for his health to bath , where , if the waters
by intruding and disagreable visitors , as augustus and sophia had on their first entrance in the neighbourhood , taken
sir james did make proposals to me for frederica ; but frederica , who was born to be the torment
when there might be leisure to think of or fetch her ?
’ what a good joke it will be !
[ _num_ ] the gardener ' s lamentations .
the want of miss taylor would be felt every hour of every day .
collins , sat for some time without speaking to anybody .
i have by no means done .
taste and tenderness , that season which had drawn from every poet , worthy of being read , some attempt
i know the danger of your being so far forgotten , as to have your comforts give way to the
” and away he ran .
openly spoken in such a genuine , flowing , grateful cheerfulness , as his friends had never witnessed in him
it ought to be a first object , as i am sure poor miss taylor ' s always was with
smith , when i next came into the country , would be that barton cottage was taken : and i
to give him any alarm .
i have been making discoveries and forming plans , just like yourself , and i must tell them while the
less than their due .
elizabeth was certainly very handsome , with well-bred , elegant manners , and her character might never have been penetrated
in the stoves and hot closets of the present .
palmer— " then it must be some other place that is so pretty i suppose .
than lose the pleasure of dancing with her ; but she took the compliment , and forgave the rest .
" elinor was soon called to the card-table by the conclusion[ _num_ ] of the first rubber , and the
a man of honour could not have doubted the intention , but mr .
” he proceeded a little farther , reading to himself ; and then , with a smile , observed ,
emma looked at her , quite unable to speak .
person whose first object in life is a joke .
what a contrast did it offer to his last address in rosings park , when he put his letter into
had been suspended , and still hoped uncertain and at a distance , was felt with resentment and mortification .
they will be so near their own stable .
elizabeth had not before believed him quite equal to such assurance ; but she sat down , resolving within herself
do now .
collins begins to say that he will not have lizzy .
knightley ' s not dancing than by any thing else .
the long , long , endless two years and half that are to pass before your brother can hold the
portion ; to a pillow strewed with thorns and wet with tears .
inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome .
a few minutes made emma acquainted with the whole .
one can guess what will happen there .
it was her own universal good-will and contented temper which worked such wonders .
allen to know one of my gowns from another .
the road to aberdeen .
i felt so sure of his being quite gone away .
at one time she had almost resolved on applying to him , but the idea was checked by the awkwardness
to this , if he still persisted in this low connection , represented to him the certain penury that must
” the mention of the coles was sure to be followed by that of mr .
i am glad he dines here on tuesday .
she rated her own claims to comfort as low even as mrs .
the horses arrived , even before they were expected , and colonel brandon only pressing her hand with a look
four-and-twenty hours later , and i should only have been a gallant captain wentworth , in a small paragraph at
s , and tears covered her cheeks .
how could you have consoled her !
her fine irony , and the delicacy of her artistic touch , something must be allowed for the hesitations and
elton over and over again—and i am sure i had no more idea that she would change her mind !
i do not expect my children to be asked , you know .
i did not think much of it at first—but , upon my word .
each other , and doing credit to his countenance and aid , sir thomas saw repeated , and for ever
” in the drawing-room miss crawford was also celebrated .
all about her .
and , upon my word , there are some things that seem very like it .
we cannot refuse her request since it is seconded by the commands of our father , and thirded by the
it was a happy circumstance , and animated mr .
a determinate pursuit ; and fanny , though almost totally separated from her family , was sensible of the truest
darcy’s using him ill , it is perfectly false ; for , on the contrary , he has always been
' you would be told so by people of all descriptions , who come regularly every winter , lengthen their
rushworth arrived , and another character was consequently cast .
his having , in every respect , a better curacy ; of his belonging to their dear dr shirley ,
he was in distress for something that he had left there , and did not find again .
henry crawford had trifled with her feelings ; but she had very long allowed and even sought his attentions ,
all the holidays of this autumn had been given to sea-bathing for the children , and it was therefore many
chapter xxiii however small elinor ' s general dependence on lucy ' s veracity might be , it was impossible
woodhouse see no objection , and i trust you cannot , my father hopes his friends will be so kind
only[ _num_ ] conceive how comfortable they will be !
wrote as follows : “i would have thanked you before , my dear aunt , as i ought to have
and to propose that she and i should unite to form a musical club !
” and in two minutes they were off .
grant being seated at the table of prime intellectual state and dignity , the remaining six , under miss crawford
is as fair as most people can boast on entering the marriage state .
tom , however , had no mind for such treatment : he came home not to stand and be talked
dashwood began shortly to give over every hope of the kind , and to be convinced , from the general
letter this morning from lesley , by which we have the pleasure of finding that he is at naples has
you bid me be surprised on your friend ' s account , and therefore i am ; but as for
that his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege
dashwood believe you think of nothing else .
my account states , that your sister ' s friend , the lady now staying with you , whom i
but after all the punishment that misconduct can bring , it is still not less misconduct .
the most advantageous matrimonial establishment that could be among the apparent possibilities of any one most dear to him ,
and expectation .
” “remember , eliza , that he does not know jane’s disposition as you do .
she felt all the perverseness of the mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought , and
help writing her a much kinder answer than she knew was deserved .
excuse me , miss dashwood .
to live no longer with the decencies even of a private gentleman !
jealousy and bitterness had been suspended : selfishness was lost in the common cause ; but at the moment of
had not suited him ; that accidentally hearing--(it was just as he had foretold , mr shepherd observed , sir
the answer was only in this short note : “miss fairfax ' s compliments and thanks , but is quite
" " but i ought to have looked about me more , " said anne , conscious while she spoke
—but now there is one good thing , we shall be able to meet , and meet pretty often ,
he did not appear in spirits : something unconnected with her was probably amiss .
james ' s stay , my mind was entirely satisfied with the posture of affairs .
emma ' s answer was ready at the first word .
she was ashamed , and she would have been yet more ashamed of her father than of all the rest
four weeks passed away , and jane saw nothing of him .
it will make the surprise the greater , when i write to them and sign my name ‘lydia wickham .
forcing herself to speak , therefore , in the hope of putting it by , she calmly said , “you
now , i can think and speak of it with little emotion .
“yes , she does look very well , ” was lady bertram ' s placid reply .
powers of mind .
his unlooked-for return was enough in itself to make catherine ' s heart sink , and for a few moments
absurd expectation , was then added the shame of being caught in so idle a search .
bennet , who was most anxious to get rid of him , and have his library to himself ; for
crawford would but go away !
that though sisters , and living almost within sight of each other , they could live without disagreement between themselves
; and as it advanced , she had the mortification of seeing him advance too , moving forward by gentle
into northamptonshire .
thorpe as fast as she could , in the hope of finding him still with them—a hope which , when
twice every year these annuities were to be paid ; and then there was the trouble of getting it to
, and resolved against ever admitting consolation in future .
how low it makes me !
elton himself , and that their business was to help to persuade him into it , which was done pretty
speak pretty sharp ; and i dare say it will cure him of coming marauding about the house for one
—he was very uneasy ; and but for the sense of his son-in-law ' s protection , would have been
, for a very short time , had the power of creating any return .
to her brother , who was driving as hard a bargain , and imposing on her as much as he
if i was wrong in yielding to persuasion once , remember that it was to persuasion exerted on the side
yes , indeed , a very pretty match .
vernon langford , dec .
into the library , an apartment , in its way , of equal magnificence , exhibiting a collection of books
i had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular , but i must so far differ from you as
“there was a strong expectation of his coming soon after the marriage , but it ended in nothing ; and
she had then been exulting in her engagement to thorpe , and was now chiefly anxious to avoid his sight
a borough in three successive parliaments , exertions of loyalty , and dignity of baronet , in the first year
" " but that was only the effect of the suddenness of your alarm--of the shock .
know that you find great enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which in fact are not your own .
would be a good excuse , and he listened with all his understanding and soul ; and i am sure
, that i think it was quite a needless piece of expence—why could not you have worn your old striped
the rest of the evening brought her little amusement .
having alluded to " an accident , " he must hear the whole .
it may be very inconvenient some years to spare a hundred , or even fifty pounds from our own expenses
henry dashwood to his wishes , which proceeded not merely from interest , but from goodness of heart , gave
” “more so !
the invitation was accepted ; but when the hour of appointment drew near , necessary as it was in common
" her husband , however , would not agree with her here ; for besides having a regard for his
it did appear—there was no concealing it—exactly like the pretence of being in love with her , instead of harriet
; she had now the pleasure of sometimes hearing her father and mother remark on her personal improvement .
think you too severe upon us .
enter the paddock and ride towards the house .
ferrars has a noble spirit .
and many nights since she had really slept ; and now , when her mind was no longer supported by
afraid of not keeping your countenance when i come in with a basket of provisions—though one might have supposed—but it
, be the happiest of mortals .
” “only this ; that if he is so , you can have no reason to suppose he will make
” “certainly , sir ; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst the less polished societies
you will not find him a heavy companion , and i allow you to flirt with him as much as
at fifteen , appearances were mending ; she began to curl her hair and long for balls ; her complexion
attention was caught by other sounds immediately behind her , which rendered every thing else trivial .
he could not speak a word for full ten minutes .
; and she would have grudged such an elevation to one whom she had been always trying to depress .
churchill that he was prevented coming .
rushworth maria bertram again in her treatment of himself .
chest , standing back in a deep recess on one side of the fireplace .
he considered his disposition as of the sort which must suffer heavily , uniting very strong feelings with quiet ,
years ' marriage , he was rather a poorer man than at first , and with a child to maintain
“that he certainly adores you (replied sophia) there can be no doubt— .
and with the knowledge of your ill opinion , too !
how is it to be supposed that willoughby , persuaded as he must be of your sister ' s love
i really do not think georgiana darcy has her equal for beauty , elegance , and accomplishments ; and the
hurst and miss bingley ; and though the mother was found to be intolerable , and the younger sisters not
he is here , of course .
edward , it is so , and i will say it .
to you , if your visiting engagements continue to increase as much as they have done lately .
” “dear sister , if you consider my unhappy state , how can she be any comfort to me ?
, whatever profession dr .
i must get on to kingston as fast as i can .
they really go on monday ; and i was within a trifle of being persuaded to stay at lessingby till
who could treat as a trifle this sin of the first magnitude , who would try to gloss it over
a happy party it appeared to her , all interested in one object : cheerful beyond a doubt , for
—and discover that he is a gentleman !
after a little succession of these sort of debates and consultations , it was settled between charles and his two
say , to hold the blessings of health and a good appearance to the utmost : i know no other
in his little excursions to sterling .
if aware of her having viewed him as a murderer , she could not wonder at his even turning her
at length , with a voice of forced calmness , he said : “and this is all the reply which
“i am particularly fond of this spot , ” said her companion , with a sigh .
her there again to her charge and her thoughts , and retired to her own room to write letters and
and acquaint her with the apprehensions which he and his father had imbibed from the physician with respect to some
equally delighted with him .
first two dances .
elton !
called him out in the morning was almost certain of ending there , where the rest of the day was
it is my daily errand .
years ; and though everywhere beloved for the friendliness of his heart and his amiable temper , his talents could
; nothing knocks them up so soon .
—how was it to be endured ?
knightley , ” said emma , who had been smiling to herself through a great part of this speech ,
; but , between ourselves , i must own it has only convinced me of my brother ' s having
then , forgetting to think of it , she was at the other end of the room , beautifying a
and , turning of a death-like paleness , instantly ran out of the room .
, fanny” smiling and turning away again .
at ford ' s .
sir thomas came towards the table where she sat in trembling wretchedness , and with a good deal of cold
innocence of every thought of mr .
a curtain by the housemaids , and still the play was wanting ; and as two or three days passed
we were in a mood for contemplation and in a disposition to enjoy so beautifull a spot .
something of the matter , for it was a part of my education that i took by far the most
indolence and love of ease ; a want of all laudable ambition , of taste for good company , or
her own family concerns , how much had been originally implied against him ; but her attention was now called
elinor has not my feelings , and therefore she may overlook it , and be happy with him .
” in approaching the parsonage they passed close by the stable-yard and coach-house .
and while the abilities of the nine-hundredth abridger of the history of england , or of the man who collects
but elinor had more to do ; and so anxious was she , for his sake and her own ,
avoid the imprudent conduct which had occasioned it .
” “i dare say he did , ma ' am .
proper etiquette .
” most earnestly did she then entreat him to lose no more time before he wrote .
allow much for the occasional prevalence of the ridiculous over the good .
knightley remained with them , emma ' s fever continued ; but when he was gone , she began to
to my brother ?
weston , capital in her country-dances , was seated , and beginning an irresistible waltz ; and frank churchill ,
really his wish to put off so agreeable an office to another .
fondness for reading , which , properly directed , must be an education in itself .
he might be only passing through .
either his going had been again delayed , or he had yet procured no opportunity of seeing miss crawford alone
most tender concern , was almost sorry that the subject had been entered on at all .
could not have imagined it .
to bed .
or you should have gone into the army ten years ago .
darcy by character perfectly well .
i detest jargon of every kind , and sometimes i have kept my feelings to myself , because i could
his opinion till it is asked for .
she was quite shocked when i asked her whether wine was allowed at the second table , and she has
there was one part especially , the opening of it , which i should dread your having the power of
have a share in that emotion , her esteem for the general benevolence , and her gratitude for the particular
miss woodhouse , what can we do about that ?
when he gave his promise to his father , he meditated within himself to increase the fortunes of his sisters
did not i do right ?
knightley was so obliging as to put up with it , and seek no farther explanation .
her , coming immediately after such representations from her aunt , cost her some tears of gratitude when she was
sentiments .
to involve her in the danger of a second detection , to court her into an apartment which must wring
morland has behaved so very handsome , you know .
what nonsense one talks , miss woodhouse , when hard at work , if one talks at all ; —your
so acutely did mrs .
the secrecy with which everything had been carried on between them , was rationally treated as enormously heightening the crime
from whence he went to sterling every other day .
—whom did i ever hear him talk of as young and attractive among his female acquaintance ?
highly unadvisable for them to meet at present .
should be the last was for some time a question , to which catherine listened with a beating heart .
and there being no ice in the highbury card-parties .
those intimate connections who knew it before .
she hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of admiration to so great a man ;
a syllable escaped her lips ; and the abstraction of her thoughts preserved her in ignorance of every thing that
the letter had much better be all your own .
be enough to justify her in a determined denial in spite of all the rest ?
you mentioned it as what was certainly to be very soon .
” “nobody ever did think well of the churchills , i fancy , ” observed mr .
, in the present instance .
much as i wish to enjoy again your charming society , i cannot determine to snatch you from that ,
" " quit kellynch hall .
she had come to bath on that account , and was now in lodgings near the hot baths , living
there could not exist in the world two men over whom mr .
” jane looked at her doubtingly .
allen had no similar information to give , no similar triumphs to press on the unwilling and unbelieving ear of
and when one considers the variety of hands , and of bad hands too , that are to be deciphered
you can have no superior , but most true on mine .
its continuance , or no farther curiosity on its subject .
it is a pity you could not all go .
with a little reserve of manner , emma continued : “you mean to return a favourable answer , i collect
with us , was replete with humourous sallies , bonmots and repartees ; while the sensible , the amiable julia
but her memory endears it now .
” “you are right , fanny , to protest against such an office , but you need not be afraid
i am afraid you must have suffered from the shock , and the more from its not overpowering you at
only tell me if i was .
immediately perceived to be one of the two that were unfurnished—from thence he proceeded into a closet equally bare .
” pleasantly , courteously , it was spoken ; but the manner was lost in the matter to julia '
" asked elizabeth .
she had hoped to have william all to herself the last morning .
“if you were never particularly struck by her manners before , ” said she , “i think you will to-day
i hope i have a better taste than to think of mr .
in looking back after edmund , however , when there was any stretch of road behind them , or when
lady catherine , sir william , and mr .
keep him , therefore , i entreat you , in edward street .
short , till the attraction drew crawford ' s upon her , and the book was closed , and the
but elizabeth was not formed for ill-humour ; and though every prospect of her own was destroyed for the evening
—such was the blood of gentility which emma had formerly been so ready to vouch for !
i am totally unequal to it .
to her faults , you will restore me to happiness ; but , if you cannot do this , explain
he came towards her .
" elinor thought it wisest to make no answer to this , lest they might provoke each other to an
you tell me that she has forgiven me already .
” “oh !
of a very respectable establishment in life .
' and in these qualities , even with such living competitors of her own sex as miss edgeworth and miss
will it make you happy ?
the principals being all agreed in this respect , it soon appeared that a very few weeks would be sufficient
gilbert does not mean to dance , but there is a young lady disengaged whom i should be very glad
he gave her a letter , it was from frank , and to herself ; he had met with it
but do not imagine that he is always here so often .
your friend mr .
" " like him !
her not to be more looked at , more thought of and attended to , than she had ever been
protestation had done her more good than any thing else in the world could do .
be happy but at her expense .
that anne had prompted , but in vain ; while captain wentworth , staggering against the wall for his support
every body must be aware that miss taylor must be missed , but every body ought also to be assured
honoured ; but i am so perfectly convinced , and i have told him so , that it never will
no , no , they must get a stout girl of all works .
dearest lizzy , i hardly know what i would write , but i have bad news for you , and
and propriety , at the same time with a degree of friendliness , of interest at least , which was
tom had gone from london with a party of young men to newmarket , where a neglected fall and a
he has more to give .
yates was in general thought to rant dreadfully ; that mr .
elton then said , “nobody can think less of dress in general than i do—but upon such an occasion as
let our first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of travellers .
the quarrel between lady susan and reginald is made up , and we are all as we were before .
he carved , and ate , and praised with delighted alacrity ; and every dish was commended , first by
to be acting plays .
i think you must know somebody .
crawford and herself , touched her , in comparison , slightly .
the arrival of a new family in the country was always a matter of joy to him , and in
her ill success thus far , it would be foolish not to examine it thoroughly while she was about it
uncle went abroad .
" i remember last christmas at a little hop at the park , he danced from eight o ' clock
in all , he was convinced that her present residence could not be comfortable , and therefore could not be
family pride , and filial pride—for he is very proud of what his father was—have done this .
miss crawford came with looks of gaiety which seemed an insult , with friendly expressions towards herself which she could
could not understand the sacrifice of so many hours .
only three of us .
no man is offended by another man ' s admiration of the woman he loves ; it is the woman
in some danger of envying her the character she had accepted .
cole has servants to send .
years should have passed over him , and in foreign climes and in active service too , without robbing him
time have been in possession of a most valuable living , had it pleased the gentleman we were speaking of
she has two nieces of her own .
” “prohibited !
heaven forbid that henry tilney should ever know her folly !
more about it .
but , perhaps , his sister does as well for the present , and , as she is under his
in the same way ; and though not saying much to the purpose , could talk of nothing else .
, lest he should engage her again ; for though she could not , dared not expect that mr .
now do not make yourself uneasy with any queer fancies because he has been spending a few days at richmond
for sophia and myself , i dragged her to a carriage i had ordered and we instantly set out for
the character of his manner was embarrassment .
not have signified whether he did or no .
” “i think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever
not all against me ?
misfortune !
so rational a manner , as may in time make their past imprudence forgotten .
” “i should imagine not .
weston felt when she was approaching randalls .
he is a deceased man—defunct in understanding .
i cannot conceive a situation more deplorable .
allen , who , on hearing the reason of their speedy return , said , “i am glad your brother
well , my dear , i wish you joy of it again and again ; and if ever there was
personally vain .
s memory for any happiness derived from him during a union of some years , i cannot forget that the
his resolution of leaving churchhill is consistent with his general eagerness .
gardiner , whose curiosity as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive .
it happened to catch sophia ' s eye before it caught mine ; —and its size , the elegance of
” “now i must give one smirk , and then we may be rational again .
as he entered , said , with much surprise , “why have you no fire to-day ?
hour , looking at everybody and speaking to no one .
such kindness as fell to the share of nobody but me !
—miss woodhouse , it is impossible for me to express—i hope you will believe—excuse me for being so entirely without
on topics which had by nature the first claim on her .
salisbury she had known to be her point on leaving northanger ; but after the first stage she had been
he came in with eagerness , appeared to see and think only of her , apologised for his stay ,
the chain will agree with william ' s cross beyond all comparison better than the necklace .
when i think of the kindness and favour i have met with , of her excellence and patience , and
” he could say no more , for fanny would be no longer detained .
not meet under such circumstances as would make their meeting materially painful .
it had appeared to her the only thing to be done .
he would either have gloried in the achievement , or been ashamed of it .
about it .
he was not always acting a part , not always deceiving me ; but above all , if i could
could authorise .
reception .
many vain solicitudes would be prevented—many awkwardnesses smoothed by it .
intruder , she was in every thing considered , and always openly acknowledged , to be a favourite child .
of character .
if they are not put off , he cannot stir .
as much in duty to emma as in pleasure to herself , to relate all the particulars of so interesting
—and i have reproached you for being happy !
the day was bright , her courage high ; at four o ' clock , the sun was now two
than mr .
collins began .
since he actually was expected in the country , she must teach herself to be insensible on such points .
” “you will get nothing to the purpose from miss bates , ” said emma .
” she wrote again when the visit was paid , and she had seen miss bingley .
, in a sort of desolate tranquillity , to the lodge , where she was to spend the first week
may i hope for your acquiescence , and for your not influencing your son against such a tenant ?
detected me , at least in some degree .
to the obligations which mr .
” “it is no such thing .
chapter xlv at about the week ' s end from his return to mansfield , tom ' s immediate danger
but the evil ready to burst on her was at least delayed by the sudden change in miss crawford '
i hope , with all my heart , the young man may be a weston in merit , and a
ought to recollect that i am the last person in the world to do it .
idea from the high character in which we had ever been spoken of , though we had never met ,
it was his jealousy of frank churchill that had taken him from the country .
, who was then about three years old .
“i think i have understood that mr .
her dirty petticoat quite escaped my notice .
a good figure of a man ; well put together .
and if i did not know that reginald is too much at home at churchhill to need an invitation for
but surely you may put off this old lady till to-morrow : she is not so near her end ,
to add to every other distress that of fancying herself neglected and ill-used .
wishes .
; but yet she would have been afraid to answer for his conduct .
confidence in lady susan ; but her countenance is absolutely sweet , and her voice and manner winningly mild .
of her own feelings to furnish a tolerable guess at mine .
” “by all means , ” cried bingley ; “let us hear all the particulars , not forgetting their comparative
but perhaps it may be damp .
—it would be most inexcusable to do otherwise , as my own mind is quite made up .
“how can you be smiling so , lizzy ?
for such an attachment as this she might have sufficient charms ; and though she did not suppose lydia to
i can only say that there was smoothness outwardly .
could not write sonnets , she brought herself to read them ; and though there seemed no chance of her
wickham , we are brother and sister , you know .
she is not of a disposition to do you credit in the world , and seems precisely in her proper
there was no resisting so much apparent affection .
from their parents ' inferior , retired , and unpolished way of living , and their own defective education ,
but , i confess , it would give me great pleasure to call colonel brandon brother .
myself with the hope of having my spirits revived , by the sight of two beautifull girls , such as
have you been waiting long ?
cousins found her ignorant of many things with which they had been long familiar , they thought her prodigiously stupid
she dearly loved her father , but he was no companion for her .
choice and no confidence in her own taste , the “how she should be dressed” was a point of painful
it is my party .
” he added , “are you sure you did not speak ?
bennet’s best comfort was that mr .
not have come to any thing after all .
might be spent in their service , she was , in fact , exceedingly delighted with the project .
almost from the first , was of a kind—it is astonishing , when i reflect on what it was ,
observation .
perhaps you may persuade her .
" " marianne ' s note , by assuring me that i was still as dear to her as in
again to-morrow evening .
tho ' my charms are now considerably softened and somewhat impaired by the misfortunes i have undergone , i was
their way to holyhead the monday following—as you will find from jane ' s letter .
that kind .
” the colour now rushed into elizabeth’s cheeks in the instantaneous conviction of its being a letter from the nephew
drawback as she had been used to suffer in seeing him on the stage with miss bertram .
i earnestly pressed his coming to us , and should not be surprised to see him walk in today or
but it must not , shall not be .
the united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters and of his overpowering friend , assisted by the attractions of miss
these tilneys seem to swallow up everything else .
breach of promise ?
some people call him proud ; but i am sure i never saw anything of it .
” then addressing her daughter , “oh !
replied i , burning with impatience to know every thing .
from what it could arise , and where it would end , were considerations of equal perplexity and alarm .
weston ' s fault that the number of privy councillors was not yet larger .
my object is to confine it to mrs .
” she then proceeded to inquire into the measures which her father had intended to pursue , while in town
that was your doing , papa .
miss augusta should have been with her governess .
i thought we should never have got through them , though we had the four horses of course ; and
—i do not care whether i meet him or not—except that of the two i had rather not see him—and
you must try not to mind growing up into a pretty woman .
they had in fact nothing to wish for , but the marriage of colonel brandon and marianne , and rather
” “yes , very much so indeed .
” “and you saw him frequently ?
how was i to have an attachment at his service , as soon as it was asked for ?
bennet in every endeavour for recovering lydia .
it was at sir william lucas’s , where a large party were assembled .
with each other , as they may be made to do in five minutes , by merely moving the bookcase
but so little were they , anymore than the others , inclined to oblige her , that if sir john
price ' s ; and two days afterwards , it was a fact ascertained to fanny by the following letter
their freinds to spend the christmas with us .
the admiral delighted in the boy , mrs .
aubin died !
henry tilney , ” with the embarrassment of real sensibility began to apologize for his appearance there , acknowledging that
him , he ought to be less liable to the suspicion of wanting sincerity or good intentions in the choice
i was aware .
she could not have otherwise failed of , as i am informed by the lady who superintended her education ,
harriet , mr .
, or producing coolness between their husbands .
norris could fidget about the room , and disturb everybody in quest of two needlefuls of thread or a second-hand
would anxiously do , she could not imagine harriet ' s persisting to place her happiness in the sight or
she could not tell miss crawford that “those woods belonged to sotherton , ” she could not carelessly observe that
have fancied between her and my poor disgraced relation .
in a country life i conceive it to be a sort of necessary ; for , let a woman have
" " i do assure you , " he replied , " that i have long thought on this point
" elinor said no more , and turning again to the three letters which now raised a much stronger curiosity
palmer laughed , and said it would not do her any harm .
but it is very remarkable that she should always hear jane better than she does me .
my happiness never was his object .
the circumstance which chiefly availed was the marriage of his daughter with a man of fortune and consequence , which
a mile to the extremity of the grounds .
” was uttered at the same moment by catherine ; and , on catching the young men ' s eyes
“he is as fine a fellow , ” said mr .
can it be that i have a greater affection for willoughby than i had for his amiable predecessors ?
the doctor was very fond of eating , and would have a good dinner every day ; and mrs .
” “whatever i do is done in a hurry , ” replied he ; “and therefore if i should resolve
are supposing it a frequent thing , that is to say , a weakness grown into a habit from neglect
“this is my favourite place , ” said she as they sat down on a bench between the doors ,
, fanny , which is more than i did for maria : the next time pug has a litter you
, for everything like comfort ; edmund trying to bury his own feelings in exertions for the relief of his
crawford , to see william enjoy himself , and be able to keep away from her aunt norris , was
lucas had been at longbourn since her coming away .
not happened very[ _num_ ] unluckily that we should never have been in the country together .
i would not have you suffer half what i have done !
it is not time or opportunity that is to determine intimacy ; it is disposition alone .
yet after a time i did say , for at first i was quite overcome , that if she lived
" no , no ; frederick is not a man to whine and complain ; he has too much spirit
how can you be tired so soon ?
“what an excellent father you have , girls !
—whatever advantages she may have enjoyed with the campbells are so palpably at an end !
" " he has , he has , " cried marianne , " i am sure he has .
he came to the abbey two evenings ago , on purpose to consult me about it .
that philippa still retaining her affection for her ungratefull husband , had followed him to scotland and generally accompanied him
when they came to the steps , leading upwards from the beach , a gentleman , at the same moment
leading the way to the chaise and four , and walking immediately after lady russell out of all the drawing-rooms
" he then hastily took leave of them all and left the room .
miss bingley , i am sure , cannot .
stronger with the people he depended on , than all that a line of shifts and expedients can ever do
lydia gaped as he opened the volume , and before he had , with very monotonous solemnity , read three
at my heart ; and if a smart young colonel , with five or six thousand a year , should
' how d ' ye do ?
—he could not have appeared to greater advantage perhaps anywhere , than where he had placed himself .
leave their own fireside , and encounter such a day as this , for the sake of coming to see
neither lady middleton nor mrs .
” “no , i do not ; that is , i do not mean—what shall i do ?
mr elliot was rational , discreet , polished , but he was not open .
” “we shall never agree about him , ” cried emma ; “but that is nothing extraordinary .
they secure an introduction .
“good heaven !
at present , i know him so well , that i think him really handsome ; or at least ,
miss bertram ' s attention and opinion was evidently his chief aim ; and though her deportment showed rather conscious
simple one immediately .
” fanny was up in a moment , expecting some errand ; for the habit of employing her in that
well , though i may not be able to persuade you into different feelings , you will be persuaded into
depended on , i conclude , as anything that does not actually pass under one ' s own observation ;
, and envying the curl of her hair , they followed their chaperones , arm in arm , into the
still impelled to seek her again , she had absolutely pained him by her manner of speaking of the profession
of hearing it ranked as real friendship , and described as creating real gratitude .
, at all a dangerous contemplation ; though , at the same time , anne could believe , with lady
—go and fetch miss bates , and let us end the matter at once .
” the smile was returned as jane answered , “you are very right ; it has been thought of .
“there is no saying much for the delicacy of our good friends , the eltons , ” was his next
thomas ' s saying with authority , “i do not advise your going to brighton , william , as i
rushworth was at the door to receive his fair lady ; and the whole party were welcomed by him with
, had carried her point , and was secure of her walk , she began (as the flutter of her
” “thank you , ” said he , in an accent of deep mortification , and not another syllable followed
she thought well of frank in almost every respect ; and , what was more , she loved him very
it raises my influence much too high ; the power of dividing two people so tenderly attached is too much
the plan of altering it .
she was willing to allow he might have more good qualities than she had been wont to suppose .
they are all going away , i think .
catherine could have raved at the hand which had swept away what must have been beyond the value of all
” “if fanny would be more regular in her exercise , she would not be knocked up so soon .
there was no reason to believe him rich .
reply .
and grace , she could not only love the blooming sweetness and the artless manner , but could most heartily
i shall not be at home myself till wednesday or thursday , as i shall go through london , where
of errors which her heart disapproved .
letter the fourth from a young lady rather impertinent to her freind we dined yesterday with mr evelyn where we
relations or connections who would be likely to know in what part of town he has now concealed himself .
—how jane could bear it at all , was astonishing to emma .
i ought to have been .
but that was not smart enough for my family .
of it , to have their walking party joined by both the miss musgroves , at mary ' s particular
i mounted my horse and followed by my faithful william set forth for my aunts .
” “my dear emma , i have told you what led me to think of it .
they are at brighton now , you know ; in one of the best houses there , as mr .
remained at the door and in which we were instantly conveyed from the pursuit of sir edward .
her two absent cousins , especially maria , were much in her thoughts on seeing him ; but no embarrassing
" upon lady russell ' s appearance soon afterwards , the whole party was collected , and all that remained
she was now struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger , and wondered it had escaped her
emma thought first of herself , and then of harriet .
you were as conscious as heart could desire .
father in thinking a sailor might be a very desirable tenant .
and so i shall always say , my dear , you may depend on it .
i am almost afraid that every moment will bring him .
in a hurried manner , he replied in the affirmative .
was soon used to be talked to by each , on every fair occasion .
man ; and farther , had been indebted to him for such attentions , during a severe camp-fever , as
come to cleveland ?
do not torment yourself with fears on my account ; depend on it , i can make my story good
the precious volume into his own hands to save them the trouble , and once more read aloud the little
she seemed to have missed by so little the very object she had had in view ; and this persuasion
compare their manner of carrying themselves ; of walking ; of speaking ; of being silent .
” “envy mrs .
there was no natural disinclination to be overcome , and i see no reason why a man should make a
a new will was forged and the colonel produced it in court—but nobody would swear to it ' s being
any uneasiness for her sister , or any resentment against edward .
by that time , marianne was rather better , and her mother leaving her to the care of margaret and
remember on which side they were to come in ; nobody but the complainer would observe any directions .
mary sat down for a moment , but it would not do ; she was sure louisa had found a
“why i think miss maria you are not quite so smart as you were last night—but i did not come
" it was spoken with enthusiasm .
you could forgive me directly .
evident .
” as mrs .
this cannot be !
he had the air of congratulating himself on having brought such a woman to highbury , as not even miss
a short period , and of yielding admiration only to her beauty and abilities , without being blinded by them
at nineteen , you know , one does not think very seriously ; but mr elliot appeared to me quite
i long to make apologies , excuses , to urge something for myself .
i must not , however , neglect the duties of my station , or refrain from declaring my amazement at
it is so useful to have anything of a model !
hope are very happy ; but the dance which i think of giving at mansfield will be for their cousins
when the company were moving into the ballroom , she found herself for the first time near miss crawford ,
be all my own .
and with the bingleys they both of them frequently staid so long , that even bingley’s good humour was overcome
she was disturbed that even a day should be gone by without seeming to advance that point .
anxious not to appear unhappy , she soon recovered herself ; and wiping away her tears , was able to
the same evening afforded him an opportunity of trying his strength .
—we quarrelled .
miss anne , if it had pleased heaven to spare my poor son , i dare say he would have
he took out his watch : “how long do you think we have been running it from tetbury , miss
his belief of her sister’s insensibility she instantly resolved to be false ; and his account of the real ,
' " " what !
imagine my dear madam how delighted i must have been in beholding as i did , how attentively they observed
could not forgive her sister for esteeming him so lightly .
injured i can least forgive .
made himself talk nonsense very agreeably .
“business , you know , may bring money , but friendship hardly ever does .
but i hardly know—the misery that you have inflicted—i hardly know what could have made it worse .
suckling , mrs .
wickham was perfectly friendly ; on his side even more .
i am exceedingly sorry : but it is well that the mistake ends where it does .
my father is going to london with colonel forster instantly , to try to discover her .
at length she replied : " do not be offended , elinor , if my praise of him is not
" " i hope not , " he replied , trying to look cheerful ; and with a forced smile
" the change which a few hours had wrought in the minds and the happiness of the dashwoods , was
how would it all be ?
some time hence it will be all found out , and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not
us near that knoll : the grove of oak on the knoll .
unfrequently .
pride and prejudice and the title of sense and sensibility .
great deal more about the admiral , than the admiral ever thought or talked about him .
he told sophia that his daughter depended on her returning with him to macdonald-hall , and that as his cousin
she could not think that harriet ' s solace or her own sins required more ; and she was therefore
pretensions she wished to see put an end to .
said— " there , exactly there , " —pointing with one hand , " on that projecting mound , —there
frequent domestic disagreements between robert and lucy themselves , nothing could exceed the harmony in which they all lived together
house should be known , for her judgment had been so blinded that , except by the instinctive caution with
about his heir , could add his confirmation and praise , and hope there would be now no occasion for
" [ _num_ ] " we hope she is .
this acting scheme gets worse and worse , you see .
quite new , farther representations were necessary to make it acceptable .
if i lose the game , it shall not be from not striving for it .
weston , “if emma comes away early , it will be breaking up the party .
people to marry .
but are you so insensible as you profess yourself ?
the clock struck eight .
best dinner that a capital inn afforded was ready for their enjoyment , and she turned in to her more
i imagined i saw a mixture of many feelings : a great , though short struggle ; half a wish
but while she wondered at the difference of the two young men , she did not find that the emptiness
— ' happier than i deserve .
a want of liberality in some of her opinions , they had been equally imputed , by him , to
as she retired down the street , could not withhold one glance at the drawing-room windows , in expectation of
, had a very decided advantage in discussing such points ; she could compare the balls of bath with those
i only want to keep harriet to myself .
—if harriet , from being humble , were grown vain , it was her doing too .
so many months neglecting , was now the very one on whom she would have lavished every distinction of regard
who had been calling much oftener than was welcome .
“ought to refuse him !
his lady greeted him with some of her sparkling vivacity .
” “yes ; and i told him we should not be able to keep our engagement .
they arrived in due time at the place of destination , and as soon as the string of carriages before
bates to be now actually determined on , might be as much for miss fairfax ' s advantage and comfort
—they were interrupted by the bustle of mr .
what might not eight years do ?
fanny , fatigued and fatigued again , was thankful to accept the first invitation of going to bed ; and
away ; and that was what made us keep you waiting—and extremely sorry and ashamed we were .
his manner seemed changed , his voice was quick from the agitation of joy ; and all that had been
how is she to-day ?
degree , that sanguine expectation of happiness which is happiness itself .
“i cannot imagine henry ever to have been happier , ” continued mary presently , “than when he had succeeded
his tall , firm , upright figure , among the bulky forms and stooping shoulders of the elderly men ,
” “that is just my way of thinking .
" —she listened to her praise of lucy with only moving from one chair to another , and when mrs
most invigorating kind , in a fine mild day of february , with the consciousness of safety .
concession must be out of the question ; but it was time to appear to forget that they had ever
she did it , and not with much happier effect ; though by what seemed prosperity in the shape of
a recent disappointment gives , those soft light eyes could not be very long in obtaining the pre-eminence .
" " nay , edward , " said marianne , " you need not reproach me .
” “he does look very hot , to be sure .
phillips’s throwing up the parlour window and loudly seconding the invitation .
yes—it would be much better to wait till jane was well , and by that time most likely captain carter
it will be such a triumph to the others !
" how very odd !
there was nothing of presumption or folly in bingley that could provoke his ridicule , or disgust him into silence
her height was pretty , just such as almost every body would think tall , and nobody could think very
miss bingley offered her the carriage , and she only wanted a little pressing to accept it , when jane
was still living , walked in quest of her cottage from one end of the street to the other ;
bingley and jane were standing together , a little detached from the rest , and talked only to each other
her eyes from being fixed on him with a look that spoke all the contempt it excited .
haughty .
instead of talking of edward , they came gradually to talk only of robert , —a subject on which he
jane ; and i could not at all bear that he should be sending us more , so liberal as
lucky fellow to get anything so soon , with no more interest than his .
language , too , frequently so coarse as to give no very favourable idea of the age that could endure
she tried to recollect some instance of goodness , some distinguished trait of integrity or benevolence , that might rescue
as tomorrow is sunday , eleanor , i shall not return .
” “oh , no ; i am much obliged to you , our two dances are over ; and ,
room almost every[ _num_ ] day .
” “i beleive not ma ' am .
you do not know how many candidates there always are for the first situations .
youngest sister , he believed he should certainly attack the baronet on the absurdity of his proceedings , and argue
as the day before .
to be placed rather apart with captain benwick ; and a very good impulse of her nature obliged her to
” “you were near staying there ?
tilney was a miss drummond , and she and mrs .
had you witnessed my behaviour there , i can hardly suppose you would ever have thought well of me again
only looked .
” “no , i do not know that mr .
it is a subject on which i should never ask advice ; it is the sort of subject on which
bennet answered instantly , “oh dear !
bingley likes , ” said her mother resentfully , “since we are not to visit .
but all this may be explained by such a situation of his affairs as you have supposed .
people , to be on good terms with the head of his family ; the simplest process in the world
its long , damp passages , its narrow cells and ruined chapel , were to be within her daily reach
elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow , and sat down again to her work , with
whether innocent or guilty , he did not reign long in peace , for henry tudor e .
the only certainty to be drawn from it was , that nothing decisive had yet taken place .
in introducing excess into a scheme of such rational employment and virtuous self-control .
she must have delighted the coles—worthy people , who deserved to be made happy !
she looked at jane , and smiled and shook her head by turns .
with lassitude ; the general perceived it , and with a concern for her health , which seemed to reproach
it will be quite delightful , i declare !
overruled her there .
" happy with a man of libertine practices !
not get on very fast .
it would have killed me never to come to hartfield any more !
we are now in a sad state ; no house was ever more altered ; the whole party are at
grant does shew a thorough confidence in my sister , and a certain consideration for her judgment , which makes
jenkinson were sitting .
" " you and i , sir john , " said mrs .
the principal favourites of his majesty were car , who was afterwards created earl of somerset and whose name perhaps
yet emma fancied there was a something of resentment , a something bordering on it in her style , which
” continued mrs .
but perhaps , ” added he , stopping in his walk , and turning towards her , “these offenses might
any curiosity after particulars , or any anxiety for her sister ' s health .
the same time , so highly gratify whatever of her own vanity she had not yet been able to reason
her behaviour , i confess , has been calculated to do away with such an idea ; i have not
family were connected with that corps .
impartial consideration of their age , characters , or feelings , could be given ; —but her mother must always
go and eat and drink a little more , and you will do very well .
have completely recovered her usual strength , they must forbid her engaging in duties , which , so far from
” “no ; i could not bring myself to do it ; more especially when in my children i lost
the opportunity of explaining , with proper apologies for his father ' s particularity , what was to be expected
very favourable circumstances as , in all human probability , would get her a creditable establishment .
darcy appeared again , when , looking at him , she was a little relieved by his smile .
how they could get through it all had often amazed mrs .
darcy replied with great intrepidity : “miss elizabeth bennet .
“this is a parade , ” he cried , “which does one good ; it gives such an elegance to
his coming to barton .
“none ; not one .
party , and wished for no more .
—i have not a word to say for the bit of old pencil , but the court-plaister might be useful
" i hope he has had no bad news , " said lady middleton .
“you had better leave her alone , my dear ; she is old enough to know what she is about
jennings were first calling on her in harley street , another of her acquaintance had dropt in—a[ _num_ ] circumstance
though belonging to it , did not sit near her , and james and isabella were so much engaged in
welcome as a duty .
collins , and he was very soon obliged to take her ladyship’s praise into his own hands .
knightley is the last man in the world , who would intentionally give any woman the idea of his feeling
in spite of all her faults , she knew she was dear to him ; might she not say ,
i hope he will come tonight .
i was told that they wished it .
weston and mrs .
than their own establishment could furnish , to carry round the refreshments at exactly the proper hour , and in
” “as a bystander , ” said fanny , “perhaps i saw more than you did ; and i do
their eyes were immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the officers , and nothing less than a
the ground seems precisely formed for it .
i would go and see her if i could have the carriage .
" " i am , " said he .
and how much more he would have been respected !
no clue , though she certainly knew all .
and what do you think she said besides ?
their party was small , and the hours passed quietly away .
she had no power to move .
i am sure i never suspected it , you did it so naturally .
” cried elizabeth , as soon as they were by themselves .
” “no part of it fatigues me but getting off this horse , i assure you , ” said she
fifty times .
serious character as to make the ball , which would be very quickly followed by one of them , appear
my father started—“what noise is that , ” (said he .
, and being too careless of expense .
soon afterwards he began again , “how much your friends in ireland must be enjoying your pleasure on this occasion
john knightley smiled , and replied , “that is to say , you chose to have your walk , for
why could he not keep on quarreling with you , as his father did before him ?
” “i will answer for it , that mine thinks herself full as clever , and would spurn any body
the heat overcame me .
, on his getting that preferment , of which , at present , there seemed not the smallest chance .
soon grow afraid of him .
those who chose to be idle , certainly might .
” the surprise of such an application was great indeed ; it was too great for her to know in
as we went along , kitty and i drew up the blinds , and pretended there was nobody in the
improved , her features were softened by plumpness and colour , her eyes gained more animation , and her figure
” “give me your approbation , then , fanny .
the clock struck five , with a broken heart , and could scarcely give an intelligible answer to eleanor '
the gentlemen must each give up a little .
he is still able to think and act ; and i write , by his desire , to propose your
us .
she was persuaded that under every disadvantage of disapprobation at home , and every anxiety attending his profession , all
bates , ) of restoring your spectacles , healed for the present .
trunks to repack , from not having understood in time what was intended as to the waggons : and one
feelings , care not how much i may be wounding yours .
in the present instance , it was sickness and poverty together which she came to visit ; and after remaining
got to the end of his satisfaction that james should come and see his daughter , when the others appeared
thorpe and her daughters had scarcely begun the history of their acquaintance with mr .
the strength of her feelings she could not express ; the nature of them , however , contented her friend
edmund and julia were invited to dine at the parsonage , and she was excluded .
—absolute madness !
" " my dear mrs smith , mr elliot ' s wife has not been dead much above half a
happiness of his daughters .
“well , then , ” replied miss crawford , laughing , “i must suppose it to be purely for the
john knightley is an affectionate father .
” “my dearest sister , now be serious .
credible that they were not decided rivals .
by her hearing that the miss steeles were also to be at it .
see william again in the course of the ensuing winter , and had charged her to write and invite him
his business might be , but she only knew that any woman whom mr .
she could see him instantly before her , in every charm of air and address ; but she could remember
” the rest of the day , the following night , were hardly enough for her thoughts .
least trifling particular since the age of fifteen ?
about noon , however , she began—but with a caution—a dread of disappointment which for some time kept her silent
and her nerves susceptible to the highest extreme of tenderness ; and though she might be pronounced to be altogether
weston—no one could doubt that a daughter would be most to her ; and it would be quite a pity
formed for them in another country , remote and private , where , shut up together with little society ,
who would have thought it !
the next autumn , to fall in with the very french frigate i wanted .
on the contrary , she was as much disposed to complain of it as her husband .
could go and sit a few hours with mrs .
" elinor , with great civility , declined the proposal .
every imaginary declaration on his side was that she refused him .
yes , i am sure mrs .
there is no danger of wickham’s marrying mary king .
seriously and blamelessly polite , that it was impossible not to be civil to him in return .
" anne could listen no longer ; she could not even have told how the poor admiral ' s complexion
your brother is so determined .
she would have found , in all her own sensations for her cousin , in the very security of his
bingley’s defense of his friend was a very able one , i dare say ; but since he is unacquainted
, though unconsciously , been attributing many of his own feelings and expressions ; —but the soothing attentions of his
importance among them , she was heartily glad to be dismissed ; though it was a look from the general
but i do not much like the idea of being so fine .
" when do you go back again ?
—in short , my dear emma , there is no occasion to be so uneasy about it .
they were in —— street .
s manners better than his .
“nobody loves a play better than you do , or can have gone much farther to see one .
look at my shoes .
her prudence and economy are exemplary , her regard for mr .
, at least , to be giving nearly as much pain to herself as to him .
” it was kindly said , and very far from giving offence .
" it suited mary best to think henrietta the one preferred on the very account of charles hayter , whose
to each other .
you will find her manners beyond anything i can describe ; and your wit and vivacity , i think ,
weston might be his son ' s superior .
” “it is from miss bingley , ” said jane , and then read it aloud .
you know ; you must introduce him to me .
she has already almost persuaded me of her being warmly attached to her daughter , though i have been so
vexation , with all your fears about your brother .
here there was something less of crowd than below ; and hence miss morland had a comprehensive view of all
woodhouse was enjoying a full flow of happy regrets and fearful affection with his daughter .
' there to be sure , ' said she , ' i might have thought myself safe .
but i have done with expecting any course of steady reading from emma .
how unlucky !
darcy , of pemberley , and lady anne , could not have appeared with propriety in a different manner .
such were its immediate effects , and within a twelvemonth a more important advantage to mrs .
i should have considered it as part of my duty , and the exertion would soon have been nothing .
i fancy she was wanted about the mince-pies .
but it would have broke my heart , had i loved him , to hear him read with so little
to think that with so much tenderness of disposition , and so much taste as belonged to her , she
—but there is , i believe , in many men , especially single men , such an inclination—such a passion
he certainly looked at her friend a great deal , but the expression of that look was disputable .
frank churchill , who is like nobody by his side .
in another moment , however , she found herself in the state of being released from him ; some one
what miss anne says , is very true , " was mr shepherd ' s rejoinder , and " oh
covet it) , is that of loving longest , when existence or when hope is gone .
there is one person in company who does not like to have miss price spoken of .
to any mere mr-- ; a mr (save , perhaps , some half dozen in the nation , ) always
and there was my aunt , all the time i was dressing , preaching and talking away just as if
he is going to kingston .
lengthened , ended very fortunately in the necessity , or at least the practicability , of a permanent removal .
from the first moment i beheld him , i was certain that on him depended the future happiness of my
materially better for change of air .
, if i had not made one of the cleanest strokes that perhaps ever was made in this world—i took
quitted the room , “if any young men come for mary or kitty , send them in , for i
a proposal of too much happiness in itself , under any circumstances , not to be gladly accepted ; for
not equal to a wish of exploring them after dinner , either by the fading light of the sky between
in spite of the improvements and additions which were making to the norland estate , and in spite of its
but elinor—how are her feelings to be described ?
—when we first began to talk of her .
would accept from his hands of four hundred a year .
” “the finest place in england—worth going fifty miles at any time to see .
collins came up to them , and told her with great exultation that he had just been so fortunate as
" elinor perceived with alarm that she was not quite herself , and , while attempting to soothe her ,
" here they were interrupted by the entrance of a third person , and elinor withdrew to think it all
saying , with sneering civility : “pray , miss eliza , are not the ——shire militia removed from meryton ?
lady i had once known , as resembling , in some measure , your sister marianne .
" " you have heard , i suppose .
upon some timbers in the yard , or found a seat on board a vessel in the stocks which they
defence of your favourite maxim , that no one can ever be in love more than once in their life—for
you , dearest , loveliest elizabeth !
” “never , my dear ; but you are sure of a comfortable home .
yielded , and that once obtained—and their own hearts made them trust that it could not be very long denied—their
artless , amiable girl , with very good notions , very seriously good principles , and placing her happiness in
” “but if a woman is partial to a man , and does not endeavour to conceal it , he
unnecessary bustle , and some few injudicious attempts at keeping her brothers in better order than she could , acquitted
affection might not be very distant .
her in confidence ; she had no objection to her telling us , of course , but it was not
" and that will tempt you , miss marianne .
i suppose lady middleton won ' t ask us any more this bout .
altogether but of trifling size , and much less than she had supposed it to be at first .
met with the readiest acquiescence .
it ourselves .
but last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notice .
nerves fit for sliding panels and tapestry ?
" now , palmer , you shall see a monstrous pretty girl .
spite of the formidable father and sister in the back ground .
against us , and lady middleton the same ; and if anything should happen to take you and your sister
nay , perverse as it seemed , she doubted whether she might not have felt less , had she been
i should be glad to take a turn in it , if you will favour me with your company .
their remoteness and unpunctuality , or their exorbitant charges and frauds , will be drawing forth bitter lamentations .
miss crawford had been in gay spirits when they first danced together , but it was not her gaiety that
she perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between wickham and herself , in their first evening at mr
woodhouse any commands , should be happy to attend to them .
well , this miss louisa , we all thought , you know , was to marry frederick .
they should lose her ; and , probably , in great measure , her husband also .
letters from her at once , on one of which was marked that it had been missent elsewhere .
she was soon aware of this herself ; for though she must submit , as her own propriety of mind
the carriage is gone to-day , to bring louisa and the harvilles to-morrow .
should be through her means—that she , his favourite child , should be distressing him by her choice , should
, at least , twice every summer for the last ten years .
the only difference is that all disputes on the superior excellence of our employments then so frequent are now no
they saw nothing of mr .
very delightful indeed ; i can say nothing less , for i suppose miss woodhouse and mr .
the letter was one moment in her hand , then in her lap , and then in her pocket ;
rushworth ' s deference for him , could prevent him from soon discerning some part of the truth—that mr .
yates might consider it only as a vexatious interruption for the evening , and mr .
it was on this point that she had hoped to engage anne ' s good offices with mr elliot .
” catherine accepted this kindness with gratitude , and they continued as they were for three minutes longer , when
grant thinks it a civility due to us to take a little notice of you , or else it would
, when it was all frightened off by his adding a something too pointed of his hoping soon to have
” “do come with me , ” said mrs .
but on wednesday , i think , henry , you may expect us ; and we shall be with you
—where he says , that my information did not take him wholly by surprize , that he was rather in
the something might be guessed by its effects .
” “yes , so i imagined .
not better , and , except that there was no amendment , did not appear worse .
she was struck , quite struck , when , on returning from her walk and going into the east room
her mother had died too long ago for her to have more than an indistinct remembrance of her caresses ;
the day , she felt an increasing degree of good-will towards him , and a pleasure even in thinking that
try the temper .
to fix that suspicion in his mind which had recently entered it .
actions , it may be the means—it may put me on my guard—at least , it may be something to
on the admiral .
raining another five minutes , she would give up the matter as hopeless .
hour after hour passed away , and the wearied catherine had heard three proclaimed by all the clocks in the
the comfort of it in her hours of leisure was extreme .
the youth and servants in the place were soon in the happiness of frightful news .
in his departure sir thomas felt the chief interest : wanting to be alone with his family , the presence
kept away by the extreme affection for herself , which he could not conceal when they were together .
dreadful degree .
to , but was afterwards persuaded to think might do very well , " and a great deal in the
any play to suit them .
funereal appearance ?
exit chloe and chorus .
fortunes of ordinary characters and the narrative of common occurrences with all the sustained excitement of romance .
—she coloured and laughed .
after dancing with each other at a proper number of balls , the young people justified these opinions , and
she looked so heavenly that i thought your brother must certainly fall in love with her ; i could not
, i must do as well as i can by myself ; and i have now quite determined , and
are just got so intimate with are his intimate friends already .
she could say nothing .
catherine , by whom this meeting was wholly unexpected , received her brother with the liveliest pleasure ; and he
a servant , her brother driving miss thorpe in the second , before john thorpe came running upstairs , calling
the first two dances , however , brought a return of distress ; they were dances of mortification .
she had never seen a place for which nature had done more , or where natural beauty had been so
, she called me back presently , and let me look too , which was very good-natured .
when she remembered the style of his address , she was still full of indignation ; but when she considered
with her brother’s regret at not having had time to pay his respects to his friends in hertfordshire before he
large , and he cut it smaller , and kept playing some time with what was left , before he
, except when drowned at intervals by the superior noise of sam , tom , and charles chasing each other
” it was quickly decided by eleanor to be her eldest brother , whose arrival was often as sudden ,
rushworth appeared precisely the young man to deserve and attach her .
himself , was unworthy the real liberality of mind which she was always used to acknowledge in him ; for
norris ' s lips the cant of its being a very happy thing and a great blessing to their poor
a calm .
these apprehensions , perhaps , were not founded entirely on reason , and certainly not at all on truth .
the billiard-table , he was not proceeding beyond a very allowable curiosity .
bates ' s , in the hope that jane would be induced to join her—but it would not do ;
—“mr .
having never believed frank churchill to be at all deserving emma , was there so much fond solicitude , so
future with the greatest good sense , she had nothing to do but to forgive herself and be happier than
you want your neighbours ' opinions .
for a day or two after the affront was given , henry crawford had endeavoured to do it away by
“thank you for rousing me , ” he replied .
the middletons and palmers—how am i to bear their pity ?
” fanny was silent , and miss crawford relapsed into thoughtfulness , till suddenly looking up at the end of
they were indeed a smaller party than she had ever known there for a whole day together , and he
his chief reward for the painful exertion of disclosing past sorrows and present humiliations , was given in the pitying
hope when the mist cleared away she should see something else .
johnson , while he waited in the drawing-room for me .
” fanny , not liking to complain , found it easiest to make no answer ; and though he looked
somebody else believed mrs .
” “we must ask mr .
to have charlotte with me .
fifteen years of her life than a beauty from her cradle can ever receive .
sure , he is the proper person .
” “how i long to see her again !
on the following monday , mrs .
you think so , do not you ?
weston , her smile , her touch , her voice was grateful to emma , and she determined to think
“laura (said he fixing his now languid eyes on me) i fear i have been overturned .
” “very true , very true , indeed .
last farthing with him ; and i know that his purse was open to him ; i know that he
every body had a degree of gravity and sorrow ; tenderness towards the departed , solicitude for the surviving friends
at the vicarage .
conceal .
, " do not you know my sister well enough to understand what she means ?
” “i do not wish to influence mr .
this scheme was that she should accompany her brother back to portsmouth , and spend a little time with her
a year and a half is the very utmost that they can have lived at west hall ; and how
his voice , sunk it immediately , to say , unheard by her father , “can you come to randalls
taken in that light certainly , their resemblance is not striking ; but i think i could place them in
marianne ' s countenance was more communicative .
" they were interrupted by the entrance of margaret ; and elinor was then at liberty to think over the
you cannot .
remain to be done but what we were about .
smith ; but already , at dinner , they were too numerous for any subject of conversation to be general
martin ' s saying , all of a sudden , that she thought miss smith was grown , had brought
every climate , and every weather , till they are not fit to be seen .
returned to the more interesting employment of walking backwards and forwards across the room , pausing for a moment whenever
he seems to have a calm decided temper , not at all open to dangerous impressions .
it had existed so many years that she could not comprehend a very rapid recovery from the awful impression of
but i had just settled within myself to ask the miss steeles to spend a few days with us .
, could fondly rest on the farthest ridge of hills in the horizon , and fancy that from their summits
for poor mr .
married to him to-morrow , i should think she had as good a chance of happiness as if she were
bingley , so easily falls in love with a pretty girl for a few weeks , and when accident separates
her correspondence with her aunt bertram was her only concern of higher interest .
” “how sorry i am !
weston ' s nature to imagine that any caprice could be strong enough to affect one so dear , and
i have heard her every year of our lives since we both began .
marianne began now to perceive that the desperation which had seized her at sixteen and a half , of ever
he possesses .
he continued , “depend upon it , elton will not do .
; and they were on the point of seeking him up stairs with their mother , when they were met
but these things happen so often !
by not trying him too long .
muslins till the dancing recommenced .
hurst and miss bingley , and the lady with whom she lived in london .
miles from barton , belonging to a brother-in-law of colonel brandon , without whose interest it could not be seen
” “what is the matter , sir ?
and now , after only ten minutes notice , —gone too without intending to return !
sir john wanted the whole family to walk to the park directly and look at his guests .
jealousy of mr elliot had been the retarding weight , the doubt , the torment .
an interesting object .
her fortune , or had been gratifying his vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had most incautiously
and now , let me talk to you of something else .
began to doubt whether the wish now indulged , which she had long felt , of seeing frank churchill once
“ah , my dear , ” said he , “poor miss taylor—it is a grievous business .
charlotte is too much engrossed by two confidential correspondents of that sort , to supply the place of one to
enjoyment of all her former dislike .
“it taught me to hope , ” said he , “as i had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before
—not a word , if you please .
he had felt their importance in the family circle .
some fine tragic parts in the rest of the dramatis personae .
for a moment .
i go to oxford tomorrow .
s work , it has been concluded that miss austen borrowed from cecilia , the title of her second novel
all that was meant—and it is very shameful .
her , by carrying back her thoughts to willoughby , whose manners formed a contrast sufficiently striking to those of
it is very good advice , and it shall have a better fate than your advice has often found ;
" so altered that he should not have known her again !
done then .
without any great misery .
” “leave out the two last lines , and there is no reason why you should not write it into
darcy took her advice , and did finish his letter .
, as she could perceive , most earnestly careful that nothing ungallant , nothing that did not breathe a compliment
offended mr .
i have often talked to her a good deal .
weston told me you were here .
_num_ d to drink , the _num_ d to housekeeping , the _num_ th to carriages , the _num_ th
i hope you will be so kind as to write to me again soon , for i never read such
spent there than at allenham ; and if no general engagement collected them at the park , the exercise which
though he may preach himself into a good-humour every sunday , it will be bad enough to have him quarrelling
i am proud when i reflect on it , and i think it must establish me in your good opinion
dislike against him , that could be so called .
must add to her distress , while her self-command would neither receive encouragement from their example nor from their praise
you would not think it to look at him , but he is bilious—mr .
bennet was mindful of her intended civility , and they were invited and engaged to dine at longbourn in a
this is not quite enough to make her understand his character .
i should be glad to hear your reasons for disbelieving mr .
her assurance , however , standing sole as it did , was not thrown away ; it brought a more
having been frequently in company with him since her return , agitation was pretty well over ; the agitations of
” “so mrs .
three with the nicest cold luncheon in the world , and if you would have gone , we would have
, watched by her till this excess of suffering had somewhat spent itself , and then turning eagerly to willoughby
will see me again ; but remember what i tell you of frederica ; you must make it your business
it may be proper to conceal their engagement (if they are engaged) from mrs .
but lovely as i was the graces of my person were the least of my perfections .
i do not advise you to give way to it , harriet .
will be some satisfaction in looking on now , and i think it was rather a pity they should have
did not we agree together to take a drive this morning ?
” “it will be natural for me , ” he added shortly afterwards , “to speak my opinion aloud as
austen l _num_ .
charles musgrove " were ushered into the room .
as you were mounting your horse , a friend were to say , ‘bingley , you had better stay till
" chapter _num_ he was not mr wentworth , the former curate of monkford , however suspicious appearances may be
my paper reminds me to conclude ; and begging to be most gratefully and respectfully remembered to her , and
be allowed the expression--so long as you have an object .
i will , therefore , only add , as thinking it my duty to mark my opinion of your conduct
—of the pianoforte so much talked of , i feel it only necessary to say , that its being ordered
: but that is not at all likely , for you are just the kind of girl to be a
a small parcel in her hand , and after sitting down and hesitating , thus began : “miss woodhouse—if you
going away immediately , being to meet his uncle at bath without delay ; but if there were any prospect
it is the general way all young men do .
” “i am afraid we think too differently for me to find any relief in talking of what i feel
to avoid any survey of the past that might weaken her sister ' s spirits ; she , therefore ,
“i do not get on at all .
what chap have you there ?
' that , you know , was so very .
any thing ; and when she did speak , it was in a voice nearly as agitated as emma '
such an opportunity of being with edward and his family was , above all things , the most material to
” “and what did she say ?
morland was not entirely mistaken in his object in wishing it .
lady catherine was reckoned proud by many people he knew , but he had never seen anything but affability in
now we are coming to the lodge-gates ; but we have nearly a mile through the park still .
—miss bates ' s gratitude for mrs .
there is no crime too black for such a character !
them directly to the park , as soon as their present engagements at exeter were over .
” “i know you do ; but that is not the question .
" i am afraid , miss marianne , " said sir john , " you have not been able to
deficient in what is due to guests at hartfield .
be attended with no difficulty , since it was a plan to promote the happiness of all—she and mr .
acquainted with human nature in a civilized state can deny ; but in behalf of our most distinguished historians ,
sex to reject a man on the first application , and perhaps you have even now said as much to
have admitted no one ' s attentions but mainwaring ' s .
and the general thinks you the finest girl in bath .
she saw mr .
his conduct had not been always quite right .
as you are , in the midst of every dearest connexion , and therefore i cannot expect that simply growing
to the young lady , at least , in each family , it brought very different feelings .
” “if it had been given to me in the first instance , ” said fanny , “i should not
that his eloquence would convince her in time , another visit , another conversation , was always wanted to produce
it is a name of heroism and renown ; of kings , princes , and knights ; and seems to
now and then they were honoured with a call from her ladyship , and nothing escaped her observation that was
recommend him , and no hopes of attaining affluence , but in the chances of a most uncertain profession ,
independent of his two cousins ' enjoyment in it , the evening was to him of no higher value than
for though lady bertram rather shone in the epistolary line , having early in her marriage , from the want
, and had been assured of mr .
took up a pair of scissors that lay there , and while spoiling both them and their sheath by cutting
me ; and saw how it might all be .
had not been prevented by her refusing to join it , and very heartily wishing that it might be too
to do him justice , however , he did not resolve to appropriate it ; for remembering that there was
and this was all that occurred to gladden her heart during the day ; and even this , when imparted
” “never more so ; for the edge of a blooming cheek is still in view—at once too much and
she related the subjects of the pictures , the dimensions of the rooms , and the price of the furniture
we therefore determined to change horses at the next town and to travel post the remainder of the journey— .
" i should never think of standing on such ceremony with people i know so well as mrs and the
the couplet does not cease to be , nor does its meaning change .
here am i , a poor desolate widow , deprived of the best of husbands , my health gone in
and her neighbours at lucas lodge , therefore (for through their communication with the collinses , the report , she
bingley for his kindness to jane , with an apology for troubling him also with lizzy .
miss mainwaring is just come to town to be with her aunt , and they say that she declares she
so you see that tho ' perhaps for the present it may afflict you to think of henry ' s
" " indeed i believe you , " replied elinor ; " but i am very sure that colonel brandon
and has the power as well as the wish of being universally agreeable .
he had been too much expected by the best judges , for surprize—but there was great joy .
” “yes ma ' am i was and passed many happy years there—” “that is a great comfort—said i—i hope
greatest pleasure , and in whose characters there is so much general resemblance in true generosity and natural delicacy as
perhaps the falsehood of the greatest part of what she had been saying ; but lucy ' s countenance suffered
nobody can tell what i suffer !
the preacher who can touch and affect such an heterogeneous mass of hearers , on subjects limited , and long
darcy it was welcome intelligence—elizabeth had been at netherfield long enough .
knightley , “she will indulge her even more than she did you , and believe that she does not indulge
he distrusts his own judgment in such matters so much , that he is always unwilling to give his opinion
the backgammon-table was placed ; but a visitor immediately afterwards walked in and made it unnecessary .
her opinion of others , by the irritable refinement of her own mind , and the too great importance placed
marriage , to any one better able to give it you than i am .
as the others all stood about her ; but when louisa drew captain wentworth away , to try for a
he wrote last week to hurry my return .
their acquaintance .
" " oh !
soon will) we will try to rob him of his heart once more , and i am full of hopes
the inattention of the two brothers and the aunt to julia ' s discomposure , and their blindness to its
her “your ladyship !
of eating alone : he should himself be of it ; and the readiness with which his invitation was accepted
the other three at the table , while his sister made her way to lady bertram , and with pleasant
to amuse myself , mary , on the days that i do not hunt ?
my mother says he is the most delightful young man in the world ; she saw him this morning ,
everybody was wanting to visit them .
every young lady may feel for my heroine in this critical moment , for every young lady has at some
“yes , ” he replied , “any body may know how highly i think of her .
“upon my word , he must have gone off with his pockets well lined , and at no expense for
her suspense was of full five minutes ' duration ; and she was beginning to think it a very long
she sent you to look at it , i suppose ?
had been saying to his sister .
elton ' s thoughts , and understand why she was , like herself , in happy spirits ; it was
you went to the sea this autumn , instead of coming here .
the kitchen-garden was to be next admired , and he led the way to it across a small portion of
' ” the time was coming when the news must spread farther , and other persons ' reception of it
, and so very distressing to the other .
neither wine nor conversation was any thing to him ; and gladly did he move to those with whom he
” “yes .
there is nothing extravagant in their housekeeping , i dare say .
” cried emma , after a moment ' s pause—“what do you mean ?
you women are always thinking of men ' s being in liquor .
i had entered on my studies at oxford , while you were a good little girl working your sampler at
i have now been but a few months a widow , and , however little indebted to my husband '
” miss tilney was earnest , though gentle , in her secondary civilities , and the affair became in a
we will settle with your father about the money afterwards ; but the things should be ordered immediately .
pleased to find herself more comfortably situated in that particular than she had expected , elinor was very willing to
i shall see her in january .
his affection for her soon sunk into indifference ; hers lasted a little longer ; and in spite of her
” “it is to his credit , ” was edmund ' s answer ; “and i dare say it gives
weston kindly and persuasively , “i certainly do feel tempted to give .
, because lucy is courted by a lieutenant .
do not let me lose it .
it was not three months ago since , wild with joyful expectation , she had there run backwards and forwards
my beloved laura (cried sophia) for pity ' s sake forbear recalling to my remembrance the unhappy situation of my
these my dear charlotte were the melancholy reflections which crowded into my imagination after perusing susan ' s letter to
that she was a great deal too necessary to sir thomas and lady bertram for her to be able to
she meant , i suppose , to go to the clarkes in staffordshire , for she has no other acquaintances
she saw a large , well-proportioned apartment , an handsome dimity bed , arranged as unoccupied with an housemaid '
experience of three-and-twenty years had been insufficient to make his wife understand his character .
it was too horrible a confusion of guilt , too gross a complication of evil , for human nature ,
the inducement most likely to act upon such a person ' s feelings , age , situation , and probable
the event of all this is very provoking : sir james is gone , maria highly incensed , and mrs
miss tilney drew back directly , and the heavy doors were closed upon the mortified catherine , who , having
frank comes to-morrow—i had a letter this morning—we see him to-morrow by dinner-time to a certainty—he is at oxford to-day
—” emma was half-ashamed of her friend for seeming so pleased and so doubtful .
it is not the fashion to say so , but i confess i admire her more than her sister .
worse than all .
i must try to get the better of this .
palmer sauntered towards the miss dashwoods to express his surprise on seeing them in town , though colonel brandon had
opening .
immediate distress of her sister , forgot that she had three letters on her lap yet unread , and so
ran to her mother ' s protection , and susan could only reproach , which she did very warmly ,
knightley and some from her own heart , as to her deficiency—but none were equal to counteract the persuasion of
she meant to be very happy , in spite of the scene being laid at mr .
dinner to-day , because i have reason to expect an addition to our family party .
weston , smiling , “that i thought so then ; —but since we have parted , i can never remember
it was a great satisfaction to us to hear it , i assure you .
an excellent charade indeed !
and then i have made a little purchase within this half year ; east kingham farm , you must remember
" " i certainly did not seek your confidence , " said elinor ; " but you do me no
to mrs .
she is the only woman in the world whom i could ever think of as a wife .
” “no , sir .
—to that surmise , you say nothing , of course ; but confess , emma , that you did want
go into the law .
” “the innovation , if not wrong as an innovation , will be wrong as an expense .
in everything else the etiquette of the day might stand the strictest investigation .
evils of it much less than she had supposed before—indeed very trifling ; and here ended the difficulties of decision
hint the wish , miss bates made it appear that she had promised her niece on no account to let
jennings ' s address to him when he first called on her , after their leaving her was settled— "
“my dearest child , ” she cried , “i can think of nothing else !
his brother ' s affairs might have done , if applied to in time .
norris found that all her anxiety to save her brother-in-law ' s money was vain , and that in spite
, you look very nicely indeed .
and she knew they had some errands in the town , which they would be very glad to do .
" i beg your pardon , sir , for the liberty i have taken in sending for you , "
appearance of every thing in so superior a style to what she had been used to , that she must
the time was now drawing on , when colonel brandon might be expected back .
with so much pleasure established , it was a silent walk ; for having finished that subject , he grew
cole on business an hour and a half ago .
" " mr elliot is an exceedingly agreeable man , and in many respects i think highly of him ,
you were disgusted with the women who were always speaking , and looking , and thinking for your approbation alone
in a day or two , to shoot there for several weeks .
her complexion was sallow ; and her features small , without beauty , and naturally without expression ; but a
i never found the season so dreary before ; but this happy meeting will make us young again .
” but fanny still hung back .
now for it .
else should do a great deal ; and an offer from colonel brandon , or a legacy from mrs .
there was comfort , too , in his words , as well as his manner , for he began with
had nobody to do it for her—every word of it—i am sure she would pore over it till she had
edmund , am i saying too much ?
“i wish she had been able to dance , ” said his wife ; “i wish we could have got
form a wish which she had never foreseen ; a wish that they had more pride ; for " our
she was confined for some days to the house ; but never had any confinement been less irksome .
, instead of the aunt ; and she was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained himself at
“how well your brother dances !
—they were invited , were not they ?
s party .
but at length , by elizabeth’s persuasion , he was prevailed on to overlook the offence , and seek a
bennet , ” said she , “it is very hard to think that charlotte lucas should ever be mistress of
they sat down to tea—the same party round the same table—how often it had been collected !
elton , which nobody else pays her .
i can see no reason why she should be denied the indulgence .
his visit was duly paid .
" i was six weeks with edward , " said he , " and saw him happy .
mary-- " we are expecting a brother of mrs croft ' s here soon ; i dare say you know
yet he is such a man !
uncheerful .
” “be satisfied , ” said he , “i will not raise any outcry .
has there been any inconsistency on his side to create alarm ?
friend feels at all as i do—i have not the smallest doubt that , could he see his little effusion
henrietta ' s coming away , they must have been depending almost entirely on each other , and louisa ,
“how came she to think of asking fanny ?
when they parted , after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her to see her either
but now it comes out : “‘my motive for cautioning you is as follows .
i am sure i shall be very happy to chaperon you at any time till i am confined , if
but not long was the interval of tranquillity ; for , when supper was over , singing was talked of
as well as i can recollect , it was always much the same .
an excellent , good-hearted fellow , i assure you ; a very active , zealous officer too , which is
willoughby hunts .
martin marries , i wish you may not be drawn in by your intimacy with the sisters , to be
to her mother .
never , even in the company of his dear friends at netherfield , or his dignified relations at rosings ,
how shall i tell you !
london and its amusements must be very agreable for a while , and should be very happy could my mother
room , and anne could have said much , and did long to say a little in defence of her
—well , a little while ago it occurred to me how very sad it would be to have jane fairfax
time ; but now it is all over , perhaps there is no great harm done .
” an inquiry now took place into the intended movements of the young ladies ; and , on finding whither
do not check yourself .
the miss lesleys had been represented to me , at edinburgh .
every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to jane .
ask your uncle what he thinks , and you will hear compliments enough : and though they may be chiefly
proved but too detrimental to his health and fortune—that she would now become mistress of those jewels which once adorned
miss crawford found a sister without preciseness or rusticity , a sister ' s husband who looked the gentleman ,
a pint of porter with my cold beef at marlborough was enough to over-set me .
" — " it was not fit that you should then know how much i was the reverse !
it to my family and friends , not to create in them a solicitude about me , which it could
in the calmness of her own dressing-room , in the impartial flow of her own meditations , unbiassed by his
darcy in anything , and persevered therefore in requiring an explanation of his two motives .
—from harriet ' s manner of speaking of the circumstance before they quitted the ballroom , she had strong hopes
actually resolve to break with him entirely !
don ' t let us be severe , don ' t let us be in a hurry to condemn him
" i wrote to him , my love , last week , and rather expect to see , than to
do sincerely give you joy , madam , as well as mrs .
to prevent any body ' s eating it .
she remembered what mr .
be very unsafe and unwise , and what i think all parents should prevent as far as they can .
lizzy declares she will not have mr .
to be at home by the middle of the day .
is himself nearly six feet high , it is not wonderful that he should be partial to that height .
which her wishes and hopes might be fixed , and by again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation , console herself
colonel , i do not know what you and i shall do without the miss dashwoods ; " —was mrs
; and i have some thoughts of throwing the passage into one of them with perhaps a part of the
” and this address seemed to satisfy all the fondest wishes of the mother ' s heart , for she
one must speak a little , you know .
her happiness was from within .
william had obtained a ten days ' leave of absence , to be given to northamptonshire , and was coming
—instead of answering , harriet turned away confused , and stood thoughtfully by the fire ; and though the letter
expectation , from her knowledge of miss crawford ' s temper , of being urged again ; and though no
s clothes , because rebecca took away all the boxes and spoilt them , was much more in her thoughts
weston some inimitable figure-pieces in her drawing-room , at randalls ?
“oh , papa , what news—what news ?
you talked of expected horrors in london—and instead of instantly conceiving , as any rational creature would have done ,
—“oh !
marry mr elliot .
and prepared herself to meet the cruel fate to which she was doomed , with a magnanimity that would alone
without sufferings which made her worse than helpless !
—engaged to mr .
it was a bold surmise , for he was isabella ' s brother ; and she had been assured by
“heaven defend me from being ungrateful !
her indignation would have been still stronger than it was , had she not witnessed that embarrassment which seemed to
how much sooner one tires of anything than of a book !
a few months ago it would have hurt her exceedingly ; but it was not in mrs .
felt all the reason she had to bless the kindness which saved her from the same spirit of reproach ,
is a matter of perfect indifference to them .
and when i am dead”—continued her— “oh lady scudamore , said i wiping my eyes , that such a sweet
this was drawn at the cape .
to those who had no resources it was a different thing ; but my resources made me quite independent .
she was forced to acknowledge that she could do no good , yet was still unwilling to be away ,
” “but i thought , isabella , you had something in particular to tell me ?
an intimate acquaintance of mrs .
fellows .
this is all that i can relate of the how , where , and when .
, ” and they did at last move out of the shop , with no farther delay from miss bates
the name of willoughby , john willoughby , frequently repeated , first caught my attention ; and what followed was
, which neither fashion nor extravagance had rooted up .
your alliance will be a disgrace ; your name will never even be mentioned by any of us .
his letters expressed how much he deplored it .
we have neither of us any thing to tell ; you , because you do not communicate , and i
the manufacture was much improved since that time ; he had seen some beautiful specimens when last in town ,
norris had been too well employed to move faster .
but , it had better not be attempted , perhaps .
" " you are very wrong , mr .
if i had been quite certain of his meaning anything seriously ; but i did not like to be ,
" " never mind if they do .
little trifle among them worth their having .
the mare was only to be taken down to the parsonage half an hour before her ride were to begin
at last miss elliot and her friend , unattended but by the servant , (for there was no cousin returned)
not a shrub in it higher than the green bench in the corner .
he has got a partner ; i wish he had asked you , ” said mrs .
she took them all most affectionately by the hand , and expressed great delight in seeing them again .
i remain , &c .
it is a lovely night , and they are much to be pitied who have not been taught to feel
the crofts knew quite as many people in bath as they wished for , and considered their intercourse with the
i should have expected better judgment in colonel campbell .
in the habit of claiming anne when anything was the matter , was indisposed ; and foreseeing that she should
thorpe is too indulgent beyond a doubt ; but , however , you had better not interfere .
i hope she does not suppose there is any dislike on his side .
, and then , till i can ask for your correspondence as i ought to do , i will not
the danger , however , was at present so unperceived , that they did not by any means rank as
all her impatience to be at home again now returned ; her mother was dearer to her than ever ;
henry ' s astonishing generosity and nobleness of conduct , in never alluding in the slightest way to what had
which could be commanded without involving himself , (for with all his self-indulgence he had become a prudent man) ,
—you consent—i hope you consent ?
him again before i go to london , as will now undoubtedly be the case .
” “i have known her from a child , undoubtedly ; we have been children and women together ; and
elton , and now did full justice to ; and harriet blushed and smiled , and said she had always
as she entered the house , the footman told her that a gentleman and lady had called and inquired for
i rely on your friendship for this .
come to me , walter , come to cousin charles .
” and mr .
elton ' s attentions to jane was in the first style of guileless simplicity and warmth .
it is the prettiest room i ever saw ; it is the prettiest room in the world !
, talking as before of mr scott and lord byron , and still as unable as before , and as
s first ball , being the thought only of the afternoon , built on the late acquisition of a violin
now do not be suspecting me of a pun , i entreat .
to come with a well-informed mind is to come with an inability of administering to the vanity of others ,
i scarcely know anyone who cannot do all this , and i am sure i never heard a young lady
the scenes by heart already , he did now , with the greatest alacrity , offer his services for the
finding time for conversation at the park .
and every inducement heightened which could have led me before , to preserve my friend from what i esteemed a
but she would not make up her fire ; that would seem cowardly , as if she wished for the
he had despaired at one period ; he had received such an injunction to caution and silence , as for
forced her to tell him in words , that she had never seen any gardens at all equal to them
of my father’s will , has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions .
morland , as the letter was finished ; “soon made and soon ended .
” “is it a pretty place ?
it did not happen to suit the miss musgroves , i suppose , and they never put themselves out of
she had never seen before , and who now evidently belonged to their party .
but she could not be long ungrateful ; he was sacrificing an engagement at a gunsmith ' s , to
he is a very temperate man , and you could not fancy him in liquor last night ?
with each other in an insipid propriety of demeanor , and a general want of understanding .
and boded nothing good .
what is to become of us ?
william was kindly commended and his promotion hoped for .
grant , my sister , my own sister , i think i had a right to alarm you a little
the event , however , was most joyful ; and every day was giving her fresh reason for thinking so
then hastened to show both letters to her daughters , that she might be secure of their approbation before her
' miss woodhouse calls me the child of good fortune .
” “pray go on .
not that she wanted him to marry .
” “yes , ” said fanny , in a faint voice , and looking down with fresh shame ; and
he looked at her with a smile , and a little motion of the head , which expressed , "
” “well , ” said emma , willing to let it pass—“you want to hear about the wedding ; and
—i feel myself so languid that i am sure were you with me you would oblige me to leave off
anxiety on jane’s behalf was another prevailing concern ; and mr .
allen , after drinking his glass of water , joined some gentlemen to talk over the politics of the day
" he looked surprised and said , " i beg your pardon , i am afraid my inquiry has been
her early attachment to herself was very amiable ; and her inclination for good company , and power of appreciating
children ' s happiness ; i have no doubt of their consenting immediately .
i have a real regard for him , and was beyond expression mortified to find it , as i thought
and , in short , what do you think of my wife ' s style of letter-writing ?
when , after examining the mother , in whose countenance and deportment she soon found some resemblance of mr .
no ; for you certainly would not know what to say .
to see them straining away !
the whole party before them , indeed , excited a lively attention .
should not this be enough for a sailor , who has had no society among women to make him nice
the sad accident at lyme was soon the prevailing topic , and on comparing their latest accounts of the invalid
” maria was just discontented enough to say directly , “i think you have done pretty well yourself , ma
as to the value of a baronetcy .
invariable coldness of her behaviour towards them , which checked every endeavour at intimacy on their side , elinor principally
" now , how would she speak of him ?
quarter of an hour .
first visit to kellynch will be with a surveyor , to tell me how to bring it with best advantage
price , rebecca , and betsey all went up to defend themselves , all talking together , but rebecca loudest
i only mean that if mr elliot should some time hence pay his addresses to you , and if you
to hasten her return .
she was good enough for mr .
, &c , reginald de courcy xiii lady de courcy to mrs .
i would come this morning .
who is to be anhalt ?
certain it is , that the living became vacant two years ago , exactly as i was of an age
" what should they do without her ?
weston looked , and looked in vain .
she saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done , and the inconsistency of his professions with
a great deal of curiosity to see the house herself ; and when the subject was revived the next morning
who was sustained in his purpose by a conviction of its justice .
holding her tongue ; and if you can compass it , do cure the younger girls of running after officers
till after the breach had taken place , when it was not for me , you know , to interfere
bertram back to mansfield took mr .
scandalous death .
—whenever she caught his eye , she forced him to smile ; but in general he was looking grave .
“only think of our happening to meet him !
“about jane fairfax .
and only discomposed if she saw her boys run into danger , or rebecca pass by with a flower in
we shall enjoy him completely ; every thing has turned out exactly as we could wish .
that part of the house .
for my part , i can see nothing in him .
in general she has been in very good health and very good looks since michaelmas .
point him out to me this instant , if he is .
money purchased three years ago , before he knew there was such a throat in the world ?
in society so superior to what she had generally known , her improvement was great .
they created , but they were nothing .
and therefore not to wear the cross might be mortifying him .
impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to render mr .
with every previous resolution confirmed of being humble and discreet , and repressing imagination all the rest of her life
she was almost as far from believing as from wishing it to be sincere ; for she had not forgotten
often assisted him .
do you think me destitute of every honest , every natural feeling ?
" " perhaps it is to tell you that your cousin fanny is married ?
john knightley now came into the room from examining the weather , and opened on them all with the information
collecting others , and had been at the trouble of inviting both lady russell and mr elliot ; and mr
i do suspect he would not have had a pair of horses for himself , and that it was only
the house .
his charitable kindness had been rearing a prime comfort for himself .
“well , fanny , this has been a fine day for you , upon my word , ” said mrs
besides , a taste for flowers is always desirable in your sex , as a means of getting you out
philip elton , white-hart , bath , was to be seen under the operation of being lifted into the butcher
to be sure she did , ” said mrs .
should always chuse the same .
reasonably looked for in the course of a twelvemonth .
i will not attempt to describe my astonishment in reading the note this moment received from you .
i have now only to say further , that as i am convinced of frederica ' s having a reasonable
weston ' s ball in view at least , there had been a great deal of insensibility to other things
she expected mr .
i have had all my own little concerns to arrange , books and music to divide , and all my
“i told you , the other day , of his infamous behaviour to mr .
” “yes , it will be a great point .
off .
one spirit , everything relating to their journey was speedily settled .
” “i pay very little regard , ” said mrs .
, and she could not entirely subdue the hope of some traditional legends , some awful memorials of an injured
the estate at delaford was never reckoned more than two thousand a year , and his brother left everything sadly
' that will just do for me , you know .
rushworth will be very angry .
—should she let it pass , and seem to suspect nothing ?
they were to meet mrs .
the press , and it is clear that this does not mean the correction of proofs alone , but also
not words strong enough to satisfy her own humility .
i must live within my income , or i shall be miserable ; and i own it would give me
” “then why are you called miss jane ?
lady catherine observed , after dinner , that miss bennet seemed out of spirits , and immediately accounting for it
“some very fine morning , he , and emma , and harriet , could go very well ; and he
william and fanny were horror-struck at the idea .
about frank churchill .
they were just returned into the wilderness from the park , to which a sidegate , not fastened , had
intended match , in a voice so little attempting concealment , that it was impossible for me not to hear
[ _num_ ] " i cannot imagine how they will spend half of it .
” “i hope i am not less so now , ” she replied , very feelingly ; “but indeed i
well , poor thing !
clothed , were in that delightful state when farther beauty is known to be at hand , and when ,
dissatisfied with her servants , without skill to make them better , and whether helping , or reprimanding , or
in the world , i hated fine speeches and compliments ; and so—and so then i found there would be
side ; i never had the smallest idea of it .
“she had no doubt in the world of its being a very fine day , if the clouds would only
so , and not a week earlier , edmund did cease to care about miss crawford , and became as
spirits which would have made her prefer being silent .
he is not a young man with whom one can be intimately acquainted in a short time , but i
long says that netherfield is taken by a young man of large fortune from the north of england ; that
when it came to such a pitch as this , she was not able to refrain from a start ,
at the same moment mr .
suppose herself at all wanted ; " for elizabeth was replying in a sort of whisper , " that must
elton could prefer , she should think the luckiest woman in the world ; for , beyond a doubt ,
i love this house and everything in it : i shall love nothing there .
the dream must be borne with , and mr .
till she had shed many tears over this deception , fanny could not subdue her agitation ; and the dejection
thoughtfulness on his own , " how you may have accounted for my behaviour to your sister , or what
it has often led him to be liberal and generous , to give his money freely , to display hospitality
oh lord !
he fancied bathing might be good for it—the warm bath—but she says it did him no lasting benefit .
weston , indifferent as to how his conduct might appear in general ; he became liable to all these charges
knightley—or for the churchills—or even for mr .
” said catherine .
so genteel and easy !
with increased alarm , that it has no lock .
it was no more than the principals were prepared for ; they had calculated from the time of its being
, and in quitting it , he trusted , would extend its respectable alliances ; and the character of edmund
it assured her that darcy was not less answerable for wickham’s absence than if her first surmise had been just
to see them blush whether they did or not .
could have no lasting satisfaction in the company of a person who joined insincerity with ignorance ; whose want of
there , take my arm ; that ' s right ; i do not feel comfortable if i have not
they saw nothing of marianne till dinner time , when she entered the room and took her place at the
and tell my dear lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me , for
“we have got a play , ” said he .
it , they had suddenly perceived at a small distance before them , on a broader patch of greensward by
knightley ' s most improved opinion of harriet .
make further opposition .
" i shall have a charming account to carry to fanny , " said he , as he walked back
a word about it till now .
girls like elinor pair off contentedly with poor creatures like edward ferrars , while not a few enthusiasts like marianne
you will be perfectly safe , you know , among your friends .
what a pity !
instances have been known of young people passing many , many months successively , without being at any ball of
i shall not lose you so soon , and edward will have greater opportunity of improving that natural taste for
mr shepherd was completely empowered to act ; and no sooner had such an end been reached , than anne
satisfied herself of mr .
it is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom .
probability of some negligence—some”—(involuntarily she shook her head)—“or it may be—of something still less pardonable .
” the general attended her himself to the street-door , saying everything gallant as they went downstairs , admiring the
situation in life , which was just high enough , and not too high .
all imaginable happiness .
by calling my attention to an object which so cruelly reminds me of my augustus ' s blue sattin waistcoat
yours ever , &c .
she was , in fact , beginning very much to wonder that she had ever thought him pleasing at all
, or say a severe thing .
i was in the middle before i knew that i had begun .
no !
them—does he not drive a phaeton with bright chestnuts ?
” he made no answer ; merely looked , and bowed in submission ; and soon afterwards said , in
” chapter xix how is the consternation of the party to be described ?
was afraid you might not come , which would be a shocking thing , as we go away again tomorrow
authority of a servant who had known him since he was four years old , and whose own manners indicated
darcy afterwards discharged .
mainwaring is more devoted to me than ever ; and were we at liberty , i doubt if i could
her teeth are tolerable , but not out of the common way ; and as for her eyes , which
it is not the object of this work to give a description of derbyshire , nor of any of the
my friend would not call herself near her family under less than half the present distance .
visitors .
he had many years ago received such a description of miss anne elliot as had inspired him with the highest
[ _num_ ] drawing him a little aside .
a fine open sea , he says , and very pure air .
he was often hoping , intending to come—but was always prevented .
collins’s present circumstances made it a most eligible match for their daughter , to whom they could give little fortune
do not be distressed , eleanor , i can go on monday very well .
of isabella ' s beauty , and on the lady ' s , of her great good luck .
' s should be , if she could have hoped her return thither to be as distant as she was
crawford , and avoid both his looks and inquiries ; and he , unrepulsable , was persisting in both .
yates think it wiser to let him pursue his own way , and feel the folly of it without opposition
so it ought .
but no such recollection befriended her .
you have an understanding which will prevent you from receiving things only in part , and judging partially by the
my aunt is acting like a sensible woman in wishing for you .
marianne herself had seen less of his person than the rest , for the confusion which crimsoned over her face
too .
if by any officious exertions of his , she is induced to leave henry ' s protection , there will
footing of truth and honour , with two people in the midst of us who may have been carrying round
had there been much less , or had there been ten times more , the delight and admiration of her
if i have spoken once to rebecca about that carpet , i am sure i have spoke at least a
as the ceremony was over , they were to go to combe magna , his seat in somersetshire .
elizabeth , may we venture to present him and his wife in laura place ?
phillip’s house , and then made their bows , in spite of miss lydia’s pressing entreaties that they should come
to be gone , and his spirits so greatly discomposed , that i had difficulty in finding out even so
darcy would connect himself with a family where , to every other objection , would now be added an alliance
when the meeting with which she was threatened for the morrow was past , she could not but flatter herself
” “i do not wonder at your disapprobation , upon my word .
" may she always be poor , if she can employ her riches no better .
lady susan does not always know , therefore , what will make her daughter happy .
it could be nothing but the violence of the wind penetrating through the divisions of the shutters ; and she
she was sitting by edward , and in taking his tea from mrs .
were attracted by resemblance of disposition ; and that elinor ' s merit should not be acknowledged by every one
” they were now approaching the cottage , and all idle topics were superseded .
the carriage as quickly as possible .
, really attached to miss fairfax , and will soon , it may be hoped , have the advantage of
one always knows beforehand what the dinner will be , and who will be there ; and it is so
—that a man who might have spent his evening quietly at home after a day of business in london ,
remain a perfect secret .
' can i do any thing for you at kingston ?
which afforded him a favourable opening .
which would be felt .
we are advancing now to some kind of confidence , and in short are likely to be engaged in a
, your mother will give you) i applied to augusta for the same information respecting herself , sir edward and
she had seen him .
occasion .
the possibility of his having endured such unkindness , was enough to interest all her tender feelings ; and nothing
chapter _num_ anne went home to think over all that she had heard .
no sooner did she perceive any symptom of love in his behaviour to elinor , than she considered their serious
i think there would have been no great harm , and it was suggested , i know ; but lord
maria ' s notions on the subject were more confused and indistinct .
emma was not thinking of it at the moment , which made the information she received more valuable .
weston last night .
i have some notion of putting such a trimming as this to my white and silver poplin .
my aunt is calling me to come and make the pies , so adeiu my dear freind , and beleive
well , any friend of mr .
but indeed , while elinor remained so well assured within herself of being really beloved by edward , it required
” part only of this answer , however , was admitted .
and , upon my word , i do not think mr .
his lodgings were taken the very day after he left them , catherine .
” “that would be a good scheme , ” said elizabeth , “if you were sure that they would not
the conversation to herself : frederica will never eclipse her .
i think my friend julia knows better than to entertain her father with mr .
i think i see you coming in with your basket .
can i be of any use ?
” “why should you dare say that ?
it is a very anxious period for her .
lovers ' first tête-à-tête before breakfast .
fate than to be sir james martin ' s wife .
with almost every other man in the world , it would be an alarming prospect ; but edward ' s
james street , " said he , soon afterwards , rising from his chair .
fanny had scarcely passed the solemn-looking servants , when lady bertram came from the drawing-room to meet her ; came
last reached mansfield , had for a short time been quite afflicted .
if it be so , if i have been misled by such error to inflict pain on her , your
i have not seen one of them to-day , except mr musgrove , who just stopped and spoke through the
i thought it might all pass for nothing with him .
in continual terror of my decay ; and it must seem to you a miracle that my life has been
i do not believe i did you any good .
so modern , so habitable !
i am sure she is very good—i hope she will be very happy .
—such an overthrow of every thing she had been wishing for !
with whom they were particularly anxious to be better acquainted .
my heart to write .
: but , on the tenth , when she entered the breakfast-room , her first object was a letter ,
if he really sought to reconcile himself like a dutiful branch , he must be forgiven for having dismembered himself
hope , quite so easily changed as that implies .
knightley ' s most liberal supply .
eyes , they are so tall that i never could strain my neck enough to look at them .
they had nothing to accuse him of but pride ; pride he probably had , and if not , it
it will be an education for the child , said i , only being with her cousins ; if miss
coming up to the sofa , on which she and mrs musgrove were sitting , took a place by the
; and she was sometimes worried down by officious condolence to rate good-breeding as more indispensable to comfort than good-nature
” “since that is the case , i am sure i shall not tease you any further .
or not , and to regulate your behaviour accordingly .
harriet turned away ; but emma could receive him with the usual smile , and her quick eye soon discerned
churchill , which i imagine to be the most certain thing in the world .
describe ; how severely mortified , how cruelly disappointed , in not having it finished while i was in london
selina has entirely given up music—never touches the instrument—though she played sweetly .
thing of our carriage , we should be able to explore the different beauties extremely well .
” “i believe it is very true , my dear , indeed , ” said mr .
wingfield ' s , which we have been applying at times ever since august .
to be the friend of the poor and the oppressed !
the marriage of lieut .
she turned over some music-books that lay on the instrument , how frequently mr .
“have you had any letter from bath since i saw you ?
and you saw the old housekeeper , i suppose ?
to colonel campbell , and mrs .
three or four days could produce any .
anxiety of a first meeting at the time talked of : “for i cannot depend upon his coming .
; he talked of going , he loved to talk of it ; and when once with her again ,
down the steep flight , excepting louisa ; she must be jumped down them by captain wentworth .
few days time .
the carriage came : and mr .
it is ready furnished except two rooms and a closet .
” repeated mr .
he bore it , however , with admirable calmness .
the quickest succession ; one gentleman only was standing there , and it is probable that elinor was not without
, of taking a personal leave of mr .
grant ' s shrubbery , the weather being unusually mild for the time of year , and venturing sometimes even
any report of captain wentworth could have reached her .
other was plain enough to make her a little uneasy ; and she resolved to speak to elizabeth on the
reasonings of family partiality , or a desire of revenge .
” “if it were possible for me to do otherwise” said she , with another strong effort ; “but i
edmund had been respectable , the most respectable part of her character ; her friendship for herself had at least
they had an early account from lyme the next morning .
seated and busy , and still frank churchill did not come .
as she could desire .
you shall not defend her , though it is charlotte lucas .
one does not , you know , after a time .
crawford now and then addressed to her a question or observation , which she could not avoid answering .
" i met mrs .
to see if by looking at edmund ' s profile she could catch any of his counsel , or by
the houses , though scarcely half a mile apart , were not within sight of each other ; but ,
money , money , was all that he wanted .
just behind .
” and he sat down with a most gloomy countenance by fanny .
elizabeth , easy and unaffected , had been listened to with much more pleasure , though not playing half so
and i always thought you meant it .
with what delighted pride she afterwards visited mrs .
how long had mr .
indeed , mr .
dashwood and her daughters ; while the suggestion in chapters xxxiii .
learn to do justice to the character of a very injured woman .
warmth of heart which did him credit .
with pleasure—till the fourth day , when the happiness of one of the party was exceedingly clouded .
and to speak with calmness , if he really intended to meet them .
no , that is clear enough .
as i tell mr .
” “yes i have had a letter from him by express .
but that did not signify .
the woodhouses were first in consequence there .
than he was aware of ; but seeing that she was distressed , he had done with the subject ,
—“very well , i thank you , ma ' am .
“i am astonished , my dear , ” said mrs .
for your sake , ” turning to charlotte , “i am glad of it ; but otherwise i see no
my mother does not hear ; she is a little deaf you know .
him could not have told her ; and as she would liked to have believed this change the effect of
they always behave very well to me .
“she believed that it was now all mr .
their son ' s wishes .
and yet , if you do not allow him to see you here , i cannot answer for his not
she represented to him all the improprieties of lydia’s general behaviour , the little advantage she could derive from the
; she would believe no assurance of it founded on reason or reality , till morland produced his watch ,
" elinor looked at him with greater astonishment than ever .
“only , ” she added , “perhaps we may overtake the two young men .
addresses of the man she did not love , and obliging her to administer to the adverse passion of the
and furniture of the apartment , that he declared he might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast
but this was a vain idea .
she desired nothing better herself .
rushworth should think so at present , ” said mrs .
may i congratulate you on being successful in your application to your fair friend ?
seized the opportunity of saying : “is your sister at pemberley still ?
charles) yes madam .
" pray be quick , sir , " said elinor , impatiently ; " i have no time to spare
they met by appointment ; and as isabella had arrived nearly five minutes before her friend , her first address
on applying to see the place , they were admitted into the hall ; and elizabeth , as they waited
mrs musgrove ' s respectable forms in the usual places , or without the talking , laughing , and singing
“on this point we have been wretched .
' ” “i cannot help wondering at your knowing so little of emma as to say any such thing .
anxious to observe the result of it herself , she resolved to sit with her during the whole of it
with her and mrs .
that sort of merriment which a young man of seventeen will always think fair with a child of ten .
the company began to disperse when the dancing was over—enough to leave space for the remainder to walk about in
” “well , ” said sir thomas , as if waiting more to accomplish the surprise .
such behaviour as this , so exactly the reverse of her own , appeared no more meritorious to marianne ,
” “upon my word , ” cried miss crawford , “you are two of the most disappointing and unfeeling kind
a careful examination of the correspondence published by lord brabourne in _num_ only reveals two definite references to sense and
” “why not ?
elton was very much disappointed .
i would not have had it happen so for the world .
“his father was an excellent man , ” said mrs .
he is desperately in love and means to marry her .
, that she need not distress herself on mrs .
a subject .
“i want to be your neighbour , sir thomas , as you have , perhaps , heard me telling miss
determined if possible to find out , led the way across the street , under pretense of wanting something in
two hours and three quarters will carry us to woodston , i suppose ; we shall be in the carriage
donwell was famous for its strawberry-beds , which seemed a plea for the invitation : but no plea was necessary
" [ _num_ ] both gained considerable amusement both gained considerable amusement the deception could not continue after this ;
he is a very—a very pleasing young man himself , and i cannot help being rather concerned at not seeing
there is nothing he would not do for her .
be deliberately engaging in an elopement without the intention of marriage , she had no difficulty in believing that neither
quarter ; the clouds were carried off ; the sun appeared ; it was summer again .
“we had better move on , mr .
she turned through the same gate , but could not see them .
dear cousin , about your apparel .
in their coach to veiw the beauties of the country since our arrival in scotland—for it would certainly have been
short when they first came themselves) , and has been staying there ever since ; that she is a clever
” “you have a very small park here , ” returned lady catherine after a short silence .
tilneys have thought of her , if she had broken her promise to them in order to do what was
” cried elizabeth when she had finished it .
i have been a devourer of my own .
we misunderstood each other : he believed me more to blame than i really was ; i considered his interference
lady middleton could no longer endure such a conversation , and therefore exerted herself to ask mr .
" " her daughters are both exceedingly well married , and therefore i cannot perceive the necessity of her remembering
if they profess a disinclination for it , i only set it down that they have not yet seen the
younge , who was some time ago governess to miss darcy , and was dismissed from her charge on some
in what was passing .
for reginald , and from not feeling secure that a knowledge of such affection might not in the end awaken
it was not lost on me .
now for my soliloquy .
goddard ' s ; and a twelvemonth might pass without their being thrown together again , with any necessity ,
—it would do neither of them good , it would do the subject no good , to be talking of
palmer !
” “then , there ' s the devil to pay among them , that ' s all !
it was fixed accordingly , that mrs clay should be of the party in the carriage ; and they had
your judgment is my rule of right .
” “perhaps i might have scolded , ” said edmund , “if either of you had been sitting down alone
short letters from frank were received at randalls , communicating all that was immediately important of their state and plans
, or better satisfied with myself and everything about me than at the present hour .
—she knew that he saw such recommendations in harriet ; he had dwelt on them to her more than once
uncivil .
yet the time required by the uppercross horses to take them back , would be a dreadful extension of suspense
“one would rather have a stranger preferred than one ' s very particular friend—with a stranger it might not recur
—how very odd !
every body knows what is due to you .
cure of harriet ' s infatuation .
his marrying miss thorpe is not probable .
one question after this only remained undecided , between them , one difficulty only was to be overcome .
their respectability was as dear to her as her own , and a daily intercourse had become precious by habit
and disdaining even as a littleness the being quick-sighted on such points , he could not avoid perceiving , in
a few inferior dwellings were first to be passed , and then , about a quarter of a mile down
sort of intercourse , she could not foresee .
it determined him to leave lyme , and await her complete recovery elsewhere .
spirits , and seemed eager to show at once by ever possible attention to her brother and sister her sense
” “i do not think we were speaking at all .
you must consider me only as mr elliot ' s relation .
” elizabeth excused herself as well as she could ; said that she had liked him better when they had
and may you always regard me as unalterably yours , s .
never transpire farther , and that it might not cost her henry ' s entire regard .
i had very little hope of him from the first ; but you , mrs .
to remove from the country .
to be read , and longing to have it to read myself .
means respected in their own neighbourhood , as he had lately had particular opportunities of discovering ; aiming at a
yes dearest marianne they were our husbands .
in any of those pleasures which too often console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice .
" " another year or two may do much towards it , " he gravely replied ; " but however
attending it was the scarcity of plays which for want of people to fill the characters , we could perform
do as you please .
this is one sort of love , but i confess it does not particularly recommend itself to me .
” “and do not you think him a very handsome gentleman , ma’am ?
and her place had been supplied by an excellent woman as governess , who had fallen little short of a
woodhouse , of whose friendly civilities he should ever retain a grateful sense—and had mr .
him a hundred times ; came to consult me once , i remember , about a trespass of one of
for opposing harriet ' s confidence .
“are you fond of dancing , fanny ?
home , but i did not believe him .
at the cottage : the young couple there were more disposed to speculate and wonder ; and captain wentworth had
s eagerness in accepting mrs .
” “you are mistaken , fanny .
not flatter myself— " he stopped .
i was quiet , but i was not blind .
jennings , perhaps satisfied with the partial justification of her forebodings which had been found in their late alarm ,
the slight had been most determined .
from the excess of their partial affection for herself , and which was more than she felt equal to support
other , and at last he said in a whisper , ' for fear any unpleasant report should reach the
bingley and jane remained at netherfield only a twelvemonth .
out , “how delighted i am to see you again !
i have done .
indisposition which marianne ' s disappointment had brought on .
a real injury to the children—a most mortifying change , and material loss to them all ; —a very great
she began to fear that he might be always flying about from one place to another , and never settled
” “with all your partiality for cottager ' s wife , ” said henry crawford , “it will be impossible
she is all affability and condescension , and i doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of
on finding mrs .
but she was too ignorant and giddy for respect , and he had never loved her .
for only one thrill of horror , before he declared himself prevented by a prior engagement .
she was in the carriage , and felt that he had placed her there , that his will and his
there is a quickness of perception in some , a nicety in the discernment of character , a natural penetration
fanny was worth it all ; he held her to be worth every effort of patience , every exertion of
you cannot wish me to marry ; for you would miss me , should not you ?
i am exceedingly obliged to you , mrs .
particularly of emma .
near , she would have been very sorry for any delay .
” “the joke , ” he replied gravely , “seemed confined to you and mr .
henry ' s indignation on hearing how catherine had been treated , on comprehending his father ' s views ,
pleasant .
why cannot i speak to him ?
think him rather cool in her praise .
it is very hard indeed that she should not have a little pleasure , because miss dashwood does not wish
small card-room adjoining , was the only addition .
yates , soon after their being reassembled in the drawing-room , seated themselves in committee at a separate table ,
the living was hereafter for edmund ; and , had his uncle died a few years sooner , it would
that elinor changed colour , attended with agitation , and was too intent on what he said to pursue her
those grand events , of which the ordinary course of life can hardly afford a return .
i am so grieved for him !
—i give you encouragement !
” “i did not expect to be able to return sooner , when i went away ; but three hours
said , “no , this is impossible !
we copied it from the elegant extracts .
she only attempted to say , " how do you do ?
” “while , in fact , ” cried his sister , “it ought only to be applied to you ,
if she could only have a few minutes conversation with him again , she fancied she should be satisfied ;
no one , at least , can think i have not done enough for them : even themselves , they
her mother impatiently met her at the door of the dressing-room , to ask why lady catherine would not come
captain wentworth was on the watch for them , and a chaise and four in waiting , stationed for their
” “depend upon me—but ask no more questions .
had given more of fretfulness than usual to the accents of kitty .
, which had been rather more painfully extorted from her , for willoughby ' s service , by her mother
plain dealing was always best .
no object to me to be with the rich ; my mortifications , i think , would only be the
—one of my senseless tricks !
his composure convinced her that all was safe , her wit flowed long .
" colonel brandon is so delicate a man , that he rather wished any one to announce his intentions to
wish to be snowed up a week at randalls .
“tilney , ” he repeated .
” “i never will , no , i certainly never will wish for a letter again , ” was fanny
where jane , who came running down from her mother’s apartment , immediately met her .
she seized another sheet , and saw the same articles with little variation ; a third , a fourth ,
them for a few days on leaving bath .
she got up to examine them .
after talking , however , of the weather , and bath , and the concert , their conversation began to
the sake of duties , which may be just as well performed by another person ?
of her eyes and mouth , i do not despair of their being capable of expression enough when she has
she saw decision in his looks , and her surprise and vexation required some minutes ' silence to be settled
we returned unwounded , and the meeting , therefore , never got abroad .
a hasty and imprudent attachment may arise—but there is generally time to recover from it afterwards .
, but to behold it will overpower my sensibility .
expressing himself .
” poor fanny ' s mind was thrown into the most distressing of all its varieties .
" a fortnight !
from such commendation as this , however , there was not much to be learned ; elinor well knew that
my time during the last five weeks been so fully employed in the necessary arrangements for my sisters wedding ,
” “is this , ” thought elizabeth , “meant for me ?
gone to northampton , and she had reason to think mr .
to separate my friend from your sister , or that i rejoice in my success .
lessen , it ended in mr .
yes , gloves and every thing .
" i will carry her myself .
” “that is as formidable an image as you could present , harriet ; and if i thought i should
—they only give a little polish .
the greatest degree of rational consistency could not have been more engaging , and they talked with mutual satisfaction .
” “shall i ring the bell ?
the pain of his continued residence in highbury , however , must certainly be lessened by his marriage .
she speaks of her brother with a very pleasing affection .
the point .
" the worst is over !
—why so ?
: “jane , i congratulate you .
a man like him , in his situation !
are going farther on business , sir , i will take the opportunity of paying a visit , which must
true affection only could have prompted it .
“but surely , ” said she , “i may enter his county with impunity , and rob it of a
, in her anxious interpretation , denoted a recollection of jane not untinctured by tenderness , and a wish of
such and such-like were the reasonings of sir thomas , happy to escape the embarrassing evils of a rupture ,
his existence secure , till he had revealed his present engagement ; for the publication of that circumstance , he
“i never see one sit a horse better .
” chapter _num_ the discussion of mr .
chapter xiv fanny seemed nearer being right than edmund had supposed .
it was pleasing to hear him speak so properly ; here he had been acting as he ought to do
to her he looked for comfort ; and her assurances of safety , her representation of the excellence of the
i could not help wishing all dinner-time that i had been at the dressing it— .
weston ' s good wine , and felt sure that he would want to be talking nonsense .
finis i lady susan vernon to mr .
there was little leisure for speaking while they danced ; but when they were seated at tea , she found
an uncle with whom she has been living so many years , and who , whatever his faults may be
much , and her defence was , therefore , earnest .
colonel forster gives us reason to expect him here soon .
after such a discovery as this , you will scarcely affect further wonder at my meaning in bidding you adieu
the children have been wanting me this half hour .
on this , the first opportunity of reconciliation , to be restored to the footing of a relation and heir-presumptive
—has he been here this morning ?
we must hope his son may prove that he knows it too .
darcy , may be guessed .
look calm and unconcerned when the two gentlemen shortly afterwards joined them .
, resignation : of all the conflicts and all the sacrifices that ennoble us most .
the very same gentleman , as he came out of an adjoining apartment .
she was of use to no one else ; but there she might be missed to a degree that she
" exclaimed mrs clay , lifting her hands and eyes , and sinking all the rest of her astonishment in
and contemptuously of the very blood he belonged to , and the honours which were hereafter to be his own
but that won ' t do now-a-days ; nothing in the way of pleasure can ever be given up by
she longed for the serenity they might gradually introduce ; and on mr .
fraser has been my intimate friend for years .
” “i might as well inquire , ” replied she , “why with so evident a desire of offending and
" " whom do you mean , ma ' am ?
let me hear what it is .
” “when i talked of your being altered by time , by the progress of years , ” said john
(giggling as she spoke) i ' d lay my life i know what my cousins will say , when they
chapter _num_ " i must take leave to observe , sir walter , " said mr shepherd one morning at
making her happy .
she had been often remiss , her conscience told her so ; remiss , perhaps , more in thought than
what is mr elliot to me ?
it was her own choice to give the time of their absence to highbury ; to spend , perhaps ,
all miss crawford ' s resources—her accomplishments , her spirits , her importance , her friends , lest it should
" " i have a notion , " said sir john , " that miss marianne would not object to
, and i took care to keep mine out of sight .
“happy couple !
and said with some discomposure to sir william : “indeed , sir , i have not the least intention of
“i saw you first in february .
i knew it myself , as it was known to miss bingley ; but her brother is even yet ignorant
" " you are very obliging .
it would have been a happy thing , if he had never left you .
sometimes fell into , the want of respectful forbearance towards her father .
”—seemed to burst from an overcharged heart , and to describe somewhat of the continual endurance to be practised by
—” but checking himself , he added , in a gayer tone , “is it in address that he improves
dashwood , his hand passed so directly before her , as to make a ring , with a plait of
it would have been an unspeakable indulgence .
when he was here before , we made the best of it ; but there was a good deal of
she had never been admitted before to be seriously ill .
this dreadful riot .
harriet listened submissively , and said “it was very true—it was just as miss woodhouse described—it was not worth while
when you give me your opinion , i always know what is right .
at that moment she first perceived him .
it won ' t do .
my father’s opinion of me does me the greatest honour , and i should be miserable to forfeit it .
what is usually met with .
their taste was strikingly alike .
and so well was she able to answer her own expectations , that when she joined them at dinner only
dashwood had recovered herself , to see marianne was her first desire ; and in two minutes she was with
but are you really so attached to this place as to see no defect in it ?
” at this moment frank began talking so vigorously , that emma could not but imagine he had overheard his
is it kingdom ?
sir walter talked of his youngest daughter ; " mr elliot must give him leave to present him to his
recommendation of such a nature at such a time , and he promised to do every thing in his power
his mind might have been softened , his manners improved ; and from his judgement , information , and knowledge
with him .
weston ' s poultry-house was robbed one night of all her turkeys—evidently by the ingenuity of man .
or fourteen couple : and could detail the considerations which had induced him to fix on the _num_ nd as
he had come , intending to spend only a few days with them ; but mansfield promised well , and
lucky fellow to get her !
triumph rather unfeelingly .
of composure which astonished her husband and daughters .
and pleasant ; they were of consequence at home , and favourites abroad .
passing through the hall to the dining parlour .
" " that i will , with all my heart , and farther , too .
" " very true , very true .
but no letter appeared , and she was completely puzzled .
rushworth was gone to repeat her lesson to mr .
to sink as it was .
” “you inquired , then ?
than be disappointed of the promised walk , and especially rather than be thought ill of by the tilneys ,
i made the match , you know , four years ago ; and to have it take place , and
no rumour of lucy ' s marriage had yet reached him : —he knew nothing of what had passed ;
you are not aware of what you are doing .
tenderly enquired after their health , expressing my fears of the uneasiness of their situation .
opinion in the world of all your family , and looks upon yourself and the other miss dashwoods quite as
that a very little matter was enough for her : she could not do entirely without any ; she must
, spoke what she felt must be done .
” “well , well , (said he) we will not dispute about his beauty , but your opinion of his
felt that she owed him attention .
you received it just as it was meant .
de courcy ; i am really delighted with him ; he is full as handsome , i think , as
he wrote with his own hand his love to his cousin william , and sent him half a guinea under
you seem shut out from every thing—in the most complete retirement .
but will they make you happy ?
the naivete of miss smith ' s manners—and altogether—oh , it is most admirable !
“well , my dear , ” he deliberately began , “considering we never saw her before , she seems a
she would not be in a hurry to find fault , but she suspected that there was no elegance ;
frederica shall be sir james ' s wife before she quits my house , and she may whimper , and
what a letter the man writes !
lover ' s profile , that she might be detected in the design .
and besides the operation of this , as a general principle , you may be sure that miss fairfax awes
the house is always in confusion .
; but his cousin , after having addressed a slight observation on the house and garden to mrs .
it was badly done , indeed !
if i were to marry , i must expect to repent it .
here we were , just in this part of the room : here was your cousin , here was i
, and a great brute in your opinion of women in general .
mrs smith ' s enjoyments were not spoiled by this improvement of income , with some improvement of health ,
is nothing due to me on that score ?
, of mentioning miss price as one who would probably be of the party , and had directly received a
let my accents swell to mickleham on one side , and dorking on the other .
” “you are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room , ” said mr .
elton , with a most satisfied smile .
the house before she told her what she had planned .
when the lovely creature first entered the room , oh !
perhaps i have as yet no right ; but by what other name can i call you ?
” harriet blushed and smiled , and said something about wondering that people should like her so much .
for hartfield !
a mere joke ; he was afraid they would find no difficulty .
yet it might not unfairly be contended that there is more fidelity to what mr .
who might not have been glad to exchange their greatest gaiety for it .
, or even where they were not , they walked side by side nearly as much as the other two
" cried marianne , " there has been no engagement .
if wishing to avoid any farther inquiry .
' could you have believed it possible ?
struck with her manner of speaking i could make no reply .
it bore the london postmark , and came from edmund .
” she exclaimed in a voice of more than common astonishment .
” she was gone directly .
a girl in the world capable of being uninfluenced by ambition , i can suppose it her ; but ask
” “dear miss woodhouse !
” emma could hardly understand him ; he seemed in an odd humour .
at ten years old , she had the misfortune of being able to answer questions which puzzled her sister at
intimacy between miss fairfax and me is quite out of the question .
having obtained this prize we were determined to manage it with eoconomy and not to spend it either with folly
out of place , could hint of caution and reserve .
i can perfectly comprehend your feelings .
disquiet and regret to him .
“the miss owens , ” said she , soon afterwards ; “suppose you were to have one of the miss
were the last man in the world whom i could ever be prevailed on to marry .
” (cried i .
mr elliot is evidently a disingenuous , artificial , worldly man , who has never had any better principle to
allen the half-settled scheme of her brother and the thorpes for the following day .
—i was this moment telling jane , i thought you would begin to be impatient for tidings of us .
knightley did not make due allowance for the influence of a strong passion at war with all interested motives .
on her sister and mr .
we all agreed that it could not be offered to anybody else .
one might as well be nothing as a midshipman .
had she accepted him as she ought , they might now have been on the point of marriage , and
them , after a short survey , to be decent looking rooms , walked on .
offered her services , or any of her daughters’ , if they should be of use to us .
“she would rather not be in his company more than she could help .
churchill take it ?
they called at various times of the morning , sometimes separately , sometimes together , and now and then accompanied
what do you mean ?
perfectly convinced of her brother’s indifference ; and that if she suspects the nature of my feelings for him ,
his servant’s report , without any reference to any other account , the circle in hertfordshire to which he was
he was so much displeased , that it was longer than usual before he came to hartfield again ; and
a comfortable fire— .
everybody felt it .
, without a thought of returning it .
hearts , so closely linked together by the ties of simpathy and freindship , should be so widely removed from
—so very determined and positive !
” “no , ” replied fanny , “but we need not give up his profession for all that ; because
in which it may involve you , rather than run the risk of her displeasure for a while by owning
” “it sounds like it , ” said edmund ; “but which way did you turn after passing sewell '
be good .
bennet as much as possible , saying not much to elizabeth , and nothing at all to the others .
tilney had acted neither honourably nor feelingly—neither as a gentleman nor as a parent .
so nearly sad , that mr .
” fanny was just beginning to collect herself , and to feel that if she staid longer behind it might
elton and miss hawkins .
be as tenderly attached to her as the hapless musgrove and while he crumbles to dust , may they live
of going on with her buyings , they began whispering to one another .
he went for a fortnight—a fortnight of such dullness to the miss bertrams as ought to have put them both
' ' do not imagine , madam , ' she continued , ' that i was taught wrong .
nay , he appeared so much otherwise , that his daughter ' s courage failed .
i have great hopes of finding him quite the reverse .
“it is time to think of our visitors , ” said maria , still feeling her hand pressed to henry
i am all impatience to hear how this astonishing change was effected .
with men he can be rational and unaffected , but when he has ladies to please , every feature works
“commend me to the nurseryman and the poulterer .
oppress her .
in first with a blue dress and a pink satin cloak , and afterwards am to have another fine fancy
means nothing , we will send him off , though he is henry , for a time .
“i am come in a great hurry—it was all a mistake—i never promised to go—i told them from the first
what are we now to look forward to ?
dancer , sir ?
but who are you looking for ?
and pride had often been his best friend .
that it had rained every day for the last fortnight ; and mrs .
could comprehend it .
you blamed me for coming ?
this was broken by willoughby , who said with a faint smile , " it is folly to linger in
” here i was interrupted , by seeing my poor sister fall down to appearance lifeless upon one of the
both sisters were uncomfortable enough .
johnson was her guardian , and i do not in general share his feelings , i never can forgive her
he only wanted to aggrandise and enrich himself ; and if miss woodhouse of hartfield , the heiress of thirty
never had marianne been so unwilling to dance in her life , as she was that evening , and never
, being of a very amiable disposition , and sincerely attached to her , gave every proof on his side
of the composer .
he had often seen it tried .
in the hall they parted .
if henry had been with them indeed !
watching the sentinel on guard , and dressing a salad and cucumber .
could get so far , i could not expect to be welcome in such a smart place as that—poor scrubby
you and miss smith , and miss fairfax , will be three , and the two miss coxes five ;
occupied all the rest of her maternal solicitude , alternately her worries and her comforts .
” “no , it would not be easy .
off abruptly , to recollect and compose myself .
poor little sweet creature !
allowing the case , however , to stand according to your representation , you must remember , miss bennet ,
all the little variations of the last week were gone through ; and of yesterday and today there could scarcely
, are circumstances highly in my favour ; and you should take it into further consideration , that in spite
” fanny could listen no farther .
she felt immediately that she should like him ; and there was a well-bred ease of manner , and a
darcy had been standing near enough for her to hear a conversation between him and mr .
she wished him to know that she had been assured of his absence before she came to the place ,
dear fanny , write directly , and tell us to come .
mary was the only daughter who remained at home ; and she was necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments
” “and they must marry !
—frank will be extremely happy , i am sure .
certainly not in your inclination .
let me be able to fancy that a better knowledge of my heart , and of my present feelings ,
combe magna might be seen .
i declare i have not a comfort or an indulgence about me , even at kellynch hall , " (with
what i said .
” she replied with a smile of astonishment , “are you imagining me to be mr .
sternness , said , “it is of no use , i perceive , to talk to you .
of those i love ; and , though i could never feel for this little girl the hundredth part of
more true gentility than harriet smith could understand .
my journey to town—travelling with my own horses , and therefore so tediously—no creature to speak to—my own reflections so
think it need be only one .
she must allow him to be still frequently coming to look ; any thing less would certainly have been too
must break through , and which he could easily learn to think she was wanting him to break through .
in a voice of the greatest alacrity and enjoyment .
—but is it true ?
assure you .
the best thing we could do was to leave the house ; of which we every moment expected the officers
s inquiry if she was well .
smiles , the sneers , the merriment it would prompt at his expense ; the mortification and disdain of his
i can understand you—(nodding at mr .
bennet , who quarreled with no compliments , answered most readily .
, that it was not all uninterrupted enjoyment to the party themselves , and that she had not to witness
while he stood , as if meaning to go , but not going—her father began his inquiries .
who should suffer but myself ?
“i am rather surprised , ” said she , “that mr .
and the feeble .
behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business ?
of better help than the upper housemaid ' s , and when dressed herself , she actually sent her own
to woodston , and , on the afternoon of the following day , had begun his journey to fullerton .
with an alacrity beyond the common impulse of a spirit which yet was never indifferent to the credit of doing
tiresome place in the world .
or most distressing , by their sort rather than their quantity .
elizabeth was not comfortable ; that was impossible ; but she was flattered and pleased .
cunning , or hers , may finally carry the day ; whether , after preventing her from being the wife
in these circumstances it is intelligible that she should turn to sense and sensibility , when , at length—upon the
have been a very complete one ; i am sure it is not a contemptible one , for my cousin
they had been meeting almost every day since his arrival .
was ready , and the ceremony took place in barton church early in the autumn .
he brought all the music to her , and they looked it over together .
he may have as strong a sense of what would be right , as you can have , without being
wish was to hope , and to hope was to expect .
but these measures , however good in themselves , were insufficient for the real extent of the evil , the
; and concluded with entreaties that the subject might never be mentioned to him again .
i had imagined you were consulting me only as to the wording of it .
their subjects in general were such as belong to an opening acquaintance .
she saw with satisfaction the effect of it , in her no longer avoiding colonel brandon when he called ,
other claim , he should absolutely condition with his uncle for attending them whenever he might be wanted .
the two young men were the only talkers , but they , standing by the fire , talked over the
disapprobation , i fear .
my brother is a lively and perhaps sometimes a thoughtless young man ; he has had about a week '
” “one of them does .
the invitation was everywhere so well received , that it seemed as if , like mrs .
your esteem .
do they ?
her ; she had forgot to ask sir thomas what it could be .
no wonder .
fashion , for none of whom he had felt the smallest interest , and from none received either attention or
i think i will have two shawls , fanny .
if you had seen her , as i did , when she was at the worst !
well , my dear miss elliot , i hope and trust you will be very happy .
when the ladies withdrew to the drawing-room after dinner , this poverty was particularly evident , for the gentlemen had
power of worthless relations and able to bestow herself on him .
, for i have been seeing him every day this last fortnight .
high-church down ; and they had not known each other a week , i believe , before you were certain
to do what would be most generally pleasing must be our object—if one could but tell what that would be
the ease of a family party , he had never said so little , nor been so little agreeable ;
had been attentively listening , now looked at him , and said in a low voice— “cut down an avenue
and when , from taking notice of her work , and wishing she could work as well , and begging
elton left them no choice .
i hardly ever get a letter .
her after an absence of only ten days , his readiness to converse with her , and his deference for
” “i can say nothing for her manner to you as a child ; but it was the same with
very pretty lady scudamore , but you know that we young ladies who are heiresses must not throw ourselves away
i have some little concern in the business , as well as yourself , for lucy steele is my cousin
in one point , i am sure , my dear cousin , " (he continued , speaking lower , though
elton , i do not know who will ask her next , perhaps mr .
, the high sense of having realised a great acquisition in the promise of fanny for a daughter , formed
again in a day or two .
was much subdued : the sight of so many strangers threw her back into herself ; and besides the gravity
—a second allusion , indeed , gave less pain .
vernon , who , accustomed herself to the enjoyment of riches , considers fortune as necessary everywhere , and whose
” continued miss crawford , opening her book .
if one thinks of all that it has to do , and all that it does so well , it
” at this moment mr .
norris was ready with her suggestions as to the rooms he would think fittest to be used , but found
you encourage her to expect to marry greatly , and teach her to be satisfied with nothing less than a
you know , my dear , she is going to be to this new lady what miss taylor was to
for improvement , there was very little for me to do—too little : i should like to have been busy
” and “oh !
was in the greatest fright in the world t ' other day , when edward ' s name was mentioned
but from such vain wishes she was forced to turn for comfort to the renewal of her confidence in edward
and so patty told me , and i was excessively shocked indeed !
, though still unable to speak , embraced elinor again and again , turning from her at intervals to press
make it rare ; for his heart had not the indifference of lucy ' s , nor could his conscience
“you were mr .
all her kind designs .
i never saw mrs .
it would have spared her , she thought , one sleepless night out of two .
as fast as she could to ask miss woodhouse what she should do .
i am sure , anne , if you would , you might persuade him that i really am very ill--a
of france !
" captain wentworth ' s eyes were also turned towards her .
is there nothing one can get to comfort her ?
elton , in very good spirits , was one of the first to walk in .
yet , till she knew that he felt the same , her own conviction was insufficient .
elizabeth could but just affect concern in missing him ; she really rejoiced at it .
vernon to lady de courcy churchhill i really grow quite uneasy , my dearest mother , about reginald , from
returned from the parsonage , and found edmund in the east room .
but make a virtue of it by all means .
mean since the object would have been unworthy .
her divorce .
“you must oblige us , ” said he , “indeed you must .
any resemblance between him and the miss lesleys who are in my opinion perfectly unlike him and perfectly handsome .
i have nothing to say against him ; he is a most interesting young man ; and if he had
they encouraged each other now in the violence of their affliction .
such a match as miss bertram has made is a public blessing ; for the first pleasures of mr .
johnson upper seymour street .
and yet she was a happy woman , and a woman whom no one named without good-will .
her brother , and , without looking farther , it was satisfactory ; it was gratifying to know that his
there was but one obstacle , in short , to be mentioned ; but till that one was removed ,
if they would only put off their scheme till tuesday , which they might easily do , as it depended
how i shall laugh !
he said , a charade , which a friend of his had addressed to a young lady , the object
” a very , very kind embrace , and some agitation of manner , accompanied these words .
the folks of the great house were to spend the evening of this day at the cottage ; and it
still obliged her , at intervals , to withhold her pen , were proofs enough of her feeling how more
felicity in a less audible whisper ; for , to her inexpressible vexation , she could perceive that the chief
john or mr .
was , as far as such an early age can be qualified for the care of children , fully competent
the kellynch hall plan , when it burst on her , which was , mrs clay ' s being engaged
you do not deserve the office , if you cannot appreciate the talents of your company a little better .
most truly the gentleman .
—her understanding excellent , her mind improved , and her manners captivating .
suppose—giving way to irresistible feelings , made me acquainted with his earnest , tender , constant , affection for marianne
superficial , that she was at first , as she told anne , almost ready to exclaim , " can
conveyed from her sight without very uneasy sensations .
anywhere else .
they met .
they were engaged about the end of that time to attend lady middleton to a party , from which mrs
” “we are going to box hill to-morrow ; —you will join us .
cousin imagine what my transports will be when i feel the dear precious drops trickle on my face !
he did not scruple to add that her being at home for a while would be a great advantage to
but you are always giving her the preference .
i cannot see you acting wrong , without a remonstrance .
john dashwood saw the packages depart with a sigh : she could not help feeling it hard that as mrs
this letter , however , was written , and sealed , and sent .
had already arranged the manner of breaking it to all the others , when sir thomas ' s assurances of
the pity of such a woman as lady middleton !
jennings and elinor were of the number ; but marianne , who knew that the willoughbys were again in town
not too thin .
but , my dearest catherine , what have you been doing with yourself all this morning ?
short , however , was that time .
cottage , easily conjecturing what her curiosity must be though no question was suffered to speak it , talked of
sufficient explanation of what he particularly meant ; and though anne could not believe in their having the same sort
would be to give up the society of some of those most dear to me ; to banish myself from
such had been the parcel with which miss crawford was provided , and such the object of her intended visit
followed the other ladies out of the room , arm in arm , with an appearance of good-will highly becoming
purpose , compared with the old chapels of castles and monasteries .
be furnished : it waits only for a lady ' s taste !
likely to assuage the agonies of the little sufferer .
” was an artless exclamation of catherine ' s towards the close of their conversation , which at once surprised
of the court , she could scarcely believe it , or overcome the suspicion of there being many chambers secreted
did not appear until she had been three years dead .
the error has been all my own ; and i do assure you that , with all the excuse that
had she seen him so desirous to please , so free from self-consequence or unbending reserve , as now ,
bennet had not found miss bennet worse than she expected .
the way to camden place , without saying a word .
everybody ' s heart is open , you know , when they have recently escaped from severe pain , or
wherever they went , she was evidently always on the watch .
knightley , he set off , with all the grateful blessings that she could utter for her friend and herself
it was rather honour than happiness to fanny , for the first dance at least : her partner was in
had thought her out of spirits , which appeared perfectly natural , as there was a dentist to be consulted
goddard was the mistress of a school—not of a seminary , or an establishment , or any thing which professed
it was , on the contrary , exactly calculated to make her understand her own wishes ; and never had
" [ _num_ ] " certainly , there can be no difference ; for robert will now to all intents
the opportunity was too fair .
being constantly with her , i am very ready to believe his character will improve , and acquire from hers
, and return it into the purple and gold reticule by her side , saying , with significant nods ,
returning in silence to his seat , therefore , he remained for some minutes most civilly answering all mrs .
this , on arriving in pulteney street , took the direction of extraordinary hunger , and when that was appeased
the wind roared round the house , and the rain beat against the windows ; but elinor , all happiness
she did not seem to have a thought of fear .
” he stopped .
but it ought to be done , and if you will give me a sheet of paper , it shall
a mutual silence took place for some time .
always been .
but she saw , with less tenderness of feeling , the thorough want of delicacy , of rectitude , and
elton , mrs .
her own attachment had really subsided into a mere nothing ; it was not worth thinking of ; —but if
is it not ?
poor man !
had here strephon for he would carve the partridge if it should be a tough one .
, and of avoiding the sight of mr .
you may guess , therefore , my dear madam , with what feelings i look forward to her arrival .
as much by a degree of fascination towards her , as by the wish of hunting with mr .
dashwood it was valued and cherished .
own blank solitude for the elegancies and society of mr .
“worse than i had supposed .
you will think very differently , when you are married .
she was so kindly asked to call again , to take them in her walk whenever she could , to
and miss bates .
collins , ” she added , “that lizzy shall be brought to reason .
my brother has just left us .
manner nor sense to recommend him .
we invalids think we are privileged people .
to begin without knowing that at such a time there will be the means of marrying , i hold to
skinner and his family were here three months ; so i tell mr .
the younger miss thorpes being also dancing , catherine was left to the mercy of mrs .
” “certainly , ” he replied , biting his lips .
—on his side , there had been a long-standing jealousy , old as the arrival , or even the expectation
" he had done , and was unanswered .
the preferment , which only two days before she had considered as hopeless for edward , was already provided to
bingley will not be detained in london by them .
' said i to a friend of mine who was standing near , (sir basil morley) .
their last meeting had been most important in opening his feelings ; she had derived from it a delightful conviction
charles the _num_ st this amiable monarch seems born to have suffered misfortunes equal to those of his lovely grandmother
“i understand , ” cried her uncle , recollecting himself , and not wanting to hear more : “i understand
wickham has created , a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real character—it adds even
we are forced to rejoice .
he was returning to mansfield with spirits ready to feed on melancholy remembrances , and tender associations , when her
” “i do not defend him .
i am joined with him in the guardianship of miss darcy .
for him she felt much compassion ; —for lucy very little—and it cost her some pains to procure that little
weston , laughing , “perhaps the greatest good he could do them , would be to give jane such a
me to state my reasons for marrying—and , moreover , for coming into hertfordshire with the design of selecting a
that would be enough for me .
in the establishment of so many of her children produced so happy an effect as to make her a sensible
, he had spoken of her terror , her naivete , her fervour as she seized and clung to his
ideas of what was due to them , as anybody of sense and honesty could well be .
are exorbitant ; but she will swallow any thing ; and the excessive affection and endurance of the miss steeles
; and had once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage , where she had perfectly approved all the
, i have nothing to say against it , but that they shall not chuse pleasures for me .
bennet , “that is very unlucky .
in future to be very good neighbours .
a grand and careless way , that mr .
done with so little inconvenience to himself as by the present arrangement .
and with the utmost good-will was sure that accommodation might be found for every body , calling on his wife
at any time when they did not want them , ” and as the miss bertrams regularly wanted their horses
herself very well .
without considering that it was not in her mother ' s plan to keep any horse , that if she
“and my dear aunt , if you do not tell me in an honourable manner , i shall certainly be
but the usual fate of anne attended her , in having something very opposite from her inclination fixed on .
and on the gentlemen’s approaching , one of the girls moved closer to her than ever , and said ,
; for i will not press you to return here immediately , because you only can judge how far that
scheme of their all going to newcastle , was likely to continue at least a twelvemonth .
it was very desirable that lady russell should be no longer deceived ; and one of the concluding arrangements of
they both seemed delighted with their drive ; but said only in general terms that they had kept in the
by fond regrets , could not help saying-- " ah !
such—so great—as promised them all , the satisfaction of a sleepless night .
i could not preach but to the educated ; to those who were capable of estimating my composition .
this is saying very plainly— ' pray , miss smith , give me leave to pay my addresses to you
weston entered into the idea with thorough enjoyment , and mrs .
midst of the pangs of disappointed affection .
" elinor began to find this impertinence too much for her temper ; but she was saved the trouble of
the maid , returned to elinor , who , though still much disordered , had so far recovered the use
and how delightful nature had made her , and how excellent she would have been , had she fallen into
was always comfortable .
johnson to lady s .
the journey in itself had no terrors for her ; and she began it without either dreading its length or
body was coming .
and seemed to show by her tears that she felt it to be impossible .
it is me , baddeley , you mean ; i am coming this moment .
far be it from me to repine at his doing so ; he had an undoubted right to dispose of
you will be kinder than mary .
and all the grandeur of the connexion seemed dependent on the elder sister , who was very well married ,
satisfaction of their respective families , and of the general lookers-on of the neighbourhood , who had , for many
i could not help being provoked ; for after all my pains , and when i had really made a
“no , ” said he , “my father ' s hands need not be strengthened , and frederick ' s
lessen her own grief , it was at least prevented from unnecessary increase , and her mother and sisters were
let a thing escape me which i should not .
business ?
while they were at breakfast the letters were brought in .
—to emma ' s entreaties and assurances succeeded mr .
, which is nearly twenty miles from my father ' s , and some of my time is necessarily spent
" " not in the stage , i assure you , " replied miss steele , with quick exultation ;
dress is at all times a frivolous distinction , and excessive solicitude about it often destroys its own aim .
it was like treading old ground again .
and the author must share in the glory she so liberally bestows .
but to be waiting so long in inaction , and waiting only for evil , had been dreadful .
a woman is not to marry a man merely because she is asked , or because he is attached to
—liable as you have been to severe colds , indeed you ought to be particularly careful , especially at this
” “but you have a fire in general ?
it would be difficult to say which had seen highest perfection in the other , or which had been the
of a stranger superior to mr .
i am sure i was very much surprized when i first heard she was going to be married .
not a syllable passed aloud .
i must be at woodston on monday to attend the parish meeting , and shall probably be obliged to stay
with pointed attention continued to talk to her and endeavour to raise her spirits , in spite of being out
" " i think i have , " replied elinor , with an exertion of spirits , which increased with
make herself uneasy .
beyond the entrance of the valley , where the country , though still rich , was less wild and more
entreaty from a young man like crawford could not have worked so little change on a gentle-tempered girl like fanny
” (said he .
extracts to admire , and some new observations of threadbare morality to listen to .
how wonderfully these sort of things occur !
she recovered her voice .
i do not censure her opinions ; but there certainly is impropriety in making them public .
a page or two , quite near enough to satisfy lady bertram , who assured him , as soon as
it makes me very nervous and poorly , to be thwarted so in my own family , and to have
miss summers .
the many thousand things which had been collecting within her for communication in the immeasurable length of time which had
to the girls , who could not listen to their cousin , and who had nothing to do but to
but , as it is , the disappointment is single , and , i trust , will not be lasting
they looked just the same : both well-dressed , with veils and parasols like other girls ; but i afterwards
chapter _num_ elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister’s room , and in the morning had the
her happiness on this occasion was very much a la mortal , finely chequered .
and friend over the house , extremely well pleased , probably , to have the opportunity of showing it without
the rest might wait .
being left in total darkness .
she was sensible of all the affection it evinced .
allen did so .
she met him with a hand that would be taken , and a voice that expressed the affection of a
should have gone quite distracted .
knightley , with a degree of vexation , which made emma immediately talk of something else , though she could
ever hope to make you love me .
contrition and despondence , such a superfluity of children , and such a want of almost everything else , as
friends , and of endeavouring to be less disagreeable .
” “nothing could be so gratifying to me as to hear your opinion of it , ” was his answer
the men take notice of that sometimes , you know .
, and fancying herself stronger because her strength was not tried , was quite impatient for the concert evening .
she had learnt , in the last ten minutes , more of his feelings towards louisa , more of all
” “phoo !
not at all to represent captain benwick ' s manners as the very best that could possibly be ; and
endeavour to persuade yourself or me , that selfishness is prudence , and insensibility of danger security for happiness .
not cramped into the vulgar compactness of a square farmhouse : it is a solid , roomy , mansion-like looking
disadvantage of another will avail when opposed by the immediate influence of intellect and manner .
and miss crawford , who , late and dark and dirty as it was , could not help coming ,
was most distressing .
as he would .
mary always has her own way .
” she then ran gaily off , rejoicing as she rambled about , in the hope of being at home
her displeasure , her penetration , and her happiness were all fearful to encounter ; and the dependence of having
your ideas are only more noble than mine .
i die a martyr to my greif for the loss of augustus .
my dear catherine , —unluckily i was confined to my room when your last letter came , by a cold
, into clear , comprehensible , elegant english .
the congratulatory letter which elizabeth received from lydia on her marriage , explained to her that , by his wife
more , and professed himself to have always felt the sort of interest in the country which none but one
do you remember that evening ?
she excused herself and put it off , with the more decided promise of a longer visit on the morrow
in return three thousand pounds .
” “i shall keep clear of you , crawford , as long as i can , ” said edmund ;
the assistance he thought of , i dare say , was only such as might be reasonably expected of you
i think they have a knack of swelling out , till they are quite as unmanageable as great ones .
if this is living in the country , it is nothing very formidable .
having introduced him , however , and being all reseated , the terrors that occurred of what this visit might
removals from her own fireside , and many excellent hints of distrust and economy to lady bertram and edmund to
but , unluckily for her ladyship , its effect had been exactly contrariwise .
a most unexpected and unwelcome visit from lady susan , looking all cheerfulness and good-humour , and seeming more as
desire .
but the expression is hardly admissible , mrs .
without partiality ; but mrs charles knows no more how they should be treated-- !
here , too , her present removal promised advantage .
indeed you must go , for it will be impossible for us to visit him if you do not .
her own happiness , and her own spirits , were at least very certain ; and she joined mrs .
richardson , no .
you clever creature , that ' s very true .
she now felt a great inclination to go to the outer door ; she wanted to see if it rained
as you honour her with the appellation of your freind , we flatter ourselves that she must be amiable .
he was not in spirits , however ; he praised their house , admired its prospect , was attentive ,
what happiness it must be to her good old grandmother and excellent aunt , when she comes to visit them
cells , and the staircase by the side of those apartments of which she had caught a transient glimpse ,
have spent out of my chaise since that time procured me a nuncheon at marlborough .
the visit of the miss steeles at barton park was lengthened far beyond what the first invitation implied .
to be at any certainty ; and the words , “then by this time it is all settled , ”
weston , with her baby on her knee , indulging in such reflections as these , was one of the
of half enjoyment .
" this paragraph was of some importance to the prospects and conduct of edward .
week later at lisbon , last spring , frederick , you would have been asked to give a passage to
upon my word , jane on one arm , and me on the other !
louisa perfectly entered into her father ' s schemes and was determined to forward them with all her care and
it strikes me as if it would do exactly .
the officer was the very mr .
i am sorry it happens so , for mrs .
” “are they ?
she made me almost laugh ; but i cannot rate so very highly the love or good-nature of a brother
“indeed you must excuse me .
she really looked almost wild .
or indeed , no information concerning him .
“her picture , i suppose , ” blushing at the consummate art of her own question , “hangs in your
can there be any other opinion on the subject ?
rushworth married .
she wished , however to see the crofts , and was glad to be within when the visit was returned
assistance , as far as it would go .
you do not look well .
used to hear him say on that subject .
it was quite out of the benevolence of her heart , that she had asked these young women to her
” “and i , mr .
does your charge give you much trouble ?
if you knew what a consolation it was to me to relieve my heart speaking to you of what i
the anxious affection , which she was accused of having continually watched in isabella ' s every look and action
it is an insult to propose it .
—i understand you were so kind as to offer , but another time it will be quite unnecessary .
elizabeth , though she did not credit above half of what was said , believed enough to make her former
its tendency would be to raise and refine her mind—and it must be saving her from the danger of degradation
" " yes , " said he , looking not exactly forward ; " but there , i think ,
my dear mother , —you must not expect reginald back again for some time .
than she had ever been before ; to feel affection without fear or restraint ; to feel herself the equal
think of returning to our mothers , but accidentally hearing that they were both starved to death , we gave
dixon) excessively to come over with colonel and mrs .
” “you will make my excuses , my dear , as civilly as possible .
her family had of late been exceedingly fluctuating .
had no sooner accomplished this task , than she began northanger abbey .
jennings commended her in her heart for being so honest .
she felt your full meaning .
, where a couple of pair of post-horses were kept , more for the convenience of the neighbourhood than from
first entered the house .
she is nothing to me , compared with you ; " and she was in full time to hear her
, took her out of the room , and did not return for some time .
he would feel himself in the right ; and the declaration—made , of course , as a man of sense
how he lived i know not .
dancing with open windows !
bennet’s schemes for this day were ineffectual .
knowledge of dear marianne ' s unhappy prepossession for that worthless young man !
i found them on the most friendly terms when i arrived .
for two days mrs .
the musgroves came back to receive their happy boys and girls from school , bringing with them mrs harville '
he grew indifferent to the quarrel , or rather thought it a lucky occurrence , as quietly putting an end
though we have not known him long , he is no stranger in this part of the world ; and
you wrote me word of it three months ago .
the sea is no beautifier , certainly ; sailors do grow old betimes ; i have observed it ; they
she directly replied : “you need not be frightened .
, and i believe there is not a better kind of girl in the world , nor one who more
your manner might be only the ease which your engagement to another man would give .
such exact resemblances as might be wished , from their being taken as she ran along .
would not harriet be the very creature described ?
but of feeling , no opposing desire that should dare to clothe itself in words , could ill brook the
consequence to anybody .
superior society , and , from our connection with rosings , the frequent means of varying the humble home scene
" for such particulars , stated on such authority , elinor could not withhold her credit ; nor was she
she had suffered very much from cramp after dancing , and her first attempt to mount the bank brought on
you know i always speak my mind , and i cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling post
hate to leave you .
woodhouse good .
such kind friends , you know , miss woodhouse , one must always find agreeable , though every body seemed
very strong eyes to see as you do—and so much fine work as you have done too !
consider the house as half your own every winter , and we will add to the stables on your own
the whole day with one aunt , or walked beyond her strength at the instigation of the other : lady
but even then there was something odd in their way of going on .
that you may see how rational i am grown .
if not knowing where he was : “i could not get away sooner ; fanny looked so lovely !
his knowledge .
she performed her part indeed without much graciousness , but mrs .
and after being asked for it five or six times , allowing them to hear your name , your own
elton would have been too great a distinction .
—it was at first a considerable shock to him , and he tried earnestly to dissuade her from it .
in any respect objectionable ; it was , that he should be received at hartfield ; that so long as
conviction of their attachment agreeable to her .
better .
she had herself been first with him for many years past .
“there would not be time , and other difficulties would arise .
fanny spoke her feelings .
than on the north : that i will be master of my own property .
be more natural than catherine ' s being beloved , they soon learnt to consider it with only the happy
as to any attachment you know , it never could be ; all that is gone by .
how well she understood him .
fanny ' s explanations and remarks were a most important addition to every essay , or every chapter of history
” “that is the first question , you know , ” said miss crawford , trying to appear gay and
she opened it ; it was from oxford ; and to this purpose : “dear catherine , “though , god
naturally inspired might have been too great for familiarity , had not the easy gaiety of miss thorpe ' s
” interrupted emma , “there will be plenty of time for talking every thing over .
i hardly know how mr .
well , much good may it do them !
she was invested , indeed , with the office of judge and critic , and earnestly desired to exercise it
them to arrange the terms on which the superior families would visit them .
so much design in the world as some persons imagine .
intermarriage , she may have less trouble in achieving a second ; in which there is certainly some ingenuity ,
, and was two hours about it ; and when my letter was done i thought i never should have
to mr sheridan ' s play of the critic , where they will find many interesting anecdotes as well of
" how long it had been carrying on between them , however , he was equally at a loss with
” after a short pause , however , the subject still continued , and was discussed with unabated eagerness ,
collins was settled near her family .
at that moment a sudden knocking at the door of the room made her , starting , quit her hold
bromley , of course .
the performers .
niece who had been brought up under her eye .
bates ' s ; whose house was a little nearer randalls than ford ' s ; and had all but
her narration was clear and simple ; and though it could not be given without emotion , it was not
i did not understand you .
she practises very constantly .
disputable , however , as might be the taste of such a termination , it was in itself a charming
grant , as well as by fanny , that being the first invitation it should be accepted .
an engagement , with a due reference to the absent sir thomas , was entered into , much to the
phillips , who had been a clerk to their father and succeeded him in the business , and a brother
i am sorry for it .
her ease and good spirits increased .
there is no danger of your not being intelligible , which is the first thing .
for her own gratification she could have wished that something might be acted , for she had never seen even
nothing but such a persuasion could have prevented his putting an end to an engagement , which , long before
” “you chose very wisely , i am sure , ” replied miss crawford , with a brightened look ;
rushworth ' s credit than he felt it for his own .
elizabeth was delighted .
" she had hardly spoken the words when mr elliot walked in .
—doting on marianne .
the mess-room will drink isabella thorpe for a fortnight , and she will laugh with your brother over poor tilney
” “i am sorry for the young people , ” returned mrs .
if nobody else wants it ; a trifling part , but the sort of thing i should not dislike ,
marianne slept through every blast ; and the travellers , they had a rich reward in store , for every
yet while she saw marianne in spirits , she could not be very uncomfortable herself .
with your sweetest smiles this afternoon , and send him back to me even happier than he goes .
and a house commodious and well fitted up ; and mrs .
the right will except himself , and he had sworn so much that nobody beleived him .
it was some months before sir thomas ' s consent could be received ; but , in the meanwhile ,
“aye , and a fine one too i think—(feeling it , as by her permission i seated myself by her)
my heart sickens within me .
setting her own inclination apart , to have failed a second time in her engagement to miss tilney , to
“i must ask whether you were surprised ?
—however , i must say , that robert martin ' s heart seemed for him , and to me ,
harley street , as soon as lady middleton could spare them .
it seems an hopeless business .
i am sure it will be all hushed up , and nothing proved but rushworth ' s folly .
captain benwick must give up his room to them , and get another bed elsewhere ; and the whole was
everybody of any consequence or notoriety in bath was well know by name to mrs smith .
with indifference .
, she knew it would be so much less so to her father , that she would not have him
knightley have been privy to all her attempts of assisting jane fairfax , could he even have seen into her
, because , had any suspicion of it occurred to the others , proper measures would have been taken to
receive another ; it was impossible that she ever should receive another so perfectly gratifying in the occasion and the
there was no chance of it .
; and for the diluted squire western , sir john middleton , whose horror of being alone carries him to
was she right in refusing what was so warmly asked , so strongly wished for—what might be so essential to
been still , who had been long talking , and might have been silent , who had been in more
—you may believe me .
where are you going ?
to cry .
where his performances have been seen .
anne is too delicate for them .
“we are the sons as you already know , of the two youngest daughters which lord st clair had by
to know if he is still in newgate , or if he is yet hung .
i saw her change countenance .
the little white attic , which had continued her sleeping-room ever since her first entering the family , proving incompetent
there was no want of respect in the young man ' s address ; and fanny ' s reception of
she knew not how such an offence as hers might be classed by the laws of worldly politeness , to
heard and attended to ; and sir thomas came back .
that lucy was disposed to be jealous of her appeared very probable : it was plain that edward had always
concurrence was conveyed as soon as possible .
bingley had been a most delightful friend ; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable ; but she checked
i know not when we shall leave bristol , eloisa ' s spirits are so low that she is very
justly expected for her sister , in looking back to what they had feared , only two hours ago ,
he chose to assert , and it was finally settled between them without any difficulty that his equipage was altogether
, she was always more inclined to silence when feeling most strongly .
within doors there was lady catherine , books , and a billiard-table , but gentlemen cannot always be within doors
if the change be not from outward circumstances , it must be from within ; it must be nature ,
a whole family assembling regularly for the purpose of prayer is fine !
she thought it would be something very fine .
” “but how came you to know him ?
she offered to forgive the past , if i would marry eliza .
" " is mr .
and seeing him never .
liable she would still remain to suffer from the concussion hereafter !
in his coat pockets , &c .
you take delight in vexing me .
be never ceasing , alternately irritating and soothing ; it sometimes suggested the dread of his calm acquiescence , and
he[ _num_ ] seemed really anxious to accommodate them and the whole of his letter was written in so friendly
she was called a beautiful girl , truth was less violently outraged than usually happens .
she was beyond their reach ; and if at last obliged to yield—no matter—it was all misery now .
; “and i hope you have had a pleasant airing ?
she must think me an idiot , or she could not have written so ; but perhaps this has served
i am aware , more aware than crawford can be , that the man who means to make you love
finis june _num_ th _num_ .
his society became gradually her most exquisite enjoyment .
they had always distrusted the appearance of his goodness .
what other reason for the disclosure of the affair could there be , but that elinor might be informed by
he began to feel the danger of paying elizabeth too much attention .
something occurred while they were at hartfield , to make emma want their advice ; and , which was still
sometimes it appeared to them as if his silence would be the natural result of the suspected engagement , and
mrs musgrove was giving mrs croft the history of her eldest daughter ' s engagement , and just in that
” bingley looked a little silly at this reflection , and said something of his concern at having been prevented
what edward had done to forfeit the right of eldest son , might have puzzled many people to find out
mark his professions to my poor husband .
" it is indeed for mrs .
' " mary had no feelings to make her respect her sister ' s in a common way , but
sleep , or repose that deserved the name of sleep , was out of the question .
gathered from the middletons ' partial acquaintance with him ; and she was eager to gain from any one ,
what may be the likeliest means ?
kitty then owned , with a very natural triumph on knowing more than the rest of us , that in
ever receiving in the consideration of that kindness from which her pleasure sprung , was beyond all her words to
not looked so well pleased at the sight of captain tilney .
you would have doated on her , had you gone .
therefore content myself with mentioning the leaders of the gang .
, and without personal conceit , might be something uncommon .
" this , " said she , " is nearly the sense , or rather the meaning of the words
you need not tell her so , but i thought her dress hideous the other night .
" mrs smith hesitated a little here .
—emma is not strong .
no never exclaimed i .
she had now seen all that were at home ; there remained only two brothers between herself and susan ,
several hours to give sedateness to her spirits , or any degree of tranquillity to her heart .
they were at it in the dining-parlour .
i thought of nothing but whether it might not be colonel brandon come back again ; so i said to
i am sure you will be glad to hear , as likewise dear mrs .
, she was off , leaving all below in confusion and noise again ; the boys begging for toasted cheese
experienced could arise only from the cruelties of relations or the errors of freinds .
i could not act anything if you were to give me the world .
the occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave elizabeth much attention for any of these new
come very often ; and as their acquaintance increased , so did their satisfaction in each other .
this important conference , which carried them through the greater part of the morning , was , that anne had
as marked her self-importance , and brought mr .
he stopped at highbury , at the bates ' s , i fancy , some time—and then came on hither
goddard had dressed it on a sunday , and asked all the three teachers , miss nash , and miss
your advice to me last may , which , considering the event , shows some greatness of mind .
no relations to bestow on him which a man of sense could value .
to suppose her capable of giving up the power she now possesses and so nobly uses of doing such extensive
was violently in love with him , we desired to know whether he had ever in any wise declared his
” “and here is mrs .
self-threatenings of the past became in a decided tone , " i must call on mrs croft ; i really
” the crawfords , without wanting to be cured , were very willing to stay .
i am not so selfish , however , as to press for it , if inconvenient .
” “will it not be advisable , before we proceed on this subject , to arrange with rather more precision
easter was approaching , and the week preceding it was to bring an addition to the family at rosings ,
richardson was come in her coach , and would take one of us to kensington gardens ; so i was
” she then read the first sentence aloud , which comprised the information of their having just resolved to follow
jennings , who read it aloud with many comments of satisfaction and praise .
she had no longer any inclination to talk to him .
she had been unwilling to mention bingley ; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made her equally
—but you understand me .
weston were to marry her , ' and saying it again to yourself every now and then afterwards , why
almost led me to the grave .
every body is asleep !
” cried miss bates .
along in going to and from woodston ; and , for fourteen miles , every bitter feeling was rendered more
we shall greatly miss edmund in our small circle , but i trust and hope he will find the poor
” “that is exactly what i think , ” cried mrs .
the happiest knack , the happiest power of jumping and guessing , he could always alight at will on the
if my vanity had taken a musical turn , you would have been invaluable ; but as it is ,
meetings at hartfield , was foundation enough on his side ; and on harriet ' s there could be little
” “so much the better—or so much the worse : —i do not know which .
she soon resolved , equally as a duty and a pleasure , to employ half an hour of this holiday
" " no , nothing .
many hours in a high delirium .
norris ' s discussion was the point attempted to be proved , she set herself very steadily against admitting any
they talked of coming into this side of the country .
her for a partner .
she listened , and at length she heard ; she heard voices and feet approaching ; but she had just
how does he know that he is going on well , or that there may not be a sudden change
“i cannot see that london has any great advantage over the country , for my part , except the shops
“your brother will not mind it , i know , ” said she , “because i heard him say before
sitting forwards , however , and screened by her bonnet , those smiles were unseen .
and preside , she had no sigh of that description to heave .
and comparisons , or diversion in the playful conceits they suggested .
remind her that all this might soon be over .
she looked at his two sisters , and saw them making signs of derision at each other , and at
—and now that livings fetch such a price !
the young ladies who approached her at first with some respect , in consideration of her coming from a baronet
at present i am not in love with mr .
speaking of him .
do not ask advice of me .
this parcel , she had actually found , besides the two songs which she had lent elizabeth to copy ,
of her promise .
of their invitation , etc .
when you tell me to love him as a brother , i shall no more see imperfection in his face
, should leave her , and leave her perhaps for months , without telling her of his affection , —that
; and of the strength of her own , she gave a very striking proof , by still loving and
' " " and what did the colonel say ?
leave of the few friends there whom he could suppose to feel any interest in him ; and that he
“my plan may not be the best possible : i had not many minutes to form it in ; but
a child than he could fly ; if , indeed , he should ever get well of his gouty complaints
to know fanny to be sought in marriage by a man of fortune , raised her , therefore , very
“and are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real truth ?
was to usher her into the upper rooms .
weston ' s attention was chained ; but when she got to maple grove , he could recollect that there
his letters disgust me .
“and which way are they gone ?
” “no , indeed , i cannot .
and saying , “have you nothing to send to mary ?
been studied !
it is such a happiness when good people get together—and they always do .
much kindness as he could feel towards anybody beyond himself , his wife , and their child .
i sat .
at the mercy of a man whose passions are so violent and so revengeful .
accompanied by captain benwick , who seemed to cling to them to the last , proceeded to make the proper
up without unnecessary indulgences ; but there should be moderation in everything .
they stood for some time without speaking a word ; and she began to imagine that their silence was to
be kept at a distance from .
think it a little over .
his gallantry was always on the alert .
had ridden , or his many narrow escapes from dreadful falls , that he was at all equal to the
you know i told you not to touch it , because susan is so cross about it .
elegant ; and as to their faces , their eyes are beautifull .
woodhouse to cards .
i assure you , miss anne , it prevents my wishing to see them at our house so often as
good humour , than tenderness and sentiment ; and while the agitations of anne ' s slender form , and
yates , who was trying to make himself agreeable to julia , found her gloom less impenetrable on any topic
churchill had sent his nephew a few lines , containing , upon the whole , a tolerable account of mrs
he only conditioned that the marriage should not take place before his return , which he was again looking eagerly
wax-candles in the schoolroom !
anxious and uneasy , the period which passed in the drawing-room , before the gentlemen came , was wearisome and
it seemed as if she had been one moment too late ; and as long as she dared observe ,
” emma knew this was too true for contradiction , and therefore said nothing .
norris , ” was his answer .
made it a point of honour to promote her enjoyment to the utmost .
i need not explain myself farther ; and though we know this anxiety to be quite needless , yet if
” she cried , with instant animation , “am i here again ?
” “can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good ?
she is hurt , as you would be for william ; but she loves and esteems you with all her
as to allow me no time to devote either to you or myself .
warmth and tenderness of heart , with an affectionate , open manner , will beat all the clearness of head
they were viewing the country with the eyes of persons accustomed to drawing , and decided on its capability of
whatever bears affinity to cunning is despicable .
put it up , put it up ; we will have a good talk about it some other time ,
—such smoothness !
but in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend , where one of them is desired by the other
she was just as determined when the morrow came , and went early , that nothing might prevent her .
mr and mrs musgrove , either from seeing little , or from an entire confidence in the discretion of both
thorpe ' s lodgings , and the feelings of the discerning and unprejudiced reader of camilla gave way to the
crawford sought julia ' s hand , i should have given it to him with superior and more heartfelt satisfaction
her aunts out of the room , edmund , who was holding open the door , said , as she
her face was crimsoned over , and she exclaimed , in a voice of the greatest emotion , " good
i have had walking enough .
the last time we met was in bath street , and i turned directly into a shop that he might
” “you are right , mrs .
keep it unpacked to the last possible moment , that i might see it ; and if i do not
and my sister has often trusted me in the choice of a gown .
” elizabeth made no answer ; and without attempting to persuade her ladyship to return into the house , walked
” cried elizabeth .
that day , was locked up in my writing-desk ; and i , trusting that i had written enough ,
with composure , an acquisition of wealth to her brother , by which neither she nor her child could be
he could hardly ever get out , poor man , to enjoy anything , and that disheartened me from doing
uske .
” “i thank you ; but i assure you you are quite mistaken .
this is always the way with him !
—the night that poor st .
churchill , who threw her off with due decorum .
too well .
i quite detest the man .
perfect happiness , that it could bear no other name .
” “i admire the activity of your benevolence , ” observed mary , “but every impulse of feeling should be
“this , madam , is a faithful narrative of every event in which we have been concerned together ; and
woodhouse was persuaded to spend with his daughter at randalls , was passed by the two young people in schemes
elton was growing impatient to name the day , and settle with mr .
us any ill offices .
he looked forward with the hope of coming to randalls at no distant period .
yes , i am sure : carry her gently to the inn .
would , in the common course of things , occur to him .
—but we must allow for difference of taste .
frank churchill placed a word before miss fairfax .
none such had occurred since his seeing her in her uncle ' s room , none such might occur again
moved from her seat she should miss her sisters ; she was expecting her sisters every moment ; so that
but as to any thing else , upon my honour my performance is mediocre to the last degree .
for lady dorothea .
the females of the family were sitting together in the dining-room , their attention was suddenly drawn to the window
gentleman and his servant were at the door , who had lossed their way , were very cold and begged
, what could be expected from the private devotions of such persons ?
” “i mention it , because it is the living which i ought to have had .
settled so permanently near herself .
leaning there in pretended employment , try to subdue the feelings this picture excited .
what a delightful room this is !
they sang together once more ; and emma would then resign her place to miss fairfax , whose performance ,
no one could sing a better song than she , and no one make a better pye than i .
come as soon as you can on receipt of this .
i assure you , jane fairfax is a very delightful character , and interests me more than i can express
" [ _num_ ] they had scarcely been two minutes by themselves , before he began to speak of edward
she seldom saw him : never alone .
” “good morning to you , ”—said he , rising and walking off abruptly .
very thoughtful of colonel campbell , was not it ?
let me only have the girl i like , say i , with a comfortable house over my head ,
we shall certainly take that post .
was moonlight and every body was full of engagements .
of both .
everything in that quarter failed her , except william ' s affection .
or restrain her (for my father lived only a few months after their marriage , and i was with my
he is devoted to me , heart and soul .
his affairs was fully known .
" " well , " continued mrs smith , triumphantly , " grant my friend the credit due to the
but , fanny , if your heart can acquit you of ingratitude—” he ceased .
but it is very likely that he may fall in love with one of them , and therefore you must
i shall like it of all things .
weston did think of it , she was very strongly persuaded ; and though not meaning to be induced by
you think me unsteady : easily swayed by the whim of the moment , easily tempted , easily put aside
you would not , for instance , now go to a ball for the world .
" " i do not know what i told her , " he replied , impatiently ; " less than
her heart with sensations of exquisite comfort , and expand it in fervent gratitude ; —but it lead to no
good mrs .
—they will sometimes obtrude—but how you can court them !
he spoke of apprehension and anxiety , but his countenance expressed real security .
” edmund had already gone through the service once since his ordination ; and upon this being understood , he
talking about farming : —the second , was his having sat talking with her nearly half an hour before emma
i was uncomfortable enough , i may say unhappy .
elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her questions but answered them very composedly .
knightley ; —and till she is in being , i will manage such matters myself .
as often .
most comfortable carriage .
darcy might have been doing to forward her sister’s match , which she had feared to encourage as an exertion
“well , ” said he , “and do you think of going too ?
convinced him that it was an ague , and promised him a charm for it ; and he , in
she rushed to the drawing-room , —she entered it , —and saw only willoughby .
i meant to take them over to john saunders the first thing i did , but something or other hindered
the beauty of her daughters , when she related their different situations and views—that john was at oxford , edward
from his father ; but here , as on most topics , he had the superiority , for while mary
how much worse , had they been obliged to meet !
good .
visit that he first began to think that any one in the habit of such idle observations would have thought
mother to visit jane , and form her own judgement of her situation .
of , as they walked along in happy independence , or equally delighted to see the admiral ' s hearty
there was no getting away from one ' s self .
“i hope every body had a pleasant evening , ” said mr .
without appearing to hear her , he walked to the window , fidgeted about , hummed a tune , and
bragge went to london and back again with four horses .
the more i think of it , the more probable it appears .
there will be very little merit in making a good wife to such a man as mr .
at last-- " i beg your pardon , my dear miss elliot , " she cried , in her natural
to be otherwise comforted was out of the question .
campbell a friendly , warm-hearted woman .
enough to make a very low bow , and take his seat without saying a word ; and his daughter
be displayed .
he continued with her the whole time of her writing , to assist her with his penknife or his orthography
to direct his search , which was more than we had ; and the consciousness of this was another reason
disposal of the next presentation necessary , and the younger brother must help to pay for the pleasures of the
was the marriage and removal of your mother to a distant part of ireland .
suckling , sometimes flies about .
to act—no matter whom : the look of a gentleman is to be enough .
when in the convent , my progress had always exceeded my instructions , my acquirements had been wonderfull for my
as they had always lived on the principal of it , when we were fifteen it was diminished to nine
at the same instant , advanced into the room .
churchill , it would be most natural , that while she makes no sacrifice for the comfort of the husband
i do not at all wonder or blame them .
from all danger of seeing willoughby again , her mother considered her to be at least equally safe in town
think of your mother ; think of her misery while you suffer : for her sake you must exert yourself
; and anne , in passing afterwards quickly from her own chamber to their dining-room , had nearly run against
to enjoy .
you must come and make lizzy marry mr .
ridicule .
across the room at miss fairfax , who was sitting exactly opposite .
” “to a mrs .
i always thought him a fright .
it was soon drawn , perforce another way .
it was a journey of only twenty-four miles , and they began it so early as to be in gracechurch
her ill opinion of him was founded chiefly on observations , which , for her cousins ' sake , she
he had not time to enter into much explanation .
" you have something to tell me of mr .
thinking , i hope , of one who is always thinking of you .
but i am very glad to find it was only my own fancy , and that you really do not
but i think her present home must do her good .
; and considering the alliances which the musgroves have made , she has no right to throw herself away .
i shall hear of every thing that is going on among you .
s friend , and her friend ' s brother , so pure and uncoquettish were her feelings , that ,
at such a moment , the arrival of her friend was a sincere pleasure to elizabeth , though in the
” replied miss bates .
happy lover of the beautifull janetta , oh !
her remembrance .
he gave her to understand that frank admired her extremely—thought her very beautiful and very charming ; and with so
i shall be happy to tell you , for we all behaved charmingly .
“you dislike an argument , and want to silence this .
rushworth discovered that the properest thing to be done was for him to walk down to the parsonage directly ,
they soon outstripped the others , and when they had reached the carriage , mr .
james morland ' s second letter was then received , and the kind intentions of his father fully explained .
they might all have hoped to rise by harriet ' s acquaintance : and besides , what was the value
" but in this he was eagerly opposed by his wife , with " oh !
few weeks , and very much regretted the impossibility he was under , from various circumstances of weather and business
his admiration was at first very strong , but no more than was natural , and i did not wonder
not danger of lady catherine’s disapprobation here , my good sir ?
' she says she is passionately fond of all .
income , no niggardly assignment to one of ten children .
footing and perfect unreserve which had soon followed isabella ' s marriage , on their being left to each other
tom repeated his resolution of going to him early on the morrow ; and though julia , who had scarcely
you)—a conversation between us one evening at barton park—it was the evening of a dance—in which i alluded to a
she complained bitterly of all this to her husband .
it was not the first time of her feeling the same kind of conviction ; for , more than once
“i believe i have been very rude ; but really miss fairfax has done her hair in so odd a
he spoke calmly , however , without austerity , without reproach , and she revived a little .
we have already agreed that secrecy may be necessary , and we must acknowledge that it could not be maintained
" " yes , " said anne , " you tell me nothing which does not accord with what i
and not sorry to be obliged , to hurry away .
her wisdom too limited the number of their servants to three ; two maids and a man , with whom
” “very .
lose a word ; or only looking off just to note down any sentence preeminently beautiful ?
minutes , perhaps—when , all of a sudden , who should come in—to be sure it was so very odd
this set the matter beyond a doubt .
rushworth was to be count cassel , but no one had yet undertaken anhalt .
can give—it is all nothing ; there can be no knowledge .
why should she lose a pleasure which she has shewn herself so deserving of ?
” “that circumstance must give great encouragement .
" " then you would have told me , that it might or might not have happened .
sending you a few lines of general congratulation , and giving my most joyful consent and approval .
by drawing houses and trees , hens and chickens , all very much like one another .
soon as it became clear that these , their nearest relations , were not arrived with any views of accommodation
pleasure of seeing them set off together in high spirits .
she deprecated the connexion in every light .
and me .
he shall not be in love with me , if i can prevent it .
noticed in some of the others , and which seemed to say that julia was mr .
older should make me indifferent about letters .
overture of a marriage between the families , with the most liberal proposals , he had , on being brought
in edmund ' s mare was far beyond any former pleasure of the sort ; and the addition it was
only think , mamma , how it is improved since i was here last !
young people , that he could hardly out-talk the interest of his hearers .
if she is with her mother , moreover , she must , alas !
it rained dreadfully hard for half an hour while we were at breakfast .
" marianne had left the room before the conversation began .
” “probably not ; but mr .
mrs croft was attending with great good-humour , and whenever she spoke at all , it was very sensibly .
little mercy .
horses , and such a good-humoured , agreeable friend ; and , in likening it to going up with despatches
unseasonableness with which the affair burst out , needs explanation ; for though the event of the _num_ th ult
happy , happy breakfast !
the time of the latter ' s becoming known to her—and as they must at any time have been compared
would do it worse , ” was doubtless receiving all the compliments it called for .
the chair was earnestly protested against , and mrs musgrove , who thought only of one sort of illness ,
” “i shall not say you are mistaken , ” he replied , “because you could not really believe me
i do not know a place in the country that is equal to netherfield .
weston ' s confidence , she could not think it so very impossible that the churchills might not allow their
but , though this might be imaginary , she could not be deceived as to his behaviour to miss darcy
crawford most happy to consider the miss prices as his peculiar charge ; and before they had been there long
!
lydia’s being settled in the north , just when she had expected most pleasure and pride in her company ,
he took ; and , that being by the sea , always makes him feel young again .
the idea , seemed apparent by a glance or two between them , while mr elliot ' s frequent visits
be able to get along , if we set off directly ; and if we do come to any thing
on her side than esteem on mine .
she doubted the sincerity of this assurance no more than he had doubted it himself , and she thought of
who , in a manner which , though it spoke compassion , spoke likewise restraint , said , “i am
kingsweston !
cannot stay to endure the questions and remarks of all these people .
johnson as ever , you must come to me at _num_ wigmore street ; but i hope this may not
there is no knowing how estates will go when once they come to be entailed .
“i wonder you took the trouble of coming so far .
came back from her visit , the very last morning of his being at hartfield—though , when he first came
phillips began to express her concern thereupon , he assured her with much earnest gravity that it was not of
thorpe talked chiefly of her children , and mrs .
with hasty indignation , therefore , and a tremulous voice , she said to him , “you do not seem
” the same civilities and courtesies , the same success and satisfaction , took place on the morrow , and
i honour that part of the attention particularly ; it shews it to have been so thoroughly from the heart
such a noble mind !
crawford , under pretence of receiving the note , was coming towards her .
” “can i have the carriage ?
they walked on .
look .
my poor fortune where art thou by this time ?
" " i confess , " replied elinor , " that while i am at barton park , i never
” in this style she ran on ; never thoroughly stopped by any thing till mr .
bingley , and he was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening , till his manners gave
for the comfort of her children , had she consulted only her own wishes , she would have kept it
how can i ask them away from her ?
door ?
not deserve to have her understanding spoken of so slightingly .
” such a compliment recalled all catherine ' s consciousness , and silenced her directly ; and , though pointedly
we had a very pleasant dance and as lady g—slept all the way home , i had a very comfortable
darcy , ” cried a young lucas , who came with his sisters , “i should not care how proud
and then there was such comfort in the very easy distance of randalls from hartfield , so convenient for even
, said-- " this is full of papers belonging to him , to my husband ; a small portion only
, it was more than being tacitly brought up as his uncle ' s heir , it had become so
lady’s removing from one carriage into another might be remarked he meant to make inquiries at clapham .
she answered him with cold civility .
it was a valued , a precious trust to me ; and gladly would i have discharged it in the
full of eligibility and suitableness , and excessively generous and disinterested on his own part .
” “dearest jane !
should be easy .
” “but i say , miss morland , i shall come and pay my respects at fullerton before it is
he and i had a great deal of talk about it ; and the best of all is , that
man at the crown , ostler , and every thing of that sort , but still he cannot keep his
and relationship of the nearest kind with a man whom he so justly scorned .
no , no , (exclaimed sophia) i cannot go to newgate ; i shall not be able to support the
take my word for it , that , if i am alive , i shall be paying a visit at
there was no one , therefore , who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of him
i remember her aunt very well , biddy henshawe ; she married a very wealthy man .
, inanimate nature , with little observation ; her attention was all for men and women , her talents for
here he was again on the same ground where all had passed before , and apparently as willing to stay
“none ma ' am i hope that have been the effect of any wilfull fault in me .
, for we always know when we are acting wrong , and with such a conviction i could have had
in that point , however , i undervalued my own magnanimity , as the event declared ; for i went
give a general idea , among sir walter ' s acquaintance , of her meaning to be lady elliot ,
but i hope you will not mind it : it is all for jane’s sake , you know ; and
, “i will farther tell you , that there was a period in the early part of our acquaintance ,
but the family are all rich together .
” “indeed i am afraid she will , ” replied henry ; “i am afraid she will be very constant
to pore over it , with the professed view of finding out the ships that captain wentworth had commanded .
supported by her own family , people of respectability as they are , she may recover her footing in society
but it is not often that virtue can boast an interest such as this .
, into mrs .
woman .
the one liked best .
knows !
bingley of course returned with him to dinner ; and in the evening mrs .
the letter was not unproductive .
herself , and laughed and reflected , she could be fit for nothing rational .
superior to the broad-faced , stuffy uncle phillips , breathing port wine , who followed them into the room .
bertrams were very fine young men , that two such young men were not often seen together even in london
he is his own master .
” “well , papa , if this is not encouragement to marry , i do not know what is .
than his son to trust to the future , he could not help fearing that if such very long allowances
housekeeper coming towards them , and , concluding that she came to call them to their mother , went forward
sink herself forever .
young women should always be properly guarded and attended , according to their situation in life .
he expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied her ; his style was not penitent , but
" " i think very differently , " answered elizabeth , shortly ; " an agreeable manner may set off
, was pondering with downcast eyes on what it would be not to see edmund every day ; and the
it would have made no difference to you , i suppose , whether you had walked in the shrubbery or
” but of this answer lydia heard not a word .
elton was evidently wanting to be complimented herself—and it was , “how do you like my gown ?
” her father lifted up his eyes .
she was told that now he wrote with the greatest confidence of being often with them , almost as often
jennings , " before you go , do let us know what you are going about .
the consequently natural , yet in some instances almost unnatural , degree of ignorance and uncouthness of men , of
that she was coming to apologize , and that they should have to spend the evening by themselves , was
leaning over her work , in a state of such agitation as made her hardly know where she was .
i will not be in a hurry to believe myself his first object .
he thought well of his niece , or how very far he was from wishing to have his own children
heart of man is affected by what is costly or new in their attire ; how little it is biased
there were other evils before her .
they made their appearance in the lower rooms ; and here fortune was more favourable to our heroine .
i have an hundred things to say to you .
serious , so earnest , so uncheerful , as seemed to say , that he might hereafter wish the distance
she saw them both looking back at her .
he had not left her long , by no means long enough for her to have the slightest inclination for
but now , when he has made his overtures so properly , and honourably—what are your scruples now ?
he was enchanted by her approbation of his taste , confessed it to be neat and simple , thought it
norris was quite at his service ; and though she perfectly agreed with him as to its being a most
—i fancy mr .
let them be cheated of their malignant triumph , my dear sister , by seeing how nobly the consciousness of
the approach of sir james gower (one of my too numerous admirers) prevented the discovery of any such powers ,
if all took place that might take place among the circle of her friends , hartfield must be comparatively deserted
room a near relation of my patroness .
his medicines had failed ; the fever was unabated ; and marianne only more quiet—not more herself—remained in a heavy
it had occurred to sir thomas , in one of his dignified musings , as a right and desirable measure
” said he , as he joined her .
churchill , and only wishing him not to delay coming back beyond the next morning early ; but that mr
—for my mother was so afraid that we had not any salting-pan large enough .
martin and the two girls .
they are brought more within my comprehension .
her work , move pug from her side , and give all her attention and all the rest of her
i am glad he can afford it .
, “delightful !
not been for this detestable rain .
it was all my doing , i know .
but if i dared tell you all , you would not be so much surprised .
the kitchen garden , examining the bloom upon its walls , and listening to the gardener ' s lamentations upon
by immediate want of fortune from entering into engagements with each other , how can i promise to be wiser
and now , what say you to going to edgar ' s buildings with me , and looking at my
, put it hastily away , protesting that she would not regard it , that she would never look in
but for this unlucky illness , made every ailment severe ; for on that day they were to have begun
not quite certain .
arise from the impropriety of his conduct .
never mind miss lizzy’s hair .
young man had come in her way at that moment , he would have been accepted after all .
has since dined with him in company four times .
come to us as soon as you can .
the weather was by no means bad ; and , in short , louisa , who was the most eager
was not he devoted to you at the ball ?
" mrs croft left them , and captain wentworth , having sealed his letter with great rapidity , was indeed
to be spared from her aunt norris ' s interminable reproaches !
yes ; certainly .
there is no appearance of unhappiness .
as lieve be tossed out as not .
i cannot look upon them at all in the same light , nor think the same duties belong to them
have wanted .
” “you are not fond of the country .
his person and manners and those of reginald , to the infinite disadvantage of the latter .
whenever charlotte came to see them , she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession ; and whenever
no longer contest the point , nor refuse to have been as full of arch penetration and affectionate sympathy as
could anything be so flattering as mrs .
chapter _num_ the ladies of longbourn soon waited on those of netherfield .
“have you ever happened to look at the part i mean ?
there is no talk of his coming to netherfield again in the summer ; and i have inquired of everybody
there were two other doors in the chamber , leading probably into dressing-closets ; but she had no inclination to
i told smith i did not know where i was .
were regularly consumed in the house .
the destination of the thrush must be now preeminently interesting .
not finish , his half averted eyes and more than half expressive glance , all , all declared that he
you are a great deal too necessary at hartfield to be spared to abbey-mill .
" " i am very glad to know all this , " said anne , after a little thoughtfulness .
prevent her making any inquiry of marianne .
” “i will make no promise of the kind .
jones’s shop-boy in the street , who had told her that they were not to send any more draughts to
st .
a connection with her , she dared not pronounce .
— “jane fairfax is absolutely charming , miss woodhouse .
he cut off a long lock of her hair .
bates , might be depended on for bearing him company—mr .
how little could the utmost of your single management do to stop the ruin which had begun before your marriage
—i did not know a word of it till it was all settled .
but there were two or three much uglier in the shop ; and when i have bought some prettier-coloured satin
catherine ' s feelings , as she got into the carriage , were in a very unsettled state ; divided
to find that such hopes are realised is a satisfaction indeed , a satisfaction which is now almost the only
have i explained away any part of my guilt ?
" [ _num_ ] talking over the business .
“very well , ” replied emma ; “a most natural feeling ; and the longer it lasts , the better
they were soon gone again , rising from their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprise ,
" " on the contrary , nothing can be a stronger proof of it , elinor ; for if there
” “sir , it is a moor park , we bought it as a moor park , and it cost
" [ _num_ ] " oh !
me how i liked her cousin musgrove ?
they shall prove that , as far as you can be deserved by anybody , i do deserve you .
it was long before he could speak again .
and i returned the same evening to richmond , though i might have staid with you till the next morning
" " only give me a hearing .
he endured too well , stood too well with every body .
norris— “i think , sister , we need not keep miss lee any longer , when fanny goes to live
emma apprehended that it would be a ninth very much out of humour at not being able to come even
but at first i must confess , my vanity only was elevated by it .
; and of late it has been shifting about pretty much .
i should be sorry to have you ill ; you , that have been the greatest comfort to me in
“i wish we could contrive it , ” said she ; “but i cannot think of any tolerable pretence for
i would not have mr .
johnson suspected nothing of your engagement the evening before .
any to itself .
did edmund ?
several things that sir thomas and i used to talk of .
marriage articles when you and mr elliot marry , that your father is not to marry mrs clay .
this was a prospect to be dwelt on with a fondness that could be but half acknowledged .
prudent motive ?
attempt at a compliment on her wit and vivacity ; and though more astonished than gratified herself by this effect
the recollection of him .
this comparison produced .
" " and do you not think it more likely that she should leave it to her daughters , than
" " but indeed this is quite another thing .
elizabeth found herself quite equal to the scene , and could observe the three ladies before her composedly .
she had no demands on her father or sister , and her consequence was just enough increased by their handsome
” “then it can be no argument to prove that he is in love .
tilney was very much amused .
and had not thought about her .
woodhouse ' s giving a gentle sigh , and saying , “ah , poor miss taylor !
i do not know whether you have ever happened to see any of her performances before , but she is
upon my word , ma ' am , it has been a very ill-managed business .
of perplexed affairs , no health to make all the rest supportable .
street ; that mr .
was watching , she did not know how to admit that she could be blinded here .
" " i have no doubt of it , " replied marianne .
—a fortnight , at least , of leisure and peace of mind , to crown every warmer , but more
it for him , began , at the end of two days , to think that , instead of mid-summer
no sooner was his father ' s funeral over , than mrs .
what a spirit he has !
rushworth was with me .
indignation and hatred .
" it was a reference to the future , which anne , after a little observation , felt she must
the superiorities of the house , as they were detailed to her .
” he made no answer , and they were again silent till they had gone down the dance , when
i do not know what to do .
here is some great misapprehension which must be rectified .
—so much ease , with such perfect good breeding !
it was to be such a secret !
vernon believes that frederica will now be treated with affection .
" i feel no sentiment of approbation inferior to love .
how could he answer it to himself to rob his child , and his only child too , of so
dance with genuine spirit and enjoyment .
, no slight , would appear in their behaviour to him ; —but she had no utterance , and was
strong indignation .
by her brothers , where stood the tea-board never thoroughly cleaned , the cups and saucers wiped in streaks ,
light as a feather .
find that , so great and so agreeable as he was , he should be come down to portsmouth neither
me , because if liable to such defects of temper , she could not contribute much to my felicity .
, enabled sir walter at last to prepare his pen , with a very good grace , for the insertion
but this was only the beginning of her surprise .
” “come , ” said he , “you are anxious for a compliment , so i will tell you that
not elinor ' s constitution ; —and one must allow that there is something very trying to a young woman
happiness together : do not imagine it .
— and a fine ending—and there is the letter .
i never saw mansfield wood so full of pheasants in my life as this year .
discretion , and politeness , and slowness of speech would allow , and certainly appearing to greater advantage on the
personal size and mental sorrow have certainly no necessary proportions .
, in the common phrase , be well married , here is the comfortable fortune , the respectable establishment ,
your brother of everything but the folly of too easily thinking his affection returned .
she rather suspected it to be so , on the very first evening of their being together , from his
pace and observing eyes .
grateful thanks .
with you from the first moment he beheld you .
such inquiries to be necessary on your side .
of being really the one preferred comforted her under it , and enabled her to receive mr .
ferrars ' s , their best compliments and service , and how sorry they was they had not time to
of wishing that he would part with his black mare .
has emma read it all ?
she who had not been able to remain in louisa ' s room , or to look at her ,
rushworth , he would never have offered so great an insult to the neighbourhood as to expect it to notice
in my trinket-box , you have happened to fix on the very one which , if i have a choice
—for i dare not hope , ” he continued in a lower and more serious tone , “that he is
—such a dreadful broiling morning !
fanny ' s hurry increased ; and without in the least expecting edmund ' s attendance , she would have
matter ; but i dare say there will be nothing to alarm you .
my behaviour must have seemed strange to you then ; but now you will comprehend it .
if his own vanity , however , did not mislead him , he was the cause , his pride and
” “you will find his consequence very just and reasonable when you see him in his family , i assure
and then began to foresee , with her usual cheerfulness , a variety of advantages that would accrue to them
use to mrs clay ' s health as a drive to kellynch : " but i quite agree with my
elton must be asked to begin the ball ; that she would expect it ; which interfered with all their
, the never-failing hope of his arrival was worth much .
the stupidity with which he was favoured by nature must guard his courtship from any charm that could make a
the end of april was coming on ; it would soon be almost three months , instead of two ,
sense of pleasure and the sense of rendering justice , and was determining that she would dislike her no longer
or sympathy .
“informed us that you would certainly not be here till to-morrow ; and indeed , before we left bakewell ,
" she had a great wish to see him .
” upon the whole , she was very persuadable ; and it being briefly settled among themselves how it might
before they could marry , being , however unwelcome , no more than he had expected , was borne by
strict rule of right .
” “my dear eleanor , the riot is only in your own brain .
tolerable room for ten couple .
frank churchill ?
she saw nothing of the willoughbys , nothing of edward , and for some time nothing of anybody who could
; but the many hours of each day in which he was left entirely alone , were but too favourable
thousand men assembling in st .
i wish we could get the bell mended ; but betsey is a very handy little messenger .
the bertrams were all forgotten in detailing the faults of rebecca , against whom susan had also much to depose
how harriet could ever have had the presumption to raise her thoughts to mr .
us hints of before .
woodhouse received the thanks for coming , which he asked for , when a glimpse was caught through the blind
more than momentary repose , the hours passed away , and her journey advanced much faster than she looked for
the admirable conversation[ix] between the miss dashwoods and willoughby in chapter x .
it would be impossible for my father to receive it before he left edinburgh , we contented ourselves with leaving
“i am sure , ” said she , “i am very sorry if i have offended him .
knightley ' s going to london ; and going so suddenly ; and going on horseback , which she knew
he did not boast , but it naturally betrayed itself , that he had persuaded his aunt where his uncle
voluntary communication— " i suppose you know , ma ' am , that mr .
rushworth , and he turned towards his brother and sisters as if hardly doubting a contradiction .
his leave .
in private life .
themselves , to tolerable comfort , and to have done with all the rest .
what is the amount of his fortune ?
own feelings by urging a lengthened separation , and of insensibility to yours you will hardly suspect me .
robert ferrars !
the event of her having no brother , the future baronet , meant to marry him , and her father
" she expects to be confined in february , " continued mrs .
by the bye , i looked in upon them five minutes ago , and it happened to be exactly at
i had not thought of it before , but that is the best way .
to my fancy , it is only because he does not rattle away like other young men .
so do i .
she had known of his opinion of harriet .
“there can be no doubt of mr .
all the chaperons to a better part of the room .
her attachment and regrets had , for a long time , clouded every enjoyment of youth , and an early
it was no time for thought ; she hurried on , slipped with the least possible noise through the folding
here we shall in time be in peace , and our regular employments , our books and conversations , with
tell me if , when i returned to england in the year eight , with a few thousand pounds ,
the colonel has been saying to you ; for though , upon my honour , i tried to keep out
—frank churchill was a villain .
he or she had bestowed themselves elsewhere , and their best interest to keep their own imaginations from wandering towards
i want a change .
i see that more than a mere dutiful morning visit to your aunt was in question ; and woe betide
“my dear sir thomas !
“he is perfectly well behaved , polite , and unassuming , ” said her uncle .
they did not wait long for the crawfords , but there was no mrs .
hold out her hand to both .
, and his zeal after poachers , subjects which will not find their way to female feelings without some talent
he went , therefore , to his brother ' s , meaning after a while to return to kellynch ,
, and so they parted—fanny in a state of actual felicity from escaping so horrible an evil !
for her approbation , the particular reason of his going into norfolk at all , at this unusual time of
inconvenience to her family as under the present circumstances .
that will not signify ; i never mind dirt .
as ignorant and uninformed as the female mind at seventeen usually is .
it was weather which might fairly confine every body at home ; and though she hoped and believed him to
indeed they are sweet girls— .
at any rate i shall expect you to-morrow .
abilities from her rank and fortune , part from her authoritative manner , and the rest from the pride for
never was there a sweeter face , a finer form , or a less amiable heart than louisa owned !
i am grown wretchedly thin , i know ; but i will not pain you by describing my anxiety ;
my catherine , you have found me out .
he had strong feelings of family attachment and family honour , without pride or weakness ; he lived with the
his having felt some dawning of tenderness toward herself .
state of mind , so softened , so devoted , as made it for a few moments impossible to fanny
no , indeed , charles , i cannot bear to have you go away .
crawford ' s opinion on the spot , and that might be of some small use to you with their
in london , perhaps , in your present quiet style of living , it might be as you say :
there is nothing more to be said or done .
" replied lucy ; " i wonder at that , for i thought you must have seen her at norland
" " you may certainly ask to be forgiven , " said elinor , " because you have offended ;
glowing and lovely in sensibility and happiness , and more generally admired than she thought about or cared for ,
it was not without an effort , meanwhile , that she could wait even for longbourn , before she told
palmer is excessively pleased with you and your sisters i can tell you , and you can ' t think
i saw that my own feelings had prepared my sufferings , and that my want of fortitude under them had
she has three girls to teach , or only two—there can be no difference .
” “the crown !
“no , he can feel nothing as he ought .
be more delightful than ever ; how good it is of you to come so far on purpose to see
herself on every point exactly as she might have foreseen .
found expression in their united volubility .
he ought not to be supposed to be paying his addresses to any one .
at the total suspension of all isabella ' s impatient desire to see mr .
walk .
perry , ” said he , in a voice of very strong displeasure , “would do as well to keep
i admired your spirit ; and i dare say we shall get home very well .
, aware that the cure of unconquerable passions , and the transfer of unchanging attachments , must vary much as
your favourite pursuit which must be so indispensably necessary to your future felicity .
language ; and , in an unhappy mood , thus spoke mary : " i do believe if charles were
and on another account , too , i can perfectly comprehend .
norris wrote the letters .
, encouraging him by all means to pay his respects to sir thomas without delay , sent him after the
to say much , or even to be certain of what she ought to say .
she did ; she would have written to combe magna ; and if he is in town , how odd
i must order the carriage .
the head , which spoke much , she looked at mr .
direction .
his sister ' s in writing , for there has been no ' well , mary , when do you
in spite of his intended silence , sir thomas found himself once more obliged to mention the subject to his
, without actual blame on either side .
think , than such as did not .
" cried mrs clay , not daring , however , to turn her eyes towards anne .
perrys , and the mrs .
this is a sort of dull-looking evening , that ought to be treated rather as winter than summer .
particulars of the grants ' intended journey , for the present intelligence was of a nature to promise occupation for
disinterestedness ; every thing in his favour , —equality of situation—i mean , as far as regards society , and
now , he said , he was beginning to have no longer the same wish .
wickedness is always wickedness , but folly is not always folly .
of being sometimes out of humour .
on his return to the breakfast-room , he found mrs .
for me , you took the volume into the hermitage walk , and i was obliged to stay till you
pretty .
” “no—i cannot call them gifts ; but they are things that i have valued very much .
together ; and i have made out a list of ten or twelve more of the same kind for you
had just watched him to your door herself !
promising talents and early information , they should be entirely deficient in the less common acquirements of self-knowledge , generosity
i saw her as i came in ; she was standing in the entrance .
vanity working on a weak head , produces every sort of mischief .
miss smith , the step at the turning .
sister’s spirits .
them ; and he found in mrs .
my mother was taken ill immediately , and the whole house in such confusion !
with so much sympathy and natural grace , as shewed the kindest consideration for all that was real and unabsurd
their being the sweetest girls in the world .
message by thomas , was perfectly clear to elinor ; and edward himself , now thoroughly enlightened on her character
voice , of proper modulation and emphasis , of foresight and judgment , all proceeding from the first cause :
we must commit the event to a higher power .
advantage of resting herself a quarter of an hour at winthrop , as she felt so tired , she resolutely
even know her to be in bath , it immediately occurred , that something might be done in her favour
” elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude , but said nothing .
as much as she does , i should not have been anxious for the match .
and notorious that no one could be ignorant of them at the time , nor can now have forgotten them
abilities can be given than this perversion of reginald ' s judgment , which when he entered the house was
happy as jane .
i can never hear such a one without the greatest admiration and respect , and more than half a mind
i see the difference plain enough .
she feared for william ; by no means convinced by all that he could relate of his own horsemanship in
was she endeavouring to ensure a pleasant walk to him who brought the double recommendation of being her brother '
opinions , on points , too , of some moment , it had not entered my imagination to conceive the
the sake of being able to read all the rest of it .
the morning had answered all her hopes , and the evening of the following day was now the object of
of speaking to harriet ; and certainly did not speak in vain .
” “well , proceed by all means .
for their meat , and have not a neighbour nearer than your mother .
few married women are half as much mistress of their husband ' s house as i am of hartfield ;
jennings , indeed , were not so nice ; their witticisms added pain to many a painful hour ; but
when that was once done , however , it was time for the raptures of edward to cease ; for
of the gentleman , he united frankness and vivacity , and above all , when she heard him declare ,
dashwood was above , and wanted to speak with him on very particular business .
consulting expediency .
a more reasonable cause[ _num_ ] might be found in the dependent situation which forbade the indulgence of his affection
never was a better sloop than the asp in her day .
; " when shall i cease to regret you !
” here they were interrupted by lady catherine , who called out to know what they were talking of .
woodhouse would hardly have ventured had there been much snow on the ground ; but now it is of no
i think it is the state of mind which gives most spirit and delight .
she plays charmingly .
certainly , my home at my uncle ' s brought me acquainted with a circle of admirals .
any thing of .
it very well .
” “you had better tell miss bertram to think of mr .
“i should never have said mrs .
are about it ; but i wish anybody could give mary a hint that it would be a great deal
collins had a compliment , and an allusion to throw in here , which were kindly smiled on by the
she got up with a headache , was unable to talk , and unwilling to take any nourishment ; giving
will turn to account when love is once set going , even the sandwich tray , and dr .
i have not the least idea of his being a weak young man : i feel sure that he is
to rise—“my father will be expecting us .
her insipidity was invariable , for even her spirits were always the same ; and though she did not oppose
made him think every thing due to her in return for the great goodness of being in love with him
easter came particularly late this year , as fanny had most sorrowfully considered , on first learning that she had
pray , what is the usual price of an earl’s younger son ?
” “yes , she did ; but i cannot recollect now .
” “well , lady bertram , ” said mrs .
of bidding her adieu , wishing her every enjoyment , reminding her of what she was to expect in lady
does she never mean to go away ?
jenkinson’s room .
isabella stept in after her father ; john knightley , forgetting that he did not belong to their party ,
any other woman i know ; but will it answer ?
recollection of past enjoyment and crying over the present reverse for the chief of the morning .
poured out his feelings .
isabella then went to emma ; but emma could not so entirely give up the hope of their being all
a very enviable commission , and being the bearer of something exceedingly precious .
” “but do you only ask what i can be expected to tell ?
eleven ; and i defy any man in england to make my horse go less than ten miles an hour
” “indeed you do me injustice ; i would not have made so improper a remark upon any account ;
the doctor is no beau of mine .
“i have found out , ” said he , “by a singular accident , that there is now in the
she has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever ; but i rather believe she derives part of her
footing ; her relations all wish the connection as much as his own ; and a sister’s partiality is not
; but she believed he had already returned home , which i was very far from crediting .
yet surely neither you or the fair henrietta herself will deny me the exquisite gratification of dieing for her ,
upon recollection , however , i have a notion they are both dead ; at least the mother is ;
sure you do not mean to persuade me that the colonel only marries you for the sake of giving ten
“i am certain there is somebody knocking at the door .
it is settled between us already , that we are to be the happiest couple in the world .
upon it , you will speedily receive from me a letter of thanks for this , and for every other
was certain that edward was free ; and to what purpose that freedom would be employed was easily pre-determined by
” “no , not very .
why did you not seek legal redress ?
william was almost as happy in the plan as his sister .
the time of the two parties uniting in the octagon room being correctly adjusted , catherine was then left to
away the notion of its being possible to end otherwise at last , than in the marriage of edward and
" of his sense and his goodness , " continued elinor , " no one can , i think ,
” “you had better not .
quite a humourist .
inn to dress themselves for dining with the same family , when the sound of a carriage drew them to
but farther than this you must not believe .
, “yes , frank came over this morning , just to ask us how we did .
of their not being gone to scotland : when that apprehension first got abroad , it hastened his journey .
" can you , ma ' am ?
my uncle ought to know it as soon as possible .
a poet in love must be encouraged in both capacities , or neither .
angel .
now she could hear more ; and she trembled in expectation of it .
who cried most ?
been , the knowledge of her influence , the indelible , immoveable impression of what persuasion had once done--was it
spent by himself at the side of marianne , and by his favourite pointer at her feet .
maria williams .
my poor head , i had quite forgot it .
the least importance , that he considered the money as a mere trifle , and begged that she would not
" that i can easily believe .
could then , in a soberer moment , feel his motives to deserve , and acknowledging , with perfect ingenuousness
acquire , the knowledge of ourselves and of our duty , to the lessons of affliction , and immediately left
rushworth ' s parting attentions as she ought .
and i dare say it would succeed , if miss de bourgh were out of the way .
what felicity !
crawford ' s is no common attachment ; he perseveres , with the hope of creating that regard which had
they did not know .
he had distinguished himself , and early gained the other step in rank , and must now , by successive
he and his sisters were well , i hope , when you left london ?
“mrs .
we cannot have two agathas , and we must have one cottager ' s wife ; and i am sure
there was no one else in the room) " in one point , i am sure , we must feel
mainwaring she gave jealousy and wretchedness to his wife , and by her attentions to a young man previously attached
weston , were not thrown away .
have known , or could imagine .
and being always with her , and always talking confidentially , and his feelings exactly in that favourable state which
i always look upon her as able to persuade a person to anything !
lady susan , who had been shedding tears before , and showing great agitation at the idea of the meeting
of all this , and suffering the more from that involuntary forbearance which his character and manner commanded , and
was walking between them with an arm of each under his , and she did not know how to prevent
with her , it was proposed by the brother and sister that they should join in a walk , some
' tis blown over and forgot .
“and is this all ?
in making bets and exclaiming after prizes to have attention for anyone in particular .
if she is ill i should be sorry to do her injustice ; but there are some traits in her
no one , i believe , can blame her more than she is disposed to blame herself .
one cannot wonder , one cannot wonder .
watched him down the street when her notice was claimed by the approach of the same two open carriages ,
” “sir thomas told me £ _num_ would be enough .
, confused , and beginning to breathe very quick , and feel an hundred things in a moment .
two lines more prized had never fallen from the pen of the most distinguished author—never more completely blessed the researches
to entreat your help .
and perhaps saw , or even heard , her emotion ; for immediately afterwards he fell into a reverie ,
two material advantages of bath over london had of course been given all their weight : its more convenient distance
elton , this is the most extraordinary conduct !
into .
ferrars ' s marriage as the certain consequence of the presentation ; for he did not suppose it possible that
and you shall give me your opinion .
the vicarage quarter , which was now graciously overcome .
a few months had seen the beginning and the end of their acquaintance ; but not with a few months
the very best authority , —not that i ever precisely heard mrs .
unkind of her not to come by such an opportunity .
you men have none of you any hearts .
" and you do think something better of me than you did ?
having walked about a mile and a half we sate down by the side of a clear limpid stream to
pardon me for neglecting to profit by your advice , which on every other subject shall be my constant guide
you see how delightfully she writes .
” said he , turning his eyes towards jane .
shabby fellows , both of them !
and reginald really with you !
therefore , sir walter , what i would take leave to suggest is , that if in consequence of any
comprehend what i must feel , and i rely upon his goodness .
, and whatever the humiliation of her biographer in relating it , she was preparing enjoyment of no everyday nature
s only answer , in an undervoice , not meant to reach far , and the subject dropped .
but (as fanny instantly , and to her great relief , discerned) her father was a very different man ,
it very much , as an advantage to her husband ; but mary could not bear to be left ,
to miss morton whether she marry edward or robert .
the same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the evening .
tilney , why were you less generous than your sister ?
but though everything seemed neat and comfortable , she was not able to gratify him by any sigh of repentance
as she had a great taste for the pleasures of london , and of brighthelmstone , she will i dare
” said emma , highly amused .
“we have dined nine times at rosings , besides drinking tea there twice !
still from the want of near relations and a settled home , remaining another year at school , had been
but it has been the study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong understanding to
and consequence she was greatly his superior .
emma long to convince him that they might in one of the carriages find room for harriet also .
my dear marianne such happiness as i then enjoyed was too perfect to be lasting .
mr elliot , too , it must be remembered , had not been a widower seven months .
" elinor , though never less disposed to speak than at that moment , obliged herself to answer such an
your most attached s .
he then really thought himself equal to it .
she went on : “from the very beginning—from the first moment , i may almost say—of my acquaintance with you
sake of the provision and security of a wife .
but never shall i be able so far to conquer my tender sensibility as to enquire after him .
for half a year .
even the attentive daughter .
how long has she been such a favourite ?
were the first points of self-gratulation ; and then it was such a comfort to think how fond the two
“well , my dear , and did you get there safely ?
miss fairfax was nearly dashed from the vessel and that mr .
bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on mr .
the best .
his pride , in that direction , may be of service , if not to himself , to many others
i am sure i told her to bring some coals half an hour ago .
had turned from him and shut the door , she could not help feeling , “and yet why should i
her folly , which now seemed even criminal , was all exposed to him , and he must despise her
her own situation , so short had their acquaintance with that lady been , so wholly unsuited were they in
the father and mother were in the old english style , and the young people in the new .
elizabeth tried to be diverted by them ; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame .
the advantage of my daughter that led me on ; and if that daughter were not the greatest simpleton on
” “you cannot do better , sir .
” this , emma could not doubt , was all for herself .
the other parlour , in the hope of discovering , in spite of all that mr .
their attention to our comfort , their friendliness in every particular , is more than i can express .
he was thinking .
wishes of a most affectionate heart .
i cannot be so sanguine as mr .
a good match .
unaffectedly ill-natured or ill-bred as he wished to appear .
you have now done your duty by her , and must fret no longer .
—no , i dare say you do not .
i never saw any thing so outree !
and the next day did bring a surprise to her .
all for going somewhere else the day after .
” “she has been dead these nine years .
collins and charlotte were both standing at the gate in conversation with the ladies ; and sir william , to
i shall send for my clothes when i get to longbourn ; but i wish you would tell sally to
scotch poems—and i hate everything scotch .
since my remembrance .
they are so seldom seen themselves ?
to her father ; but she would have nothing to do with it at present .
now you know all .
, but as we were convinced he had no soul , that he had never read the sorrows of werter
worse and worse .
send me your opinion on all these matters , my dear alicia , and let me know whether you can
not avoid , from rebecca ' s alertness in going to the door , a duty which always interested her
things considered .
darcy who took her so much by surprise in his application for her hand , that , without knowing what
elton , in fancying himself a very decided favourite .
general way .
yes , my dear , i dare say you might , because you know , the door was open ,
she saw it all ; and entering into her feelings , promoted her quitting the house immediately , and watched
luck , and to her selfishness and vanity it would be good luck to have edmund the only son .
somehow or other i never happened to be staying at barton while he was at allenham .
and therefore i think i will beg your excuse and take my three turns—my winter walk .
bennet , for many years after lydia’s birth , had been certain that he would .
been the whole .
, and that , on receiving her letter , he had conversed with her on the subject of it ,
claimed their relationship , would have delighted them all .
darcy they had seen only at church .
captain benwick and louisa musgrove !
her start was perceptible only to herself ; but she instantly felt that she was the greatest simpleton in the
i remember , as soon as ever i saw him , when he first came into hertfordshire last year ,
frank churchill did not come .
duties , and the care and improvement of his dwelling , which he cannot be excused from making as comfortable
—but in those who are at all inferior , it is extremely prepossessing .
he could be no judge , however , of the evil he was holding cheap .
catherine ' s heart beat quick , but her courage did not fail her .
bingley himself , instead of a ceremonious card .
it was not in his calmness that she read his comparative difference .
adeiu my dear charlotte ; although i have not yet mentioned anything of the matter , i hope you will
i have a great opinion of her .
seeing that her scheme succeeded .
here and there , human nature may be great in times of trial ; but generally speaking , it is
up .
of all who loved either , as to its final event , can hardly extend , i fear , to
the child to be born at randalls must be a tie there even dearer than herself ; and mrs .
however this morning he came just as we came home from church ; and then it all came out ,
thorpe , but mr .
have you any thing to send or say , besides the ' love , ' which nobody carries ?
four hundred is but a small income to begin on indeed , but your wishes , my dear isabella ,
a variety of occupations , of objects , and of company , which could not be procured at barton ,
" what can one say of such a woman , my dear mother ?
—she said enough to shew there need not be despair—and to invite him to say more himself .
nay , more , i consider it as the only form of building in which happiness is attainable , and
she must own that she was tired of seeing great houses ; after going over so many , she really
” said i .
because she had been there so long .
as more adapted for her purpose , she hoped , in fixing on this , to be chusing what miss
thorpe ' s pelisse was not half so handsome as that on her own .
sir john middleton was a good looking man about forty .
i wish you very happy and very rich , and by refusing your hand , do all in my power
“another quarter of an hour , ” said miss crawford , “and we shall see how it will be .
more than licensed to ask him to stay dinner ; it was really a necessary compliment .
—there , with spirits freshened , and thoughts a little relieved , she had taken a few turns , when
” “but you blame me for having spoken so warmly of wickham ?
" " but have you not received my notes ?
a disgraceful subjection of reason to common-place and mistaken notions .
to have harriet ' s picture .
palmer soon after she arrived , carried mrs .
i have frequently thought that i must have been intended by nature to be fond of low company , i
chapter _num_ elizabeth’s impatience to acquaint jane with what had happened could no longer be overcome ; and at length
it was barbarous to be happy when edmund was suffering .
hartfield gates , before they set off for randalls .
chapter xix if emma had still , at intervals , an anxious feeling for harriet , a momentary doubt of
what lucy had asserted to be true , therefore , elinor could not , dared not longer doubt ; supported
where her education will be properly attended to ; but because she has not the blind and weak partiality of
all that is required of you is , to assure to your daughter , by settlement , her equal share
above the common claims of regard , for his sake ; and she hoped he would not long be so
on admiral croft , who still remained at taunton , and fix a day for the house being seen .
reliance on future improvement .
he was the only person in the world who could at that [ _num_ ]moment be forgiven for not being
you left them .
hear ; but then she is used to my voice .
—it is so odd to hear a woman talk so !
then she fell into hysterics again , and he was so frightened that he would send for mr .
to the imperfection of the performance .
the servant to bring and put round her shoulders was seized by mr .
the necessity of speaking , and having not the smallest wish for a total change , she only deviated so
donavan says there is nothing materially to be apprehended ; her constitution is a good one , and her resolution
allen just returned from all the busy idleness of the morning , and was immediately greeted with , “well ,
such might be his constitution ; and as she knew that eating and drinking were often the cure of such
obliged to perform .
for herself , she feared to move , lest she should be seen .
insolent and unjust ; with a heart hardened against their merits , and a temper irritated by their very attention
we are sadly off in the country ; not but what we have very good shops in salisbury , but
i wish we could see him .
as soon as they were out of sight , the ladies of captain wentworth ' s party began talking of
the little she said was all in lamentation of this inevitable delay ; though elinor tried to raise her spirits
” the amiable m ' kenrie , whose modesty as he afterwards assured us had been the only reason of
miss price , will not you join me in encouraging your cousin ?
i trust and hope , and sincerely wish you may never be absent from home so long again , ”
xxix lady susan vernon to mrs .
" come colonel , " said mrs .
or it was escaping her , in the midst of all the agitating pressing joyful cares attending this summons to
" " many , many circumstances , " said elinor , solemnly .
with the gardiners , they were always on the most intimate terms .
and since this sad affair has taken place , it is said that he left meryton greatly in debt ;
now everything was smiling .
weston had been almost as uneasy as herself .
she had reason to suppose herself not yet forgotten by mr .
be insensible , gaily continued , “oh !
have been .
“he wrote a letter to poor mrs .
deal to say to you .
norris , “i am sure you need not regard it .
for i find there is more to be done to it than i thought there was ; and it would
weston had been delighted before , and was delighted again ; emma joined her in all her praise ; and
ever mentioning my name to you ; and , as he was always particularly afraid of his sister ' s
xxxvii lady susan to mr .
he will be no bad assistant when it all comes out .
where he was , and take all the charms and perfections of edward ' s wife upon credit a little
phillips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence .
but , on the contrary , it was no worse than , “i am sorry to say that i am
” “no , indeed , it looks very nice .
but , whatever may be their own wishes , it is very unlikely they should have opposed their brother’s .
a young woman , if she fall into bad hands , may be teased , and kept at a distance
the three days we wanted .
i hope it is a dry situation , and that her health will be taken good care of .
what is his property ?
what so natural , as that anger should pass away and repentance succeed it ?
upon a temper like the general ' s ?
my dearest friend , —i write in the greatest distress ; the most unfortunate event has just taken place .
nobody cares for a letter ; the thing is , to be always happy with pleasant companions .
kings , i vow !
i speak as a friend , emma .
to be dispensing his flatteries around , that he may make all appear like fools compared with himself !
that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second , or even a third time .
and pray , lizzy , what said lady catherine about this report ?
the satisfaction of your father .
a collection of letters to miss cooper cousin conscious of the charming character which in every country , and every
not keep her countenance .
but you like julia best .
i like them all .
mother in affection .
martin did not speak yesterday ?
—but how shall i ever be able to return the paper , or say i have found it out ?
s arrival there .
in himself he was wearisome , but as the friend of tom and the admirer of julia he became offensive
own observation , it is a manoeuvring business .
about a week after their arrival , it became certain that willoughby was also arrived .
what is superior , engaged the affections of mr .
collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared ; and he took the opportunity of paying the
allow them the fortnight ' s absence in a tour to the seaside , which was the plan .
shall i mention to him your being in bath ?
playing with the children , it would not have escaped her .
he was inexcusable , incomprehensible !
" this was sir walter and elizabeth ' s share of interest in the letter ; when mrs clay had
and preaching was preaching .
bennet began the projected conversation : “oh !
amelia and agatha may do for maria and me , but here is nothing for your sister , mr .
the perfections of their neighbours , or fancying that they should have been better off with anyone else .
forgive me , if i am very saucy .
allen for her opinion ; “but really i did not expect you .
" " this , " said he , " cannot hold ; but a change , a total change of
his quick eye she detected again and again glancing towards them with a happy expression ; and even , when
martin , no wife in the case ; she did suspect danger to her poor little friend from all this
enable him to marry ; —and she , of all people in the world , was fixed on to bestow
you do not seem properly aware of her claims to notice .
i have therefore resolved on placing her at one of the best private schools in town , where i shall
smiling in a gentle nap , as she reposes on the sofa .
elinor could no longer witness this torrent of unresisted grief in silence .
indeed , how can one care for those one has never seen ?
” nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne without anger such treatment ; but sir william’s
engaged in detailing farther particulars of the thrush ' s going out of harbour , in which he had a
difference in their conclusions was , that what marianne considered as a free gift from her sister , elinor was
” interrupted mrs .
darcy handed the ladies into the carriage ; and when it drove off , elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards
weston , i have very little doubt that my opinion will be decidedly in his favour .
prevented her husband from pressing her ; but mr .
she says she is afraid there will be draughts in the passage , though every thing has been done—one door
you will have the same walks to frequent , the same library to choose from , the same people to
it soon led to another ; and mrs .
yet great as he was , and justly celebrated as a sailor , i cannot help foreseeing that he will
and it is a great comfort to find that she is not a poor helpless creature , but can shift
given up , if she felt herself unhappy in the prospect of it .
ago to do something or other about it .
harriet would be anxiety enough ; she need no longer be unhappy about jane , whose troubles and whose ill-health
to a degree , i could contradict this instantly ; but , when i began to reflect that others might
of pictures there were abundance , and some few good , but the larger part were family portraits , no
worldly concerns of dressing and dinner , incapable of soothing mrs .
i am sure you did not much expect to like us .
” in this commonplace chatter , which lasted some time , the original subject seemed entirely forgotten ; and though
they agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of
said to her : no farther attempts to influence or persuade ; but that everything should be left to crawford
—and an hundred other circumstances ; —how clearly they had seemed to point at harriet .
my affection for marianne , my thorough conviction of her attachment to me—it was all insufficient to outweigh that dread
i must look down upon anything contented with obscurity when it might rise to distinction .
will draw from her a more spontaneous , more natural , more gentle , less dignified , forgiveness .
she must know as well as her father , how acceptable an instrument would be ; and perhaps the mode
your aunt ; " and could comprehend his regretting that captain wentworth should do what he ought to have done
weston depended , and felt , that to be the favourite and intimate of a man who had so many
, which a certain glance of mrs .
when she was only fifteen , there was a man at my brother gardiner’s in town so much in love
" and mrs musgrove took the first opportunity of being alone with anne , to say , " oh !
with her mother , whose affection had brought her into public at an early age .
sir william lucas had been formerly in trade in meryton , where he had made a tolerable fortune , and
gold chains and necklaces .
they were to be off as soon as possible .
which lay the apartments of the unfortunate mrs .
it was impossible to say how much he should be gratified by being employed on such an errand .
” “miss eliza bennet , ” said miss bingley , “despises cards .
but i never heard it spoken of till two days ago .
admitted no delay , she was eager to have it settled , that her father and emma should remain at
though condemning her for the past , and considering it with high and unjust resentment , though perfectly careless of
it was much pleasanter to think of henry crawford than of their father ; and to think of their father
” no sooner was she out of sight , than emma exclaimed , “what an exquisite possession a good picture
” “no , i only wanted to see—is not it very late ?
it was over , however , at last ; and the evening set in with more composure to fanny ,
" this was the letter , directed to " charles smith , esq .
engaged with what his own appearance would be to think of the others , or draw any of those conclusions
" " no , that he is not .
of her real situation with respect to him .
“you know you had but just settled that my sister fanny and i should have the other room ; and
, and out of the drawing-room , and everywhere .
of joy , which at first she thought would never cease .
his appearance was greatly in his favour ; he had all the best part of beauty , a fine countenance
surely this must be calm enough .
will give you no idea—i must go farther back .
s being ready , entered the room , and to the rising shame of having harboured for some minutes an
when she first came i was at some pains to prevent her seeing much of her aunt ; but i
in each other , as he was now beginning seriously to consider them .
my brother had no regard for her ; his pleasures were not what they ought to have been , and
” “thank you ; for now we shall soon be acquainted , as i am authorized to tease you on
, and made one in the family party on the ramparts .
correspondent ; i will not say an entertaining one , for you know my situation suffciently not to be ignorant
design could never bring them in each other ' s way : negligence could never leave them exposed to a
when she had finished it—“so much for isabella , ” she cried , “and for all our intimacy !
for lady middleton ' s delighted with mrs .
from these circumstances sprang the instant conclusion of his sister ' s now being by his side ; and therefore
i took uneasiness with me , and there was no getting rid of it till i was in mansfield again
into the value and make of her gown , the colour of her shoes , and the arrangement of her
without which her marriage would scarcely seem valid , exceeded all she could believe possible .
' how delightful !
that will obviate all difficulties you know ; and from us i really think , my dear jane , you
but there he is , and , by the bye , his absence may sufficiently account for any remissness of
now , there was nothing so charming to her imagination as the unpretending comfort of a well-connected parsonage , something
how could he spare half ten thousand pounds ?
bennet’s acknowledgments he briefly replied , with assurance of his eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family
” “upon my word , ” said her ladyship , “you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a
as to health since her being in portsmouth ; and but for mr .
doing it could not be unfelt .
deceitful betrayer of trust reposed in her , and the murderess of her cousin succeeded to the throne .
fourteen minutes to be given to those with whom she had thankfully passed six weeks not six months ago !
perfectly ready to hear your justification of it .
i thought her too young : in short , whether i approved his choice altogether ; having some apprehension perhaps
' s character , and make every body ' s talents conduce to the display of his own superiority ;
” “come when you can , then .
well , i am sure i shall be extremely glad to see mr .
applied to by the general for her choice of the prevailing colour of the paper and hangings , nothing like
” cried fanny , sitting down again with a most frightened look .
he will have her at last ; aye , that he will .
that julia escaped better than maria was owing , in some measure , to a favourable difference of disposition and
, exclaimed in the bitterest agony-- " oh god !
” such was the state of mansfield , and so it continued , with scarcely any change , till easter
the girl whose heart can distinguish reginald de courcy , deserves , however he may slight her , a better
every kind of pride must revolt from the connection .
we shall have no occasion to open the windows at all—not once the whole evening ; and it is that
her greatest support and glory was in having formed the connexion with the rushworths .
rejoicing in the match , was anxious to get away till the storm was blown over .
is old enough to take it .
knightley gravely said , “this explains the sort of clever thing that is wanted , and mr .
powers of mind be unfelt by the parents .
collins’s fancying himself in love with her friend had once occurred to elizabeth within the last day or two ;
infinite use to them ; and as to yourself , you must feel yourself to be so wanted there ,
these opinions had been hardly canvassed a year before another event arose of such importance in the family , as
” “she must be very lively , and have hazle eyes .
jennings ' s .
' upon my word , mrs .
cole , we shall hardly know how to make enough of her now .
she was soon undressed and in bed , and as she seemed desirous of being alone , her sister then
promised her that betsey should not have it in her own hands .
that was due to the folly of robert , and the cunning of his wife ; and it was earned
” “nay , ” said edmund , who began to listen with alarm .
and have you actually found happiness in treasuring up these things ?
you are very right in supposing how my money would be spent ; some of it , at least—my loose
but lady catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration , and gave most gracious smiles , especially when any dish
but this was not all which they had to make them happy .
but i must beg some advantage to the clergyman from your own argument .
mischievous tricks .
instantly availed herself of the opportunity of making any inquiries , which jane was equally eager to satisfy .
very , very much afflicted as one would have thought .
her fine eyes .
of light from the general ' s lamp might glimmer through the lower windows , as he passed to the
you are very kind .
bennet this morning that if you ever resolved upon quitting netherfield you should be gone in five minutes , you
, who has been what he has been to me , of such designs , but what must it make
palmer ; and as it gave her likewise no concern , she never mentioned her name .
of one of your oldest friends .
but at your time of life to feel all this , is a most favourable circumstance for yourself , and
of seeing you ; and though this gentleman dislikes the amusement in general , he can have no objection ,
to congratulate herself on having gained two such sons-in-law as edward and willoughby .
their coming .
we sailors , miss elliot , cannot afford to make long courtships in time of war .
yes , friday or saturday ; she cannot say which , because colonel campbell will be wanting the carriage himself
no , if he had believed me at all to share his feelings , he would not have been so
the officers of the ——shire were in general a very creditable , gentlemanlike set , and the best of them
and i say she shall .
—so well lighted up !
improvements accordingly .
my daughter , miss morland , ” he continued , without leaving his daughter time to speak , “has been
imagining .
in the room , the governess being sick or run away , and the mother in and out every moment
before they parted , however , it was agreed that the projected walk should be taken as soon as possible
s not being in love with mrs clay ; and she was very far from easy about it , when
no—i never conceived you could become indifferent .
sister , entreat him not to risk his tranquillity by too much admiration there , and then gladly take her
, while elizabeth tried to unite civility and truth in a few short sentences .
, and leave her to herself , while they adjourned to whatever might be the favourite holiday sport of the
you do not know what it is to have tempers to manage .
driven out of the house , without the considerations even of decent civility !
i once saw henry the eighth acted , or i have heard of it from somebody who did , i
her feelings were very acute , and too little understood to be properly attended to .
hurst and miss bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid , who continued , though slowly
marianne entered the house with a heart swelling with emotion from the consciousness of being only eighty miles from barton
her judgment may be quite as safely trusted .
eight years and a half ago .
what will become of me .
elinor could not hear the declaration , nor witness its proofs without sometimes wondering whether her mother ever recollected edward
then , he said , he would endeavour to see her in the course of this day .
—i ran away in a great hurry to explain it .
they knew not each other ' s opinion , either its constancy or its change , on the one leading
“it is not worth complaining about ; but to be sure the poor old dowager could not have died at
i hope time has not made you less willing to pardon .
a way that , busy as she was about charles , she could not shake him off .
years , and for that purpose had procured my exchange .
, i know not .
living to which he has been so long accustomed , and there is therefore some reason to fear that you
considering everything , i think a letter will be decidedly the best method of explanation .
—such a partner in all those duties and cares to which time must be giving increase of melancholy !
so well suited , and so much the thing !
“and that i suppose is one of your sisters .
" " you have not been able to bring your sister over to your plan of general civility , "
they should part without a mutual exchange of confidence ?
there were mr .
party of great folks and she never speaks to me when she can to anyone else .
what is passable in youth is detestable in later age .
she is gone down to her uncle at liverpool : gone to stay .
" said anne .
manners were in a state of improvement , but that , from knowing him better , his disposition was better
; and as she had no business at gray ' s , it was resolved , that while her young
very accomplished as they all are .
henry , who is in every other respect exactly what a brother should be , who loves me , consults
they talked of his sister , his friends , his house , his fruit—of everything but himself ; yet elizabeth
can this be possible !
do our laws connive at them ?
she opened the door and met maria in the landing place , who , breathless with agitation , cried out—
instead of envying mr .
with all her reasoning , she found , that to retentive feelings eight years may be little more than nothing
a small house in their own neighbourhood , where they might still have lady russell ' s society , still
at three-and-twenty to have drawn such a prize !
now it is confidently asserted that he is really in a decline , that the symptoms are most alarming ,
have probably heard the whole story long ago .
” “but there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so soon after this event .
it was a painful , but not an improbable , conjecture .
this morning at breakfast ; but perhaps he did not know it himself .
his return .
i have a high respect for your nerves .
she was of great use and comfort to us all .
sound of approaching relief , the very sound which she had been long watching for , and long thinking strangely
shall i take any message ?
their conversation was soon afterwards closed by the entrance of her father .
your friend , miss marianne , too—which you will not be sorry to hear .
, or as we used to be even at north yarmouth and deal .
drummond was the only one who found herself so disposed—louisa was therefore removed from a miserable cottage in yorkshire to
, speaking the truth from her heart .
, with the addition of the kitchen , the six or seven rooms she had now seen surrounded three sides
i have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment .
dear brother , how came such a thought in your head !
poor old john , i have a great regard for him ; he was clerk to my poor father twenty-seven
” this declaration brought on a loud and overpowering reply , of which no part was very distinct , except
whatever money he might come into when his father died , whatever his share of the family property , it
—i found he was coming up towards me too—slowly you know , and as if he did not quite know
that ' s right .
how provoking it is , my dear catherine , that this unwelcome guest of yours should not only prevent our
she was , moreover , perpetually hearing about him ; for , excepting when at hartfield , she was always
weston ' s partiality for him is very great , and , as you may suppose , most gratifying to
her brother , might not have done much , however , towards procuring them seats at her table ; but
fanny thought exactly the same ; and they were also quite agreed in their opinion of the lasting effect ,
wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation that he never again distressed himself , or provoked his dear sister
allen ' s side , without anything to say or to hear ; and scarcely had she felt a five
let tom go on in this way , riding about the country in quest of anybody who can be persuaded
wife should make their appearance at st .
did she call to refuse her consent ?
palmer , whose eye was caught by every thing pretty , expensive , or new ; who was wild to
pools and pollards of this part of highbury .
on indifferent matters until they reached the parsonage .
” “upon my word , emma .
he was invited on good faith .
as a house , barton cottage , though small , was comfortable and compact ; but as a cottage it
but i pity her , because she must feel that she has been acting wrong , and because i am
you are the worst judge in the world , mr .
a form which at once presents you with grace , elegance and symmetry .
to anybody .
a hint was dropped , of any disagreement or coolness between them .
for the comforts of it increased , she had added to her possessions , and spent more of her time
price did quite as much for lady bertram as lady bertram would have done for mrs .
her mind was quite determined , and varied not .
happy news through the house , sir thomas , with a very reasonable dependence , perhaps , on the nerves
this he considered sufficient encouragement ; and the avowal of all that he felt , and had long felt for
knightley ' s known wishes , in paying that attention to miss fairfax , which was every way her due
that was your name for him , was it ?
and yet it is not very unlikely .
father ' s house , with the additional burden of two children .
ever been hers , and decent enough to have always wished for concealment .
to adopt ; but , as she took early care to make him , as well as lady bertram ,
—he really is engaged from morning to night .
every point of view he was charmed with the inhabitants he had now procured for his cottage at barton .
weston instantly seized the opportunity of going on .
ferrars , and the kind confidante of himself , talked to her a great deal of the parsonage at delaford
elton may talk sentimentally , but he will act rationally .
” “i beg your pardon ; one knows exactly what to think .
a residence of eight or nine years in the abode of wealth and plenty had a little disordered her powers
somebody had placed her , several years back , at mrs .
—did not you misunderstand him ?
cole said how much taste you had ; and mr .
eldest and the three boys are with their mother in sussex .
willoughby will be incommoded by the attempts of either of my daughters towards what you call catching him .
" " oh , yes ; and as like him as she can stare .
who love you .
elizabeth hoped she had silenced him ; but he soon afterwards said : “i was surprised to see darcy in
it was all conjecture .
having arranged all these matters , looked them through , and put them all to rights , she was just
impede them .
letter of acquiescence .
annesley , i dropt all thoughts of either , and have made it a point of bearing only my christian
what he might say on the subject a twelvemonth after , must be referred to the imagination of husbands and
“if i can but see one of my daughters happily settled at netherfield , ” said mrs .
entirely escaped the latter lady ' s observation , —she could discover in them the quick feelings , and needless
waiting the final arrangement by himself .
her figure was elegant , and she walked well ; but darcy , at whom it was all aimed ,
could not suppose it to be to any other person .
i cannot blame myself for having done thus much .
can hardly deceive yourself as to his having the use of his limbs !
no , no , you shall not deceive me .
sir john called on them as soon as the next interval of fair weather that morning allowed him to get
can you , fanny ?
“well , miss woodhouse , ” said harriet , when they had quitted the house , and after waiting in
arrival , since our delightful security , i have repeated it to him more fully , have given him every
' s uneasiness can ever occur between us again .
" " i should have thought , " said anne , " that my manner to yourself might have spared
” said emma , recovering from her state of shame and feeling divided between wonder and amusement .
the proper frederick .
all the better .
he leaves london , he says , to-day .
after some months ' further trial at her uncle ' s house , to find another home .
i wish i could get him a living , with all my heart .
—what is this ?
her habits of ready submission , on the contrary , made her almost instantly rise and lead the way out
lord ravenshaw , in cornwall , which would of course have immortalised the whole party for at least a twelvemonth
sort of things require a good deal of consideration .
" anne could think of no one so likely to have spoken with partiality of her many years ago as
feelings , he was apt to be in despair , and exclaim that he was sure at this rate it
i could suppose she might in time—but can she already ?
s having many other uses for his money , and a right to spend it as he liked .
” “really , mr .
in understanding , darcy was the superior .
pleased looks of the three others standing round him , shewed how welcome was his sudden resolution of coming to
brother ' s situation : her voice was animated in speaking of his profession , and the foreign stations he
i shall now go away and live in dread of one event .
elton for my sake ; because for your own sake rather , i would wish it to be done ,
her loss of spirits was a yet greater alteration .
she and mary were actually setting forward for the great house , where , as she afterwards learnt , they
better than nearer !
but in the interim—in the interim of the very few hours that were to pass , before i could have
while there was an officer in meryton , they would flirt with him ; and while meryton was within a
” “i never saw a more promising inclination ; he was growing quite inattentive to other people , and wholly
yours , &c .
isabella , my eldest ; is not she a fine young woman ?
such a heart—such a harriet !
time also to rejoice that harriet ' s secret had not escaped her , and to resolve that it need
believe me , sir , i am far , very far , from gratified in being the object of such
his dissipated companions , and never thrashing sir william again .
not so the miss steeles .
" i do not attempt to deny , " said she , " that i think very highly of him—that
“i shall never be invited to abbey-mill again , ” was said in rather a sorrowful tone .
cleverness as a horse-woman , which he had been watching with an interest almost equal to her own .
at her wedding .
my fingers wait your orders .
if we set the example , many will follow it as far as they can ; though all have not
” emma was quite relieved , and could presently say , with a little more composure , “you probably have
would be fixed that was to make him the happiest of men .
render possible , and must in the end make wretched .
the general , accustomed on every ordinary occasion to give the law in his family , prepared for no reluctance
whether it was from this circumstance , of its being easily taken , or from a wish of being independant
but her chief strength lay in sotherton .
that he should be married soon , before (as she imagined) he could be in orders , and consequently before
behaviour to the remarks of the two ladies and mr .
he was not only pardoned , they were delighted with him .
we had not heard the knock , and till you were on the stairs , we did not know any
i wonder who the friend was—and who could be the young lady .
longbourn .
these were thoughts , with their attendant visions , which occupied and flurried her too much to leave her any
edward and his wife in their parsonage by michaelmas , and she found in elinor and her husband , as
if i stay till evening my candle may go out .
nothing but willoughby , and their conversation together ; and was carefully minute in every particular of speech and look
allen , are you sure there is nobody you know in all this multitude of people ?
epistolary uses she could put them to .
there is a littleness about him which you discovered , and which i did not : and i was fully
heart was not sorry that she could like him no more ; not sorry to be driven by the observation
i hope she will turn out well .
“i am afraid i am sometimes very fanciful and troublesome .
suppose you know , ma ' am , that mr .
a larger society would improve them .
and london , independence and splendour , for his sake .
“but , fanny , ” he presently added , “in order to have a comfortable walk , something more is
on the strength of darcy’s regard , bingley had the firmest reliance , and of his judgement the highest opinion
their sister soon despaired of making the smallest impression on them ; they were quite untameable by any means of
elinor , " she cried , " you have made me hate myself for ever .
he will not be led astray ; he will not be misled by others to his ruin .
, this very day ; to-morrow i leave home .
and fanny was then put in almost full possession of her .
the park .
so long in vain .
i am sorry to have incurred his displeasure , but can expect nothing better while he is so very eager
most earnestly did she labour to prove the probability of error , and seek to clear the one without involving
how long have you had it ?
seen him last in hertfordshire , and feeling curious to know what he would say on the subject of their
” his sisters , to whom he had an opportunity of speaking the next morning , were quite as impatient
as she spoke , to examine the day .
a young man ' s not having it in his power to do as much as that .
norris , who was walking all day , thinking everybody ought to walk as much .
; but on the third her repining was over , and her sister justified , by the receipt of two
sir william and lady lucas are determined to go , merely on that account , for in general , you
" continued mrs .
between ourselves , edmund , ” nodding significantly at his mother , “it was cutting the roses , and dawdling
i do with a girl at her time of life ?
letter near him , how beautifully emma had written it .
then bear any sudden noise , was startled by a rap at the door .
himself .
then , opening the first door before her , which happened to be the right , she immediately found herself
—her name was not mentioned ; —and there was so striking a change in all this , and such an
were sitting down between the dances , she came to me with more than her usual insulting importance attended by
to blindness .
in being his mother ' s party , that everything might be comfortable and easy to captain harville ; and
” chapter xvi every body in and about highbury who had ever visited mr .
hospitality and kindness , and that , if she were not taken care of , she might be required to
dashwood on receiving and answering elinor ' s letter would be only to give a repetition of what her daughters
the concert , but made wretched work of it—it happened to become my odd face , i believe , at
very different from you , miss , when you first began , six years ago come next easter .
there—i have saved you the trouble of accounting for it ; and really , all things considered , i begin
had ever felt at the height of their acquaintance .
not care about you .
” the kind-hearted , polite old man might then sit down and feel that he had done his duty ,
i know your disposition , lizzy .
topic had better be avoided ; and hoping , that if a few days were allowed to pass before they
worth looking at in the summer .
one would imagine you had never heard my father speak of her personal misfortunes , though i know you must
ever given her a hint on the subject ; but she felt completely guilty of having encouraged what she might
opened and a most beautifull young man appeared .
” and it was spoken with a sort of sighing animation , which had a vast deal of the lover
they sat so much longer than usual in the dining-parlour , that she was sure they must be talking of
day round winthrop .
when she arrived ?
” “are you expecting miss fairfax here soon ?
the first act was over .
” “and what do you think i said ?
“my friend yates brought the infection from ecclesford , and it spread—as those things always spread , you know ,
grant , “to what any young person says on the subject of marriage .
my acquaintance with you , very naturally brings it all to me .
she felt almost persuaded that miss tilney was at home , and too much offended to admit her ; and
soon grew as dear to her heart , and as thoroughly perfect in her eyes , as everything else within
see a young man of reginald ' s sense duped by her at all .
they were brought together by mutual affection , with the warmest approbation of their real friends ; their intimate knowledge
their reception from mr .
who could have done less for her ?
i have no thoughts of matrimony at present .
it is a most uncommon complexion , with her dark eye-lashes and hair—a most distinguishing complexion !
i was sitting near the door—elizabeth saw me directly ; but he did not ; he was busy with the
it makes me envious and miserable ; —i who have never seen it !
the time , and doubly enjoyed again in the evening discussion .
to lift her eyes to his face , she saw that he was grown thinner , and had the burnt
norris would have been a more respectable mother of nine children on a small income .
of her two sisters , mrs .
" " intimately .
cool enough to dispense with any other revenge .
” “in short my love it was the work of some hours for me to persuade the poor despairing youth
she did not mean to be unhappy about him .
it was a picture which henry crawford had moral taste enough to value .
has felt .
’ are any of your younger sisters out , miss bennet ?
—would not she add her persuasions to his , to induce miss woodhouse not to go to mrs .
such was miss lucas’s scheme ; and appearances were so favourable , that when they parted at night , she
so much in love as to wish to marry her in spite of all the objections which had made him
pointed out , she distinguished no part of the scene .
meeting .
” “no , she does not .
" the contents of her last note to him were these : [ _num_ ]— " what am i to
to each other almost from the first instant of their all setting forward for uppercross .
” “and fanny had much rather it were william ' s , ” said edmund , smiling at her .
—she does paint most delightfully !
—his friends are eager to promote his happiness .
the rector of a parish has much to do .
she was soon convinced that it was not for herself she was feeling at all apprehensive or embarrassed ; it
a discretion highly to be commended .
at his loins ; only see how he moves ; that horse cannot go less than ten miles an hour
” “but you—how are you ?
to visit ; and it did not delay them long , for fanny could so little bear to excite impatience
lady russell said not another word , willing to leave the matter to its own operation ; and believing that
thorpe , impatient for praise of her son , “i hope you have had an agreeable partner .
" " i am glad of it with all my heart ; but really you did not look it .
but here , one subject swallowed up all the rest .
you must come , indeed .
they had nearly done breakfast , when the sound of a carriage , (almost the first they had heard since
your opinion on that point is unchanged , i presume ?
the quivering lip , emma , which uttered it , was an attestation that i felt at my heart .
the park was very large , and contained great variety of ground .
”—ford ' s was the principal woollen-draper , linen-draper , and haberdasher ' s shop united ; the shop first
knightley ; “but i should say she was a good-tempered , soft-hearted girl , not likely to be very ,
add , that two hours will bring me over at any time , to save you the trouble of replying
—i want an appropriate simile .
the three others still continued together , walking in a most uncomfortable manner to poor catherine ; sometimes not a
” “that ' s well thought of .
else i could take it in my way to newcastle .
, and she and mr .
he was tired , i dare say , for he had just filled the sheet to me as full as
perry ' s decided opinion , in favour of such exercise for his patient .
be against her being occupied by any part of that voluminous publication , of which either the matter or manner
the direct inquiry of— “where—may i ask ?
she had no resources for solitude ; and inheriting a considerable share of the elliot self-importance , was very prone
for many of them , should be quite fixed on engaging a curate ; should make his curacy quite as
on your sense and affection .
but poor harriet was such an engrossing charge !
" " they come straight from town , as miss lucy—mrs .
dashwood , so we shall be a good deal in harley street , i dare say , and edward spends
it was miss taylor ' s loss which first brought grief .
“my father seduced by the false glare of fortune and the deluding pomp of title , insisted on my giving
grant should ask fanny at all .
' s perfect recovery .
—“i am persuaded that you can be as insincere as your neighbours , when it is necessary ; but there
why , especially , when you called , did you look as if you did not care about me ?
it from me .
and which could never cease to be dear .
to suffer you all to be so deceived ; to see your sister—but what could i do ?
when he told me that it might be many weeks before we met again—his distress—can i ever forget his distress
we have cleared away all the old thorns that grew in patches over the brow .
of thought at hand .
” “but i was embarrassed .
henry at a distance—not able even to bid him farewell .
forster promised to have a little dance in the evening ; (by the bye , mrs .
it thus perpetually talked of .
make myself pleasing to her , without any design of returning her affection .
” catherine ' s mind was greatly eased by this information , yet a something of solicitude remained , from
for married women , you know—there is a sad story against them , in general .
” “he came to their father upon some business , and he asked him to stay to dinner .
he did really look and speak as if in a state of no common enjoyment .
i must suppose my dear belle that this is the case , since i am not conscious of being more
chapter vi after being long fed with hopes of a speedy visit from mr .
if half the company might soon be collected together for the purpose of preparatory inspection .
“after all our debatings and difficulties , we find there is nothing that will suit us altogether so well ,
nothing of the sort had ever occurred before to any young ladies in the place , within her memory ;
might not the evening end in a dance ?
she will not be able to help calling .
weston , you and i must be cautious how we express ourselves .
fire—nor be obliged to spread our beds on the floor of a room without windows , doors , or furniture
for an old built sloop , you would not see her equal .
“i confess , ” said he , “that i should not have been at all surprised by her ladyship’s asking
-- " our cousin , lady dalrymple and miss carteret , " were talked of to everybody .
were bringing down and displaying on the counter , he said—“but i beg your pardon , miss woodhouse , you
” scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but their visit to rosings .
i am advised to be out of doors as much as i can , i must walk somewhere , and
thing[ _num_ ] would do .
” “to be sure not , but i cannot do without her .
“i cannot admit mrs .
poor mainwaring !
admiral crawford was a man of vicious conduct , who chose , instead of retaining his niece , to bring
such confidence , powerful in its own warmth , and bewitching in the wit which often expressed it , must
tom was enjoying such an advance towards the end ; edmund was in spirits from the morning ' s rehearsal
now , i am resolved to finish the basket after supper .
, and drown her voice .
is it you ?
of him afterwards , as he sat near a table , leaning over it with folded arms and face concealed
bennet to find comfort in staying home at any period of her life .
consideration , and for really examining your own inclinations ; and are , in a wild fit of folly ,
nothing could be done without a reference to elizabeth : but her inclination was growing so strong for a removal
by the bye , flora ross was dying for henry the first winter she came out .
here was a reward indeed springing from it !
; and that he knew nothing of the matter , and had no voice at all , roundly asserted .
a week to-morrow !
elton met her with unusual graciousness , she hoped the rencontre would do them no harm .
a very few lines from edmund shewed her the patient and the sickroom in a juster and stronger light than
have been time enough .
[ _num_ ] marianne felt for her most sincerely ; but she did more harm than good to the cause
they have more gentleness .
they , in their different homes , and their different ways , might be looking back on it with pleasure
—well—(sitting down again)—go on—what else ?
but dear lady scudamore did you tell him that i was totally dependant on my uncle and aunt ?
darcy could have such boundless influence .
was afterwards confined in a convent by that monster of iniquity and avarice henry the _num_ th .
attachment , which extravagance , or at least its offspring , necessity , had required to be sacrificed .
he saw that emma had soon made it out , and found it highly entertaining , though it was something
' ' tis nonsense all .
it is scarcely possible that two men should be so grossly deceived by her at once .
him as long as you chose ?
" kindest regards .
campbell to the sally-port ; and mr .
” “you are severe on us .
she is actually falling in love with reginald de courcy !
or on the length of his letter , with the perfect unconcern with which her praises were received , formed
, though it was not a plan which brought any charm to her fancy , though it was a removal
being .
acquaintances every day ; but for your sakes , we would do anything .
stood to all appearance without a friend in the world to assist me .
lives as this intelligence made them .
not that i think charlotte so very plain—but then she is our particular friend .
crawford likewise out , she walked down to the parsonage without much fear of wanting an opportunity for private discussion
not merely when a state of warfare with one young lady might be supposed to recommend the other , but
“this is pretty , very pretty , ” said fanny , looking around her as they were thus sitting together
her spirits at different times could produce , —with tenderness , pity , approbation , censure , and doubt .
was no being severe ; and could he have entered the room , she must have shaken hands with him
” cried elizabeth , darting from her seat as she finished the letter , in eagerness to follow him ,
anne ' s good-will , however , was not to be lessened by what she heard .
so much better than going to the lower rooms .
' my dear , ' said i , ' you will blind yourself ' —for tears were in her eyes
jennings , who , having heard of the arrival of a gentleman at the cottage , came to take a
” “i am very glad you did , and that you communicated it to me .
the rest of the morning .
” “what did mr .
price , in a complaining voice , “now , how can you be so cross ?
” cried catherine , colouring .
whether he had asked her pardon for his intrusion on first coming into the room , he could not recollect
they were now able to speak to each other and consult .
morland was not happy in her attempt at consolation .
ought , had no other alloy to the happiness of her prospects than what arose from the consciousness of having
" " even so .
him do as you and i , and a great many others , have done .
anne had soon been in company with all the four together often enough to have an opinion , though too
hope .
friend , she was taken to finish her sorrows in bed .
' and ' have you read that ?
“it was a lovely morning , and at that season of the year a fine morning so often turned off
crawford .
” “yes , very true .
i was afraid there could be little chance of my hearing any thing of miss fairfax to-day .
that captain wentworth may soon put him quite out of her head , and i have very little doubt that
tolerable approach to it .
inn at the same time ; to give his own route , understand something of hers , and regret that
which was never the case ; but , from all my observations , i am convinced of her being an
when catherine knew this , her resolution was directly made .
she is staying here on a visit to her grandmama and aunt , very worthy people ; i have known
” “but you do not wish yourself at portsmouth , william ?
—in order to assist a concealment so essential to me , i was led on to make more than an
after the note i sent him this morning , and the message he returned , that he should certainly be
playful disposition , which delighted in anything ridiculous .
other books were produced , and after some deliberation he chose fordyce’s sermons .
giving the other ; and when again alone and able to recall the whole , she was inclined to believe
and prepared her materials without knowing what in the world to say .
westons aside as much as she can .
" walter elliot , born march _num_ , _num_ , married , july _num_ , _num_ , elizabeth , daughter
selfishness must always be forgiven , you know , because there is no hope of a cure .
” “the oldest in the kingdom .
the world must judge from probabilities ; she had nothing against her but her husband , and her conscience .
“if i had made any difficulty about fetching the key , there might have been some excuse , but i
all the affection , gratitude , and respect which was natural and honourable , and describing every thing exterior and
the rest of your note i know means nothing ; but i am so unequal to anything of the sort
it would be too much to expect sir walter to descend into a small house in his own neighbourhood .
so thought fanny , in good truth and sober sadness , as she sat musing over that too great indulgence
' s family , though they were here a month : and i dare say it would be very inconvenient
sister and his friend to be exposed to a danger from which he might easily preserve them , she concluded
i hope you do not think me too fine .
: and jane became their guest , paying them long visits and growing a favourite with all ; and before
us that i never saw before , it is quite charming !
say very little of it .
there in the same half hour .
nosegay ; then , she ate her cold meat ; and then she was well enough to propose a little
darcy’s shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict , gave her a keener sense of her
views , till this moment .
our foggy climate wants help .
him with a curiosity which seemed to say , that he only wanted to know him to be rich ,
palmer might be able to give some more particular account of willoughby ' s general character , than could be
but here she did injustice to the fire and independence of his character , for it led him to escape
essential alteration of his uniform waistcoat , which he had been promised to have done for him , entirely neglected
“i was only thirteen when it happened ; and though i felt my loss perhaps as strongly as one so
at the same table , and , with the utmost harmony , engaged in forwarding the same work .
to the principal part of her family , and be giving bad connections to those who have not been used
” “it is not a settled thing , ma ' am , yet .
i did not see her again for a twelvemonth .
chapter iii mr .
letter the fifth miss margaret lesley to miss charlotte lutterell lesley-castle march _num_ th on the same day that i
each other .
nailed up—quantities of matting—my dear jane , indeed you must .
be done directly .
was using her infamously .
, which led her to observe that all earthly joys must be imperfect .
bennet was quite disconcerted .
the lawyer plods , quite care-worn ; the physician is up at all hours , and travelling in all weather
all the balls .
you will have new-furnished it , for it wanted it very much when i was there six years ago .
she looked instinctively at lady russell ; but not from any mad idea of her recognising him so soon as
chuses the profession itself is , perhaps , one of the last who would wish to represent it on the
haggerston has our directions , and all will be completed in a week .
grant has been telling her of its fine views , and i have no doubt of her being perfectly equal
view of the house , and observing that “it was a sort of building which she could not look at
she will hardly be less hurt , i suppose , by robert ' s marrying lucy , than she would
people of high pretensions to judgment are for ever falling into ; and not very well pleased with her brother
they met her father , whose appearance was not the better from its being saturday .
susan became the stationary niece , delighted to be so ; and equally well adapted for it by a readiness
will you not sit down ?
and then he went back to elizabeth , and i came round by the stables—i believe i did—but i hardly
bestow on me , she is sure to have something to relate that is entertaining and profitable : something that
can afford .
palmer appeared quite well , and i am commissioned to tell you , that you will certainly see her to-morrow
i could not answer it .
i am so much agitated by delight that i can scarcely hold a pen ; but am determined to send
bennet was not of a disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own imprudence had brought on ,
they are not at all the less written you know , because you divide them .
frank churchill had rendered you , in protecting you from the gipsies , was spoken of .
, and as he did assure her , with a most persuasive smile , that neither he nor julia had
gardiner has done for them , because wickham has not sixpence of his own .
, for having allowed her to succeed her brother—which was a double peice of folly , since they might have
” except to the attack on nanny ' s cousin , sir thomas no longer made any objection , and
was going on business which he would not put off for any inducement in the world ; and something about
the degree of acquaintance between the gentleman and lady we have been speaking of ?
i am amazingly glad of it .
it seems an impossibility !
i would rather work for my bread than marry him .
” “but you are not entitled to know mine ; nor will such behaviour as this , ever induce me
; and emma felt the tears running down her cheeks almost all the way home , without being at any
dixon , for which i do not at all blame them ; of course she heard every thing he might
he found her as handsome as she had been last year ; as good natured , and as unaffected ,
and when i brought out the baked apples from the closet , and hoped our friends would be so very
while in their cradles , we planned the union : and now , at the moment when the wishes of
" " oh , did not you ?
very good likeness of it—(mrs .
have a son .
he is the very best young man—but , my dear jane , if you remember , i told you yesterday
same good-humoured ease that he had ever done .
no”—and emma could just catch the words , “so superior to mr .
” “no , my dear , i never encouraged any body to marry , but i would always wish to
i want to know the state of things at mansfield park , and you , no doubt , are perfectly
allen would expect her back every moment .
i had not an idea of it .
” she would not give him time to reply , but hurrying instantly to her husband , called out as
and plans ; and though i did not know his wife previously , her inferior situation in society , indeed
watchfulness to ascertain the fact .
it is really too great a violation of decency , honour , and interest , for him to be guilty
; you will soon know all .
allen , not having his own skies and barometer about him , declined giving any absolute promise of sunshine .
his heart was softened in seeing mine suffer ; and so much of his ill-will was done away , that
” “but , my dear sir , ” cried mr .
family .
already on the lock , when its action was suspended by his hastily advancing , and saying , in a
more than double the extent of all mr .
her affections had continually been fluctuating but never without an object .
present circumstances may appear to give , i shall yet dread making the story known to colonel campbell .
, your manners , impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance , your conceit , and your selfish
as good friends as ever .
weston was a great favourite , and there was not a creature in the world to whom she spoke with
" elinor smiled again , to hear her sister describing so accurately their future expenses at combe magna .
have you , " she continued , after a short silence , " ever seen mr .
do not let us be frightened from a good deed by a trifle .
my influence , which is not small shall all go that way ; and when once married , and properly
she found that he did mean to persevere ; but how he could , after such language from her as
long ; and with regard to some others , i can perceive , from occasional lively hints , the unguarded
was meditating much upon silver forks , napkins , and finger-glasses .
a ball has ceased to be , was repeatedly given in the very beginning of the existence of this .
more gentle or the more lively character were most likely to attract him .
but , luckily , he came back again in ten minutes’ time , and then we all set out .
with all my soul i wish them happy , and rejoice over every circumstance in favour of it .
” said fanny : “in my opinion , my uncle would not like any addition .
" we think now , " —said mr .
cole ' s ; but i shall not stop three minutes : and , jane , you had better go
my perpetual influence could not begin earlier , or you would not have been so much out of humour before
half a sentence , that she had no objection but on her aunt ' s account , could not imagine
— do you remember the morning spent at donwell ?
i suppose it is something he is ashamed of .
frank churchill ; we shall think and speak of nobody else .
they could think of no one else .
happiness it once enjoyed and which ill supports its present wretchedness .
yates must have been irksome ; but of him , trifling and confident , idle and expensive , it was
it may not be felt in bath , with your nice pavements ; but in the country it is of
we have not one taste in common .
with a cheek flushed by hope , and an eye straining with curiosity , her fingers grasped the handle of
i observed him narrowly , and am convinced of it .
“have you heard from her yourself this morning ?
martin , but to talk of mr .
elton for a while made her rather sorry to find , when they had all taken their places , that
but they were too much used to company and praise to have anything like natural shyness ; and their confidence
angry feelings , she acknowledged that jane fairfax would have neither elevation nor happiness beyond her desert .
will not afford you any displeasure .
them ; and then one of them was said to have died , and afterwards it turned out to be
have opposed it .
he was so near ; and very evidently , though more fearfully , trying to induce his wife to go
as animated , as diversified , as social , but with circumstances of superiority undescribable .
i do not pretend to know which was most to blame in their disagreements , though the admiral ' s
my attachment to you , to which i have ever aspired .
perhaps indifferent , if indifference could exist under such circumstances .
animating period of their acquaintance ; but which now , in her own estimation , meant nothing , though in
i have not yet tranquillised myself enough to see frederica .
but from fifteen to seventeen she was in training for a heroine ; she read all such works as heroines
do not you begin to feel that now ?
and a delightful dance it was to be .
though we have suffered dreadfully , we are both quite well now , and as happy as we must always
miss crawford smiled her perfect approbation ; and hastened to complete the gift by putting the necklace round her ,
, and instructed her as to the care of her cows and her poultry .
there was neither superior affection , confidence , nor employment in the cottage , to be interrupted by it ,
“i can never think of it , ” she cried , “without extreme shame .
and i am sure i should not have the smallest fear of trusting you ; indeed , i should be
which makes this day ' s news doubly welcome .
did i imitate your forbearance , or lessen your restraints , by taking any part in those offices of general
” asked her ladyship , in the heavy tone of one half-roused ; “i was not asleep .
elton and miss hawkins ; and there are the coles , such very good people ; and the perrys—i suppose
if she has it now , you have given it .
” wickham only shook his head .
i assure you , i have not seen a soul this whole long morning .
" she paused a moment to recover from the emotion of hearing herself so spoken of .
“i admired your resolution very much , sir , ” said he , “in venturing out in such weather ,
“i was sure she would ride well , ” said julia ; “she has the make for it .
to put an end to the intimacy which was already exposing her to unpleasant remarks , and evidently making mr
” “to walk and ride with me , to be sure .
there was now employment for the whole party—for though they could not all talk , they could all eat ;
there was a great deal of good sense in all this ; but there are some situations of the human
no ; whatever it might once have been , she could not believe it such at present .
as sensible as tho ' _num_ and _num_ , and as prudent as tho ' _num_ and _num_ .
it would be hideous to be always together ; we should be the jest of the place .
” the request had not been foreseen , but was very graciously received , and julia ' s day was
anxiety to avoid the suspicion .
the first place been so unfairly obtained , she confined herself to the brief repetition of such simple particulars ,
she could not listen to that with perfect calmness , but repeatedly regretted the necessity of its concealment , wished
though ample for her situation in life , could but ill supply the deficiency of his .
wife !
moreover , how the giaour was to be pronounced , he showed himself so intimately acquainted with all the tenderest
as marianne ' s affection for her mother was sincere , it must triumph with little difficulty , over the
could , of his servants , his carriage , his cows , and his poultry .
that he should have been in love with her for so many months !
spirits of her aunt bertram , keeping her from the evil of solitude , or the still greater evil of
she moved on towards the gallery .
the particulars i reserve till we meet ; it is enough to know they are discovered .
the two families had always been on excellent terms , there being no pride on one side , and no
elizabeth , construing all this into a wish of hearing her speak of her sister , was pleased , and
he ventured among them again , however , though his spirits certainly did not seem fit for the mirth of
" i will have you both go , " said mrs .
be less worshipped than now ; and it really was too much to hope even of harriet , that she
” “yes , certainly it does .
shall soon cease to regret him at all .
hither , except sir james martin , on whom i bestowed a little notice , in order to detach him
you had much better dance .
not try to hear it ; yet she caught little very remarkable .
gardiner , a letter arrived for their father , from a different quarter , from mr .
morland has behaved vastly handsome indeed , ” said the gentle mrs .
” emma did not find herself equal to give the pleased assent , which no doubt he was in the
“the old lady !
her side again , entreating to know her meaning ; and as edmund perceived , by his drawing in a
disdain of the feelings of others , were such as to form the groundwork of disapprobation on which succeeding events
such was louisa when the hapless lesley first beheld her at drummond-house .
, and a little carrot or parsnip , i do not consider it unwholesome .
frank churchill having resolved to go home directly , without waiting at all , and his horse seeming to have
effort still improved them .
her companion looked at her keenly ; and gathering greater spirit from the blush soon produced from such a look
whole , have no cause to repine .
chapter _num_ sir william stayed only a week at hunsford , but his visit was long enough to convince him
why do not i see my little fanny ?
could have her advantage in seeing how unknown , or unconsidered there , were the affairs which at kellynch hall
to have him still the acquaintance , the flirt perhaps , of mrs .
at last , lady russell drew back her head .
as to make it at all improper .
delayed .
they entered oxford , but she could take only a hasty glimpse of edmund ' s college as they passed
it was weeks since she had heard anything of miss crawford or of her other connexions in town , except
the cottage remains .
reply , mr .
former willoughby to her remembrance , and in spite of herself made her think him sincere .
we accordingly went—and there i readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of
and entreating him to make known her prior engagement .
sure that mr .
she could not , in whatever direction she took it , believe the last letter to be a t ;
elton does not talk to miss fairfax as she speaks of her .
who can think of miss smith , when miss woodhouse is near !
marianne was spared from the troublesome feelings of contempt and resentment , on this impertinent examination of their features ,
my husband ' s dignity should be lessened by his younger brother ' s having possession of the family estate
she received me with equal surprise though not with equal cordiality , as philippa .
if this be the case , he deserves you .
she heard it rage round a corner of the ancient building and close with sudden fury a distant door ,
” “my style of writing is very different from yours .
that ' s a great pity ; for i assure you , miss woodhouse , where the waters do agree
here was a blow !
but this is no excuse for their concealing it from us .
maria and julia , and especially maria , were so closely implicated in mr .
oh , what would he say to that !
been glad to exert for the advantage of lady bertram ' s sister ; but her husband ' s profession
but william was a lieutenant .
for the best .
” emma could not doubt .
written .
he could not have devised anything more likely to raise his consequence than this week ' s absence , occurring
hurry away as soon as he had satisfied the demands of the other .
they had been arrived only a few minutes , and mr .
in september , for when september came sir thomas was still abroad , and without any near prospect of finishing
they contained no actual complaint , nor was there any revival of past occurrences , or any communication of present
“pray forgive me if i have been very presuming , or at least do not punish me so far as
she was lost , and when she had scolded back her senses , she found the others still waiting for
of his information , he listened to all their impertinence with the most forbearing courtesy .
this was so new an attention , so perfectly new a circumstance in the events of fanny ' s life
you mentioned two instances .
less so , especially with the superadded dread of what the morrow might produce in continuation of the subject .
and after all , what did it signify to my character in the opinion of marianne and[ _num_ ] her
time had changed him , or louisa had changed him .
before ; and he then modestly owned that , “without any ambition of that sort himself—without any solicitude about it—he
” “but you see that jane , ” said her aunt , “does not think so very ill of wickham
—she had such a regard for mr .
” “she must know herself too secure of the regard of all the rest of you , ” said fanny
woodhouse ' s party could be made up in the evening without him , or whether he should be in
at all agreeable before .
united request , to consider his own abode there as equally determinate , if not equally indispensable .
an abbey !
entertained , she did believe , upon serious consideration , to be not perfectly amiable .
them again on the morrow , etc .
" " there certainly are circumstances , " said willoughby , " which might greatly endear it to me ;
, by the attendance of first-rate masters .
in the evening , as marianne was discovered to be musical , she was invited to play .
on the contrary , she was so totally unused to have her pleasure consulted , or to have anything take
every one ' s inclination increasing by the discussion , and a knowledge of the inclination of the rest ;
lady middleton and her mother .
could allow no other exceptions even among the married couples) , there could have been no two hearts so open
instead of the small-sized pembroke , on which two of his daily meals had , for forty years been crowded
thin , and looking very poorly .
feel that it was in any degree deserved was an aggravation indeed .
her ladyship’s carriage is regularly ordered for us .
the remainder was shut off by knolls of old trees , or luxuriant plantations , and the steep woody hills
the wish , and the offer of his own quiet mare for the purpose of her first attempts , as
she was only sorry for the parties concerned and for mansfield , if the report should spread so far ;
to speak to me—(do you think he was , miss woodhouse ?
from a consideration of the building .
her departure , therefore , was fixed on ; and within an hour after mr .
took up willoughby ' s letter , and , after shuddering over every sentence , exclaimed— " it is too
pretty , and say nothing , was enough for the happiness of the present hour .
“you used us abominably ill , ” answered mrs .
he considered the blessing of beauty as inferior only to the blessing of a baronetcy ; and the sir walter
i must hide it another time , betsey .
kind .
“i have the greatest pleasure , my dear emma , in forwarding to you the enclosed .
writing strong enough to overcome the trouble , and that at portsmouth their correspondence would dwindle into nothing .
" what !
let me know what you think of this .
she felt that she had no business at pemberley , and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it
very much grieved and concerned—i had flattered myself that she must be better after such a cordial as i knew
urge to see you for the present .
the motive professed was his conviction of its being owing to himself that wickham’s worthlessness had not been so well
when everything was done they left the room , catherine lingering only half a minute behind her friend to throw
of their being together , when it was finished .
nothing more alarming occurred than a fear , on mrs .
, was almost wishing to rouse her from so painful a slumber , when marianne , suddenly awakened by some
young person , who was merely accidentally mentioned to me , and the family are quite delighted with her .
there is no occasion to put them so very close together .
did she love him well enough to forego what had used to be essential points ?
no , the meeting is certainly to-day , ” was the abrupt answer , which denoted the impossibility of any
” she checked herself , however , and submitted quietly to a little more praise than she deserved .
catherine ' s watchful eye , and “oh !
; she was slighted , maria was preferred ; the smile of triumph which maria was trying to suppress shewed
i pity you , miss eliza , for this discovery of your favourite’s guilt ; but really , considering his
it was an afternoon of distress , and anne had every thing to do at once ; the apothecary to
chapter ii no misfortune occurred , again to prevent the ball .
only a little redder than usual .
her wretchedness i could have borne , but her passion—her malice—at all events it must be appeased .
he is very severe against me indeed , and yet i hope i have not been hasty in my judgment
lady lucas quieted her fears a little by starting the idea of his being gone to london only to get
as it was impossible , however , now to prevent their coming , lady middleton resigned herself to the idea
equally sanguine ; but the expectation of the others was by no means so cheerful .
without loss of time ; fitzgerald offers to escort us there , but matilda has some doubts of the propriety
i had forgotten having ever told you half so much of the place .
will you be very angry with me , my dear lizzy , if i take this opportunity of saying (what
to you , he will talk of farming ; to me , of drawing or music ; and so on
(laughing affectedly .
” emma found it really time to be at home ; the visit had already lasted long ; and on
, were walking off ; and captain wentworth , watching them , turned again to anne , and by manner
we seem to have been designed for each other .
” “yes , sir—and dr .
” “well , but (he continued) tho ' they may be above the common size , their figures are perfectly
if you can give me your assurance of having no design beyond enjoying the conversation of a clever woman for
mrs harville from the care of her own children ; and in short , they were so happy in the
he walked here , and he walked there , fancying himself so very great !
that they should marry , small as is their chance of happiness , and wretched as is his character ,
a regular visit of some days .
how often have i wished that i possessed as little personal beauty as you do ; that my figure were
of my acquaintance .
" the admiralty , " he continued , " entertain themselves now and then , with sending a few hundred
she used to ask your sisters now and then , but she never asked fanny .
darcy came so often to the parsonage , it was more difficult to understand .
the crofts , and considered her father so very fortunate in his tenants , felt the parish to be so
—and how sorry she will be when she comes , not to see miss taylor here !
—and did she not suppose her friend might be glad of some refreshment after so much exercise ?
his countenance , voice , and manner had established him at once in the possession of every virtue .
no positive engagement indeed !
the indignities of stupidity , and the disappointments of selfish passion , can excite little pity .
such a countenance , such manners !
" so ended the first part , which had been afterwards put into an envelope , containing nearly as much
, he found her trembling with joy over this letter , and listening with a glowing , grateful countenance to
it depends entirely upon his aunt ' s spirits and pleasure ; in short , upon her temper .
i should be sorry to think our friend mercenary .
" and she did not feel much delighted with the idea of such a sister-in-law .
ponies .
it would excite no proper interest there .
here had been grievous mismanagement ; but , bad as it was , he gradually grew to feel that it
the home of his father ' s father ; and on recollecting that an old woman who had nursed him
all day long .
" " more than you think it really and intrinsically worth .
” “you are very good , but do not trouble yourself about them .
" excuse me , " said she ; " and be assured that i meant no offence to you ,
whose views might it not affect ?
" he comes from mr .
a time .
you may all be thinking of , and only requires something very entertaining from each of you , in a
" i love willoughby , sincerely love him ; and suspicion of his integrity cannot be more painful to yourself
the general ' s cruelty , which however they might yet have escaped discovery , she felt confident of somewhere
his intrusion by relating its cause , in a manner so frank and so graceful that his person , which
at any rate it would be most ungenerous .
since her forming it .
dashwood , trusting to the temperate account of her own disappointment which elinor had sent her , was led away
i had been grossly wrong , and must abide the consequences .
knew what misconstruction .
perhaps , they were all setting off for hereford .
and there are other circumstances which i am not at liberty—which it is not worth while to relate ; but
months , was left to conjecture .
" marianne got up and walked about the room .
; but it struck her in the course of their third rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected questions—about
grant ' s very great kindness , it was impossible for him and his horses to be accommodated where they
she lived , or anything .
do you imagine colonel campbell knows the business to be going forward just at this time ?
” “that never occurred to me ; and of course , not seeing him anywhere , i thought he must
turn back now , i have no chance .
you may well wonder how i contrive to pass my time here , and for the first week it was
” she then hastened away to her mother , who had purposely broken up the card party , and was
anne haggard , mary coarse , every face in the neighbourhood worsting , and the rapid increase of the crow
, he must have left a message for you , i am sure he must .
some minutes passed in this unpleasant silence , with only one attempt on emma ' s side to talk of
useful , how little self-denying his life had (apparently) been .
while she was gone mr .
crawford ; and she sat thinking deeply of it till mary , who had been first watching her complacently ,
it is that when we had reached our _num_ th year , we took the nine hundred pounds and ran
air .
” “you have , undoubtedly ; and there are situations in which very high spirits would denote insensibility .
mary , she is not like her cousins ; but i think i shall not ask in vain .
the usual attack of gallantry and compliment , but he had not cared enough about it to persevere against a
if she could have believed mary ' s future fate as unconnected with mansfield as she was determined the brother
rise to a belief of more than i felt , or meant to express , i shall reproach myself for
” “a man who had felt less , might .
” “it will not do , ” whispered frank to emma ; “they are most of them affronted .
drawn off from their hills ; and the two girls set off together .
stranger ; and as she probably engaged in the part with different expectations—perhaps without considering the subject enough to know
“shall we ask him why a man of sense and education , and who has lived in the world ,
i am glad of it .
crawford once gone from mansfield , that everything would soon be as if no such subject had existed .
thursday , predestined to hope and enjoyment , came ; and opened with more kindness to fanny than such self-willed
what might happen within that time to make a meeting dreadful to her .
alike .
” said mary .
he was to be describing and recommending matrimony to me .
the following day to work on jane ; and till the morrow their going was deferred .
" marianne would not let her proceed ; —and elinor , satisfied that each felt their own error , wished
mr elliot was too generally agreeable .
some time thus spent in joint affliction , she put all the letters into elinor ' s hands ; and
and children did .
norris offered to contrive his dress , mr .
the forbearance of her family on a point , respecting which she could be in no doubt of their wishes
frank churchill sang again .
” “my dearest fanny , ” cried edmund , pressing her arm closer to him , “do not let the
; —on the contrary , it is much more desirable that there should be a difference .
” she sat intently at work , striving to be composed , and without daring to lift up her eyes
looked on as the most suitable period for its accomplishment .
” “i am glad you gave him something considerable , ” said lady bertram , with most unsuspicious calmness ,
” “very agreeable indeed , ” she replied , vainly endeavouring to hide a great yawn .
discourse .
“do not be so dull , my dearest creature , ” she whispered .
” “i had a very apt scholar .
knightley at a little distance , and was arranging himself for settled conversation , while smiles of high glee passed
smallest compunction .
” “yes , almost every day .
to know that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish jane , and must , at
the cotillions were over , the country-dancing beginning , and she saw nothing of the tilneys .
; but consider how much it must increase his disappointment !
was he not wrong ?
s part , in praise of miss thorpe , till they reached pulteney street , where he was welcomed with
marianne to be sure is lost to me for ever .
intentions very soon .
bingley did not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as for his own , and
, and advised him to apply to me .
“you owe me no apologies ; and every body to whom you might be supposed to owe them , is
have time for atonement to my god , and to you all , did not kill me at once .
visit any family beyond the distance of a walk .
he had been engaged to captain harville ' s sister , and was now mourning her loss .
” said she ; “here ' s repose !
the family , but particularly connected with it , as the elder brother of isabella ' s husband .
—emma could not but picture it all , and feel how justly they might resent , how naturally harriet must
i am sure i wonder my heart is not quite broke .
on such terms of cordiality as had marked their several meetings in derbyshire ; and as she threw a retrospective
and pleasant .
the introduction was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation—a readiness at the same time perfectly
of it , as many others have done before them .
, though it had not all the decided pretension , the resolute stylishness of miss thorpe ' s , had
bingley’s , she could not make a very favourable answer .
my laura (replied she hastily withdrawing her eyes from a momentary glance at the sky) do not thus distress me
” fanny was confused , but it was the confusion of discontent ; while miss crawford wondered she did not
bury every sound of the business from himself in murmurs of his own , over the various advertisements of “a
elizabeth , to whom jane very soon communicated the chief of all this , heard it in silent indignation .
, as you have ; but i have the highest opinion in the world of his goodness and sense .
' s dissatisfaction , pulled his brother away .
family squabbling is the greatest evil of all , and we had better do anything than be altogether by the
if he would resume his book ; but mr .
” these were not expressions to do fanny any good ; for though she read in too much haste and
—before this second looking over was begun , however , emma walked into the hall for the sake of a
own rights , and that it is out of my power to prevent your inheriting the family estate .
yates was particularly pleased : he had been sighing and longing to do the baron at ecclesford , had grudged
rushworth or julia .
he is gone to my father already .
rushworth , was received by her with a coldness which ought to have been repulsive , and have established apparent
the occasion .
indolence and the little attention he has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in his family ,
again and again .
bingley was all grateful pleasure , and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on her ,
he has some friends , though perhaps not so many as he deserves .
he is now .
in delaford hanger !
bring a choice of more suitable intimates within miss elliot ' s reach , was therefore an object of first-rate
mrs clay was about , and to hold her in contempt ; and yet mrs clay found him as agreeable
do not mimic her .
" one thing more , and all seemed arranged .
pleasure to redeem it by a visit at the cottage , in the course of a few weeks .
living constantly with right-minded and well-informed people , her heart and understanding had received every advantage of discipline and culture
of her charms , it was not long before her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their
weston ; and the transition from highbury to enscombe , the contrast between the places in some of the first
to be found there , even by a servant , would be unpleasant ; but by the general (and he
after sitting a little while with jane , on miss bingley’s appearance and invitation , the mother and three daughters
she had not spirits to notice her in more than a few repulsive looks , but she felt her as
he continued at the window ; and after calmly and politely saying , " i hope the little boy is
i am not like jane ; i wish i were .
in any of my daughter-in-law ' s concerns , for i know it would not do ; but i shall
much reflection , and to leave everything in greater suspense than ever .
, he prevented the inquiry which had travelled from her heart almost to the tip of her tongue , by
there cannot be a more gentle , affectionate heart ; or more obliging manners , when acting without restraint ;
comes in your way .
six years of separation and suffering might have been spared .
it will not be a less faithful picture of my mind .
, such flattering supplication , could not allow it to influence her .
she heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up stairs .
i shall keep it only till you can claim it .
i will not tell you what it is .
should leave us without[ _num_ ] acknowledging everything to me at once : but this is not the case .
against the dancing began .
i have valued myself on honourable toils and just rewards .
you shall share its use with me .
i was playing the fool with my eyes open .
elegantly dressed .
" i wish you could persuade mary not to be always fancying herself ill , " was charles ' s
” “not exactly , though i shall be happy to do both , but that would be exercise only to
the very circumstance , in its unpleasantest form , which they would each have been most anxious to avoid ,
such was the information of the first five minutes ; the second unfolded thus much in detail—that they had driven
no want of subject .
and though , perhaps , marianne may not seem exactly the person to attract him , yet i think it
wickham began to speak on more general topics , meryton , the neighbourhood , the society , appearing highly pleased
susan shewed that she had delicacy : pleased as she was to be mistress of property which she had been
she talked to her aunt bertram—she must talk to somebody of the ball ; but her aunt had seen so
" mrs smith said nothing .
look so grave susan ; you will make me fear i have offended you !
it reminded her of their first forlorn tete-a-tete , on the evening of mrs .
mrs smith , of all people and all names in the world , to be the chosen friend of miss
dissolution ; that it is their duty , each to endeavour to give the other no cause for wishing that
must take leave of you here .
our respected father , as you well know , bequeathed all the stanhill effects that remained at norland (and very
good a little creature as ever lived , and has a great deal of feeling .
till the expression of his eyes , which are uncommonly good , and the general sweetness of his countenance ,
which always closed such parties , and for which she had been used to sit and watch the due time
—if you think me in a way to be happier than i deserve , i am quite of your opinion
oh yes !
he has the tenderest spirit of gallantry towards us all !
” “your attentiveness and consideration makes me more sensible of my own neglect .
attachments and habits in battle array ; and before he can get your heart for his own use he has
such manners , seemed no otherwise intelligible ; and with this impression she immediately rose , saying— " mr .
i am satisfied , and will trouble you no more when these few lines are dismissed .
' s disposal , without any restriction whatever .
esteem i am , as you well know , ill-fitted to endure ; and when to this may be added
that ball !
being quick , as lady catherine very much objected to be kept waiting for her dinner .
she had heard nothing of lady catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous virtue , and
, dissipation , and luxury , had made in the mind , the character , the happiness , of a
knightley ' s visits ; now she could talk , and she could listen with true happiness , unchecked by
near plymouth .
" " yes ; i did not see them myself , but i heard mr elliot say they were in
he has been here this half-hour , and master has had a letter .
how could i ever be foolish enough to expect a renewal of his love ?
) and so she asked the two harringtons to come , but harriet was ill , and so pen was
this was too cruel , too unexpected a blow to our gentle sensibility—we could not support it—we could only faint
ferrars , i think it ought not to be mentioned to any body else .
they were people whom her heart turned to very naturally .
if her sisters intended to walk on the downs , she directly stole away towards the lanes ; if they
gardiner , “but , perhaps , to the lakes .
d .
no—it is not for me to be driven away by mr .
husband all the interesting spots in its environs to think of anything else .
” “not , perhaps , of neglecting his own interest ; but of every other neglect i can believe him
she turned into the drawing-room for privacy , but henry and eleanor had likewise retreated thither , and were at
tho ' certainly nothing could to any reasonable being , have appeared more satisfactory , than so gratefull a reply
this country , any more than her husband ; that is to say , she is sister to a gentleman
and you may be certain when i have the honour of seeing her again , i shall speak in the
by her better experience in nursing , of material use .
not altogether seem particularly friendly to very severe , very intense application , may perhaps be brought to acknowledge that
" anne , amused in spite of herself , was rather distressed for an answer , and the admiral ,
martin dined with them last saturday .
she was quite one of her worthies—the most amiable , affable , delightful woman—just as accomplished and condescending as mrs
elton to have her carriage first , were gladly endured , in the prospect of the quiet drive home which
been hearing of with great satisfaction .
—and the air so bad !
or see him with clear vision , was very well satisfied with his muttering acknowledgment of its being “very cold
altogether build upon his steadiness or constancy .
been , to take the trouble of conquering any body ' s reserve to procure one .
the room was cleared , and anne might finish her breakfast as she could .
but it was very different .
” crawford was excessively pleased .
under any circumstances .
i could have no other pleasure .
it was now his object to marry .
her stay , and in the course of two months ceased to write of her absence , and in the
it would be well for the eldest sister if she were equally satisfied with her situation , for a change
he cut her short with , “i am going to kingston .
go to-day , go to-day .
" said she , with vexation .
had been brought on by the strength of her love , rather than by his ; and she would have
knightley ' s attention , and every syllable of their conversation was as distinctly heard by the others , as
lady russell , indeed , had scarcely any influence with elizabeth , and seemed to love her , rather because
" my dear , " said she , entering , " i have just recollected that i have some of
of nonsensical complaisance !
i will not allow it to be more man ' s nature than woman ' s to be inconstant and
opinion of mrs .
as to what restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a dishonourable elopement with her ,
he thus continued : — " mrs .
it is so far to go—eight miles is a long way ; mr .
gardiner had waited only for the letters before he set off .
she must wait a moment , or he would think her mad .
you will have my sketches , some time or other , to look at—or my tour to read—or my poem
soon after their reaching the bottom of the set , catherine perceived herself to be earnestly regarded by a gentleman
use again ; and the next , with the greatest cordiality , and in a manner not to be resisted
your journey till our return .
yes .
trial to anne ' s nerves .
mainwaring and a young man engaged to miss mainwaring distractedly in love with her , which reginald firmly believed when
do you really desire it ?
; which i understand is a very good one , and the present incumbent not likely to live a great
it will be as clean as randalls by candlelight .
say to eleanor about her ?
and what is worse , cook has just been telling me that the turkey , which i particularly wished not
you are speaking what you have been told at your uncle ' s table .
they lived beyond their income , but still it was nothing in comparison of enscombe : she did not cease
can you possibly suppose that i was aware of her unhappiness !
minute .
what has she to do with it ?
you cannot suppose me capable of trying to persuade you to marry against your inclinations .
concerned in it !
to his daughter the first intimation of his presence , and to catherine terror upon terror .
very sight of him .
i did for you .
, but exciting small compassion in any except fanny , who had been a quiet auditor of the whole ,
this is like giving ourselves a slap , to be sure !
she did not fear her father’s opposition , but he was going to be made unhappy ; and that it
you cannot be ignorant , mrs .
the new mare proved a treasure ; with a very little trouble she became exactly calculated for the purpose ,
the work of one moment was destroyed by the next .
when they had all talked a little while in harmony of the weather and mrs .
behaviour when he first came into the room .
spared from the fatigue of such a journey , to think of anything else .
her still increasing wonder , perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter-paper , written quite through , in a
it is past two , and we are to dine at five .
how can they suit each other ?
effect on her mother .
when first mr .
and who could not think of her as under the agitations of jealousy without great pity .
every house of its inhabitants , and all the world appears on such an occasion to walk about and tell
the carriage—we had disappointments about the carriage ; —one morning , i remember , he came to me quite in
and the distinction is not quite so much against the candour and common sense of the world as appears at
five hundred a-year by a[ _num_ ] woman who never saved in her life , they were wise enough to
everybody to be living in uppercross ; and when he discovered that lady russell lived three miles off , his
his stay became indefinite .
, this want of cordiality is not very surprizing , and yet it shows an illiberal and vindictive spirit to
lodgings , and draw in our chairs , and are as snug as if we were at kellynch , ay
—i am sure i would not have such a creature as his harry stand at our sideboard for any consideration
of being starved , both mind and body , into a much juster value for mr .
sackville st : janry _num_ th it is a month to day since i first beheld my lovely henrietta ,
musgrove , either you or i must go .
” it was inconceivable , incredible , impossible !
catching the eye of the young lady with whom he had been previously talking , he felt the necessity of
” elizabeth , feeling really anxious , was determined to go to her , though the carriage was not to
it was some comfort to him that many inquiries after himself and miss woodhouse (for his neighbours knew that he
“what say you , eleanor ?
we explored to king ' s-weston twice last summer , in that way , most delightfully , just after their
” after some time they received an offer of tea from one of their neighbours ; it was thankfully accepted
but why must she consent to be with the eltons ?
i have seen a great many lists of her drawing-up at various times of books that she meant to read
but let me observe that all histories are against you--all stories , prose and verse .
that was the kind action ; that was the noble benevolence and generosity ; that was the service which made
i am sorry to say it of them , but so it is .
in love with marianne dashwood .
it had left her nothing to do .
i made no comments , however , for words would have been vain .
before her .
i could only perceive that they were many .
but you are fitted for society , and it is shameful to have you exiled from it .
my dearest creature , do not talk of it .
single , that something would occur to prevent his marrying lucy ; that some resolution of his own , some
, and with something curious and valuable from all the distant countries captain harville had visited , were more than
sir william had been delighted with him .
let me go , mr .
perhaps there was some truth in this ; though i doubt whether his reserve , or anybody’s reserve , can
he was the intimate friend of my dear husband , who trusted and loved him , and thought him as
gravity .
i have no business to put myself forward .
, as i trusted she might , my greatest happiness would lie in promoting their marriage ; and since our
hope of succeeding in the object of her first anxiety , left her at least the comfort of telling the
darcy corroborated it with a bow , and was beginning to determine not to fix his eyes on elizabeth ,
in london , and had been skilful enough to dissuade him from it , and make bath preferred .
together .
them sue for detection .
he would save himself from witnessing again such permitted , encouraged attentions .
to sit down on one of the benches now comparatively unsheltered , remaining there perhaps till , in the midst
“the scene we were rehearsing was so very remarkable !
the rain continued the whole evening without intermission ; jane certainly could not come back .
being in company and stay at home ; and she could now invite the very person whom she really wanted
both vocal and instrumental , she never could attempt to conceal from herself , was infinitely superior to her own
as to want only a milder air to produce a very white world in a very short time .
means want her here .
captain wentworth left his seat , and walked to the fire-place ; probably for the sake of walking away from
edward was in possession of the living , but the readiness of the house , to which colonel brandon ,
according to miss bates—it all came from her—mrs .
truth , or at least the strength of her indifference , might well be questionable ; and he was not
" " do not blame him , however , for departing from his character , where the deviation is necessary
he should not have to think of her as pining in the retirement of mansfield for him , rejecting sotherton
she must learn to feel that she had been mistaken with regard to both ; that she had been unfairly
“my sister and mr .
and i hope out of some regard to me , your brother might be persuaded to give him norland living
—it was true that her friend was going only half a mile from them ; but emma was aware that
it was bad enough that a mrs clay should be always before her ; but that a deeper hypocrite should
but i had no inclination for the law , even in this less abstruse study of it , which my
” he then shut the door , and , coming up to her , claimed the good wishes and affection
” “no , my dear , i should not think of missing you , when such an offer as this
” “true .
make it comfortable for them , before lucy goes to it .
the living in incessant noise was , to a frame and temper delicate and nervous like fanny ' s ,
that room , in which her disturbed imagination had tormented her on her first arrival , was again the scene
” “but you forget , mamma , ” said elizabeth , “that we shall meet him at the assemblies ,
being a real friend , united to produce an offer from colonel campbell of undertaking the whole charge of her
one cannot resolve upon them in a hurry .
its effect on reginald justifies some portion of vanity , for it was no less favourable than instantaneous .
was perfectly satisfied , and soon talked of something else .
could the event of the disclosure bear an equal resemblance !
, when miss bates turned to her again and seized her attention .
of any support , and unprovided with any habitation , i should never once have remembered my father and mother
to mrs harville ' s care entirely .
own mother .
but this was the only point of relief .
wickham appeared , kitty and lydia would certainly have continued the occupation , but unluckily no one passed windows now
though i have forgot the exact terms , i have a perfect impression of the general meaning .
prudence , for , except a trifling sum , the whole of his fortune depended on the will of his
our absence was however never either mentioned or lamented by louisa who in the society of young danvers with whom
—he had been sitting with them half an hour , she found .
what do you think has happened this morning ?
with a little smile , a little glow , he said-- " i have hardly seen you since our day
which had driven julia away was to her the sweetest support .
after walking several miles in a leisurely manner , and too busy to know anything about it , they found
at length darcy spoke , and in a constrained manner said , “mr .
v .
a secret union will at once secure the felicity of both .
he did not know who could , which catherine did not even endeavour to understand .
he is really here .
: guess what i must have felt for all your sakes .
your sisters will marry , and it will be gone for ever .
it , he began to think that some time or other—in another year or two , perhaps—it might not be
jane should therefore make the most of every half-hour in which she can command his attention .
, and feared ; and the affront it contained to anne , in mrs clay ' s being of so
to what he said ; and , whether in speech or silence , conniving at the comfortable persuasion of his
i dare say we could do very well without you ; but you men think yourselves of such consequence .
strike one as it ought .
and as to my father ' s being absent , it is so far from an objection , that i
in view .
he would be always coming over .
he was so good as to take it immediately .
but why do i thus dwell on myself !
to whitwell ; and this was the reason of my leaving barton so suddenly , which i am sure must
been settled for wednesday , to attend mrs .
good gracious !
her pale face and impetuous manner made him start , and before he could recover himself to speak , she
“how could you deceive me so , mr .
charles laughed .
he must i am certain be capable of every bad action !
i remember i had my favourite gown on .
to understand her feelings .
doors .
miss greville was with her mother ' s party at supper , but ellen preferred staying with the bernards and
do not you hear your aunt speak ?
at longstaple , where i always felt myself at home , and was always sure of a welcome ; and
had been educated , what carriage her father kept , and what had been her mother’s maiden name ?
and professions of regret , and general resolutions of prudence , were sufficient to soften his heart and make him
i live in perthshire , you in sussex .
it is a great comfort to have you so rich , and when you have nothing else to do ,
, had been prompting and encouraging expenses which could end only in ruin ; and the smiths accordingly had been
his address was good , and catherine felt herself in high luck .
i murdered my father at a very early period of my life , i have since murdered my mother ,
i am glad i was not a week later then .
you must think of that , you must try to make up your mind to it as one of the
the notion that , as he looked at her , he was trying to trace a resemblance .
rushworth : romantic delicacy was certainly not to be expected from him .
they were not the same , but they were , perhaps , equally good .
elton ' s acquaintance .
it had just occurred to mrs .
whether lady susan was or was not happy in her second choice , i do not see how it can
they should take care of their health and their complexion .
” “well , i am amazingly glad i have got rid of them !
it was a great object to her to escape all enquiry or eclat ; but it was her intention to
john dashwood was really far from being sorry to see his sisters again ; [ _num_ ]it rather gave them
” “i had much rather go in the coach .
" edward tried to return her kindness as it deserved , but before such witnesses he dared not say half
i have a little plan of alteration for your bedrooms too , which may now be performed without any inconvenience
enough to animate her features and make her rejoice to talk of it .
“oh , my dear mr .
now let us go on .
i may be discovered by those who want to see me .
t do this , " and " don ' t do that ; " or that one can only keep
the rest had been mere applications for money .
weston and emma tried earnestly to cheer him and turn his attention from his son-in-law , who was pursuing his
common course , we should not have heard from her before next tuesday or wednesday .
from the town ; “and really , upon serious consideration , i am much more inclined than i was to
their children had more modern minds and manners .
acquit me here , and procure for me , when it is allowable , the acquittal and good wishes of
, “mr .
” “you have seen mrs .
, though unsoftened by one kind word or look on the part of her sister ; but lady russell ,
in acknowledging , though he could not justify it , and the unfeeling manner in which he had mentioned mr
she cannot have given her right notions of what was due to the admiral .
the great risk , of its being all in vain .
we each took one and hopped home from hereford delightfully—-i am your ever affectionate elizabeth johnson .
might , she must have been preserved from the abominable suspicions of an improper attachment to mr .
no ; he would never disgrace his name so far .
my beloved catherine , have i got you at last ?
she sat in bewildered , broken , sorrowful contemplation .
the same warmth of heart , the same eagerness of fancy and spirits .
' s had better not be tried ; but it was not till his death that the wretched state of
she would not even wish for a renewal of his attentions .
arose which had a tendency rather to forward his views of pleasing her , inasmuch as they gave her a
” “with all my heart .
behaviour to him , independent of her general character , has been so inexcusably artful and ungenerous since our marriage
, and dissuade him from the match ; but it was too late then , i found , to do
arm , with a sensibility amused and delighted ; and just at last , after harriet ' s own account
esteem for our cousin .
bring the key for nothing .
lady dalrymple ' s carriage , for which miss elliot was growing very impatient , now drew up ; the
” she raised her eyes towards him more fully than she had ever done before .
and i desire you will never insult me with my second w .
or had she quarrelled with maria and julia ?
colonel brandon ' s hand , with a look which spoke at once her gratitude , and her conviction of
how shall i bear so much happiness !
except in subsequent ridicule .
bennet before breakfast , a conversation beginning with his parsonage-house , and leading naturally to the avowal of his hopes
no , indeed ; i must protest against any such idea .
they have been leading her astray for years .
collins’s wife by this time , had it not been for her own perverseness .
anne knew not how to understand it .
now mary , i declare it was so , i heard it myself , and you were in the other
i cannot imagine that she will not be continually insulting her visitor with praise , encouragement , and offers of
i think , i hope , i am sure she is not serious ; but i would rather not hear
that was all very true .
both .
i am sure miss bertram is very much attached to mr .
" ah !
take place of mamma .
help often saying , ' was this for me ?
herself , behaved with the greatest attention to mrs .
churchill—only it seems too good—but just as you please .
she took her candle and looked closely at the cabinet .
to be excused .
he had never had the slightest suspicion .
she is remarkably good-tempered when she has her own way , and very lively when she is not out of
she must be allowed to be a favourer of matrimony , you know ; and (since self will intrude) who
every comfort may be as well enjoyed in a cottage as in the most spacious dwelling .
anne was conscious of not doing it so well as lady russell .
how glad i am that northanger is what it is !
, to my utter astonishment , i found , when he (finding me nowhere else) joined me there at last
” but when her mother was gone , jane would not be prevailed on to go down without one of
mainwaring ' s most urgent entreaties , to leave the family .
are those who have been disappointed in their first choice , whether from the inconstancy of its object , or
my sister ' s hair .
when we met him , he turned back and walked with us ; and so we began talking of my
ho !
nothing was omitted , on his side , of civility , compliment , or kindness , that might assist the
she was less handsome than her brother ; but there was sense and good humour in her face , and
his anxiety for jane was evident , and his attentions to herself most pleasing , and they prevented her feeling
” said she— .
papa , we have missed seeing them but one entire day since they married .
attempt little besides expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness she was treated with .
of the business .
and yet , upon my honour , i believe what i said of myself to be true , and i
there is a vast deal of difference in memories , as well as in everything else , and therefore you
the most unaccountable business !
at m—— .
antwerp at the bottom , in letters as tall as the mainmast .
with , who have all twenty thousand pounds apiece .
console lady catherine as well as you can .
i have almost grudged myself my own prior knowledge of what you ought to have known before all the world
many parts of our best plays are independent of scenery .
her the idea of harriet ' s succeeding her in his affections .
there you must look for the banners and the achievements .
in every pleasure , every scheme of hers—one to whom she could speak every thought as it arose , and
manner ; but there is something insufferably tedious in the usual process of such a meeting .
she could think of william the next day more cheerfully ; and as the morning afforded her an opportunity of
you must know best what will be its effect ; but had i not seriously , and from my heart
in one moment her imagination placed before her a letter from willoughby , full of tenderness and contrition , explanatory
it is not that mamma cares about it the least in the world , but i know it is taken
is he in the room ?
miss hamilton had left school , had married not long afterwards , was said to have married a man of
rushworth , especially , were made known to him only in their sad result .
“well , sir , and i dare say you are not sorry to be back again , for it is
he bore with philosophy the conviction that elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had
to see you , and was delighted to be in the way to let you in .
on the important subject .
” elizabeth hesitated , but her knees trembled under her and she felt how little would be gained by her
to acknowledge the simple proposition of its being the finest child in the world .
the kellynch estate should be transmitted whole and entire , as he had received it .
colonel fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them ; anything was a welcome relief to him at rosings ; and
of considerable amount .
his time there in the future .
minutes ended it .
he is full of spirits , playful as can be , but there is no vice in him .
woodhouse would not suffer him to deceive himself long ; and now he confessed his persuasion , that such a
tilney ' s eye , instantly received from him the smiling tribute of recognition .
it so happened that while her two sisters with mrs .
prosperity than could be reasonably calculated on .
which took him to london might be concluded in three or four days ; but as we are certain it
he must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found her .
, she still went on , after a civil reception , a short sentence about being waited for , and
but i have my usual luck : i am always out of the way when any thing desirable is going
sent only a general direction , an order indefinite as to time , to depend upon contingencies and conveniences ?
hartfield only that she could have any chance of hearing him spoken of with cooling moderation or repellent truth .
you need not tell me that you had a pleasant evening .
lady bertram wrote her daily terrors to her niece , who might now be said to live upon letters ,
it has given me leisure and calmness for serious recollection .
genuine frankness of her character in her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement , she sent him language
did you ever hear darcy mention the circumstance , when you were in kent ?
the girls were wild for dancing ; and the evenings ended , occasionally , in an unpremeditated little ball .
you do not make allowance enough for difference of situation and temper .
while you were in the smallest degree wavering , i said nothing about it , because i would not influence
” “certainly not .
" " old lady mary maclean ?
to sit ; and , so much was he influenced by this apprehension when he handed her in , that
” “and no great harm if it does , ” said mr .
extremely well , child .
while the villians of the time would make too long a list to be written or read ; i shall
what an air of probability sometimes runs through a dream !
mrs musgrove protests solemnly that she knew nothing of the matter .
they proceeded upstairs together , their rooms being on the same floor above .
every thing tender and charming was to mark their parting ; but still they were to part .
he inquired next after her family , especially william : and his kindness altogether was such as made her reproach
" anne , anne , " cried charles , " what is to be done next ?
a man might represent the county with such an estate ; a man might escape a profession and represent the
her joy and expression of regard long outlived her wonder .
your power over henry is thought of there !
don ' t imagine that nobody in this house can see or judge but yourself .
seize it—it contains many sheets of manuscript—you hasten with the precious treasure into your own chamber , but scarcely have
footing as cannot be afterwards swerved from .
a mother ' s love , and mother ' s rights , it would be prevented .
in the best-chosen language .
baronet-blood within the next twelvemonth or two .
with elinor he found the greatest consolation for the indifference of her sister .
” “oh , jane , had we been less secret , had we told what we knew of him ,
“that sweet , amiable jane fairfax !
he is generally thought a fine young man , but do not expect a prodigy .
“how i detest them .
" mrs smith gave her a penetrating glance , and then , smiling , said-- " i have been a
they were more in love with him ; yet there it was not love .
better be without sense , than misapply it as you do .
i am not obliged to punish myself for her sins .
, and a strong sense of justice by harriet—(there would be no need of compassion to the girl who believed
i could not be happy with a man whose taste did not in every point coincide with my own .
stronger head , they have not yet injured himself .
when he first came it was evident that he considered her as one entitled neither to delicacy nor respect ,
by the time he is four or five and twenty he will have seven hundred a year , and nothing
you are not serious ?
” after a short consideration , sir thomas asked crawford to join the early breakfast party in that house instead
he had been at the pains of consulting mr .
the lucky alarm of an influenza decided what might not have been decided quite so soon .
how you did tremble when sir thomas first had you put on !
, recommended an express to town for one of the most eminent physicians .
the only difference will be that , living with your aunt , you will necessarily be brought forward as you
she had scarcely needed her present observation to be satisfied , from the reason of things , that their elopement
i know it all ; that the young man’s marrying her was a patched-up business , at the expence of
of dr .
suppose her a pretty girl , and seen by tom or edmund for the first time seven years hence ,
a letter from his friend , captain harville , having found him out at last , had brought intelligence of
crawford ' s nature that participation of the general nature of women which would lead her to adopt the opinions
second letter arrived for the space of a week , she had still the same feeling when it did come
” “when i am in the country , ” he replied , “i never wish to leave it ; and
elton was speaking with animation , harriet listening with a very pleased attention ; and emma , having sent the
she wished the next day over , she wished he had come only for one day ; but it was
the next was in these words : “i do not pretend to regret anything i shall leave in hertfordshire ,
, i should think five times the amount of what i have ever yet heard named as a salary on
knightley warmly , “is , that if he turn out any thing like it , he will be the most
two fifth with jane again , and the two sixth with lizzy , and the boulanger—” “if he had had
it would be quite a burlesque .
her only dependence for information of any kind was on isabella .
be the consequence of any reply .
she was nothing more than a mere good-tempered , civil and obliging young woman ; as such we could scarcely
' s notice .
—never were such neighbours .
he has met with great kindness from the chaplain of the antwerp , ” was a tender apostrophe of fanny
she recollected that his being the intimate friend of bingley , and her being the sister of jane , was
that is very disagreeable .
alas , what would i not give to learn the fate of my augustus !
this made a difficulty .
he did not address himself to an uncandid judge or a resentful heart .
the two last dances !
and the unfortunate dread of me i have been mentioning—she wrote to mr .
this is a recollection which ought to make me forgive every one sooner than myself .
she listened , and found it well worth listening to .
, the hearts of both sisters sank a little .
susan was always ready to hear and to sympathise .
" you should not have suspected me now ; the case is so different , and my age is so
really suspect such a circumstance as her not being thought perfect by every body .
pulse ; she waited , watched , and examined it again and again ; and at last , with an
even sophy could not understand it .
home the pleasing intelligence , of their appearing in very good health , and in as tolerable spirits as could
you will gain a brother—a real , affectionate brother .
himself on the occasion as sensibly and as warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do
their journey home ; and , attended the whole way by a servant of mrs .
was not to be regretted .
being too sorry , and feeling it too much .
hughes could not have applied to any creature in the room more happy to oblige her than catherine .
you had made your own choice .
—and i could take the pattern gown home any day .
i hope you will think of us .
in her own room , leaning , in silent misery , over the small remains of a fire , which
sir william and lady lucas were speedily applied to for their consent ; and it was bestowed with a most
brother , and sink her to the ground .
at merchant taylors ' , and william at sea—and all of them more beloved and respected in their different station
can be dangerous , or difficult , or fatiguing to anybody but themselves .
woodhouse was silent from consternation ; but every body else had something to say ; every body was either surprized
crawford was the nearest to administering comfort of anything within the current of her thoughts .
” her brother gave only a smile to this accusation , and soon afterwards said , “i do not quite
of those we first had at north yarmouth .
of himself .
knightleys , commanded his fullest dependence .
how are your neighbours at the great house ?
” “no ; i had just engaged myself to walk with miss tilney before they told me of it ;
“she must not go , she must allow him five minutes longer , ” and he took her hand and
he was confused , seemed scarcely sensible of pleasure in seeing them , looked neither rapturous nor gay , said
“how can you , sir ?
could at that moment bear a short delay in favour of a drive , and who thought there could be
, was still in lyme ; and she was thinking of them all very intently one evening , when a
expecting , instead of remaining even for ever with her mother , and finding her only pleasures in retirement and
highbury , that airy , cheerful , happy-looking highbury , would be his constant attraction .
stepped boldly forward , carelessly humming a tune , to assure herself of its being so , peeped courageously behind
i can help it .
it is not my way to bother my brains with what does not concern me .
tour , and , according to the present plan , were to go no farther northwards than derbyshire .
” “if you will only tell me what sort of girl miss king is , i shall know what to
“that , if your brother should be coming here , you will give me notice of it , that i
“are you well , my emma ?
hazarded , after many debates and many doubts as to whether it were worth while , “because sir thomas seemed
home with the great intelligence .
fanny was ashamed of her own doubts .
with a curiosity so justly awakened , and feelings in every way so agitated , repose must be absolutely impossible
till this year , every long vacation since their marriage had been divided between hartfield and donwell abbey ; but
“’tis too much !
you ever so much ; ” and miss crawford could hardly answer before they were moving again at a good
he talked to her more , and , from all that she said , was convinced of her having an
little but what was forced from him by questions , and distinguished elinor by no mark of affection .
i will fetch your greatcoat and open the garden door for you .
in a message .
but in every respect , as she saw more of her , she approved her , and was confirmed in
lady elliott wished to give a dance .
he wished to avoid seeing her .
, and with a look of even fond dependence on her good-nature , she must yield .
in this danger kitty also is comprehended .
one never thinks of married men ' s being beaux—they have something else to do .
” “how can you , ” said catherine , laughing , “be so—” she had almost said “strange .
(exclaimed i) how am i to avoid those evils i shall never be exposed to ?
i cannot be forced into genius and eloquence .
, called out of the room ; an occurrence too common to strike her , and she thought nothing of
but you , who have known miss fairfax from a child , must be a better judge of her character
her heart did whisper that he had done it for her .
“you must be surprised , very much surprised—so lately as mr .
" i had none .
he turned away to recover himself , and when he spoke again , though his voice still faltered , his
with you to shew you the way .
we were always encouraged to read , and had all the masters that were necessary .
could not bear to have the difference of style , the reduction of servants , which a dinner must betray
while sir william was with them , mr .
, she must thankfully say that their petticoats were all very strong .
they did not like each other , and no renewal of acquaintance now could do any good ; and were
that he should even speak to her was amazing !
” nothing could be more impossible than to answer such a question , though nothing could be more agreeable than
to invite you to my house ; nothing but my being in the utmost distress for money should have extorted
rushworth was careless and cold .
thorpe ' s being there was such a comfort to us , was not it ?
was defective , for the building was regular , the roof was tiled , the window shutters were not painted
“no , where is he ?
weston , how could you think of such a thing ?
—astonished that the person who had brought me up should be a gentlewoman !
who makes you their confidant ?
i am so pleased—so happy .
bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her housekeeping , when an answer arrived which deferred it
she worked very diligently under her aunt ' s directions , but her diligence and her silence concealed a very
” “they arise chiefly from what is passing at the time , and though i sometimes amuse myself with suggesting
” emma then looked up , and immediately saw how it was ; and after a moment ' s debate
and mary might have been prevailed on to accept him .
i consider a country-dance as an emblem of marriage .
i had a letter from him this morning , and he will be with us within a fortnight .
vexed as edmund was with his mother and aunt , he was still more angry with himself .
, and some return of indisposition in little charles .
” “i can readily believe , ” answered he gravely , “that reports may vary greatly with respect to me
it was the choicest gift of heaven ; and anne viewed her friend as one of those instances in which
, by all his knowledge of human nature , to expect to see the effect of the loss of power
“can you deny that you have done it ?
" " i do not know .
any restraint beyond her own scanty rule of good-breeding .
i do not think it could disagree with you .
of the world .
the loo-table , however , did not appear .
just as your drawings always are , my dear .
the very last evening was spent there ; and her ladyship again inquired minutely into the particulars of their journey
less attended to .
walked away .
we have judged it best that my niece should be married from this house , of which i hope you
” away they walked to the book ; and while isabella examined the names , it was catherine ' s
)—for presently she came forward—came quite up to me , and asked me how i did , and seemed ready
" " your poor mother , too !
an interval of meditation , serious and grateful , was the best corrective of everything dangerous in such high-wrought felicity
i looked back .
i hate a florid complexion and dark eyes in a man .
her illness was sudden and short ; and , before i arrived it was all over .
rushworth and julia to-night !
, whenever his engagements might allow him to visit them .
are , perhaps , a little less to be wondered at .
weston was out of the question .
darcy’s house , and mentioned with raptures some plans of the latter with regard to new furniture .
lady susan , i believe , wishes to speak to you about it , if you are at leisure .
collins , and whatever might be his feelings toward her friend , met her with every appearance of composure .
though not before mrs .
i am not satisfied about maddison .
if the violence of her passions , the weakness of her understanding—i do not mean , however , to defend
you are so kind !
loss , quite bewildered to think who could possibly have ordered it—but now , they were both perfectly satisfied that
” “why , pretty well , my dear , upon the whole .
but you must come up and tack on my patterns all the same .
in the water ; and benwick sits at her elbow , reading verses , or whispering to her , all
" what can bring her here so often ?
what have they brought you ?
if it were to be shared with the woman he loved , he could not think any man to be
grateful , as well she might , for the chance which had procured her such a friend .
her within twenty miles of home .
own , and without any restraint on his time .
he assured her , that as to dancing , he was perfectly indifferent to it ; that his chief object
gleaning of nuts in an adjoining hedge-row , and they were gone by degrees quite out of sight and sound
he was received by mrs .
miss tilney , to whom all the commonly frequented environs were familiar , spoke of them in terms which made
and a few artless words fully conveyed all their gratitude and delight , and her cousin began to find her
i had thought you peculiarly free from wilfulness of temper , self-conceit , and every tendency to that independence of
but reflection brought better feelings , and shewed her that mrs .
i cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as i ought , nor their offenses against myself
of his library with a letter in his hand .
i left her this morning with her lawyer , talking over the business .
it was very lucky , for i would not have had poor james think himself slighted upon any account ;
” “dear affectionate creature !
it is almost past belief .
dreadful a malady .
, which gave comfort to his last earthly reflections .
; for lady bertram never thought of being useful to anybody , and mrs .
—at randalls ?
inhabit is undoubtedly haunted , and informs you that you will not have a single domestic within call .
his temptation is not adequate to the risk !
street .
under such a blow , with grateful wonder .
they had received her doubtingly , if not coolly ; and nothing beyond the merest commonplace had been talked almost
least offended tho ' by what followed , one would suppose that william was conscious of having given me just
sir james is a young man of an amiable disposition and excellent character ; a little too much of the
reginald was glad to get away , and i went to lady susan , curious , indeed , to hear
i can now say with the housekeeper , that though some people may call him proud , i have seen
“it is very true , upon my honour , but i see how it is ; you are indifferent to
, that she can argue nothing from that .
he had met with them in a little perplexity , which must be laid before emma .
accordingly we offered our services to one and were accepted ; our company was indeed rather small , as it
crawford , as you have perhaps foreseen , is yet in the house .
but had she been less obstinate , or of less weight with her son , who was always guided by
yes , quite well ; and so full of your praises , he did nothing but say fine things of
elton and his bride .
you should not have done it , indeed you should not .
i wish your visit at northanger may be over before captain tilney makes his engagement known , or you will
—the box hill party had decided him on going away .
dashwood had never been so much pleased with any young women in her life , as she was with them
here am i come down for only one day , and you are engaged with a dinner-party !
“my dear miss price , ” said miss crawford , as soon as she was at all within hearing ,
in his notions , a great deal decidedly right ; he spoke of his uncle with warm regard , was
being happy ; and after some consultation it was agreed , that although happiness could only be enjoyed at whitwell
outweigh all the value of all the attention which , for years , he had received from his niece and
which had been gradually growing shabby , under the influence of four summers and two children ; and , on
will it not be wiser to accept the society of those good ladies in laura place , and enjoy all
" no , no , no , " cried marianne wildly , " he loves you , and only you
” “emma has been meaning to read more ever since she was twelve years old .
could he , or the lucases , have pitched on any man within the circle of our acquaintance , whose
” elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement , but was too much oppressed to make any reply .
she would listen quietly , could read his list of the families to be invited , from whom he calculated
—but if you have any wish to speak openly to me as a friend , or to ask my opinion
—and how did you find my worthy old friend and her daughter ?
he had wanted very much to go abroad—had been very eager indeed to be allowed to travel—but she would not
all that excited her respect .
you are not serious now .
of his conduct towards eliza .
" when she could command mary ' s attention , anne quietly tried to convince her that their father and
“i often feel concern , ” said she , “that i dare not make our carriage more useful on such
but by himself ; the observation of which , with his discontent at whatever the inn afforded , and his
yes , mr .
mr and mrs m .
there” (holding out the paper to her) ; “much good may such fine relations do you .
on the jealous weakness to which they attributed the change , with all the glee of feelings gratified in every
” “thank you , but i would rather you did not mention the subject to her ; till the time
—mr .
but why be acquainted with us now ?
time declared it to be unavoidable .
” “good heaven !
as i saw that she did not seem to listen to me , i said no more , but leaving
styled willoughby , called at the cottage early the next morning to make his personal enquiries .
this was so material an amendment of his late expectations that it greatly contributed to smooth the descent of his
" i could have said , " not much , indeed !
“my dearest emma , ” said he , “for dearest you will always be , whatever the event of this
i should have thought it a gross violation of duty and respect .
” “the nicest—by which i suppose you mean the neatest .
i shall have enough of portsmouth and of dancing too , when i cannot have you .
in a few minutes the carriage returned .
the woman whose smiles had been so wholly at his command : he must exert himself to subdue so proud
with genuine satisfaction on the more than possibility of the two young friends finding their natural consolation in each other
” if mr .
not got three yards from the door , when he came after me , only to say , if i
these were some of the thoughts which occupied anne , while her fingers were mechanically at work , proceeding for
” miss bates looked about her , so happily— !
" " what magnificent orders would travel from this family to london , " said edward , " in such
john knightley returning from the daily visit to donwell , with his two eldest boys , whose healthy , glowing
conclusion which as instantly followed was , that , however mysteriously they might wish to conduct the affair , they
” a stare or two at fanny , as william helped her out of the carriage , was all the
” he had time only to say , “no , not at randalls ; i have not been near randalls
when i did like him , when i was very much disposed to be attached to him—nay , was attached—and
it must have been from attachment only , that she could be led to form the engagement .
she had begun to think he really loved her , and to fancy his affection for her something more than
chapter _num_ “mrs .
, every posture , she perceived that she had acted most weakly ; that she had been imposed on by
had been this morning engaged , and which had ended very much to his dissatisfaction , from our not rightly
to be a second time disappointed in the same way was an instance of very severe ill-luck ; and his
constitution of the weston prevail so decidedly against the habits of the churchills .
henry crawford was gone , gone from the house , and within two hours afterwards from the parish ; and
it was too early in the morning for visitors , and besides , the equipage did not answer to that
' t think of my health .
he talked with fluency and spirit—and there was an archness and pleasantry in his manner which interested , though it
jennings and charlotte .
, in return , it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as
not play at all amiss if she practised more , and could have the advantage of a london master .
his manners , however , must have been unmarked , wavering , dubious , or she could not have been
share .
to see her again .
" " i think you will like him , " said elinor , " when you know more of him
its character as a ball-room caught him ; and instead of passing on , he stopt for several minutes at
of his former way of life nothing had been known in hertfordshire but what he told himself .
crawford ' s change of manners .
“well , ” said miss crawford , “and do you not scold us for our imprudence ?
elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her .
in the meanwhile , she resolved against seeing harriet .
colonel wallis had known mr elliot long , had been well acquainted also with his wife , had perfectly understood
played country dances to them by the hour together ; a kindness which always recommended her musical powers to the
had both the children been there , the affair might have been determined too easily by measuring them at once
with him again , put it out of her power to dance with others .
norris , having fidgeted about , and obtained a few pheasants ' eggs and a cream cheese from the housekeeper
excellent reason for what she did , for mr .
grant and miss crawford , in a very handsome style , with all the heightenings of imagination , and all
“how perfectly i remember my resolving to look for you upstairs , and setting off to find my way to
house , and should incommode them no longer than till every thing were[ _num_ ] ready for her inhabiting it
third the remains of some instrument of torture ; but there being nothing in all this out of the common
this hereafter .
their performance would , indeed , have such nature and feeling in it as must ensure their credit , and
” emma was extremely confused .
bennet luckily stood in such awe of her intended son-in-law that she ventured not to speak to him , unless
" and she answered the question , smiling also , " yes .
are not you curious to hear how it was managed ?
depended on .
, his sensible eye ; but , at the same time , " must lament his being very much under-hung
” “how unfortunate that you should have used such very strong expressions in speaking of wickham to mr .
chapter xliii it was presumed that mr .
no children to supply .
could it be possible , or did not her senses play her false ?
so well had they recommended themselves to lady middleton , so agreeable had their assiduities made them to her ,
” and embracing her very affectionately , “good , gentle fanny !
he was quite as undaunted and as lively as ever ; and , after seeing him , emma thus moralised
he is half way to windsor by this time .
" what poor mrs .
but the resolution was made only to be broken .
from the thorpes she could learn nothing , for they had been only two days in bath before they met
of doubting what she ought to do in such a case .
now rendering himself agreeable ; but elizabeth , less clear-sighted perhaps in this case than in charlotte’s , did not
well , married we were , and came down to combe magna to be happy , and afterwards returned to
“and why ?
it entertains me more than many other things have done ; but then i am unlike other people , i
chapter xxxiii after some opposition , marianne yielded to her sister ' s entreaties , and consented to go out
, “i am come , young ladies , in a very moralizing strain , to observe that our pleasures in
came first , and the usual declaration that if she would listen to him for a few minutes , he
but this good old mr .
i am sure john and i should not have minded it .
the visitor did at last appear ; but the shortness of her stay , and yet more , the alteration
i recovered myself however in a few moments and looking at her with all the affection i could , “my
you refuse to obey the claims of duty , honour , and gratitude .
in some points of interest they were exactly opposed to each other .
willoughby , your own letter ; have you any thing to say about that ?
you in his life !
here is about nothing : i am quite ashamed of you , fanny , to make such a difficulty of
hear me in silence .
" " no , he is not so unworthy as you believe him .
allen ' s side , of having once left her clogs behind her at an inn , and that fortunately
suppose the truth of it possible , i instantly resolved on setting off for this place , that i might
prudent to avoid speech .
he comes down on thursday at the latest , very likely on wednesday .
” emma scarcely heard what was said .
had been tolerably encouraging , he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of wednesday .
—how , in what manner ?
there is such a quiet simplicity in the plan of the walk !
chapter xxiv henry crawford had quite made up his mind by the next morning to give another fortnight to mansfield
there was so much attachment to captain wentworth in all this , and such a bewitching charm in a degree
attention was so earnest that he became perfectly satisfied of her having a great deal of natural taste .
and his own will to consult , made it perfectly clear that he did not care about her ; and
the passions of another .
what have you been judging from ?
edmund , miss crawford , and herself , without interruption from any one .
weston had scarcely finished his explanation of frank ' s being a day before his time , and her father
support !
assure you there was very little for me or for any body to do .
chapter _num_ on saturday morning elizabeth and mr .
" " we are assured of it .
“there is so pointed , and so particular a meaning in this compliment , ” said she , “that i
as to lose no ground with either , and just stopping short of the consistence , the steadiness , the
' said she ; ' my dear ferrars , do tell me how it is to be managed .
; and captain wentworth proposed , and charles musgrove agreed , that it would be much better for him to
given ; but as it was not quite enough for catherine ' s comprehension , she spoke her astonishment in
, and miss bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible , the former continued the subject , by saying
chapter _num_ the next morning brought the following very unexpected letter from isabella : bath , april my dearest catherine
was not she like a daughter , his eldest daughter ?
think the confinement of portsmouth unfavourable to .
, but real , though unavailing concern .
" marianne ' s lips quivered , and she repeated the word " selfish ?
my isabel (continued i throwing myself across lady dorothea into her arms) receive once more to your bosom the unfortunate
happily for him , a love of the theatre is so general , an itch for acting so strong among
his !
are you in any doubt as to that ?
harriet unfolded the parcel , and she looked on with impatience .
" cried elinor , " what do you mean ?
a more respectable , though less economical rendezvous being accordingly substituted , everything was considered as settled , and the
all were struck with the stranger’s air , all wondered who he could be ; and kitty and lydia ,
; and so i took mine out and cut him a piece ; but it was a great deal too
her curiosity , however , was unexpectedly relieved .
allen of her gowns .
to attend mrs .
are not you going to tell me so ?
first , and saying : “i am astonished at his intimacy with mr .
it is now three years ago (she had just reached her fourteenth year , ) that i removed her from
” “well , and that is as early as most men can afford to marry , who are not born
how anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one’s own daughters , i cannot understand ;
her father ' s feelings were quite distinct .
rushworth was returned with his head full of the subject , and very eager to be improving his own place
, and the certainty of continuing to see william to the last hour of his remaining on land .
bingley , and takes a prodigious deal of care of him .
radcliffe ' s works , and charming even as were the works of all her imitators , it was not
they was stopping in a chaise at the door of the new london inn , as i went there with
, changed into an earnest longing to be in bed ; such was the extreme point of her distress ;
taking her first lesson , i presume , in love .
one or two very poor families in this neighbourhood .
in short there is scarcely a crime that i have not committed—but i am now going to reform .
fanny , kissing her affectionately , and observing with decided pleasure how much she was grown !
” “oh dear , no , ma ' am , nobody suspected you !
on that subject poor miss bates was very unhappy , and very communicative ; jane would hardly eat any thing
and headache , there is not much the matter with me .
she recognised the whole of lucy in the message , and was very confident that edward would[ _num_ ] never
not even the best education can overcome .
of your acceptance , or that the establishment i can offer would be any other than highly desirable .
jennings was summoned to her chaise to take comfort in the gossip of her maid for the loss of her
he persisted in having loved none but her .
they might return to mansfield when they chose ; travelling could be no difficulty to them , and she could
" one morning , very soon after the dinner at the musgroves , at which anne had not been present
” so long divided and so differently situated , the ties of blood were little more than nothing .
, and as i think it may afford my readers some amusement to find it out , i shall here
perry ?
” “pray , my dear aunt , what is the difference in matrimonial affairs , between the mercenary and the
in town i believe he chiefly lived , but his studying the law was a mere pretence , and being
—well , this is brilliant !
” “i care neither what they say nor what they feel .
for certainly you have been one of the most fortunate young[ _num_ ] women in the world , as it
however , i recollected afterwards that if he had been prevented going , the wedding need not be put off
we cannot give any body the disagreeable hints that we may have been very full of the hour before .
he is !
i flatter myself at least that you will be able to do so .
but think that for me , for my feelings , she would—hers are faults of principle , fanny ; of
" i think , elinor , " she presently added , " we must employ edward to take care of
jennings , but he is old enough to be my father ; and if he were ever animated enough to
i cannot help suspecting him .
if it failed to produce equal exertion , it could not be an equal conviction .
i never saw lucy in such a rage in my life .
the extreme sweetness of her temper must hurt his .
was withheld , and determined him to have the glory , as well as the felicity , of forcing her
“it is my duty , and i am sure it is my wish , ” she continued , “to have
with mr elliot ' s real character .
shrubbery for hours together .
i think not .
the dear creature , cried i , how passionately he loves me !
how glad i am that i am not amongst them !
she knew not that she had any right to be surprised , but there was a something in this mode
apologise for it , as well as to assure you of my readiness to make them every possible amends—but of
her thoughts ; and the various recollections connected with him gave her a moment’s distress ; but exerting herself vigorously
with no expectation of pleasure , but with the strongest curiosity , elizabeth opened the letter , and , to
emma could not bear to give him pain .
it soon afterwards , and taking a station , with less bare-faced design , by anne .
your aunt cannot be aware of this .
in tolerable order by more cake than is good for them .
the two girls had been whispering to each other during the whole visit , and the result of it was
” the gentlemen came ; and she thought he looked as if he would have answered her hopes ; but
" she could say no more ; her spirits were quite overcome , and hiding her face on elinor '
i must speak to you for a few minutes , but i will not detain you long .
myself moreover convinced that the general ' s unjust interference , so far from being really injurious to their felicity
at netherfield as he ought to be .
he had to reinstate himself in all the wonted concerns of his mansfield life : to see his steward and
and there must be your approach , through what is at present the garden .
say when mr .
what should have been her own ; but , in mrs .
all this .
the aunt and niece seemed both escaping into the adjoining room .
rushworth , edmund almost immediately took the opportunity of saying , “i cannot , before mr .
she wondered , and questioned him eagerly ; but in vain .
to behave to her guest with such superciliousness !
i always heard he was a most excellent man ; and you know , my dear , we are not
comfort ; —no , i must not say comfort—not present comfort—but conviction , lasting conviction to your sister ' s
might be in such a state as a little time , a little pressing , a little patience , and
my dear , it is not like hartfield .
did not wish to have been a party concerned , or would have hesitated to try their skill .
of preparation were enjoyments in themselves .
she could undertake therefore to inform him of it , in the course of the day .
and a disposition to converse and be cheerful beyond her expectation .
being coherent .
bertram , is to marry early ; but at present , as far as i can judge , matrimony makes
with those she loved best , even after an absence such as hers—an eleven weeks ' absence .
i am sure it is not in woman ' s nature to refuse such a triumph .
i had almost forgot to give you my opinion of mr .
happier conclusion than there was at present reason to hope , and leaving his compliments for her relations , with
and embarrassed .
—had not miss morland already seen all that could be worth her notice ?
, like all other qualities of the mind , it should have its proportions and limits .
we are going to lord longtown ' s , near hereford , for a fortnight .
profit , for they talked in phrases which conveyed scarcely any idea to her .
knew you , i had no idea that i should ever love you as i now do ; and i
but to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible ; or at least it was impossible not to
that every woman ' s eye was upon him ; every woman ' s eye was sure to be upon
papa , do you not think it an excellent improvement ?
perhaps he has not observed you yet .
sotherton court is the noblest old place in the world .
they had been instructed theoretically in their religion , but never required to bring it into daily practice .
where people wish to attach , they should always be ignorant .
presence was wanted ; she was sought for , and attended , and praised ; and fanny was at first
" and drawing him a little aside , she whispered her persuasion that lucy could not stay much longer .
this point .
she dared not relate the other half of mr .
she was obliged to go the next morning for an hour or two to mrs .
is not likely , can i suppose her so lost to everything ?
the east room , as it had been called ever since maria bertram was sixteen , was now considered fanny
his friend had left him that morning for london , but was to return home in ten days time .
doors that were neither opened nor explained to her—by finding herself successively in a billiard-room , and in the general
or is it that our feelings become more acute from being often wounded ?
convinced her , on examination , that she did not consider it entirely hopeless .
weeks , she was unable to give the full invitation she wished , and anne though dreading the possible heats
i shall then give over every expectation , every wish of his constancy .
” “by heavens , if they do not , i will kick them out of the room for blockheads .
sister happy .
had i been in love , i could not have been more wretchedly blind !
she thought of her father , of lady russell .
that he must be a very strange man , ” grew enough for all their indignation and wonder ; though
have been expected , and for his sake been more near doing right .
its bitterness , and bestowed such very disrespectful reflections on the pride of sir thomas as mrs .
therefore to weaken .
" " indeed , i can easily believe that it was a very great relief to you , to acknowledge
the streets to be , however disagreeable , yet too rapid ; for who would be glad to see her
you have gained a new source of enjoyment , and it is well to have as many holds upon happiness
would not come , for a courage which the outside of no door had ever supplied to her , she
her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined .
years old , who expected a brother or sister in every carriage .
town and country must certainly be considerable ; but your income is a large one .
” the next question was— “what sort of looking man is mr .
in having no other resemblance to a child , than in a total want of taste for what he saw
pointed attention he was now included in the objects most intimately connected with mansfield .
she wished she might be able to keep him from an absolute declaration .
she is .
but now , sincerely , do not you find the place altogether worse than you expected ?
want change .
she left london a few hours before we entered it .
she hoped not to be driven from it entirely , even when winter came .
knightley had a cheerful manner , which always did him good ; and his many inquiries after “poor isabella” and
the matter itself i could not deny , and vain was every endeavour to soften it .
had never done anything to entitle himself to more than the abbreviation of his name , living or dead .
very much , i am sure i have not an idea of any body else who would be at all
to mark him the most at home of the two .
fun to be single again .
enough , at a time when the expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another , to supply the
the former was on the barouche-box in a moment , the latter took her seat within , in gloom and
you are very fond of bending little minds ; but where little minds belong to rich people in authority ,
frank churchill still declined it , looking as serious as he could , and his father gave his hearty support
allen , for after only a moment ' s consideration , she said , in a whisper to catherine ,
you have already ascertained mr .
but i knew i should persuade you at last .
mother ' s entrance , asked her , with sudden alacrity , if mr .
my uncle and aunt and i were to go together ; and the others were to meet us at the
you are a gentleman’s daughter .
” “to the concert ?
perform what i look on as a point of duty .
luckily there is no distinction of dress nowadays to tell tales , but—but—but yours affectionately .
george austen , this work is inscribed with all due respect by the author .
the next morning , as she was going downstairs , she was met by her father , who came out
so short might be hoped to pass away in unsullied cordiality .
the wonderful story of jane fairfax , that was quite sunk and lost .
it was not merely complaisance , it must be a liking to the cause , which made him enter warmly
he was wishing to get the better of his attachment to herself , she just recovering from her mania for
; but if it be as new in common life , the credit of a wild imagination will at least
more than an error of fancy on my side , and that it has done no harm to anyone but
“i have very little to say for my own conduct .
of it would be that betsey would spoil it , and get it for her own , though mama had
” (said my father .
to be sure it was pitiable enough ; but upon my soul , i believe he has as good a
she regained the street—happy in this , that though much had been forced on her against her will , though
hardly could i believe the melancholy and sickly figure before me , to be the remains of the lovely ,
“yours sincerely , etc .
and it is so cheerful a place , that it could not fail of being of use to mr .
drew her eyes to the window , and she saw a large party walking up to the door .
” what could i do ?
was in preparation , and wished rebecca would mend it ; and fanny was first roused by his calling out
i know how much your heart is in it .
” miss crawford was not slow to admire ; she pretty well guessed miss bertram ' s feelings , and
—well (checking herself , and trying to be more lively) , this is all to be forgotten .
charles into driving her over on an early day , and was in a very animated , comfortable state of
in order to understand the particulars , and to assure himself of her real wishes .
, so many best characters required , and , above all , such a need that the play should be
proposed to arrange every body ' s destiny .
usual style of the grants , and too much according to the usual habits of all to raise any emotion
but not one of these grave reflections troubled the tranquillity of catherine .
this must be the very shop that every body attends every day of their lives , as my father informs
in the other part of the house , had proceeded some way when the door of the room was thrown
netherfield , ‘she a beauty !
wherever you are you should always be contented , but especially at home , because there you must spend the
she saw all the glories of the camp—its tents stretched forth in beauteous uniformity of lines , crowded with the
the whole story .
emma ' s project of forgetting mr .
, and her caro sposo , and her resources , and all her airs of pert pretension and underbred finery
compliments she was receiving on her voice and her taste , to look about , and see what became of
you taught me a lesson , hard indeed at first , but most advantageous .
that every thing had been expressly softened at the time , to spare her from an increase of unhappiness ,
catherine , in deep mortification , proceeded on her way .
” “and i am quite convinced that your being with mrs .
very agreeable to their sister-in-law , who had preceded them to the house of her acquaintance , and was there
jennings ' s notice entirely to herself .
, but perhaps you may not dislike looking at it .
from a gentleman who knew her perfectly well , which , if true , must raise abhorrence against her ,
i should like to spend my whole life in reading it .
“on the very day of my coming home from longbourn , your uncle had a most unexpected visitor .
—poor knightley !
your fears i am sorry to say , concerning your father ' s extravagance , your own fortunes , your
let them triumph over us at a distance , and be satisfied .
leaving the family to themselves , proposed mr .
inquiry of “well , my dears , how does your book go on ?
their luxury and ease .
; and dwelt a good deal upon his being so very good-humoured and obliging .
knightley could not impute to emma a more relenting heart than she possessed , or a heart more disposed to
ferrars , and neither she nor your brother or sister suspected a word of the matter : till this very
; and after having acted it all over england , and wales , we came to scotland to exhibit it
, and as if i attended to the letter and not the spirit of mamma ' s commands .
moment , suspended it all .
grant should think of asking her ?
” “aye , i knew he was in some such low way—he broke did not he ?
so rapid had been her movements that in spite of the tilneys ' advantage in the outset , they were
fraser in consequence of his situation with you .
—do not you remember , mrs .
i have been a disappointed man , and my spirits will not bear solitude .
take orders without a living !
in edward ' s farewell there was no distinction between elinor and me : it was the good wishes of
—and i am afraid very natural for you to feel that it was done in a disagreeable manner .
her fearful curiosity was every moment growing greater ; and seizing , with trembling hands , the hasp of the
it was an easy step to silence .
thorpe said she was sure you would not have the least objection to letting in this young lady by you
was , to a party given by his sister ; and to see him for the first time , after
their party was now farther reduced ; for mr .
this i am certain is philander the son of my laurina ' s _num_ d girl the amiable bertha ;
i only smirked and bowed , and said the word ' happy .
crawford who had procured william ' s promotion !
criminal towards mrs .
the higher his deserts , the more improper for me ever to have thought of him .
" mrs clay , who had been present while all this passed , now thought it advisable to leave the
if it were not allowable for him to gain my affections because i had no money , what occasion could
anne had never entered kellynch since her quitting lady russell ' s house in september .
" " how unlucky that is !
i have forty-two to learn .
, with all necessary allowance for the shortness of the notice , to collect young people enough to form twelve
eye you could never alter .
you are thinking of your sons—but do not you know that , of all things upon earth , that is
at length there was nothing more to be said ; the ladies drove on , and the others returned into
i was hers in honour if she wished it .
” “laugh as much as you choose , but you will not laugh me out of my opinion .
he is the curate of the parish i dare say .
i do not know any better qualifications for a friend and companion .
, nobody sat still , and nobody could command attention when they spoke .
well , and so just as the carriage came to the door , my uncle was called away upon business
” wickham’s alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated look ; for a few minutes he was silent
was from an admiral croft , with whom he shortly afterwards fell into company in attending the quarter sessions at
she could not but think , indeed , that mr .
he wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration should now escape him , nothing that could
he had , to be sure , done much .
punishment to me to stand up with .
and , on the point of living at hartfield , could daringly exclaim , “rather he than i !
it was very vexatious , and she was heartily sorry for it ; but so it was ; and so
quite cool—and , with good manners , like himself—able to draw a chair close to them , take an interest
but mrs musgrove , who got anne near her on purpose to thank her most cordially , again and again
except what are merely personal ; that he is well-grown and good-looking , with smooth , plausible manners .
pride and self revenge could give .
three years ago , this was nothing but a rough hedgerow along the upper side of the field , never
the evening wore away with no abatement of this soothing politeness ; and her spirits were gradually raised to a
to be about as unhappy as most other married people .
" cried the admiral , " what stuff these young fellows talk !
i could better bear to lose her because not rich enough , than because of my profession .
perry recommended nourishing food ; but every thing they could command (and never had any body such good neighbours) was
we must all feel for him ; and the more so , because it is totally out of our power
charm of youth !
i thought miss elizabeth bennet looked remarkably well when she came into the room this morning .
this specimen , written in haste as it was , had not a fault ; and there was a felicity
i will send you some more , before they get good for nothing .
ferrars , and edward ' s immediately walking in .
till i can forget his father , i can never defy or expose him .
” “my dear tom , ” cried his aunt soon afterwards , “as you are not dancing , i dare
woodhouse , rather warmly , “you are very much mistaken if you suppose mr .
she was as strong as ever .
you are what you always were !
it was not such a home , she had not such a welcome , as—she checked herself ; she was
her mother ' s approbation .
if you should have no objection to receive me into your house , i propose myself the satisfaction of waiting
elton and the martins .
” added elizabeth ; “safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune .
fanny , it goes against us .
his conduct .
she did so , that she should in future practice much .
) “he has been here this very morning , on a most extraordinary errand .
i avoided the middletons as much as possible , as well as everybody else who was likely to prove an
seemed always at hand when least wanted) , much worse !
the possibility of the young man ' s coming to mrs .
i am sure he has been very ill .
" repeated anne , looking up surprised .
great deal of most characteristic proceeding .
the bosom of my readers , who will see in the tell-tale compression of the pages before them , that
that .
might probably be as much to blame as himself , should not deprive you of your brother .
they seemed deep in talk .
keep herself long ago .
i have no idea of being so overstrained !
but as to the rest , as to the others , if one stays to assist mrs harville , i
" oh , my love , " cried mrs .
senses by such a brutal noise !
and opened the door .
they might in fact , have borne down a great deal more than they met with , for there was
it would have been such a great pity to have went away before your[ _num_ ] brother and sister came
knightley is so very fine a man !
her by the most endearing names .
i wish you would try to understand what an amiable young man may be likely to feel in directly opposing
at last , however , the order of release was given ; and much was catherine then surprised by the
” “she meant to be impertinently curious , just as such an anne cox should be .
and as it is some months since miss campbell married , the impression may be a little worn off .
without a governess , you must have been neglected .
conceive what the events of a week have done in that family !
the day which brought her to churchhill .
as this was a favourite meal with mrs .
wickham , his cruelty towards whom he had not attempted to deny , soon overcame the pity which the consideration
speak the awfulness of her situation .
—well—to be sure .
you have made yourself too clear .
their things , and sending them presents of fish and game , and so forth , whenever they are in
' s having spoken of him so favourably in the beginning of their conversation .
slept ; and the probability that mrs .
, led the way to a seat .
darcy and their niece directed their observation towards each with an earnest though guarded inquiry ; and they soon drew
to be teaching myself to like him only because he was taking what seemed very idle notice of me .
know nobody of whose judgment i think so highly as i do of yours ; and i do really believe
knowing all the ways of the family , interested in all its concerns , and peculiarly interested in herself ,
source .
i think we do want a larger council .
do the children grow ?
into the country .
i cannot think so very ill of wickham .
was hoped .
edmund ' s friendship never failed her : his leaving eton for oxford made no change in his kind dispositions
she was feeling too much ; but at last emma collected from her enough to understand the sort of meeting
an evening asunder ; but she believed they should not have done so well without the sight of mr and
miss price is not out .
charlotte is very pretty , i can tell you .
, when they were in town : he had seen or conjectured his feelings ; and , having reason to
norris was left to settle the matter by herself ; and it ended , to the infinite joy of her
he had been in the mediterranean ; in the west indies ; in the mediterranean again ; had been often
it was the detection , not the offence , which she reprobated .
concert closed .
” an arch look expressed—“i understand you well enough ; ” but she said only , “miss fairfax is reserved
she must have mixed (a very bad set , i doubt not) , or have been left in total solitude
he was entangled by his own vanity , with as little excuse of love as possible , and without the
the meaning as i can give ; for i do not pretend to understand the language .
what was their reward for such disinterested behaviour !
working on others ; —represented it , therefore , as a measure which would fix the time of her returning
draw me out , in worse weather than to-day .
let me take it in the best light , in the light in which it may be understood .
” “dear lady scudamore cried i , this is more than i ever knew !
if she felt such confidence in my good intentions , and could suppose it to be only a mistake ,
and what do you say , ma ' am , to the chance of another match ?
or feared it most , she could scarcely determine .
when it came to the moment of parting , he would take her hand , he would not be denied
after leaving him to his happier thoughts for some minutes , fanny , feeling it due to herself , returned
” “harriet may not consider every body tiresome that you would .
dixon does not seem in the least backward in any attention .
they would accompany them to their door , and then return and set off themselves .
bennet indeed said little ; but the ladies were ready enough to talk , and mr .
” catherine followed her orders and turned away , but not too soon to hear her friend exclaim aloud to
on the subject of beauty than they are generally supposed ; till they do fall in love with well-informed minds
high hills rose immediately behind , and at no great distance on each side ; some of which were open
forster , and kitty and me , except my aunt , for we were forced to borrow one of her
miss bertrams , mr .
wickham is the son of a very respectable man , who had for many years the management of all the
” catherine recollected herself , blushed deeply , and could say no more .
' —which my mother , being on the watch , heard distinctly , and was sadly alarmed at .
she could not be too soon alarmed , nor send for perry too often .
for marianne , however , in spite of his incivility in surviving her loss , he always retained that decided
too full of the wonder of his own going , and the pleasure it was to afford at randalls to
this does not apply , however , to miss bates ; she is only too good natured and too silly
”—opening a volume on the table and then taking up some others .
” “it is a most repulsive quality , indeed , ” said he .
if , however , i am allowed to think that you and yours feel an interest in my fate and
mine is a misery which nothing can do away .
chapter _num_ the day passed much as the day before had done .
” “i should like it beyond anything !
but mama kept it from her , and was always letting betsey get hold of it ; and the end
generosity and fortitude , that one hears of .
folios in the collection , but really talking to mr .
did not like to think of ; and that part of the arrangement was , indeed , the hardest for
—her mind was divided between two ideas—her own former conversations with him about miss fairfax ; and poor harriet ;
he was excessively glad to find that he had taken himself out of the way .
, and lamentations on the cruelty of his fate .
" as she spoke , she felt that captain wentworth was looking at her , the consciousness of which vexed
” “whom are you going to dance with ?
my dear , ' said i—well , and just then came the note .
” “let me write for you , ” said jane , “if you dislike the trouble yourself .
and almost every new bonnet in the room .
" he got up and moved away .
poverty is exactly what i have determined against .
a clean gown is not five minutes ' wear in them .
be free from them there ; his civility , therefore , was most prompt in inviting mr .
every thing that is charming !
—i do not know but that the place agrees with her tolerably .
his own two thousand pounds she protested should be his all ; she would never see him again ; and
morland , you are not to listen .
sincerity could add , that she firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts .
” when harriet had closed her evidence , she appealed to her dear miss woodhouse , to say whether she
of sisterly consolation .
after clearing his throat , however , he proceeded thus-- " i confess that i do think there is a
” “it is not worth while , harriet , to give mrs .
and what sort of table do they keep ?
i persuaded myself to think that nothing else in common prudence remained for me to do .
to their hopes , they were still perfectly unsuspicious of there being any deeper evil .
was soon in a fair train .
, to dance a little with edmund , and not a great deal with mr .
charles , i declare it will be too abominable if you do , when you promised to go .
never have come into her head , and you may be very certain that , if your cousin julia had
” “you had no loss , i assure you ; it is the horridest nonsense you can imagine ; there
but , to be sure , lucy would not give ear to such kind of talking ; so she told
knightley cannot stop .
before henry ' s return , who was expected on the morrow , there was no time to be lost
" said elinor , reproachfully ; " a note would have answered every purpose .
turning to her husband , “cook insists upon the turkey ' s being dressed to-morrow .
i will give you my authority : his friend colonel wallis .
and yet some of the plate would have been a very pleasant addition to our own stock here .
only who can make it a torment .
and doors against the winter storms to be expected .
and without selfishness , without encouraging a hope !
do not forget me when you are married , that ' s all .
some way below her , and , on the other , retailing them all to the younger lucases ; and
should be very glad to have you go ; but it seems rather hard that she should be left at
a few days longer , or some days longer ; i am not quite sure which .
what do i not owe you !
it was now proved that he belonged to the same inn as themselves ; and this second meeting , short
how unworthily occupied !
john dashwood .
and raised , about a foot from the ground , on a carved stand of the same .
we must expect him to keep it or quit it on the same principle .
to persuade her brother to settle with her at his own country house , that she could resolve to hazard
their fates , their fortunes , cannot be the same ; and had the natural sweet disposition of the one
and some of the others were attending mrs .
campbells .
reason to think her object gained ; for , on elinor ' s moving to the window to take more
the worst of it is that its weight makes it difficult to open .
two months must bring it to the proof .
some time wished for , when our acquaintance with you , the intimacy which followed it and the particular affectionate
he is , indeed .
but as such were fanny ' s persuasions , she suffered very much from them , and could never speak
there could be no doubt of his being a sensible man .
i only wish i were more worthy of him .
jennings , with all her natural hilarity , burst forth again .
declared , that he would still love , and still hope !
— imagine what we have been feeling on your account .
for edmund ' s disapprobation was felt even by his brother , though he would not have owned it .
having thus arranged our expences for two months (for we expected to make the nine hundred pounds last as long)
cottage at barton entirely useless , for her mother and sisters spent much more than half their time with her
in harness ; that makes it exactly twenty-five .
knightley , he is not a trifling , silly young man .
miss crawford ' s enjoyment of riding was such that she did not know how to leave off .
one day last spring , in town , i was in company with two men , striking instances of what
” “but i am afraid , mr .
his happiness in such an alliance .
agree with his description of her adventures , she should never have felt the smallest curiosity about it .
can witness how often i have protested against wearing rouge , and how much i always told you i disliked
” catherine submitted , and though sorry to think that isabella should be doing wrong , felt greatly relieved by
to feel herself slighted by them was very painful .
—you banished to abbey-mill farm !
in conversing together .
lucy , with a demure and settled air , seemed determined to make no contribution to the comfort of the
leave frederica , therefore , to punish herself for the plague she has given you , by indulging that romantic
i shut my eyes , and would not understand you , or do you justice .
might venture ; but however i hope you will do me the justice of believing that i do not mean
“i blush for you , tom , ” said he , in his most dignified manner ; “i blush for
it was not absolutely ebony and gold ; but it was japan , black and yellow japan of the handsomest
it would be a great comfort to mr .
and more cheerfulness of spirits than she could have hoped for after so stormy a morning ; but she trusted
it is impossible .
rushworth proposed that the chaise should be taken also ; but this was scarcely received as an amendment : the
them , without giving oneself time to deliberate and judge .
perry said , so many years ago , when i had the measles ?
my feelings will be spared , as you my dear madam will easily believe .
jennings had to say upon the subject , with an unchanging complexion , dissented from her in nothing , and
” “a material difference then , ” she replied—“and no doubt you were much my superior in judgment at that
of channel , down the centre .
” “emma !
were the gentleman and lady who accompanied him .
directed towards him .
, and she , by the sudden whirling round of something or other among the sails , would have been
marianne continued to mend every day , and the brilliant cheerfulness of mrs .
indeed i do you justice , my good friend .
eleanors and mrs .
john knightley .
that arch eye of yours !
she thought nothing of his attachment , and was insulted by his hopes .
her completely .
through , and seemed on the point of doing the same by the first door to the left , in
rebecca ' s cookery and rebecca ' s waiting , and betsey ' s eating at table without restraint ,
she had the pleasure of seeing him most intently at work with his recollections ; and at the same time
i was confused—distressed—my thoughts were bewildered—and i could only add—“how do you do ?
darcy’s next step was to make your uncle acquainted with it , and he first called in gracechurch street the
dashwood .
the room to enforce , at her feet , by the eloquence of his eyes , the assurances of his
edmund might , in the common phrase , do the duty of thornton , that is , he might read
impossible !
but now we may be silent .
” he listened with all due deference ; acknowledged that he had heard many people say the same—but yet he
jennings had supposed her to do , made very light of , at least as far as regarded its size
she begged him to think again on the subject .
my dearest creature , i have been looking for you this hour .
darcy took up a book ; miss bingley did the same ; and mrs .
the word ' nicest , ' as you used it , did not suit him ; and you had better
so naturally to her influence over the hourly comfort of her aunt , as gradually to become , perhaps ,
of this cottage .
jennings joined them soon after they entered the gardens , and elinor was not sorry that by her continuing with
event .
lucy first put an end to it by saying in a lower tone , though marianne was then giving them
each other , is vastly moving .
to go , if they pressed me ever so much .
" cried marianne , with strong surprise .
were alone together , she said : “i saw you look at me to-day , lizzy , when my aunt
over the design and determined to engage ourselves to some strolling company of players , as we had always a
” “there is one subject , ” he replied , “i hope but one , on which we do not
indeed , i would not have gone on any account .
my daughter a regular detail of the misfortunes and adventures of your life , have you said “no , my
i am not afraid of your not being exceedingly comfortable with mrs .
his majesty died and was succeeded by his son henry whose only merit was his not being quite so bad
elinor found that he and fanny had been in town two days .
never did i see such an affecting scene as was the meeting of edward and augustus .
he was alone , and met her instantly ; and she found herself pressed to his heart with only these
if the children were rather pale before they went to bed , it was only because they were a little
” “i married , my sophia without the consent or knowledge of my father the late admiral annesley .
“elizabeth bennet , ” said miss bingley , when the door was closed on her , “is one of those
” fanny took the work very quietly , without attempting any defence ; but her kinder aunt bertram observed on
live for .
impressions , even where pains had been taken to please him ; who thought so slightly , so carelessly ,
described as arising on a first interview with its object , and even before two words have been exchanged ,
, it was brought forward again .
norris felt herself defrauded of an office on which she had always depended , whether his arrival or his death
himself , with the usual regular difficulty of deciding who should do it for him .
body in london must be because you are there .
tom , returning from them into the drawing-room , where edmund was standing thoughtfully by the fire , while lady
entire fortnight at his command , as well as the route and the method of his journey ; and she
they talked for a few minutes more ; the improvement held ; he even looked down towards the bench ,
”— “your word !
here was again a something of the same mr .
what is it , that you mean by it ?
knightley certainly had not done him justice .
word miserable , which served to introduce it , sir thomas began to think a little relenting , a little
additional softness , but it strikes me that his manners are softer than they used to be .
" her feelings made her speak low ; and captain wentworth , hearing only in part , and probably not
to convince you of this , i must inform you that she has a very fine complexion and very pretty
in the world .
” for the present the danger was over , and fanny ' s sick feelings subsided ; but when tea
” “break down !
she could not have a doubt of the manner in which mr .
and who knows what may happen ?
i have crossed the atlantic four times , and have been once to the east indies , and back again
it is with great regret that i obey your commands in returning the letters with which i have been honoured
else was attentive ; and even lady bertram could not hear of such horrors unmoved , or without sometimes lifting
a lady’s imagination is very rapid ; it jumps from admiration to love , from love to matrimony , in
her door made her start ; it seemed as if someone was touching the very doorway—and in another moment a
it to any place she had ever been at , and looked with great admiration at every neat house above
wickham and herself .
to this chapel ?
; i shall not even tell your aunt bertram .
, there was not a day without its engagement .
" then taking a small miniature from her pocket , she added , " to prevent the possibility of mistake
is something more .
the word " infection " to pass his lips , gave instant alarm to mrs .
they could , they returned to the breakfast table .
thing i had ever seen him before .
to regard you as the future mistress of kellynch , the future lady elliot , to look forward and see
often felt myself extremely satirical but it was the only time i ever made my feelings public .
introduction , though she could now see her with perfect indifference as to her opinion of herself , her desire
, the poor mare should be remembered .
can you spare me for an hour or two ?
—i wonder i should never hear you say how agreeable mrs .
and under such a supposition , which would have been most miserable , when time had disclosed all , too
she is always rather sickly .
knightley warmly , “miss fairfax is as capable as any of us of forming a just opinion of mrs .
there was such an interest , such an animation , such a spirit diffused .
my years and increasing infirmities make me very desirous of seeing you settled in the world .
to be more than it ought to be .
it was not very flattering to miss campbell ; but she really did not seem to feel it .
dixon ' s character , or her own value for his company , or opinion of the suitableness of the
she could act when occasion required it .
i prefer light eyes , and as to complexion—do you know—i like a sallow better than any other .
they had not long finished their breakfast before mrs .
well , i was persuaded there were two .
would they only have laughed at her about the doctor !
they will be delighted to come to-morrow evening .
been first informed of their arrival at his house , and he had himself said something very droll on hearing
fanny , being always a very courteous listener , and often the only listener at hand , came in for
and mechanically for every evening ' s engagement , though without expecting the smallest amusement from any , and very
ay , it is a fine thing to be young and handsome .
however disagreeable to her his going .
: that is a great charm .
grant , through an interest on which he had almost ceased to form hopes , succeeded to a stall in
but the day did not close so auspiciously as it began .
jennings from the probability of wishing to throw ridicule on his age .
whom the fullerton estate must devolve .
no inconsiderable emotion in mr .
; and did not know whether she should ever be able to part with them .
by our arrival their expenses were considerably encreased tho ' their means for supplying them were then nearly exhausted .
she would not have him be serious , and yet what could excuse the use of such words and offers
of any duration .
was not the very sight of the friend who sat behind you , was not the recollection of what had
with no material fault of temper , or difference of opinion , to prevent their being very good friends while
" but marianne seemed hardly to hear her , and on mrs .
when her two dances with him were over , her inclination and strength for more were pretty well at an
, and young men never know their minds two days together .
it should not be said that the miss bennets could not be at home half a day before they were
it does not signify talking .
she married philip king of spain who in her sister ' s reign was famous for building armadas .
—his majesty was of that amiable disposition which inclines to freindship , and in such points was possessed of a
i am going to-morrow where i shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality , who has neither
you must see the difference yourself .
her distress returned , however , on perceiving smiles and intelligent glances pass between two or three of the lady
, or from an excess of sensibility (for which we were always remarkable) i cannot now determine , but certain
the smallness of the rooms above and below , indeed , and the narrowness of the passage and staircase ,
; but as to its effect on the young lady , as he had improvidently placed himself exactly between them
collins did not walk to rosings , and not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to
” a short pause followed this speech , and mrs .
far it would be for the happiness of both that she should employ the power , which her fancy told
can i speak plainer ?
” fanny ' s eyes followed edmund , and her heart beat for him as she heard this speech ,
it is the garden of england , you know .
the moment they stopped , a trollopy-looking maidservant , seemingly in waiting for them at the door , stepped forward
“and there will be the two gilberts , young cox , my father , and myself , besides mr .
cole was saying the other day she wanted something from kingston .
her spirits wanted the solitude and silence which only numbers could give .
whom she had not seen for a week , she was soon able to make a voluntary transition to the
a week had not passed since miss hawkins ' s name was first mentioned in highbury , before she was
with all these circumstances to favour an attachment , and nothing to prevent it , am i wrong , my
they walked up stairs in to the drawing-room .
sir henry thought the duke not equal to frederick , but that was because sir henry wanted the part himself
, which seemed intended , in their erection , to give the appearance of an approach to the house ,
every comfort , and supported by every encouragement to do right , which their relative situations admitted ; but farther
the windows , to which she looked with peculiar dependence , from having heard the general talk of his preserving
another thousand in addition to her own settled upon her , and his commission purchased .
we had better leave the crofts to find their own level .
was then telling her) , though that consideration had certainly some weight , feeling as he did that , in
a higher character .
what willoughby had written , hurried away to their room , where , on opening the door , she saw
attachment which would have led either of them , if requisite , to do every thing for the good of
utmost politeness .
she says so little , that i can hardly suppose she is .
from what have i not escaped !
after had took any notice of me , and never looked at me in a pleasant way—you know what i
” “promised so faithfully !
; and she felt particularly hurt that a man so partial to her sister should perceive that she experienced nothing
by his father to change his mind , and try what his influence might do for his friend .
” “you must not blame my aunt .
father .
but miss frances married , in the common phrase , to disoblige her family , and by fixing on a
[ _num_ ] it was edward .
in a long strip of meadow land , where there was ample space for all , they were thus divided
here ' s what may tranquillise every care , and lift the heart to rapture !
for the curiosity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct questions on his return as required
soon capable of returning an affection as this seems to imply .
two young companions ; and colonel brandon immediately afterwards took his solitary way to delaford .
re-entrance of her elder cousin , on whom all her own hopes of a partner then depended .
“you are joking , lizzy .
continuing their pursuit .
more graceful for it , and with the happiest smile over his face , walked up directly to fanny ,
too polite to object for a moment to her wish of going away , and making over her cards to
emma ' s only surprize was that jane fairfax should accept those attentions and tolerate mrs .
fault with the arrangement of the furniture ; or detected the housemaid in negligence ; and if she accepted any
i shall never forget it .
have answered for her gliding about with quiet , light elegance , and in admirable time ; but , in
—he left them immediately afterwards—gone in a moment .
” cried miss bingley .
convenience , or allowing her even the appearance of choice as to the time or mode of her travelling ;
youth and her manners , she retained all the claims to reputation which her marriage had given her .
these were reflections that required some time to soften ; but time will do almost everything ; and though little
always for a constancy .
nothing is so delightful to one ' s sensations as to hear of equal misery .
but it will not .
favour .
—perry was a week at cromer once , and he holds it to be the best of all the sea-bathing
distinctly , captain wentworth walking down the street .
the affections of two men , who were neither of them at liberty to bestow them—and all this without the
away , i hope , by the terrors of my father ' s little rooms .
george ' s fields , the bank attacked , the tower threatened , the streets of london flowing with blood
gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again .
good horse when i meet with one ; but it would not answer my purpose , it would not do
' s establishment at norland , and who had since spent the greatest part of his time there .
be assured , my dear sir , that mrs .
she believed he had been drinking too much of mr .
jennings , leaning forward towards elinor , and speaking in a low voice as if she meant to be heard
but , crawford , though i refuse you as a tenant , come to me as a friend .
" " yes , and you may guess who it is for .
strong appearance of duplicity in all this .
though they had now been acquainted a month , she could not be satisfied that she really knew his character
you alone have brought me to bath .
in all this dirt !
one is my wealth !
has he been acting a part in his behaviour to your sister all this time ?
but i kept my eye on it ; and , as soon as i dared , caught it up ,
he pressed for the strictest forbearance and silence towards their niece ; she not only promised , but did observe
when their places were determined on , and they were all properly arranged , she looked round to see if
i know of no submission that is proper for me to make .
i am gratified by your reference , and this is my advice : that you come to town yourself ,
and i hope she is well .
but i think mr .
” edmund was too angry to speak ; but miss crawford , looking for a moment with astonished eyes at
tuesday , therefore , we may say is out of the question .
weston , while the dear girls walked about the gardens .
” “well , and if they were ten , ” cried mrs .
her spirits , to be pleased with the miss steeles , or to encourage their advances ; and to the
thank god !
one , in attributing to him such imaginations ; for though his marriage had not been very happy , still
allen , when he talks of being sick of it , that i am sure he should not complain ,
to any woman before ; that he loves you with all his heart , and will love you as nearly
he had found her agitated and low .
at such a moment to give way to gaiety , to speak with lightness , and to you !
smith ; and on this head i shall be no more disposed to question your judgment than to doubt your
his wishes have been answered .
— though lydia had never been a favourite with them , mr .
“i remember , when we first knew her in hertfordshire , how amazed we all were to find that she
" anne , " cried mary , still at her window , " there is mrs clay , i am
he had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem .
everybody has a way of their own .
” “nay , ” cried bingley , “this is too much , to remember at night all the foolish things
weston was looking so ill , and had an air of so much perturbation , that emma ' s uneasiness
no dishonour on our blood , which is of a most ancient and unpolluted kind .
excuse me , my dearest sister , for thus trespassing on your time , but i owe it to my
give with so much tender caution ; hardly knowing herself whether to rejoice or be angry , ashamed or only
the first half-hour was lost , for fanny and lady bertram were together , and unless she had fanny to
room , without being seen or missed .
i was merely joking .
have you never happened to see her there ?
” “an easy distance , do you call it ?
—he was more in love with her than emma had supposed ; and who can say how it might have
—her voice was lost ; and she sat down , waiting in great terror till harriet should answer .
” catherine ' s uncomfortable feelings began to lessen .
if she would only wear rouge she would not be afraid of being seen ; but last time i called
harville did not live to know it .
rushworth ' s day of good looks will come ; we have cards for her first party on the _num_
—to be always doing more than she wished , and less than she ought !
little henry must remain the heir of donwell .
i am not here , by my grandmama ' s .
though i think he had better not have married .
she had the advantage of him in the preparation of the last few moments .
she liked him too little to care for his approbation .
louisa in the hedge-row , behind her , as if making their way back along the rough , wild sort
comparison of what i should feel in thinking ill of him or his sisters .
the third day succeeding their knowledge of the particulars , was so fine , so beautiful a sunday as to
i never knew him myself ; i only heard of him ; but there was a something in his conduct
whichever mr .
he really pressed them , with some earnestness , to consider norland as their home ; and , as no
will not much mind it .
delayed by anything in his nature to urge ; and she hurried away , leaving him to the undivided consciousness
through without most injurious fatigue , had been a great deal , even to louisa , but had been almost
darcy may hug himself .
, “between the two dearest objects i have on earth .
civil .
but the feelings of her sister were instantly expressed .
rushworth being obliged to yield to lady bertram ' s staying at home , could only be sorry .
” “quite wrong , my dear aunt ; there is no likeness at all .
' s boats , and is going off to her at six , and hoped you would be here in
a corner of it , catching her eye as she lay , seemed to rise up in judgment against her
” and that a young woman in love always looks— “like patience on a monument “smiling at grief .
weston had set off to pay the visit in a good deal of agitation herself ; and in the first
i am glad of one thing , that he comes alone ; because we shall see the less of him
” “no , indeed , i did not .
as it was by poor dick ' s having been six months under his care , and mentioning him in
" cried lucy , who generally made an amendment to all her sister ' s assertions .
still , however , and during the length of another street , she entreated him to stop .
de bourgh on the ensuing sunday at church , and i need not say you will be delighted with her
to shake hands , if i would .
her father had most cruelly mortified her , by what he said of mr .
if we have been kind to her , she is now quite as necessary to us .
she distrusted the past , if not the present .
need of confusion ; for her brother saw her only as the supposed inmate of mansfield parsonage , and replied
i left you in this belief ; and yet , i was determined to see you again .
is all he wants .
having learnt enough , in the meanwhile , from her open-hearted brother , of what had passed between him and
was , i assure you , but very hot .
in the next room is a new instrument just come down for her—a present from my master ; she comes
i never mind going through anything , where a friend is concerned ; that is my disposition , and john
” “he is a happy man !
” “well , and what news does it bring—good or bad ?
but i do not like the corner into vicarage lane .
tea was as well flavoured from the clay of staffordshire , as from that of dresden or save .
delight , which , in her opinion , could alone be called taste .
—harriet rational , frank churchill not too much in love , and mr .
she hoped they might now become friends again .
allen did not care about the garden , and never went into it .
” while this was passing , the rest of the party being scattered about the chapel , julia called mr
she had a few tender reveries now and then , which he could sometimes take advantage of to look in
] her the option of continuing the engagement or not , when i was renounced by my mother , and
well , she went on to say that what remained now to be done was to bring about a marriage
these reflections were long indulged undisturbed by any address from her companion , who sat as deep in thought as
notice of by many persons .
, as well as by his evident admiration of her , of her former favourite george wickham ; and though
—she looked back ; she compared the two—compared them , as they had always stood in her estimation , from
two or three days .
she had not long to endure what arose from listening to language which his actions contradicted , or to bury
it might have been as well , perhaps , if you had been in my place , but you always
have borne the dread of lydia’s infamy somewhat better .
” cried harriet , colouring , and astonished .
serle understands boiling an egg better than any body .
few moments’ recollection , was not sorry for it .
knightley .
one ' s eyes must be somewhere , and you know what a foolish trick i have of fixing mine
imagine , willoughby , by your behaviour last night ?
and away she went , leaving me in a great passion with her as she always does .
should not have been .
the gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man , the ladies declared he was much handsomer
“i am by no means of the opinion , i assure you , ” said he , “that a ball
the events of this evening were not very remarkable .
there is nobody half so attentive and civil as you are .
marble , gilding , and carving , each handsome in its way .
, and once more in motion together .
" he was sitting in an attitude of deep meditation , and seemed not to hear her .
be so) to be punctual .
” “well , (replied my brother in a tone of vexation , and glancing an impertinent look at me) if
one word more .
mary , often a little unwell , and always thinking a great deal of her own complaints , and always
edmund bertram , i dare say , would take their chance .
the maids do their work very well , and i think we shall be able to send back some dozens
with all these circumstances , recollections and feelings , she could not hear that captain wentworth ' s sister was
—she promised wright a receipt , and never sent it .
have an opportunity of leaving her myself in my way to you .
dashwood as remaining there till she could accommodate herself with a house in the neighbourhood , his invitation was accepted
but there was much to be talked of in marrying her ; and the good-natured wishes for her well-doing which
” as he said this , each looked towards their mother .
me at mansfield .
he took the hint , and soon began with , “this seems a very comfortable house .
pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the inquiries which she very early received from mr .
ourselves , if there is one thing more than another my aversion , it is a patched-on bow .
i have brought my other son and daughter to see you .
precaution of bringing with her their eldest child , a fine little boy about six years old , by which
under this infatuating principle , counteracted by no real affection for her sister , it was impossible for her to
be behind the scenes .
“come miss woodhouse , miss otway , miss fairfax , what are you all doing ?
emma and persuasion , northanger abbey and mansfield park , are names far more in consonance with the quiet tone
some unfortunate quarrel had taken place between him and her sister .
do .
" no , no , some time or other , perhaps , but not now .
which seemed to her a difficulty quite impossible to be got over .
most worthy old friend ; and , as the completion of good fortune , had found these friends by no
when you told mrs .
fanny is the only one who has judged rightly throughout ; who has been consistent .
" " i can have no pleasure while i see you in this state .
yates ' s family and connexions were sufficiently known to him to render his introduction as the “particular friend ,
" " something so strange !
" " there is no knowing what they may expect , " said the lady , " but we are
what , all five out at once ?
very good spirits , and without having any such reason to give for her long absence , she felt a
might suggest a hint of what was practicable to marianne .
" elinor had some difficulty here to refrain from observing , that[ _num_ ] she thought fanny might have borne
, than the uniform of a lieutenant , who has been a lieutenant a year or two , and sees
time , and collect a few friends about me , and be happy .
“do you know anything of my cousin ' s captain ?
, was perhaps rather conducive to it , by improving their knowledge of each other , and adding strength to
here was a change , and here were claims which could not but operate !
an union of a different tendency , and precluding the possibility of the other , was soon to be formed
be borne .
miss price dripping with wet in the vestibule , was delightful .
darcy’s steward .
” this topic was discussed very happily , and others succeeded of similar moment , and passed away with similar
jennings ; " lord !
chapter xv this letter must make its way to emma ' s feelings .
” after a little reflection , he went on with a sort of desperate calmness .
when this information was given , and they had all taken their seats , mr .
" " it is not actually settled , but there is such a thing in agitation .
other her near relation ; the whole family , both families connected as they were by tie upon tie ;
while miss dashwood was only the daughter of a private gentleman with no more than three ; but when she
a little while ago , he was at weymouth .
" what are mrs .
you saw how hysterical i was yesterday .
you would not often meet with anything like it in oxford—and that may account for it .
more tired than usual , from their journey and the happiness of coming .
instead of finding herself improved in acquaintance with miss tilney , from the intercourse of the day , she seemed
that he does not mean to throw himself away .
her satisfaction in mr elliot outweighed all the plague of mrs clay .
but here you are in bath , and the object is to be established here with all the credit and
less public , assurance , from john to elinor , of the promptitude with which he should come to see
but it will not satisfy your friends to have you taking up with any thing that may offer , any
then , if you please , you shall send it all to mrs .
to entertain any design of alarming you ; and i have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough to
, almost their duties , that any thing gives way to it—and this must be the case with mr .
—he meant to walk with her , she found .
from the grand pianoforte , whenever it suited her , and unrestrained even by the presence of a harp ,
, harriet , that if a woman doubts as to whether she should accept a man or not , she
see mr .
from willoughby their expression was at first held back , by the embarrassment which the remembrance of his assistance created
” “this instant , dear and amiable edward .
they entered the woods , and bidding adieu to the river for a while , ascended some of the higher
“you may depend upon me , ” said she .
him , harriet had begun to be sensible of his talking to her much more than he had been used
” “it is very right that you should stand by your brother .
he had , in fact , though his sisters were now doing all they could for him , by calling
, and the concern of everybody , was well talked over .
well , sir , the time must come when you will be paid for all this , when you will
the rain on her friends ' account , and felt it very much on her own , before she was
weston must already be perfectly aware , it was not worth bringing forward again : —it could not be done
where is she ?
find such a woman as soon as you can , bring her to hunsford , and i will visit her
regard for a former servant[ _num_ ] of my own , who had since fallen into misfortune , carried me
and i do take leave , longing for a happy reunion , and trusting that when we meet again ,
even then , i was not such a fool as not to mean to be reconciled in time ; but
female excellence .
" i am sorry she is not well— " for marianne had left the room on their arrival .
—i am sure i should like any body fixed on by you .
will please to remember , that he is the eldest son ; whenever my uncle dies , he steps into
i do not know the play ; but , as maria says , if there is anything a little too
dear lizzy , only consider what he must have suffered .
whose peace would it not cut up for ever ?
the fairness of your friend was an open attraction ; her firmness , you know , could only be understood
on that head , therefore , i shall be uniformly silent ; and you may assure yourself that no ungenerous
i have many things to compass : i must punish frederica , and pretty severely too , for her application
“catherine would make a sad , heedless young housekeeper to be sure , ” was her mother ' s foreboding
that is too young to settle .
from the north and east by rising woods of oak .
burst from the roll on its falling to the ground , and flew back to enjoy the luxury of their
what can you now have heard to stagger your esteem for me ?
who could say when they might meet again ?
been engaged elsewhere .
“yes , ma’am , that he was indeed ; and his son will be just like him—just as affable to
to be quite made up—one should not be hesitating—it is a very serious thing .
i chuse to suppose that the assurance of my consent will be something ; so you may smile upon him
other colour , if he had not happened to say so .
feeling her separation from home , and suffering as a girl of fourteen , of strong sensibility and not high
weston , to whom and to highbury he seemed to take very cordially .
while poor mrs .
the fourth week would be turned , and perhaps it might seem an intrusion if she stayed much longer .
he certainly has imbibed .
—message to miss smith !
henry dashwood , the legal inheritor of the norland estate , and the person to whom he intended to bequeath
time , i should have been extremely sorry to leave london without seeing you and your sister ; especially as
for such arrangements as must precede the wedding .
we read , we work , we walk , and when fatigued with these employments releive our spirits , either
my dear cousin " (sitting down by her) , " you have a better right to be fastidious than almost
it was before tea—stay—no , it could not be before tea , because we were just going to cards—and yet
it would be impossible to fill it up .
ferrars was to have been written to about it in such a hurry , she could not immediately comprehend .
to-morrow , i shall fetch her from churchhill , and let maria mainwaring tremble for the consequence .
gardiner did , a question which she could not answer without confusion , said scarcely anything .
” thought emma .
a single man of large fortune ; four or five thousand a year .
attack as this , [ _num_ ] and , therefore , trying to smile , replied , " and have
she considered it all as nonsense , as mere trifling and gallantry , which meant only to deceive for the
as her eyes fell on him , his seemed to be withdrawn from her .
serious , and retiring manners , and a decided taste for reading , and sedentary pursuits .
by sir john , lest she should out with it all .
" was the reply , and with a look of surprise .
she acquits herself like a gentlewoman when we do see her , which , perhaps , we may have an
” “he finds the house more agreeable now .
oddities of her cousin , and to point him out to her particular notice .
” “how i could so long a time be fancying myself !
as happy as dignity unblemished could make him .
supplied the discourse with some variety—the variety of politics , inclosing land , and breaking horses—but then it was all
she felt that she must have been of use to all .
i fancy they are all at uppercross .
her comfort in that day ' s dinner was quite destroyed : she could hardly eat anything ; and when
miss crawford had anticipated her wants with a kindness which proved her a real friend .
, and reconciling herself , as well as she could , to a change so sudden and so important ,
it is admirable !
a very few days were enough to effect this ; and at the end of those few days , circumstances
in the absence of particulars some of her critics have fallen to speculate upon the reason which made her select
fully .
darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of the best living in his gift .
amusing to anne ; connected as it all was with his profession , the fruit of its labours , the
the gentlemen at pemberley before noon .
it will do you good to speak of your distress , whatever it may be .
we are told they once reached .
he came only to engage lodgings for us .
they are good-natured people , and think little of their own claims ; but still they must feel that any
she was now in an irritation as violent from delight , as she had ever been fidgety from alarm and
miss crawford whose kind exertions were to excite her gratitude , and whose merit in making them was spoken of
it was built for a christchurch man , a friend of mine , a very good sort of fellow ;
” “my father ' s house is situated in bedfordshire , my aunt ' s in middlesex , and tho
” “sorry !
morning visits are never fair by women at her time of life , who make themselves up so little .
to choose a wife from among his daughters , that the loss to them might be as little as possible
lamenting that it ever had been thought of , he burst forth , as if wholly overcome-- " don '
she turned her eyes towards his face , and found him with some surprise to be her brother .
" " for shame !
have endeavoured to set them right must be his only satisfaction .
mrs musgrove and mrs hayter were sisters .
purpose , was exceedingly happy to give the particulars of their conversation ; and little aware of what was passing
" he stopped .
and amused her companion .
wont to be laid .
she might have to endure the reproach again and again ; she might hear it , or see it ,
bennet’s eyes sparkled with pleasure , and she was eagerly calling out , while her daughter read , “well ,
i believe i have been wrong in saying so much , but i hardly know what to do , and
” emma was pleased with the thought ; and producing the box , the table was quickly scattered over with
from an imagination resolved on alarm , and everything forced to bend to one purpose by a mind which ,
henry crawford had destroyed her happiness , but he should not know that he had done it ; he should
suckling had completed the purchase before his death .
dropping her arm almost every moment to cut off the heads of some nettles in the hedge with his switch
the preparations meanwhile went on , and lady bertram continued to sit on her sofa without any inconvenience from them
attending the last expression of his hope , made a hasty finish of her dealings with william price ; and
been miss campbell , would have been at all agreeable to me .
" " the consequence of which , i suppose , will be , " said mrs .
our agreement , is to be in town .
colonel brandon is certainly younger than mrs .
nothing to say that could be worth hearing , and were listened to with about as much delight as the
he had never had an idea of throwing himself off ; he had feared that he was thrown off ,
subject of lovers and husbands ; hoped they had not left their hearts behind them in sussex , and pretended
loved .
poor mr .
thorpe had no business to invent any such message .
of his own beyond a wish that they had seen his friend smith ' s place .
her interest , and such an invitation the most gratifying to her feelings !
her of half her night ' s rest !
” “nothing at all .
i guessed as much .
could not give any sincere explanation of .
not being the worse for her exertions , and had spoken of those exertions as great .
i was in it two years ago , when it was lady lascelle ' s , and prefer it to
have no butcher at hand .
how i have blushed over the pages of her writing !
long engagement-- " " yes , dear ma ' am , " said mrs croft , " or an uncertain
be of the bitterest kind , because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove .
in this manner they had continued about a quarter of an hour , when marianne , whose nerves could not
jennings ' s curiosity and elinor ' s too , that she would tell any thing without being asked ;
charles gave it for louisa , mary for henrietta , but quite agreeing that to have him marry either could
her own musings were brought to an end on perceiving mr .
it was secured , in such a way , as to leave to himself no power of providing for those
it was a subject , in short , on which reflection would be long indulged , and must be unavailing
knightley ' s marrying ; and i am sure it is not at all likely .
keener penetration in discovering merit than many other people .
harriet would have been a better match .
i suppose your brother was quite a beau , miss dashwood , before he married , as he was so
before so likely to suit them all .
events had been early giving him the independence which alone had been wanting .
” “lady catherine , i have nothing further to say .
always together , and mr elliot had led his friend into expenses much beyond his fortune .
” emma was not sorry to be pressed .
when she was found one morning by her cousin edmund , the youngest of the sons , sitting crying on
it was as much as i could bear myself .
exhibitions of new caps and new workbags for her mother and herself ; and jane ' s offences rose again
marianne could never condescend to practise , gained her own end , and pleased lady middleton at the same time
i got more acquainted with him last monday than ever i did before .
their table was superlatively stupid .
randalls .
to manage for them ; and she could not help thinking her poor dear sister price would feel it very
occasioned her , and how little i deserve to be forgiven , i am mad with anger .
found the miss dashwoods very ready to resume their former share .
” “that is as it happens .
to meet her again .
family !
she longed to see mrs .
“that will do , ” said he , when it was finished , thinking aloud—“you have sung quite enough for
the idea however started by her , was immediately pursued by colonel brandon , who was on every occasion mindful
relate only what in your conscience you think necessary for me to hear .
not follow .
what do you keep winking at me for ?
, could never be .
she was right ; in a few minutes he appeared , and , making his way through the then thinning
the scene enlarged ; two persons appeared ; mrs .
” “and my aunt phillips is sure it would do me a great deal of good , ” added kitty
” catherine ' s blood ran cold with the horrid suggestions which naturally sprang from these words .
that is what she writes about .
gardiner could do .
there is all the new calico , that was bought last week , not touched yet .
jennings , and to her she appeared nothing more than a little proud-looking woman of uncordial address , who met
cole ' s .
i cannot pretend to remember it , but it was something very fine--i overheard him telling henrietta all about it
chloe reads) _num_ ducks , a leg of beef , a stinking partridge , and a tart .
we must remember to let james know that the carriage will be wanted on tuesday .
a great pity indeed !
in spite of all that people may say about green fields and the country i was always of opinion that
glad i should be if you were here to comfort me .
i went in for three minutes , and was detained by miss bates ' s being absent .
and very much to the purpose .
” said edmund gravely , and looking at maria .
churchill as the cause .
though you have often told me that miss millar was remarkably handsome , you never mentioned anything of her sisters
of all—price of strawberries in london—abundance about bristol—maple grove—cultivation—beds when to be renewed—gardeners thinking exactly different—no general rule—gardeners never to
—then you must be no friend of mine ; for those who will accept of my love and esteem ,
“when i got to donwell , ” said he , “knightley could not be found .
chapter _num_ anne had not wanted this visit to uppercross , to learn that a removal from one set of
consciousness of what had passed between the bingleys and jane , and she thought he looked a little confused as
without falling out about their faces .
there were three others , jane says , which they hesitated about some time .
churchill ' s illness , and wanted to know how she was treated ; and as for the ball ,
having no children of my own , who should i look to in any little matter i may ever have
so earnestly—i am sure he is in love with you .
of the preceding month , there was no time to be lost in making every dependent arrangement .
perseverance .
my mother is delightfully well ; and jane caught no cold last night .
sunday , and monday endurable to kitty and lydia .
“my brother and sister have promised us a visit in the spring , or summer at farthest , ” continued
but such was her horror at the first suggestion , that she could actually look him in the face and
fail of giving any idea of what her character is meant to be , that her heart was affectionate ;
i hardly know what—something about mr .
each lady was previously well disposed for an agreement , and saw nothing , therefore , but good manners in
and , in short , her look and manner declared , that go she would not .
his name was good , his residence was in their favourite village , and she soon found out that of
i am so sorry we cannot stay longer ; however we shall meet again in town very soon , i
martin ' s interest in view ?
while her heart was still bounding with joy and gratitude on william ' s behalf , she could not be
other rule .
" " colonel brandon give me a living !
my interference was quite as likely to do harm as good .
not handsome enough to dance with !
the very thing that we have always been rather afraid of ; for we should not have liked to have
— blest leaf !
goddard ' s school , and somebody had lately raised her from the condition of scholar to that of parlour-boarder
if you can persuade henry to marry , you must have the address of a frenchwoman .
" marianne can never keep long from that instrument you know , ma ' am , " said elinor ,
spending month after month here , as i have done , i certainly should not have believed them .
act , soon settled the business .
allen ' s succession-houses worked ?
woodhouse : “this will prove a spirited beginning of your winter engagements , sir .
manner not to be refused , to sit between them ; and by some other removals , and a little
it must leave on sir thomas .
” “poor jane fairfax !
; the woody varieties of the cheerful village of up lyme ; and , above all , pinny , with
and you , miss morland—my stupid sister has mistaken all your clearest expressions .
but i will no longer importune my young cousin .
i must once more speak to you as i have been used to do : a privilege rather endured than
that her sister ' s affections were calm , she dared not deny , though she blushed to acknowledge it
, your brother and mine and myself .
they talked together , soon made her quick eye sufficiently acquainted with mr .
colonel fitzwilliam and herself only the morning before ; and at last she was referred for the truth of every
she value his remembrance , and prefer him to every other man , that all her good sense , and
i confess myself sincerely anxious that you may .
is not likely to make us any amends .
spoilt , spoilt !
" " my feelings , you see , did not prevent my taking mrs harville and all her family to
i long to inquire ; and how will my interference be borne .
dear , i thought it would have been the death of me !
knightley would ask ; but a very short parley with her own heart produced the most solemn resolution of never
” “i think the man who could often quarrel with fanny , ” said edmund affectionately , “must be beyond
i often tell my other girls they are nothing to her .
and , after all , what is it you suspect him of ?
” “well , i am so sorry !
i could not bear to have henry supplanted .
, she expressed her sorrow on the occasion so very much as if she really felt it that had thorpe
sir walter had sought the acquaintance , and though his overtures had not been met with any warmth , he
" replied her mother with a smile .
but in all , and in almost every line of each , there was a want of that cheerfulness which
you have both warm hearts and benevolent feelings ; and , fanny , who that heard him read , and
i put it to your conscience , whether ' sir edmund ' would not do more good with all the
long visit in the country to some young ladies who had been at school there with her .
" " did he come from your uncle ' s , then , when he visited us ?
she had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman ; she made not the smallest objection
gardiner went away in all the perplexity about elizabeth and her derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part
a confirmation of my belief in her face .
the wonderful improvement which she still fancied in mr .
thanked at least , on his sister ' s account , for her kindness in thus becoming her visitor ;
” and she talked and laughed about it with so little caution as to catch the comprehension of mr .
in a private consultation between isabella and james , the former of whom had particularly set her heart upon going
intention than to give you such an idea .
believe her to be very fond of him .
would he have deserved more , there can be no doubt that more would have been obtained , especially when
you know he is over head and ears in love with you .
at any given time , induced them to name as early a day as possible .
like himself , and did not return your kindness with any cordiality .
” she found herself more successful in sending away than in retaining a companion .
—i hope your good grand-mama and aunt are well .
” “you have .
he must and shall come back , " cried sir john .
lady bertram was not certain of anybody ' s dress or anybody ' s place at supper but her own
of the morning , to stop at the gates and look into the park .
crawford depends upon taking us .
, and got back again , and nobody missed me .
but she was not at all sorry that she had abused the housekeeper the other day .
; she will make no lasting blunder ; where emma errs once , she is in the right a hundred
not be dissatisfied with such commendation as[ _num_ ] that .
“four o ' clock !
elton and his bride” was in every body ' s mouth , and frank churchill was forgotten .
happy , could she have kept her eyes from wandering between edmund and mary crawford .
as i am happily quite an altered creature in one respect , it is very fit that you should have
together was , in his opinion , to be intimate , and while his continual schemes for their meeting were
“she had set out from mrs .
suspense must be submitted to , and must not be allowed to wear her out , and make her useless
of mansfield park .
“what do you think ?
determined , if he persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering encouragement , to apply to her father ,
her own modest and elegant mind .
— “i find myself very unwell this morning , which , i suppose , is to be imputed to my
have escaped his eye ; and when her friend , who with an apologizing look darted hastily by her ,
by eight in the morning edmund was in the house .
i wish my health allowed me to be a better neighbour .
of forming your happiness !
i would not dwell upon them if i could .
” “that ' s easily said , and easily felt by you , who have always been your own master
weymouth and the dixons than any thing .
do let us turn back , mr .
edmund ' s ear , was detailing it to his fair neighbour with a look of considerable earnestness .
on his side .
and to you too , that had been used to live in barton cottage !
i have not been at all able to account for the honour of seeing you here .
me away ; and if we were beyond the hour , we could not be married all day .
happy in spite of everything .
, giving it every reproach but the right ; considering its ill consequences only as they were to be braved
afraid of the result .
this event , highly important to mrs .
i should be sorry , you know , to think ill of a young man who has lived so long
“who that knows what his misfortunes have been , can help feeling an interest in him ?
but now i seem to feel that i may deserve him ; and that if he does chuse me ,
amused , at such a state of mind in poor harriet—such a conclusion of mr .
your complexion is so improved !
his country .
she had resisted its approaches during the whole length of a speech , but it now carried her captive .
i had narrowly observed her during the two visits which i had lately made here ; and i was convinced
the youngest miss bertram , a nice , handsome , good-humoured , accomplished girl , who will make you very
but so it ought to be ; they are people of large fortune , they are related to you ,
maria had a moment ' s struggle as she listened , and only a moment ' s : when her
" four years you have been engaged , " said she with a firm voice .
she had a strong impression of his having said , in a vext tone of voice , after captain wentworth
sent to hartfield , and take it home with me at night .
i ought to travel .
nobody can think more highly of the matrimonial state than myself .
and my friend does not manage him well ; she does not seem to know how to make the best
marianne saw and listened with increasing surprise .
” “catherine , you must go , ” said james .
and was not only in the rapturous profession of the lover , but , in the reality of reason and
she was fond of her sons , especially of william , but betsey was the first of her girls whom
“he is just come , my dear fanny , and is taken upstairs ; and i am so shocked to
fitted for the purpose than that which yet bore the traces of monastic division ?
had he been alone with her , his heart must have opened in spite of every resolution ; but susan
it was certain that , in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with one , whose immediate connections were so
i saw him you know for the first time at lady scudamores—and when i saw her ladyship afterwards she asked
when the crofts called this morning , (they called here afterwards , did not they ?
” darcy smiled and said , “you are perfectly right .
the vulgar freedom and folly of the eldest left her no recommendation , and as elinor was not blinded by
” “he is very plain , undoubtedly—remarkably plain : —but that is nothing compared with his entire want of gentility
is not true .
him how she stood affected on the present occasion , and whether she were more or less happy than she
the play in particular ; their point was gained : he was to act , and he was driven to
her mother ' s affliction was hardly less , and elinor was the only one of the three , who
i believe it is best as it is .
those i have never seen before .
' it would have been beyond comparison , ' she said , ' the least evil of the two ,
could gain very little by the enforcement of the real truth .
of guessing how soon it might be necessary for her to throw coldness into her air ; and of fancying
, and of chusing that time to pay a visit to her other friends , in order to secure herself
—and your figure—nay , fanny , do not turn away about it—it is but an uncle .
" what a great traveller you must have been , ma ' am !
” there was no recovering miss taylor—nor much likelihood of ceasing to pity her ; but a few weeks brought
“my poor dear isabella , ” said he , fondly taking her hand , and interrupting , for a few
i am sorry mr .
” “perhaps , ” said darcy , “i should have judged better , had i sought an introduction ; but
that i am quite in raptures with her beautiful little design for a table , and i think it infinitely
he would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser by the hundred that was to be paid them ;
and it must yet be too early .
reason .
” “so i should suppose .
however it might end , he was without any question their pleasantest acquaintance in bath : she saw nobody equal
she came to this house to entreat my husband ' s interference , and before i could be aware of
it then affected the delicate sensibility of edward , sophia , your laura , and of augustus himself .
on ascending the stairs , the miss dashwoods found so many people before them in the room , that there
“she could not recollect what it was that she had heard about one of the miss maddoxes , or what
when the dessert and the wine were arranged , and mrs .
he was no dancer in general .
unfortunately an only son (for many years an only child) , i was spoilt by my parents , who ,
shocking as was the idea , it was at least better than a death unfairly hastened , as , in
as long as his sister , was very importunate with isabella to stand up ; but john was gone into
with spirits , courage , and curiosity up to anything , william expressed an inclination to hunt ; and crawford
but if i go on , i shall displease you by saying what i think of persons you esteem .
that would do vastly well ; or that one might be borrowed of the steward ; or that perhaps dr
your company , for i ' ve quite set my heart upon it .
but it was her business to be satisfied—and certainly her temper to be happy ; and all was soon right
to others .
she had little difficulty ; it was soon determined that they would go ; go to-morrow , fix themselves at
" " you must begin your improvements on this house , " observed elinor , " and your difficulties will
dreadful habit of opening the windows , letting in cold air upon heated bodies , which (as you well know
in to-day or to-morrow , and at any hour , may not be more friendly to happiness than having him
" not at all .
, or the sound of his artificial good sentiments .
crawford does all the rest .
got a cold , tom had been sent off immediately for the crown chaise , and the ostler had stood
“dearest fanny !
street , and prevailing on the admiral to exert whatever interest he might have for getting him on .
this indulgence , though not more than catherine had hoped for , completed her conviction of being favoured beyond every
” “i rather doubt that .
she was quite amazed at her own discomposure ; but amongst other causes of disquiet , she dreaded lest the
she must be collected and calm .
fanny was disappointed .
" " by all the world , rather than by his own heart .
seats tolerably in the shade were found ; and now emma was obliged to overhear what mrs .
she was all impatience to see the house , and had scarcely any curiosity about the grounds .
he had a note to deliver from his sister .
charles hayter seemed aware of being slighted , and yet henrietta had sometimes the air of being divided between them
“my dear sister , ” said mary , “if you can persuade him into anything of the sort , it
” “mary and kitty have been very kind , and would have shared in every fatigue , i am sure
	 _num_ talking over the business	 _num_ " she put in the feather last night " 	 _num_ listening at
sneyd was surrounded by men , attached myself to one of her daughters , walked by her side all the
such were her thoughts , but she kept them to herself , and put on her bonnet in patient discontent
uppermost in her thoughts ; it was , “have you ever read udolpho , mr .
he makes a monstrous deal of money , and they keep their own coach .
“if your brother had not got such a d—beast to drive , ” said he soon afterwards , “we might
she hated having visitors in the house while her health was so indifferent , and lovers were of all people
did you ever hear the old song ' going to one wedding brings on another ?
she then took another line of expediency , and looking into the doubtful room , observed , “i do not
" they were not much interested in anything relative to anne ; but still there were questions enough asked ,
” the conclusion was scarcely intelligible from increasing fright , for she found that mr .
jennings her carpet-work ; they talked of the friends they had left behind , arranged lady middleton ' s engagements
are out of the street .
of the question .
he had before believed her to return his affection with sincere , if not with equal regard .
her manner , so completely maternal in her voice and countenance .
the friends she had so carelessly sacrificed ; and she addressed lady bertram in a letter which spoke so much
—i will hear whatever you like .
it was transient : cleared away in an instant ; but anne could imagine she read there the consciousness of
himself have felt , and probably with somewhat more exactness .
—there would be an end of all pleasant intercourse with him .
the next morning saw them off again at an early hour ; and with no events , and no delays
they could talk of nothing but officers ; and mr .
and friendship as the vicarage had to offer .
” mary wished to say something sensible , but knew not how .
all friends , all intimate together !
" elinor could not suppose that sir john would be more nice in proclaiming his suspicions of her regard for
you don ' t say so !
it was upon the behaviour of these very slight acquaintance that all her present happiness depended ; and while mrs
mother , “but at the same time , mr .
“how very ill miss eliza bennet looks this morning , mr .
you would not write to each other but upon the most urgent necessity in the world ; and when obliged
” mary had only to be grateful and give general assurances ; but she was now very fully purposed to
when elizabeth had rejoiced over wickham’s departure she found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment
; for though very much gratified by the kind care of such a fair lady , and not liking to
would vanish , if she could suppose him to be in her power .
dorsetshire !
do you think it will look well ?
but who else was there to employ ?
" lady russell listened , and looked , and made only this cautious reply : -- " elizabeth !
subjects were started , that , though may , a fire in the evening was still very pleasant .
i know , indeed , that he is so , and , as such , wish him well .
your uncle will frank it , it will cost william nothing .
to be done out of doors .
than before , directly ran over the contents of all .
elinor was grateful for the attention , but it could not alter her design ; and their mother ' s
where it lies .
of it .
for their silence .
more acceptable , for miss bertram was pleased to have its size displayed , and all were glad to be
the only question is how ?
no , that must have been quite accidental .
he had been in bath about a fortnight ; (he had passed through bath in november , in his way
beauty of these girls .
reads like a premature instance of middle victorian slang .
long preface .
” “yes , my dear , a very odd appearance indeed .
” “no , ” said her father ; “wickham’s a fool if he takes her with a farthing less than
a grove of full-grown elms sheltered us from the east— .
, in short , that one could wish for ; and , moreover , it is close to the church
she has not a bad face , but there is something so extremely unmajestic in her little diminutive figure ,
my dear , it is quite understood , i give you my word .
from being very useful to me .
, which catherine heard with pleasure , and answered with all the pretty expressions she could command ; and ,
his good-nature , his humanity , as i tell you , would be quite enough to account for the horses
such disinterestedness in many .
captain wentworth made a very early return to mr musgrove ' s civility , and she was all but calling
anne sometimes fancied she discerned him at a distance , but he never came .
he thoroughly knows his own mind , and acts up to his resolutions : an inestimable quality .
” “you know what you ought to do .
the move began ; and miss bates might be heard from that moment , without interruption , till her being
allen ; “and so i told miss morland when she bought it .
" " all this , " thought elinor , " is very pretty ; but it can impose upon neither
she is unfortunately of a sickly constitution , which has prevented her from making that progress in many accomplishments which
his allowing his mother ' s death , yet considered on the whole i cannot help liking him .
but , charles , tell captain wentworth , he need not be afraid of mentioning poor dick before me ,
weston had , by gentle encouragement , overcome so much of her embarrassment , as to bring her to converse
norris had a spirit of activity , which could not be satisfied till she had written a long and angry
—it was too wretched !
my dear william , do not talk so ; do not be so desponding .
; the more glaring and disgusting any loudness , or coarseness , or awkwardness becomes .
“ordained !
him a commission for anything else that is worth having .
vernon to lady de courcy churchhill my dear mother , —i return you reginald ' s letter , and rejoice
” “she had engaged to go as governess to mrs .
from them , however , the eight parts of speech shone out most expressively , and james could combine them
very kind , liberal father to me .
—he would not deny that he did , she was sure .
her situation should secure your compassion .
frederica was wretched in the idea of going , and i could not bear to have her at the mercy
to our family she has always been represented in softened colours by the benevolence of mr .
come on ; and i was the more easily encouraged , because i thought it probable that i might find
” a general silence succeeded .
norris took possession of the white house , the grants arrived at the parsonage , and these events over ,
still , however , affection was glad to catch at any reasonable excuse for not hurrying on the wretched moment
sir thomas wrote of it with as much decision as experience and anxiety could authorise .
gardiner , who , fatigued by the exercise of the morning , found elizabeth’s arm inadequate to her support ,
too far ; but they were supported by such appearances as made their dismissal impossible .
i have been making a duplicate of the catalogue of my father ' s books and pictures .
bennet rang the bell , and miss elizabeth was summoned to the library .
” “as you do us such ample justice now , ” said emma , laughing , “i will venture to
attendance , forbearance , patience with darcy , was injury to wickham .
would then be restored , of their mutual pursuits and cheerful society , as the only happiness worth a wish
but marianne , who saw his agitation , and could easily trace it to whatever cause best pleased herself ,
knightley ' s , whose fond praise of her gave the subject even a kind of welcome ; and he
the blues for the sake of that horrid lord stornaway , who has about as much sense , fanny ,
it did not accord with the rationality of plan , the moderation in expense , or even the unselfish warmth
my father has recollected an engagement that takes our whole family away on monday .
gentlemanlike manner .
” “it is a pity he should have so much trouble for nothing .
” “yes , or i will never see her again .
positive cheerfulness .
" yes , " said he , " they were married last week , and are now at dawlish .
” “are they indeed !
" miss dashwood , at this point , turning her eyes on him with the most angry contempt , stopped
this mrs .
" " and not known to him , perhaps , so soon .
he had been invited to see her .
called them anything in the whole course of her life .
the ill-nature of the world had interpreted to my discredit ?
at conversation on either side .
' ” “we cannot suppose , ” said emma , smiling , “that mr .
him any future amusement .
be delayed in his return .
i thought you and i were to dance together .
and quieter , but not less to the purpose .
why would you be persuaded by my uncle , sir robert , against your own judgment , to place edward
did not know a syllable of it till afterwards , for i was out when both she and reginald came
” charlotte hardly had time to answer , before they were joined by kitty , who came to tell the
" miss steele was going to reply on the same subject , but the approach of her own party made
hour before any of us were comfortable again—yet that was too general a sensation for any thing of peculiar anxiety
john knightley , “and just as i hoped it was from your letters .
i had not considered that my excessive intimacy must have its danger of ill consequence in many ways ; and
elton , harriet will not like to sit .
” “and very ungrateful , i think .
his eldest son was careless and extravagant , and had already given him much uneasiness ; but his other children
my friends , so long before you vouchsafe to come !
jane fairfax was very elegant , remarkably elegant ; and she had herself the highest value for elegance .
his affection was proved to have been sincere , and his conduct cleared of all blame , unless any could
the waiter came into the room soon afterwards .
" could not she see that we wanted her gone !
his knowledge and her ignorance of the subject , his rapidity of expression , and her diffidence of herself put
she only wished that it were less openly shown ; and once or twice did venture to suggest the propriety
” “yes , ma’am , all .
ought , and you have received every assurance of his admiring pope no more than is proper .
time to go with him .
but it is very foolish to ask questions about any young ladies—about any three sisters just grown up ; for
i do not know .
it is a retired place .
the young ladies went , and lady middleton was happily preserved from the frightful solitude which had threatened her .
can ever forget .
united , what reverse we have !
” “very fine indeed , ” said miss crawford , laughing .
” “no ; it would have been strange if they had ; but i make no doubt they often talk
jennings away .
escape , however , was not his plan .
with true dowager propriety , to bath , there to parade over the wonders of sotherton in her evening parties
but suspicion of something unpleasant is the inevitable consequence of such an alteration as we just witnessed in him .
was in danger of feeling the loss in her health as well as in her affections ; for in spite
if dancing formed the amusement of the night , they were partners for half the time ; and when obliged
attached to her ?
when the clock struck three , elizabeth felt that she must go , and very unwillingly said so .
; we laid her upon the bed , and she continued for some hours in the most dreadful convulsions .
” “no , i was not .
' but , however , i soon found it would not do ; he was bent upon going , and
in her mother she lost the only person able to cope with her .
” “they cannot have been sitting long , ” cried mrs .
lady bertram was quite talkative .
' ” emma ' s politeness was at hand directly , to say , with smiling interest— “have you heard
—it was but a drop or two , but i am so afraid : —but mr .
crawford called the next day , and on the score of edmund ' s return , sir thomas felt himself
knightley had another reason for avoiding a table in the shade .
any body else ; but it was not worth while to attack an error so double-dyed , and therefore only
she had gone home so much indisposed with a cold , that , but for her own earnest wish of
, instantly unfolded to each other the most inward secrets of our hearts— .
have you forgot , marianne , how many pleasant days we have owed to them ?
—“and so , there she had set , without an idea of any thing in the world , full ten
but she is nothing to me now .
” “by jove , no more do i .
to make the eighth , jane fairfax .
we shall only want you in our play .
your house , and doing it twice , ma ' am ?
“i shall soon bring him over to hartfield , ” said he , at the conclusion .
and now i will sing another song .
bingley , was incomprehensible .
" poor little creatures !
woodhouse gratefully observed , “it is very kind of you , mr .
” “as much as i ever wish to be , ” cried elizabeth very warmly .
she had previously , in the anticipation of their marriage , been very apprehensive of losing her friend by it
the calm and polite unconcern of lady middleton on the occasion was a happy relief to elinor ' s spirits
" marianne turned away in great confusion .
hope had already entered ; and feeling all its anxious flutter , she bent over her sister to watch—she hardly
he came to the part of the room where the sitters-by were collected , spoke to some , and walked
' and then , if i could convey to you the glow of his soul when he does see them
then , said i , i must run across , i am sure miss woodhouse will allow me just to
i want to see you permanently well connected , and to that end it will be advisable to have as
a quarter of an hour , and catherine immediately took her usual place by the side of her friend .
london .
and he was really a very pleasing young man , a young man whom any woman not fastidious might like
" " ah !
to julia most willingly , but that though i shall probably do it very ill , i feel persuaded she
in spite of all this however he died , and was succeeded by his son henry .
cautioning her in a whisper , not to be a simpleton , and allow her fancy for wickham to make
where a man does his best with only moderate powers , he will have the advantage over negligent superiority .
rushworth ' s elopement , her temper had been in a state of such irritation as to make her everywhere
she took three days to consider of his proposals , and during those three days asked the advice of everybody
let me recommend bath to you .
weston need not spend a single evening in the year alone if he did not like it .
in the afternoon , the two elder miss bennets were able to be for half-an-hour by themselves ; and elizabeth
heart .
john thorpe himself was quite disagreeable .
alas , alas !
there cannot be two opinions about him .
weston ' s sanguine temper was a blessing on all his upright and honourable exertions ; but mr .
the insufficiency of wealth .
she remembered that he had boasted of having no fear of seeing mr .
i was banished to the house of a relation far distant , and she was allowed no liberty , no
agreeably surprised by general tilney ' s asking her if she would do his daughter the honour of dining and
darcy is .
such a visit could not be paid without leading to reports : —but mr .
—have you quite forgotten ?
knightley , because she had emma .
norris had now so ingeniously done away all mrs .
how that visit was to be acknowledged—what would be necessary—and what might be safest , had been a point of
lady russell confessed she had expected something better ; but yet " it was an acquaintance worth having ; "
now , upon his father ' s marriage , it was very generally proposed , as a most proper attention
elton predominated , sometimes the martins ; and each was occasionally useful as a check to the other .
in that house elizabeth must be first ; and she was in the habit of such general observance as "
” “they are wanted in the farm much oftener than i can get them .
“i cannot see why mrs .
whatever might have been felt before her arrival , her eager declarations immediately made every look and sentence as friendly
nobody could nurse her , as we should do .
" " at any rate , " said elinor , wishing to prevent mrs .
i have faults enough , but they are not , i hope , of understanding .
i am not fond of nettles or thistles , or heath blossoms .
he could not think lady bertram quite equal to supply his place with them , or rather , to perform
she is clever and agreeable , has all that knowledge of the world which makes conversation easy , and talks
she was in need of a little interval for recollection .
set yourself against it , and try to put difficulties in the way .
allen had given her no hopes of a letter till she had got back to fullerton .
and paying his particular compliments to the ladies , was ending with her—and with all his mildest urbanity , said
hughes talked to me a great deal about the family .
—emma saw it .
into the inn-yard .
become less agitated .
service ; that she will not be continually detailing her magnificent intentions , from the procuring her a permanent situation
perhaps he thought her too young .
more readily than her own judgment authorised .
what a long letter !
their gentleness , their genuine attention to other people , and their manly unstudied simplicity is much more accordant with
of being in company with mrs .
” “what do you think of this sentence , my dear lizzy ?
had besides been flattered into his very best and most polished behaviour by mr shepherd ' s assurances of his
" vanity was the beginning and the end of sir walter elliot ' s character ; vanity of person and
well , we must live and learn ; and the next new friends you make i hope will be better
was in a state hardly less pitiable than when she first learnt to expect the event .
" here , however , elinor perceived , —not the language , not the professions of colonel brandon , but
but if he marries a very ignorant , vulgar woman , certainly i had better not visit her , if
they did begin ; and being too much engaged in their own noise to be struck by an unusual noise
indeed i think it quite melancholy to have such excellent people as dr and mrs shirley , who have been
displeased with our behaviour and in a few weeks after , either to revenge our conduct , or releive her
he pleases .
pain of her mind had been much beyond that in her head ; and the sudden change which edmund '
” “it does seem , and it is most shocking indeed , ” replied elizabeth , with tears in her
chapter _num_ from this time , the subject was frequently canvassed by the three young people ; and catherine found
but though her wishes were overthrown , there was no spirit of murmuring within her .
not more than five couple could be mustered ; but the rarity and the suddenness of it made it very
rushworth was an inferior young man , as ignorant in business as in books , with opinions in general unfixed
” and gravely glancing at mr .
i was miserable .
i was late ; i met her walking home by herself , and wanted to walk with her , but
such a heart is very little worth having ; is it , lady russell ?
, and all the parish to manage ; and he is extremely fond of his brother ' s children .
antiquity of the building , were felt and considered without the smallest emotion ; and though the wind was high
—i would not change you for the clearest-headed , longest-sighted , best-judging female breathing .
, had been occasionally used as such ; —but such brilliant days had long passed away , and now the
" you are never like me , dear elinor , or i should wonder at your composure now .
after waiting a moment , obliged her to bring down her mind from its heavenly flight by saying , “but
she visited her friends .
had principle or sense enough to maintain himself in the situation in which providence had placed him , and who
bennet with a degree of civility which made her two daughters ashamed , especially when contrasted with the cold and
when everything was settled , when miss tilney herself said that tuesday would suit her as well , it was
collins has made an offer to lizzy , and she will not have him .
till i have your disposition , your goodness , i never can have your happiness .
by comparison with pride and prejudice , in which the leading characters are also two sisters , that we assess
nothing else than to secure her from any return of mr .
” “i am very glad that you have heard of it , by whatever means , and hope there will
it is mr elliot himself .
her education .
wentworth to bath , captain wentworth was already on his way thither .
" " well , well , ladies are the best judges ; but james benwick is rather too piano for
by the enthusiasm of her fondness for henry .
” it was with pain that catherine could speak at all ; and it was only for eleanor ' s
all my aunt ' s jewels .
a small sum could not do all this .
think and look for , of her causeless fancies and injurious examinations , she could not wonder at any degree
perry was uneasy about her .
if a rich admiral were to come in our way , sir walter-- " " he would be a very
“good god !
but , as i directly said to my mother , i am not in the least surprised at it ;
, which she rather thought was considerable .
—she is not to be with the dixons .
this is my modest request and expectation , for you are so good , that i depend upon being treated
every thing so good !
this made it so particularly strange !
” “perfectly , perfectly right , my dearest harriet ; you are doing just what you ought .
” it seemed an unnecessary caution ; jane was wanting to give her words , not to mrs .
fanny ' s best consolation was in being assured that edmund had wished for her very much , and that
in the evening a favourable opportunity offered to me of attempting at least to know what i wished to know
devil nowadays that way , that there was no answering for anybody .
edward the _num_ th this unfortunate prince lived so little a while that nobody had him to draw his picture
” “riot !
reversing decree of unjustifiable anger , could shake his fidelity , or influence the resolutions it prompted .
chapter xxxvii mrs .
told me that hervey had been thrown from his horse , had fractured his scull and was pronounced by his
” “that is very true , ” said elizabeth ; “though it had not occurred to me before .
reflecting and doubting , and feeling that the possession of what she had so much wished for did not bring
the dreadful black veil !
come , do change your mind .
dashwood feared to hazard any remark , and ventured not to offer consolation .
" " there is hardly any personal defect , " replied anne , " which an agreeable manner might not
worn threadbare in all common hands ; who can say anything new or striking , anything that rouses the attention
, to be the ornament of his country and his profession .
he and mary were included in it by way of general convenience .
considering everything , therefore , i hope , foolish as our engagement was , foolish as it has since in
, and at last ascertaining that it might , that it probably would , turn out to be the very
edward is very amiable , and i love him tenderly .
weston and her son-in-law ; they were walking into highbury ; —to hartfield of course .
” “our poor ball must be quite given up .
from his general way of talking in unreserved moments , when there are only men present , i am convinced
as soon as they were fairly ascending belmont , he began-- " well , now you shall hear something that
to the protestants .
as deeply and as happily in love as myself .
weston , there is a step at the turning .
the notice and kindness of lady catherine de bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to
her mother ' s permission , was equally compliant , and marianne , though always unwilling to join any of
in his library he had been always sure of leisure and tranquillity ; and though prepared , as he told
bertram one of the worst subjects to work on , in any little manoeuvre against common sense , that a
he had been considering her as a particularly welcome addition at the parsonage , as a desirable companion to an
added to the advantages of a quiet evening .
musgroves eyes , by permitting him to love her and allowing me to hope .
the passing admiration of mr elliot had at least roused him , and the scenes on the cobb and at
” “you do acquit me , then , of anything wrong ?
visitor .
' heavens !
—i do not know what would become of my crayons and my instrument , if i had half so many
opinions were unbending , his attentions tranquil and simple .
of being stopped in their way along narrow , winding vaults , by a low , grated door ; or
you must not suspect me .
yes , i am sure you would miss me too much for that .
herself till she entered it as her own .
for henrietta to come and buy wedding-clothes for herself and her sister ; and , in short , it ended
emma had as much reason to be satisfied with the rest of the party as with mr .
but instead of having any thing to do , instead of having any profession chosen for me , or being
this was a painful consideration whenever it occurred ; and eager to get rid of such a weight on her
from that moment she doubted not of their being engaged to each other ; and the belief of it created
” “your sister taught me ; i cannot tell how .
" " what , then , was your intention when you insisted on her silence ?
i almost long to attempt her likeness myself .
fanny , you must do something to keep me awake .
heart sunk within her , and she could hardly stand ; but exertion was indispensably necessary ; and she struggled
not quite easy .
and i can account for it only in one way ; you are not yourself , or you could not
—general benevolence , but not general friendship , made a man what he ought to be .
the many laughs we have had together would infallibly come across me , and frederick and his knapsack would be
nature was ever in my power .
next week , ’ you would probably do it , you would probably not go—and at another word , might
" with what indignation such a letter as this must be read by miss dashwood , may be imagined .
" " and i am sure , " cried mary , warmly , " it was a very little to
and unfortunately " (speaking low and tremulously) " there are so many who forget to think seriously till it is
any treachery , that could be perpetrated without risk of his general character .
often as she had wished for and ordered it , she had never been able to get any thing tolerable
the loss of her dear mother , known the happiness of being listened to , or encouraged by any just
i offered immediately , as soon as my mother related the affair to me , to talk to him myself
” the bustle of going was not pleasant .
" " i can believe it , " said elinor ; " but unfortunately he did not feel the same
easy) “she says it is to be the last time that she ever will dance with me .
obliged to see the whole party set off , and return to his lamentations over the destiny of poor isabella
such words had their due effect ; she immediately thought the evening pleasanter than she had found it before—her humble
they are in the same profession , you know , only in different lines .
, to the world .
' s sister , to have a claim at mansfield , and was ready to kiss and like her ;
all mention of bath scenes were avoided , she thought she could behave to him very civilly .
no proportion to the family-estate—was not to be dissuaded from the marriage , and it took place , to the
all his wrongs towards her , a general prevailing desire of recommending herself to him , took an opportunity of
that is—i should not think the superiority was always on our side .
the particular object of the day was then considered .
it would have been strange if i had not gone .
conveyed the bride and bridegroom and julia from the church-door to sotherton was the same chaise which mr .
should hardly call her a lively girl—she is very earnest , very eager in all she does—sometimes talks a great
did not love her .
" elinor had heard enough , if not to gratify her vanity , and raise her self-importance , to agitate
in the very moment of the maid ' s going away , she eagerly collected every scattered sheet which had
in public with lady middleton .
indefferent people do to me , but weary and distress me— .
” “i should have no objection , ” she replied ; “for though i should not particularly dislike the part
enhance every pleasure—and affection and intelligence , which might supply it among themselves if there were disappointments abroad .
i can picture to myself the cultivated understanding , the noble sentiments , and elegant language which would have shone
john knightley did not by any means like ; he anticipated nothing in the visit that could be at all
—emma took the opportunity of whispering , “you speak too plain .
being now too late in the year for such visits to be made on foot , the coach was beginning
the good understanding between the colonel and miss dashwood seemed rather to declare that the honours of the mulberry-tree ,
weston with exultation , “i told you all that he would be here before the time named .
they were indebted , the next day , to charles hayter , for all the minute knowledge of louisa ,
my dear mother , —i am very glad to find that my description of frederica vernon has interested you ,
feared he was not .
" yes ; and heaven knows how much longer we may have to wait .
” “miss crawford was very right in what she said of you the other day : that you seemed almost
before any answer could arrive from mr .
had ' been quite misunderstood , ' and he had promised this and he had promised that , and the
but does it follow that had he married you , he would have been happy ?
not one of them had the power of removal , or of effecting any material change of society .
your reproof , so well applied , i shall never forget : ‘had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner
accurate idea of anything .
few moments ' free observation of the entrance and ground-plot of the house—and was hardly there , when jane fairfax
emma wished to go to work directly , and therefore produced the portfolio containing her various attempts at portraits ,
her cousin edmund with moderated feelings .
" " margaret , " said marianne with great warmth , " you know that all this is an invention
formed miss woodhouse ' s character , than miss woodhouse miss taylor ' s .
but now suppose as much as you choose ; give a loose rein to your fancy , indulge your imagination
” “i hope you will bring elton , ” said he : “but i will not trouble you to give
darcy had been , was much relieved by discerning such different feelings .
had you not been really amiable , you would have hated me for it ; but in spite of the
she knew that at times she must be missed ; and could not think , without pain , of emma
happy , was hardly seated before her admiration of the parlour and every thing in it burst forth .
isabella , who had been talking to james on the other side of her , turned again to his sister
hughes were schoolfellows ; and miss drummond had a very large fortune ; and , when she married , her
i will not reason here—nor will i stop for you to expatiate on the absurdity , and the worse than
i am sure you will agree with me .
wentworth ; captain wentworth of the navy .
not offend , and there was something particularly kind and proper in the notice he took of susan .
the whole story[ _num_ ] would have been speedily formed under her active imagination ; and every thing established in
to feel that she ought to be in better circumstances , that a little trouble in the right place might
he is impatient to travel .
get abroad ; in the supposition of which , as i was going to observe , since applications will unquestionably
the circumstances of his marriage , too , were found to admit of much extenuation .
the solemn procession , headed by baddeley , of tea-board , urn , and cake-bearers , made its appearance ,
anne mitchell had tried to put on a turban like mine , as i wore it the week before at
much better somewhere , and nothing could prevent her from going to look for a better also .
" " your sister , " he continued , " has suffered dreadfully .
making-up indeed would not do .
i am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at hunsford .
poor harville , sister !
in all probability be with reginald , and that would be the greatest evil of all .
of justice to take possession .
norris , “i knew what was coming .
some people were stupid , and fanny must take more pains : she did not know what else was to
i do not know whether he has any design of ingratiating himself with either of us , harriet , by
bad indeed must the nature of marianne ' s affliction be , when her mother could talk of fortitude !
elton , i am obliged to any body who feels for me , but i am quite serious in wishing
emma had no longer an alarm for henry ; his interest was yet safe ; and she led off the
harriet ' s features are very delicate , which makes a likeness difficult ; and yet there is a peculiarity
you so excessively !
” no look or word was given .
guided by it , she judged it wisest , from the experience of the past , to submit ; and
his friend’s connections , than from their want of sense ; and she was quite decided , at last ,
i saw her there whenever i could , and after the death of my brother , (which happened about five
why mr .
through letters , whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated , and every succeeding day
bennet had many grievances to relate , and much to complain of .
though she did not feel the first intelligence as she might have done the day before , or an hour
son of a woman especially of such very large fortune as mrs .
, she must condemn altogether .
” “and really , ” added edmund , “the day is so mild , that your sitting down for a
suffice all who care about me .
there is great fear , great caution , great resolution somewhere .
; enjoying them as thoroughly , perhaps , in the animation of a card-table , as she had ever done
nothing ever fatigues me but doing what i do not like .
allen caught at it directly .
i have done very little .
were exactly calculated to give increasing intimacy to his acquaintance with the dashwoods , to afford him opportunity of witnessing
you know i never stand upon ceremony with such people .
knightley seemed to be trying not to smile ; and succeeded without difficulty , upon mrs .
the idea of mr .
of the rest of the family , said , with a smile , “and how do you think i mean
my dear ; but so much as patty has to do !
you are venus herself .
what he can do , ” replied mrs .
” “certainly ; and if he is lazy or negligent , i will write his excuses myself .
they have all , perhaps , been corrupting one another ; but if they are so much fonder of her
turned into a churchill she has out-churchill ' d them all in high and mighty claims : but in herself
it was a sad , anxious day ; and the morrow , though differing in the sort of evil ,
she likes to have the distinction of rank preserved .
as the day of his arrival drew near , — “i begin to be sorry that he comes at all
whose aromatic gales dispense to templars modesty , to parsons sense .
eleanor , and only eleanor , stood there .
the poor girl ' s heart was almost broke at taking leave of us .
i must go and dress .
, had nothing to say to her .
was not even mentioned in any of the succeeding letters .
willoughby of combe magna .
but jane and elizabeth , who agreed in wishing , for the sake of their sister’s feelings and consequence ,
” “my idea of him is , that he can adapt his conversation to the taste of every body ,
times .
" dear , dear norland , " said elinor , " probably looks much as it always does at this
she could not enter the house again , could not be in the same room to which she had with
and settle my matters ; for it is a long while since i have been at home , and you
aye , i remember , so it was ; i was thinking of that other stupid book , written by
henry the _num_ th this monarch soon after his accession married the princess elizabeth of york , by which alliance
after pausing on this point a considerable while , she once more continued to read .
behaviour !
to apprehend .
its banks were neither formal nor falsely adorned .
coming the very next morning to shoot with charles .
robertus congratulated him and sent him in his carriage to take possession of the cottage .
assemblies , and therefore determined (though rather against the opinion of sir john) that as mrs .
—for , not being within when he called the other day , i had never seen him before ; and
worse than all !
my dear charles , what do you mean ?
, nor wished for anything of the kind from him .
she does not know which are the best warehouses .
however , she is very agreeable , and mrs .
removal to the hall which is within a walk from our house , they became both more frequent and longer
darcy , to be treating his father’s favourite in such a manner , one whom his father had promised to
i have nothing more entertaining to send you i will gave you the particulars of .
” “law , lady scudamore replied i blushing how can you think of such a thing ?
fine enough for its wearer—for to tell you the truth (i always speak my mind) i am very much afraid
wickham , who left the place immediately , and mrs .
” fanny stood aghast .
" " yes , " said mrs smith more doubtingly , " sometimes it may , though i fear its
than she had expected .
” “something has happened to delay her ; some visitors perhaps .
how absurd to be resuming the agitation which such an interval had banished into distance and indistinctness !
” “depend upon it , my dear , that when there are twenty , i will visit them all .
coffee , in so close a confederacy that there was not a single vacancy near her which would admit of
the lady , i suppose , has no choice in the affair .
harriet ' s claims to marry well are not so contemptible as you represent them .
” which was permission .
(with some elevation) i was thinking of a much more precious circumstance—of mr .
the two superior sashed windows which were open , to look in and contemplate its capabilities , and lament that
” said emma , as she turned back into the hall again .
elton was immediately in sight ; and so near as to give emma time only to say farther , “ah
” “i have not been working uninterruptedly , ” he replied , “i have been assisting miss fairfax in trying
elinor ' s delight , as she saw what each felt in the meeting , was only checked by an
infinitely the most worthy of the two—or even the more simple sublimity of resolving to refuse him at once and
clear your character handsomely before her .
not be cross ; it is not a little matter that puts me out of temper .
to it with a look of particular meaning , and conversed with her there for several minutes .
with a book he was regardless of time ; and on the present occasion he had a good deal of
i leave it to my reader ' s sagacity to determine how much of all this it was possible for
i beg you will not go .
could be of any use to you to know my opinion of her .
" sir john did not much understand this reproof ; but he laughed as heartily as if he did ,
mama always found me her best scholar , tho ' when papa was alive eloisa was his .
” “it will be her turn soon to be teased , ” said miss lucas .
there is a spirit of irritation which , to say nothing worse , is certainly very ill-bred .
it was an encouragement of vice ; and had i been the rector of longbourn , i should very strenuously
willoughby at cleveland , and whether they were intimately acquainted with him .
but when they had withdrawn , he said to her : “mrs .
one day in the country is exactly like another .
till the latter walked away from her , and making with his usual deliberation towards the pianoforte stationed himself so
” “am i ?
to-morrow will bring , i think it would be no more than common prudence to stay at home and take
she tried to eat , as well to save herself from the pain of being urged as to make her
” stepping eagerly to fanny , and addressing her in a softened voice ; and upon her saying “no ,
people did say you meant to quit the place entirely at michaelmas ; but , however , i hope it
" " ay , my dear , i ' ll warrant you we do .
, knightley , jane , and myself .
“do you prefer reading to cards ?
of the fondest biographer .
but i cannot call that situation nothing which has the charge of all that is of the first importance to
in rational expectation survive such a blow as this .
what he means to do i am sure i know not ; but his excessive distress will not allow him
in restoring peace than i ever intended to submit to—a spirit , too , resulting from a fancied sense of
margaret and i shall be as much benefited by it as yourselves .
could ever make a bow , or behave like any other person .
pray explain everything to his satisfaction ; or , if he still harbours any doubt , a line from himself
in direct opposition to jane fairfax ' s sense of right , he made a fuller pause to say ,
with such thoughts as these , among ten hundred others , fanny proceeded in her journey safely and cheerfully ,
advice and entreaty of so near a relation might settle every doubt , and determine him at once to be
, yielding temper ; and they could not but own , when their aunt inquired into her faults , or
this was the only comfort that occurred .
and myself .
” “my dear sir , upon no account in the world ; my father can direct me .
pray write to me soon , and direct to my own home .
” “very true indeed , my dears , but you are blessed with wonderful memories , and your poor cousin
going in ; —no servant that i want to inquire about of his housekeeper—no message from my father .
they will come and stand by my chair , and say , ' grandpapa , can you give me a
and , by what i understand , you might have had lodgings there quite away from the sea—a quarter of
collins , but likewise by lady catherine and her daughter , to whom i have related the affair .
when , after recalling and commending what his nephew had said , he added , “i do not like ,
that the gipsy , though she had told no fortune , might be proved to have made harriet ' s
and miss crawford , the children of her mother by a second marriage .
hope , if i had not assured her of his attachment , for she is as modest and humble as
“a pretty trick , upon my word !
it is not ugly , you see , at this end ; there is some fine timber , but the
hayter , and what the young people had wished , and what i said at first i never could consent
had parted with captain wentworth long , when they saw him coming after them , with three companions , all
to all his former indolence .
i hope your plans in favour of the ——shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood .
i cannot at all consent to mr .
you will have no business here .
, and his own views on another (circumstances of which he boasted with almost equal openness) , seemed sufficient vouchers
weston ; and at last would begin admiring her drawings with so much zeal and so little knowledge as seemed
” “but you have not seen so much of the world as i have .
she had heard a great deal of very painful import .
james and isabella led the way ; and so well satisfied was the latter with her lot , so contentedly
hour ' s conversation , my dearest , most beloved emma—tell me at once .
hulk .
but “no , no , no !
they went to the sands , to watch the flowing of the tide , which a fine south-easterly breeze was
elton ; “i really cannot attempt—i am not at all fond of the sort of thing .
come , and tell me .
to say the truth , though i am hurt and grieved , that i cannot still love her , that
who included me in it .
when once it had been read , there was no doing any thing , but lament and exclaim .
my poor aunt always felt affected if within ten miles of the sea , which the admiral of course never
by .
her usefulness to little charles would always give some sweetness to the memory of her two months ' visit there
” emma returned her friend ' s pressure with interest ; and was pleased enough to exclaim , “you are
, his admiration of her was not of a very dangerous kind ; not likely to produce animosities between the
she wanted me to nurse my cold by staying at home to-day , and yet will not promise to avoid
crawford , and the felicity of having a fire to sit over and think of it .
have a brother and i a sister settling at the same time .
" is it very ugly ?
and so are mr .
but oh !
on their guard , and made even julia admit , in her jealousy of her sister , the absolute necessity
the sitting was altogether very satisfactory ; she was quite enough pleased with the first day ' s sketch to
ferrars ' s declaring he would not have lucy , for it is no such thing i can tell you
had been residing , had received any information of their short-lived engagement .
i know what you mean—but emma ' s hand is the strongest .
” cried mary , as soon as she could speak ; “what a match for her !
word .
whirl of a ballroom , perhaps , was not particularly favourable to the excitement or expression of serious feelings .
the previous self-inquiry of whether she should take leave or not just then , and how , to a very
it soon appeared that he came to announce an improvement .
again—but the misery of having a very particular friend always at hand , to do every thing better than one
their garden gate .
or have i said all this to no purpose ?
" elinor , pleased to have her governed for a moment by such a motive , though believing it hardly
looked at her , as if wanting to read her thoughts .
they will hardly follow us there .
her , in spite of all miss bingley’s witticisms on fine eyes .
his daughter , in a complimentary style , which so well concealed his resentful ire , as to make her
ellison could never agree .
grant .
[ _num_ ] chapter xxvii " if this open weather holds much longer , " said mrs .
” “yes , indeed , ” cried mrs .
do you find them agreeable acquaintance ?
it had increased her comforts by making her feel herself to be in good hands .
to what might ere long have raised expectations in more than mrs .
you are more than mortal .
bennet began repeating her thanks to mr .
allen had been used to call unnatural and overdrawn ; but here was proof positive of the contrary .
we had had a great deal of trouble in persuading him to sit at all .
you have a sweet room here , mr .
woodhouse had been always felt in her husband ' s plans and her own , for a marriage between frank
” before half this was said , fanny was returned to her seat at the table , and had taken
to leave his card in camden place , following it up by such assiduous endeavours to meet , and when
johnson as comprehending only (at least in his absence) your not sleeping in the house .
she acknowledged her fears , blamed herself for having contended so warmly ; and from that hour fanny , understanding
elton should not be really in love with her , or so particularly amiable as to make it shocking to
" without knowing something of miss anne elliot ; and i do regard her as one who is too modest
she shall hear my opinion .
you never see a fault in anybody .
it is a beautiful moonlight night ; and so mild that i must draw back from your great fire .
i am not much better yet ; still insane either from happiness or misery .
the others had so much reason to dislike .
i am now going to inform you of .
crawford , with all his boasted good-nature , and all his coachmanship , probably knew nothing of the matter ,
” emma demurred .
no doubt of it being highly agreeable to fanny .
” “aye , we men are sad fellows .
jennings went out by herself on business , and elinor began her letter directly , while marianne , too restless
mainwaring ' s jealousy it was totally his own invention , and his account of her attaching miss mainwaring '
towards her own condition , when she compares it with that of my poor eliza , when she considers the
i had supposed him to be despising his fellow-creatures in general , but did not suspect him of descending to
palmer was not in the house .
“what shall i do , sir thomas ?
” it was not to oblige jane fairfax therefore that he would have preferred the society of william larkins .
weston was sufficiently recovered to admit mr .
" did i not tell you , " said she with a smile , " that your brother would not
the first , which was what her sister had sent him on their arrival in town , was to this
a desperate dull life hers must be with the doctor , ” making a sly face as he spoke towards
" this is not right , mr .
altogether she was quite convinced of harriet smith ' s being exactly the young friend she wanted—exactly the something which
knew how to do , from the consciousness of there being but two spare rooms in the house .
clear that the voice was enough to convey the full meaning of the protestation ; and such a quick consciousness
the constant attention of mr .
am not certain which .
” another short fit of abstraction followed , when , shaking it off , she thus attacked her companion .
the cousin who was travelling towards them could hardly have less than visited their agitated spirits—one all happiness , the
nobody was in their right place , nothing was done as it ought to be .
to whom her uncle’s good dinners , and her own easy manners recommended her , had increased into assurance .
mortifying and humiliating must be the origin of those regrets , which she could wish her not to indulge !
the interest with which she thus anticipated the party , was soon afterwards increased , more powerfully than pleasantly ,
“mansfield , sotherton , thornton lacey , ” he continued ; “what a society will be comprised in those houses
amongst them were sir john and lady middleton and mrs .
” “you are not going to introduce yourself to mr .
england being to prove the innocence of the queen of scotland , which i flatter myself with having effectually done
only on themselves , she could go with them , and everybody might then be satisfied .
the chief of every day was spent by him at lucas lodge , and he sometimes returned to longbourn only
his wishes , and confirm all his resolutions .
i will not be prevented , however , from making my own communication .
desire of never meeting again .
such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to herself .
—what an escape !
what i said just now , meant nothing .
could call their own ; for it was impossible that mrs .
there will be very few dates in this history .
our ages were nearly the same , and from our earliest years we were playfellows and friends .
you will be censured , slighted , and despised , by everyone connected with him .
their preparations , however , were stopped short .
moment , as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either .
dear sophia be not uneasy at having exposed yourself—i will turn the conversation without appearing to notice it .
most welcome request : for miss smith was a girl of seventeen , whom emma knew very well by sight
and i do assure you that i should be the last person to encourage your marrying anyone who had not
presumptuous and silly , and self-deceived , before , her pain and confusion seemed to die away with the words
anne had never seen her father and sister before in contact with nobility , and she must acknowledge herself disappointed
a kind bow to anne) , " beyond what i always had in most of the ships i have lived
unwilling to beleive so unpleasing a report , and at the same time cannot wholly discredit it .
brother .
, and even supposing her heart again free , is too diffident of himself to believe , that with such
had not got beyond the words “delightful , ” and “charming , ” when some unlucky recollections obtruded , and
the ruin of the play was to them a certainty : they felt the total destruction of the scheme to
the scotch , to consider them as equally guilty with the generality of the english , since they dared to
collins , you must send a servant with them .
seeing a beautiful morning , she hardly felt a doubt of it ; for a fine sunday in bath empties
went no farther ; and anne who , in spite of the agitated voice in which the latter part had
in the joyfulness of family love everything for a short time was subdued , and the pleasure of seeing her
the pulmonary complaint , which was the standing apprehension of the family , mr .
it was not very pretty of him not to give you the meeting when he was invited .
i compare it with what it ought to have been ; i compare it with yours .
was too conscientious to have allowed it .
her principal personages for their names .
serious she was , very serious in her thankfulness , and in her resolutions ; and yet there was no
jennings , with a thoroughly good-humoured concern for its cause , admitted the excuse most readily , and elinor ,
—in jane ' s eyes she had been a rival ; and well might any thing she could offer of
it was all over before i arrived ; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as yours seems to
frank churchill—must put up for the present with jane fairfax , who could bring only the freshness of a two
being on foot , was unseen by the whole party till almost close to them .
had promised herself .
i always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady and regular instruction , and nobody but
the longbourn family .
once lucy thought to write to him , but then her spirits rose against that .
the danger of catching an ulcerated sore throat herself .
every body ' s words , were soon lost under the incessant flow of miss bates , who came in
and at his desire ?
real park , five miles round , a spacious modern-built house , so well placed and well screened as to
” “i am sure i think it a very good one .
darcy is particularly fond of , that i may have it to-morrow .
bennet was told of this , she did not express so much satisfaction as her children expected , considering what
partridge , the lady i have always resided with when in bath , would be most happy to shew you
collins , much offended , laid aside his book , and said : “i have often observed how little young
elton ' s side soon afterwards appeared , and she was left in peace—neither forced to be the very particular
” “how came i up that staircase !
i love him already .
he did not mean to complain , however .
they were to be married in a few months , and graham , was in the house when we arrived
isabella themselves could be ; never satisfied with the day unless she spent the chief of it by the side
rushworth spoke with proper smiles and dignity of its being a most happy event to her whenever it took place
" " i must see captain benwick before i decide , " said lady russell , smiling .
charles , you had much better go back and change the box for tuesday .
no ; that is madness indeed ; absolute madness .
to see how it might turn up .
norris was often observing to the others that she could not get her poor sister and her family out of
the result .
subject of marriage they are particularly nice , and that she reprobates all inequality of condition and rank more strongly
the whole country about them abounded in beautiful walks .
got into it .
left them .
fortune of a very troublesome , hopeless son ; and the good fortune to lose him before he reached his
strong hectic symptoms , which seemed to seize the frame on the departure of the fever .
he was murdered by his uncle ' s contrivance , whose name was richard the _num_ rd .
she could not imagine what business he could have in town so soon after his arrival in hertfordshire ; and
yes , i am sure you are much too reasonable .
a fortune-hunter ?
had it been your uncle’s doing , i must and would have paid him ; but these violent young lovers
you have perhaps been misinformed , or purposely deceived , in something concerning me , which may have lowered me
my kind friends will not hear of my returning till i am better .
perhaps it will be wisest in you to check your feelings while you can : at any rate do not
that moment deep in consultation about her .
letter the _num_ th laura in continuation you may imagine how greatly we were surprised by the sudden departure of
we should all have liked her a great deal better ; and papa and mamma always think it was her
i know it perfectly .
you have done all this !
to spare henrietta from agitation seemed the governing principle .
the only time i ever really suffered in body or mind , the only time that i ever fancied myself
i think you must know hartfield enough to comprehend that .
and why should not lovers ' vows do for us as well as for the ravenshaws ?
vernon ' s consciousness of deserving every sort of revenge that it can be in my power to inflict for
the idea lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view ; the turning past , he
” “it is not on my own account i wish for more ; but i cannot bear to be the
” emma was more than half in hopes of mr .
the office of each watchful companion , and each found their reward in her bodily ease , and her calmness
xxvii mrs .
she had fully proposed being engaged by mr .
the others .
; and the quiet transition which mr .
every idea that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was favourable to his character , and as she stood
it was driven by a servant in mourning .
to retire to bed , however , unsatisfied on such a point , would be vain , since sleep must
” said jane .
from what i can collect , he left derbyshire only one day after ourselves , and came to town with
but i only go for the sake of seeing edward .
" " indeed , " replied elinor , " i believe that you will find him , on farther acquaintance
” catherine was saved the embarrassment of attempting an answer by the entrance of the general , whose smiling compliments
” “you had better explore to donwell , ” replied mr .
a house in town !
so tall !
bennet still up .
the matter ; and having thus supported the dignity of her own sex , and spoken her decided censure of
" no , my mother is in town .
the astonishment she felt , that he was obliged to repeat what he had said , and more fully and
i beleive you never yet heard the particulars of his first acquaintance with her .
in terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother , though expressed most concisely , he then delivered
” “this is an alliance which , whoever—whatever your friends may be , must be agreeable to them , provided
lydia to send any message to her .
” the two cousins walked home together ; and , except in the immediate discussion of this engagement , which
i am , dear madam , your most obedient humble servant , " john willoughby .
she will preside at her husbands table in preference to his daughter .
have you forgot the last evening of our being together at barton ?
their suspense lasted an hour or two .
as well as its unfinished state admitted , were waiting only the arrival of mrs .
the table , by her ladyship’s desire , and looked as if he felt that life could furnish nothing greater
the events of this monarch ' s reign are too numerous for my pen , and indeed the recital of
good way .
but here comes a friend , captain brigden ; i shall only say , ' how d ' ye do
be going to clifton the next day , in spite of what had passed .
mainwaring , and with such an open , good-humoured countenance , that one cannot help loving him at first sight
of richmond as great a villain as ever lived , made a great fuss about getting the crown and having
for some time all that could be done was to soothe her distress , lessen her alarms , and combat[
weston ' s suspicions , to which the sweet sounds of the united voices gave only momentary interruptions .
tilney and his sister were gone out in a phaeton together ?
not of frederick ; and with shame at her own forgetfulness applied herself to the knowledge of their former neighbour
an unbounded affection , to be miserable for my sake .
” in spite of this conviction , however , she was glad .
their both being alive and well made it necessary to lay by her agitation and affectionate preparatory speeches for a
” “yes , but that did not last long , ” said catherine , her eyes brightening at the recollection
" " they have borne more than our conduct .
his affection and wishes must still be unshaken .
” exclaimed mr .
but upon this matter the records are mute .
are markedly emphasised in the opening pages of the book but miss austen subsequently , and , as we think
been the person ; and now—it is possible—” she paused a few moments .
i had hoped that her regard for me would support her under any difficulty , and for some time it
” her performance was pleasing , though by no means capital .
norris , much discontented , was obliged to compose herself to work again ; and fanny , walking off in
xxv lady susan to mrs .
low voice , " but , marianne , the horse is still yours , though you cannot use it now
as these considerations occurred to her in painful succession , she wept for him , more than for herself .
” she continued , not attending to his address .
enough to forgive all the petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting him , and all the unjust accusations
in my father ' s room , is the very thing we could have desired , if we had sat
” “you judge very properly , ” said mr .
she was convinced that she could have been happy with him , when it was no longer likely they should
there was but one of his children who was not at this time a source of misery to him .
she will be extremely sorry to miss seeing you , miss woodhouse , but your kindness will excuse her .
opposition , though it proved perfectly different from what she wished and expected , though she felt it to be
the most delightful scheme in the world , that nobody could imagine how charming it had been , and that
collins in time .
falling in with you .
you and i must positively exert our authority .
” from thompson , that— “it is a delightful task “to teach the young idea how to shoot .
” in spite of what her sister declared , and really believed to be her feelings in the expectation of
that such an article of mansfield news should fall to my pen instead of hers .
or expression , and nothing could be less interesting than the whole of their discourse both in the dining parlour
it was a remainder of former sentiment ; it was an impulse of pure , though unacknowledged friendship ; it
all who can distinguish will understand your motive .
elizabeth received her congratulations amongst the rest , and then , sick of this folly , took refuge in her
you have been in a bad school for matrimony , in hill street .
the chair of the latter , who proving , however , to be close at his elbow , made so
a partial , ill-judging parent , a dawdle , a slattern , who neither taught nor restrained her children ,
” she had no doubt as to his being less in love—but neither his agitated spirits , nor his hurrying
i do not consider myself at all a fortunate person .
it has everything in its favour : heroism , danger , bustle , fashion .
i felt that , as to fortune , in all probability he might do much better ; and that as
had always more to say than on any other , and in which she soon betrayed an interest even equal
his attentions were such as a child must have noticed .
mistaken judgment in encouraging the unfortunate attachment to willoughby , had contributed to place her ; and in her recovery
” “no , not at all .
miss bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl , and their brother felt authorized by such commendation to think
it did not appear to me that--in short , you know , dr shirley must have a curate , and
fanny had no share in the festivities of the season ; but she enjoyed being avowedly useful as her aunt
the sacrifice is not much ; and to oblige such a friend—i shall think you quite unkind , if you
i know what is due to my tenant .
had she known her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and such realities as these , what would
dispiriting cogitation upon what had been , and might be , and must be .
with her from five years old—how she had devoted all her powers to attach and amuse her in health—and how
but in this , our last interview of friendship , i approached her with a sense of guilt that almost
the elliot countenance , i wonder the arms did not strike me !
i declare , i have no patience with your sister ; and i hope , with all my heart ,
after a short interval , however , he came towards her , and spoke again .
nor induced him to bestow one curse on our vindictive stars— .
“you know what you are about .
i was as unsuspicious of it at first—indeed , indeed i was .
as for mary , she was mistress enough of herself to whisper to elizabeth , with a countenance of grave
at their rehearsals too .
the hills which surrounded the cottage terminated the valley in that direction ; under another name , and in another
ride .
and at michaelmas , perhaps , a fourth may be added : some small hunting-box in the vicinity of everything
perhaps however if she finds her health impaired by too much amusement , she may acquire fortitude sufficient to undertake
to disobey her mother by refusing an unexceptionable offer is not enough ; her affections must also be given without
he had heard , i imagine , by some means or other , that you were soon to be in
let me rather repeat the praise of our dear little neice the innocent louisa , who is at present sweetly
anne felt that she should like to know who he was .
emma could have wished mrs .
elton ' s civilities for her .
was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to mr .
veil .
and am rather surprized indeed that he should have ventured to address her .
sensibly .
i do not wish to make objections ; i shall be happy to be of any use , but i
the bare possibility of it acted as a farther irritation on her spirits ; and her being left in solitary
mine is famous good stuff , to be sure .
he knows that human nature needs more lessons than a weekly sermon can convey ; and that if he does
sir james may seem to have drawn a harder lot than mere folly merited ; i leave him , therefore
her father ' s comfort was amply secured , mrs .
i could not tell whether you would be for some meat , or only a dish of tea , after
no airs ; while the praises attending such behaviour , secured and brought round by their aunt , served to
the game nor seen it played in her life ; and lady bertram felt a moment ' s indecision again
, bringing them to father , you may be sure ; mother had chanced to send him of a message
edward , after all the troubles we have went through lately , therefore will make no more apologies , but
those views on the young man , of which her own imagination had already given her such instinctive knowledge .
i dearly love a laugh .
upon her disposition he believed kindness might be the best way of working .
when he was again in their company , he could not help remembering what he had seen ; nor could
—how much of pleasure or pain was it in his power to bestow !
yet this was an abbey !
though they met at least every other evening either at the park or cottage , and chiefly at the former
she will follow wherever lydia leads .
chapter _num_ captain wentworth was come to kellynch as to a home , to stay as long as he liked
of dinner .
he had had an answer from mr musgrove ; for it was all settled between him and her before she
of your country customs .
” but this , with the look of sorrow accompanying it , was enough to melt catherine ' s pride
ready , and had even a hurried , agitated air , which shewed impatience to be gone .
“i know not , miss elizabeth , ” said he , “whether mrs .
elliot , who united these gifts , was the constant object of his warmest respect and devotion .
very mutually and very sincerely attached .
world , and have seen none like it .
he so frequently talked of the increasing expenses of housekeeping , and of the perpetual demands upon his purse ,
our confidences in you need not clash .
make requisite , was kept off by irritation of spirits .
knightley gave emma considerable pleasure .
lady catherine approached , and , after listening for a few minutes , said to darcy : “miss bennet would
it was now a good deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head , living in retirement , and
emma smiled and chatted as cheerfully as she could , to keep him from such thoughts ; but when tea
” their party in the dining-room was large , for almost all the lucases came to meet maria and hear
though mr .
i do not mean , therefore , that frederica ' s acquirements should be more than superficial , and i
it , and in the language , tone , and spirit of a man of talent too , that he
the young tea-maker ' s , a cup and saucer ; and after another quarter of an hour of earnest
" " how !
there was a great deal of friendly and of compassionate attachment on his side—but no love .
friend that he could come to from all that he observed to pass before , and at , and after
palmer will be so happy to see you , " said she ; " what do you think he said
anybody but myself would have made something more of it , and anybody but you would resent that you had
how it came to cease , is perhaps the wonder .
, i can ' t help wishing they had not travelled quite so fast , nor made such a long
fanny could read , work , and write , but she had been taught nothing more ; and as her
i am sure of a good income of my own ; and if she had not a penny , why
lydia’s last letter she had prepared her for such a step .
" " she will be more hurt by it , for robert always was her favourite .
bennet’s ill-humour or ill health .
fearing he might not have been civil enough , took up the subject again , to say-- " the next
price took her weekly walk on the ramparts every fine sunday throughout the year , always going directly after morning
baldwin , the most deplorable-looking personage you can imagine ; his face the colour of mahogany , rough and rugged
it was a commission to me !
the general declared he could say no more ; the claims of mr .
elton , and found to his great surprize , that mr .
the campbells , he named the name of dixon .
her eyes were towards donwell as she walked , but she saw him not .
soon as lady bertram began to nod again , “but this i will maintain , that we shall be doing
quite at her ladyship ' s service themselves , but had actually been happy to be employed by her in
i never saw quite so wretched an example of what a sea-faring life can do ; but to a degree
and they only deserved to be respected and loved .
catherine had never wanted comfort more , and he looked as if he was aware of it .
that it was time for every body to go , concluded the subject ; and with a short final arrangement
crawford was obliged to move .
but enough of this .
may not be said and heard again to-morrow .
lady who might be particularly tired ; it would save her a full mile , and they were going through
but it does not signify , the nights are moonlight , and we shall do delightfully .
' lady wentworth ' sounds very well .
had they been only ten minutes sooner , they should have been beyond the reach of his discrimination ; for
want to be influenced against their conscience .
being on shore some part of every day before they sailed , and even of getting her to spithead to
i was dreadfully alarmed yesterday , but the case is very different to-day .
any thing less tender than pity , and in its unobtrusiveness entitled to praise .
at the end of a table , at which a large party were already placed , without having anything to
what a pity it is that mr .
am i , —be it only one degree , —am i less guilty in your opinion than i was before
” “yes , that ' s the book ; such unnatural stuff !
their interests were the same , the sisters , under such a trial as this , had not affection or
—why not your honour !
darcy was expected there in the course of a few weeks , and though there were not many of her
the news ; and various were the subjects that occupied them : lady lucas was inquiring of maria , after
” “him !
my aunt’s intelligence had given me hope , and i was determined at once to know every thing .
she roused herself and went to him .
but , perhaps he could not in her mother’s presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt .
i do not know whether i ever before mentioned to you my feelings on this subject ; but i will
nor any ambition beyond it .
she had received ideas which disposed her to be courteous and kind to all , and to pity every one
impossible that any situation could be more replete with comfort ; if we except , perhaps , mrs .
it is fit that the fortune should be on his side , for i think the merit will be all
” edmund , to whom this was chiefly addressed , replied , “i believe i know what you mean ,
i cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the means of injuring your amiable daughters , and beg leave to
five minutes that she could walk about with him and hear his account of his partners ; she was happy
superior force , which (supposing the first lieutenant out of the way , and william was not very merciful to
to her , the handwriting itself , independent of anything it may convey , is a blessedness .
” “but as for general tilney , i assure you it would be impossible for anybody to behave to me
" brandon is just the kind of man , " said willoughby one day , when they were talking of
as she had always been disposed to like him , she could not think without anger , hardly without contempt
mean concessions by word of mouth than on paper , it was resolved that , instead of writing to fanny
she did not blame lady russell , she did not blame herself for having been guided by her ; but
i rejoice to say that the young man whom , of all others , i particularly abhor , has left
moreover , to enter into an engagement of allowing her , during your life , one hundred pounds per annum
jane should go .
soon proceeded to a positive recommendation to mrs .
her heart and her judgment were equally against edmund ' s decision : she could not acquit his unsteadiness ,
but though my uncle entered into my wishes with all the warmth i could desire , and exerted himself immediately
of judgment , which qualified her , though only nineteen , to be the counsellor of her mother , and
sight of a dead young lady , nay , two dead young ladies , for it proved twice as fine
superior solicitude of mr .
a very agreeable young man to be sure ; i know him very well .
her gestures and movements might be understood by any one who looked on like emma ; but her words ,
constant attendance for four and twenty hours .
she wished it might be possible for her to avoid ever seeing captain wentworth at the hall : those rooms
what is it you are talking of ?
in size and fashion in the place .
bennet chose to consider it as given in compliment to her eldest daughter , and was particularly flattered by receiving
had he been in his right senses , he could not have thought of such a thing as[ _num_ ]
elton , “but i must confess that i regard it as a most happy thought , the placing of miss
bates ' s knitting , she added , in a half whisper , “i mentioned no names , you will
never were such characters cut by any other human being as edmund ' s commonest handwriting gave !
chapter xviii time passed on .
notions , which indeed are quite of a piece with your general conduct ; and i entirely agree with you
cousins in town , fan ?
" cried sir john ; " what , is he in the country ?
nothing could be objected to when it came under the discussion of the neighbourhood , except that the carriage which
i dare say that , on a comparison of our opinions , they would be found as much alike as
title of pride and prejudice and the passage in cecilia , there is an obvious connection between the title of
he is always with them ; half lives in the family , i believe .
not relieve the irksomeness of imprisonment by the exchange of a syllable with any of her fellow captives ; and
, and gladly therefore did she lay aside the first volume of the mirror for a future hour .
as ever in the general concerns of the family , and if , by this conduct , she did not
at once both tragedy and comedy , that there did seem as little chance of a decision as anything pursued
more elegant .
her to think of norland with less regret than ever .
—it might be only her own consciousness ; but it seemed as if an angel only could have been quite
it would be most consoling ; but that she found was not to be .
fine eyes , and fine teeth , as she will take care to let you know as soon as she
delighted to hear it indeed .
there was intimacy between them , and mr .
of marianne ' s declaration that the day would be lastingly fair , and that every threatening cloud would be
there was a little awkwardness at first in their discourse on another subject .
“if it were merely a fine house richly furnished , ” said she , “i should not care about it
the canal , and the yew arbour , would all be made over to her ; and mrs .
your interest , sir walter , is in pretty safe hands .
when the evening was over , anne could not but be amused at the idea of her coming to lyme
years ; and it would be a help to the young people in their journey to have her older head
if i could but have papa and mamma , and the rest of them here , i suppose i should
, i assure you .
—i am happy—and he is acquitted .
you what is your favourite complexion in a man .
“my sweetest catherine , is not this delightful ?
” catherine explained : “oh !
" " no , " said anne , " i can readily believe all that of my cousin .
to indulge them .
we only speak of it among friends .
” miss bates , in her real anxiety for jane , could hardly stay even to be grateful , before
but for this strange kind of secrecy maintained by them relative to their engagement , which in fact concealed nothing
heaven no harm come of it !
points ; and she saw , therefore , in all its enormity , what had happened , and neither endeavoured
the listeners were amused ; and mrs .
i should hold myself guilty of greater impropriety in accepting a horse from my brother , than from willoughby .
eye .
and sister .
blush to own that such superior merit has made an impression on me .
her heart and faith were alike engaged to james .
” “particularly well ; i always buy my own cravats , and am allowed to be an excellent judge ;
she knew so much already , that she must know everything .
do you know it ?
he was not only to quit his home , but to see it in the hands of others ; a
there being any men in the world who could like them well enough to marry them .
she had always felt that charlotte’s opinion of matrimony was not exactly like her own , but she had not
” emma , alone with her father , had half her attention wanted by him while he lamented that young
and for my part , i love to see children full of life and spirits ; i cannot bear them
” “but it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world , ”
she was actually forced to exert herself to meet lady russell with anything like the appearance of equal solicitude ,
and you only the second .
” in spite of herself , she could not help half a smile , but she said nothing .
well , monday morning came , and i was in such a fuss !
the first regular rehearsal of the three first acts was certainly to take place in the evening : mrs .
it is all over with frederick indeed !
in the gallery there were many family portraits , but they could have little to fix the attention of a
any discussion with her uncle was more than her nerves could bear .
most cordially , when miss bates arrived , did she agree that it must .
" he told us nothing of all this last night , " said she , laughing , " or even
it made her uncomfortable for a time , but yet there were enjoyments in the day and in the view
; but she was very glad she had contributed her mite towards it .
how quick come the reasons for approving what we like !
yours ever , s .
weston understood these joyous prospects .
” fanny had not felt so comfortable for days and days .
at the bright bars of her empty grate with concern .
thorpe has—he may be mistaken again perhaps ; he led me into one act of rudeness by his mistake on
“where are you all going to ?
office of informing her sister that he was married .
last morning at uppercross better than in assisting their preparations , and sending them off at an early hour ,
" recollecting , soon afterwards , that he was probably dividing elinor from her sister , he put an end
" " his disposition , you know , is warm , and he came to expostulate with me ; his
papa , you cannot think that i shall leave off match-making .
” and turning to his uncle , who was now close to them , “is not fanny a very good
it is not willoughby .
your father , i thought—perhaps had not been very fond of her .
but the morrow passed off much better than she expected ; for mrs .
while waiting till the other young people could pair themselves off , emma found time , in spite of the
intimacy with her discovered her real character .
, " said her husband , very gravely , " that would make great difference .
weston was too anxious for his being a favourite with mr .
his situation and ask consent ; and here was a source of some real agitation to the mind of isabella
a thousand and a thousand thanks for all the kindness you have ever shewn me , and ten thousand for
however , i did not hear above one word in ten , for i was thinking , you may suppose
upon the whole , therefore , it is most likely that the passage in madame d ' arblay is a
norris ' s removal from mansfield was the great supplementary comfort of sir thomas ' s life .
seventeen .
“i am sorry it went off .
to this nest of comforts fanny now walked down to try its influence on an agitated , doubting spirit ,
who had been at pains to give harriet notions of self-consequence but herself ?
“you are better placed here ; very fit for a wife , but not at all for a governess .
i must find mr .
in from shooting , of his meaning to dress directly , and dine at the other house .
dashwood could find explanations whenever she wanted them , which at least satisfied herself .
" are you certain that no servant , no porter has left any letter or note ?
a gleam of sunshine took her quite by surprise ; she looked round ; the clouds were parting , and
and mortification for ever .
i certainly do not go home to-night , and , therefore , the carriage will not be out on my
wherever you and jane are known you must be respected and valued ; and you will not appear to less
i never heard of her existence till the day before yesterday .
" the name of anne elliot , " said he , " has long had an interesting sound to me
not , however , that many instances of beings equally hardened in guilt might not be produced .
but is not your father uncomfortable about it ?
never be in charity with herself again .
but these are not jane’s feelings ; she is not acting by design .
dislike to sir james , i shall instantly inform him that he must give up all hope of her .
his bright eye , and curl of his handsome mouth , which convinced anne , that instead of sharing in
without any particular affection for her eldest cousin , her tenderness of heart made her feel that she could not
money , even when all his debts are discharged , to settle on my niece , in addition to her
there could be only the most proper alacrity , a most obliging compliance for public view ; and smiles reined
chair , he said , “and now , fanny , having performed one part of my commission , and shewn
woodhouse ' s family and wanted another situation ; i do not think you would have spoken a good word
she entered the room .
anxiety , was no part of her disposition .
” “if so , my dear , i dare say you will meet again some time or other ; do
plymouth , his melancholy state of mind , his dissatisfaction at his own prospects , his uncertain behaviour towards herself
being exposed to danger now .
see his younger brother in possession of an estate which might have been his own ?
the agreement we had entered into of admiring each others productions she no longer seemed to regard , and tho
i shall soon have done .
collins was employed in agreeing to everything her ladyship said , thanking her for every fish he won , and
a warm climate may be prescribed for her .
yes , yes we will have a snug walk together , and i have something to tell you as we
decline at last upon middle-aged colonels with flannel waistcoats .
we arrived in a few hours ; and on sending in our names were immediately admitted to sophia , the
" when sir john returned , he joined most heartily in the general regret on so unfortunate an event ;
in the course of the same morning , anne and her father chancing to be alone together , he began
do you talk of success ?
tell me not that i am too late , that such precious feelings are gone for ever .
bennet followed her , saying : “i am quite sorry , lizzy , that you should be forced to have
walked about at his ease in the background of the scene , and longing to be with him .
” “you like it—you approve it as an object—it is enough .
on this article i can fully acquit him .
“we have but to speak the word ; we may pick and chuse .
nobody wonders that they should prefer the line where their friends can serve them best , or suspects them to
determined not to quit marianne , though hopeless of contributing , at present , to her ease , she hurried
seldom , very seldom , does complete truth belong to any human disclosure ; seldom can it happen that something
”—she was stopped by a cough .
” with affected astonishment .
” he exclaimed , breaking forth again , after a few minutes ' musing .
i suppose you were very sorry to leave sussex .
they had frequently been staying with her in town .
i will tell you the whole story another time .
" " i have a notion , " said lucy , " you think the little middletons rather too much
could you shrink from so simple an adventure ?
you are not to put yourself at all out of your way .
” “i do not consider its length as particularly in its favour .
her liveliness had never been worse timed .
” “i cannot fix on the hour , or the spot , or the look , or the words ,
of love .
" colonel brandon ' s horses were announced .
but it seems worn out now .
more than that ?
” “indeed , sir , ” said fanny , “i am very sorry that mr .
walter ' s concerns could not be kept a secret , )--accidentally hearing of the possibility of kellynch hall being
” “i desire you will do no such thing .
; till henrietta suddenly began again with-- " oh !
to a young person like jane .
—at any rate , it must be better to have only one to please than two .
crawford ' s would rob her of many hours of his company , she was too happy in having william
he only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as
her phaeton , which he never failed coming to inform them of , though it happened almost every day .
or overborne by a defiance of decency and impudence in wrong ; and last of all , and above all
, i have been long perfectly convinced , though perhaps i never told you so before , that the sea
your reasonings carry my judgment along with them entirely .
hue to his offence .
smith and myself , and i resolved therefore on calling at the cottage , in my way to honiton .
moiety of his first wife ' s fortune was also secured to her child , and he had only a
he sat by lady bertram and looked with heartfelt satisfaction on the faces around him—interrupting himself more than once ,
sense of duty would prevent the denial which her wishes might direct .
” jane had not been gone a quarter of an hour , and they had only accomplished some views of
with all the state which a butler and foot-boy could give , mr elliot was ushered into the room .
frank churchill , which always interested her .
the first .
thought which[ _num_ ] particularly recommended the action to her .
but it seemed to satisfy lucy , for she directly replied— " indeed i am perfectly convinced of your regard
for no other purpose than to say , that they were going to take a long walk , and therefore
, must be on that side , where the view is really very pretty ; i am sure it may
all that she could tell she told most gladly , but the all was little for one who had been
jennings , who had not patience enough to wait till the door was opened before she told her story .
many a time has selina said , when she has been going to bristol , ' i really cannot get
that he had not , for miss crawford , complaisant as a sister , was careless as a woman and
such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity are not worth a regret .
as for my fair cousins , though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary , i
if he should ever be made a baronet !
" " mr .
she would be never led into temptation , nor left for it to find her out .
was scarcely able to stand .
musical parties to draw out her talents , and shall be constantly on the watch for an eligible situation .
we none of us want to hear the bill of fare .
catherine was ashamed to say how pretty she thought it , as the general seemed to think an apology necessary
a pleasant “thank you” seemed meant to laugh it off , but a blush , a quivering lip , a
young folks in their situation should be excused complying with the common forms .
you talk of giving it the air of a gentleman ' s residence .
windings brought them before her .
, but i do believe it .
to that sort of honest flirtation which satisfies most people , but aspires to the more delicious gratification of making
dashwood ' s satisfaction , and to give her the dignity of having , for the first time since her
she remembered also that , till the netherfield family had quitted the country , he had told his story to
know i do sometimes pop out a thing before i am aware .
well , i am certain of—i shall be able to take leave , however .
chuse your own degree of crossness .
enough for isabella ' s information—but miss fairfax was an old acquaintance and a quiet girl , and he could
inquiring , something particular about her .
still tried , at intervals , to suggest comfort to the others , tried to quiet mary , to animate
after the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence , health , good humour , and cheerfulness began to
after some time spent in saying little or doing less , lady middleton sat down to cassino , and as
to , provided mr .
have passed it with ease in half a minute .
opposition on so tender a subject would only attach her the more to her own opinion .
do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends ?
i wonder what he can be doing there .
gardiner that he had found out where your sister and mr .
be acquainted with !
been living a month at her own cost , and take up her abode in theirs , that every hour
so perfectly satisfied , so delighted even—” “you are very kind , but i know what my manners were to
room for a third .
was attacking , his continued attentions—continued , but not obtrusive , and adapting themselves more and more to the gentleness
; but they seemed almost hurt that captain wentworth should have brought any such party to lyme , without considering
” catherine would contend no longer against comfort .
allen were now at fullerton ?
the great mrs .
is the time of day she generally contrives it should .
she was very equal , therefore , to address mr .
morland says that by sending it tonight to salisbury , we may have it tomorrow .
a very cordial meeting passed between him and edmund ; and with the exception of fanny , the pleasure was
” each sister could echo the wish ; and henry crawford , to whom , in all the riot of
to engage her early for the two first dances was all the command of individual happiness which he felt in
earliest years .
" " you mean to go to delaford after them i suppose , " said elinor , with a faint
formed no expectation at all of its contents .
not to appear to disgrace his family , to degenerate from the popular qualities , or lose the influence of
in stronger health ; and they crept on for a few minutes in silence .
are going to ask the help of a young man very slightly known to any of us .
” repeated emma .
what do you take his age to be ?
on this account , as well as some others , found herself , when their visitors left them , capable
an event !
edward is not himself aware that there would be many difficulties in his way , if he were to wish
though with the vivacity of friendly interest and quick taste , without any touch of that spirit of banter or
i forget where we had been walking to—very likely to randalls ; yes , i think it was to randalls
kindly took his part in hand , and curtailed every speech that admitted being shortened ; besides pointing out the
allowed herself to trust in his judgment , and admitted , with unfeigned joy , and soon with unequivocal cheerfulness
this was a pleasure which perhaps the whole day ' s visit might not afford , which certainly did not
crawford , were close to her ; they were all in a cluster together .
they had been married but a few months when our visit to them commenced during which time they had been
got julia to leave it alone .
how it came to be first put in this room i know not , but i have not had it
cabinet of ebony and gold , which , though narrowly examining the furniture before , you had passed unnoticed .
her eyes from her work to say , “dear me !
in short madam you are the prettiest girl i ever saw in my life—and her beauty is encreased in her
” “but you yourself (replied i) but a few minutes ago allowed him to be very plain .
no sooner did we therefore hear my edward ' s groan than postponing our lamentations for the present , we
, by marianne ' s letter , how ill she had succeeded in laying any foundation for it , then
she , who had so longed to be in an abbey !
for four months , marianne , i have had all this hanging on my mind , without being at liberty
use those words again , and i will leave the room this moment .
he fancied it tough , sent away his plate , and has been suffering ever since” .
when i found he was really going to his friends at thornberry park for the whole day to-morrow , i
don ' t act yourself , if you do not like it , but don ' t expect to govern
, i suppose , will be the sum total of sacrifice .
you will not mention the matter to fanny , however , for though i have broke it to her ,
” jane ' s alertness in moving , proved her as ready as her aunt had preconceived .
almost all the time they were talking the matter over .
i have another person ' s interest at present so much at heart , that i cannot think any longer
it was owing to him , to his reserve and want of proper consideration , that wickham’s character had been
" [ _num_ ] mischievous tricks .
marianne might at that moment be dying .
have alluded to for the world .
”— emma laughed , and replied , “my being charming , harriet , is not quite enough to induce me
short—oh , fanny !
unto whom ?
i am going to send james forward with my hunters immediately ; if you have any letter , therefore ,
it was a comfort to elizabeth to consider that jane could not have been wearied by long expectations .
all that was venerable ceased here .
my dearest friend , i was never so enraged before , and must relieve myself by writing to you ,
if edmund ' s influence in this season of love had already done so little in clearing her judgment ,
health , as i had felt even at the time to be wrong .
smith had appointed him the executor of his will ; but mr elliot would not act , and the difficulties
" " well—i am so glad you do .
doubt that the idea of being preferred by him would have all the usual weight and efficacy .
” “if miss bertram were not engaged , ” said fanny cautiously , “i could sometimes almost think that he
weston at ford ' s , but he need not hurry any body else .
the house was cleared yesterday , except of the little harvilles ; but you will be surprised to hear they
and what care i for all the rest ?
the grants showing a disposition to be friendly and sociable , gave great satisfaction in the main among their new
were , was quite out of the question .
; the third act would bring a scene between them which interested her most particularly , and which she was
if i come , i shall be cross .
who is to maintain you when your father is dead .
as lady middleton ' s guests they must be welcome ; and lucy , who had long wanted to be
he came , examined his patient , and though encouraging miss dashwood to expect that a very few days would
the play : he left the house in all the soberness of its general character ; and sir thomas hoped
he was to be introduced , and mrs wallis was to be introduced , and everybody was to be introduced
a fine blush having succeeded the previous paleness of her face , he was justified in his belief of her
news from fullerton , i hope ?
but , " (checking himself) , " you will not think it a good place , for yours were always
their three months’ acquaintance they had been intimate two .
" cried mary in an ecstasy , " just as i said !
” “and for the world you would not get out without the key and without mr .
i wish i could think so too .
so anxious for her health and comfort , so very feeling as he now expressed himself , and really seemed
” “government , ” said henry , endeavouring not to smile , “neither desires nor dares to interfere in such
rushworth , however , but edmund , who then appeared walking towards them with mrs .
augustus— .
her father ' s happiness—in other words , his life—required hartfield to continue her home , it should be his
a miss hawkins of bath .
the child ' s situation put the visit entirely aside ; but she could not hear of her escape with
“and then added he , ah !
his bride ; as he had reason to hope , that shortly after his return into hertfordshire , the day
the ball was now a settled thing , and before the evening a proclaimed thing to all whom it concerned
niece , and saw the state of feature and complexion which her crying had brought her into , he thought
she repeated it to edward .
" it was lucky , however , for mrs .
miss nash thinks either of the coxes would be very glad to marry him .
i shall never forget his happiness .
another circumstance very essential for her to know , was how long he meant to be in bath ; he
and now that he could afford to please himself , he might mean to pay his addresses to her .
a juster appointment hereafter , we may fairly consider a man of sense , like henry crawford , to be
i have spent so many happy months there !
elizabeth’s courage did not fail her .
jennings , " we know the reason of all that very well ; if a certain person who shall be
dear mrs croft , " cried mrs musgrove , unable to let her finish her speech , " there is
eye with which marianne sometimes observed him , and the gentleness of her voice whenever (though it did not often
norris took up every moment of her time , and the very mention of such a thing she was sure
that money could purchase— .
she had reached the age of seventeen , without having seen one amiable youth who could call forth her sensibility
could not go .
all the immortality which the happiest recollections of their own future lives could bestow .
darcy’s letter , nor explain to her sister how sincerely she had been valued by her friend .
rather more curiosity and sympathy than she found in the separate but very similar remark of mr and mrs musgrove
mary this woman had the good luck of being advanced to the throne of england , in spite of the
" i have been more pained , " said she , " by her endeavors to acquit him than by
knightley shew them the gardens—all the gardens ?
of her being considered (especially since your making so much of her) as in a line of society above him
don ' t be in such a hurry .
does it not make you think of cowper ?
, i am far from exacting so heavy a sacrifice .
, merely because i would be as angry with her as possible .
woodhouse ' s .
we will go to hartfield afterwards .
sir .
you think me already .
“how did you like her yesterday ?
she calls me dear mrs .
frank churchill and me ; and , therefore , it seems as if such a thing even as this ,
i only fear that the sort of cautiousness to which you , i imagine , have been alluding , is
that was passing around him on the subject , from morning till night .
i know he was invited and encouraged , and i know he did not choose to go .
knightley ' s pretensions) with the skill of such an observer on such a question as herself , that he
it is only four weeks to-morrow since i left mansfield .
little bay , which , in the season , is animated with bathing machines and company ; the cobb itself
” “when i am dead said he , let me be carried and lain at her feet , and perhaps
bingley to her .
there was no sign of displeasure , or even of hearing her .
by the immediate effect of their actions on herself .
i remember fanny used to say that she would marry sooner and better than you did ; not but what
allen , with the most placid indifference .
here was that elasticity of mind , that disposition to be comforted , that power of turning readily from evil
it was my brother gardiner’s drawing up too , and i wonder how he came to make such an awkward
the disgrace of his first marriage might , perhaps , as there was no reason to suppose it perpetuated by
he scolded or abused her , she was highly diverted .
by youth and zeal could hold out .
weston , ” said mr .
finds to be the case with men of the world .
it seems to me to show an abominable sort of conceited independence , a most country-town indifference to decorum .
the letters with even an angry spirit , and looked resolved to be engaged by no other word that could
ferrars say it herself—but her daughter did , and i have it from her , —that in short , whatever
then the point is clear .
as absolutely uncertain , as she had concluded it would be ; —every thing depended , exactly after her expectation
” emma perceived that the nature of his gallantry was a little self-willed , and that he would rather oppose
way--she was only anne .
the beginning of her distress , her spirits became absolutely comfortable , and capable , as heretofore , of continual
” “we will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening , ” said elizabeth .
i shall see how much i am before-hand with the world in the spring , and we will plan our
much as i respect them , i believe i thought only of you .
and sends it into the very channel where it ought to flow .
at norland , and to[ _num_ ] determine her future household , before she set off for the west ;
the child had not called her to come and do something for him , she would have been out of
than his daughter !
" i am sorry to say that i am very far from well ; and jemima has just told me
all the desperate wretchedness of which a last volume is capable—whether by her imprudence , vulgarity , or jealousy—whether by
there , not to be vulgar , was distinction , and merit .
she would have liked to know how he felt as to a meeting .
darcy said nothing at all .
catherine was distressed , but not subdued .
can it admit of a question ?
a most serious aspect to talk over the dreadful affair , and bring them news of his wife .
it was there our engagement was formed , though not till a year after he had quitted as a pupil
his notice , and that his feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which
the preparations of new carriages and furniture might wait for london and spring , when her own taste could have
; and before he had been at mansfield a week , she was quite ready to be fallen in love
hand of isabella , on her he bestowed a whole scrape and half a short bow .
not be expected .
, and a nervous fever to a degree , which made him doubt the possibility of her going to mrs
the admiral , after taking two or three refreshing turns about the room with his hands behind him , being
only to be better acquainted with him , but to have an opportunity of convincing him that he no longer
” emma felt that mrs .
, that when within reach of captain wentworth ' s conversation with either of the miss musgroves , she should
she knows i would not offend for the world .
regard to the purchase-money , i might have been very unfortunate indeed ; for the stocks were at that time
of them did decide on going in quest of tea .
mentioned it no more ; returning , with all his zeal , to dwell on the circumstances more indisputably in
there could be no doubt of his great pleasure in seeing her .
most mothers , she is accused of wanting maternal tenderness .
” edmund laughed .
before my father’s death , mr .
on to stay nearly two months at the park , and to assist in the due celebration of that festival
as soon as she met with edmund she told him her distress .
robinson’s asking him how he liked our meryton assemblies , and whether he did not think there were a great
accounted for ?
the son of an admiral to go into the navy , or the son of a general to be in
but what is the meaning of this ?
greater ; i should suffer more from comparison .
of paying his respects to lady russell , and sat down close to her for ten minutes , talking with
for herself she was humbled ; but she was proud of him .
want one of my girls i shall not say nay to him ; and i thought colonel forster looked very
; not even mrs .
” “why , indeed , fanny , i should hope to be remembered at such a distance as the white
though there might be some truths not told .
” she knelt in spirit to her uncle , and her bosom swelled to utter , “oh , not to
was gone on whom the comfort and cheerfulness of every family meeting and every meal chiefly depended .
how differently did everything now appear in which he was concerned !
what would your governess and your uncle say to see them used for such a purpose ?
they appear in public than afterwards .
will be very well off , if you get any fortune at all .
all lady bertram ' s sheets of paper could do .
if i meet with no insuperable difficulties therefore , consider that point as settled .
the event had every promise of happiness for her friend .
these convictions must unquestionably have their own pain , and severe was its kind ; but they precluded that pain
—and yet without being actually fair .
darcy and bingley again are much more ' likeable ' (to use lady queensberry ' s word) than the colourless
to think about them—and she would not think about them any longer” but no change of subject could avail ,
truly anxious that he should be treated as one in all worldly concerns ; anxious that his tithes should be
the price is immense , and much beyond what i can ever attempt to pay .
collins seemed neither in need of encouragement , nor inclined to be silent himself .
spoken with such serious warmth !
professions .
they had been speaking of it as they walked about highbury the day before , and frank churchill had most
she could not so shape into any positive act of duty or discretion , as inevitably to defy the suggestions
i am going home .
and when the party entered the assembly room it consisted of only five altogether—mr .
the confession completely renewed her first shame—and the sight of harriet ' s tears made her think that she should
longer .
whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing her she could not tell , but he
in spite of having been at st .
it will not be any thing so very wonderful .
but i dare say , mr .
—and nobody knew at all which way he was gone .
darcy seemed much pleased with the attention .
” “at least he died insolvent ?
” “i was never told so before .
she certainly will not act .
fellow , and though i have not many , i have more than i ever looked into .
but the case is altered now .
their road to this detached cottage was down vicarage lane , a lane leading at right angles from the broad
if i can perceive her regard for him , he must be a simpleton , indeed , not to discover
about ten or a dozen years ago , before her marriage , she had spent a considerable time in that
by any chance whether grave or gay , be interesting to her .
elton ' s house , which , as well as the church , he would go and look at ,
anne had been too little from home , too little seen .
bringing in with all the grandeur which so flat a shore admitted .
i know of nobody that is coming , i am sure , unless charlotte lucas should happen to call in—and
they were not off the cobb , before the harvilles met them .
listen but imperfectly even to what he told her of william , and saying only when he paused , “how
take my word for it , that if you are in too great a hurry , you will certainly live
norris , and everybody else who is in the same predicament , ” glancing half fearfully , half slyly ,
total misapprehension of character in some point or other : fancying people so much more gay or grave , or
a gentleman whose family name i shall conceal , bought a small cottage in pembrokeshire about two years ago .
to the house ; and so strong was the persuasion that she did , in spite of the almost impossibility
i suppose it will not be less .
after breakfast however , as i was going to my room , i met him in the passage , and
smith , --i have received yours .
in the house .
likely .
jennings , and beginning a journey to london under her protection , and as her guest , without wondering at
' and so forth—i always felt that something would happen in our favour ; and so it has , you
i would lay any wager it is about miss williams .
honourable , and perhaps agreeable—allowing something for fortune and figure .
this charade !
it would hold the very number for comfort .
of charles ii , with all the marys and elizabeths they had married ; forming altogether two handsome duodecimo pages
hodges , wright holds her very cheap indeed .
, were no farther adverse in their feelings than that each had their favourite , to whom they showed the
help saying : “oh , that my dear mother had more command over herself !
possible , she now sent me , by a safe conveyance , all my letters , and requested , that
, and see so much as they had proposed , or at least to see it with the leisure and
do not know what i am to do about sam ' s things , they will never be ready in
s death i could never hear without emotion) and as i was conscious of having no right to that of
and how much may be said in her situation for even that error !
be there at the same time .
they were no more inclined than entitled to demand his money .
i must say it is very unfeeling of him to be running away from his poor little boy .
they may be—with whom i happen to be in company .
think a farmer , (and with all his sense and all his merit mr .
to complete every other recommendation , he had almost told her that he loved her .
what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told—the history of his acquaintance with mr .
i can hear no more of this .
were , at present , of little importance to her , its healing powers , on a disappointed heart might
—so gratified !
rushworth , was all in her worst line of conduct , and grossly unkind and ill-judged ; but she hoped
" it seemed as if mr shepherd , in this anxiety to bespeak sir walter ' s good will towards
ever since .
i cannot work .
her knowledge of her father and elizabeth inclined her to think that the sacrifice of one pair of horses would
, as from the first , believed marianne his real favourite , to make her suspect it herself .
say this with firmness , and it will be quite enough .
youngest sister , made the book an evil ; and more than once , when her father had left it
stay i do not know how long .
but this cannot possibly be permitted before the middle of next week ; that is , he cannot anyhow be
very soon afterwards .
have you had any flirting ?
“but , my dear , pray do not make any more matches ; they are silly things , and break
afraid is pitiful .
to do for it .
“i am glad i bought my bonnet , if it is only for the fun of having another bandbox !
” “did you meet mr .
it included nearly a third part of her own life .
as elinor was neither musical , nor affecting to be so , she made no scruple of turning her eyes
that she should have walked three miles so early in the day , in such dirty weather , and by
by anne ; but she had staid at home , under the mixed plea of a headache of her own
yates ' s accompanying them and spending the evening at the parsonage .
attentive than otherwise to them ; but then , mr .
—what a pleasure it is to send one ' s carriage for a friend !
but papas and mammas , and brothers , and intimate friends are a good deal gone by , to most
no—i will be noble .
write to fanny ?
can we be wrong if mary crawford feels the same ?
but one or the other , if not both of them , i must have .
; and the first time of the subject ' s occurring to her again happening to be when fanny was
he had not seen louisa ; and was so extremely fearful of any ill consequence to her from an interview
added : “when i said that he improved on acquaintance , i did not mean that his mind or his
“i thought you meant to go with me .
hughes now joined them , and asked miss tilney if she was ready to go .
as the long evenings of autumn came on , was so terribly haunted by these ideas , in the sad
with some large books before him , mr and mrs musgrove were sure all could not be right , and
that though i had , in the course of our acquaintance , been often sensible of some difference in our
, fair sort , that what with early tarts and preserves , my cook contrives to get them all .
willoughby was out of the question .
” this was a lucky recollection—it saved her from something very like regret .
poor miss taylor !
not unfair to guess the dignity of his line of trade had been very moderate also .
she was proceeding directly to her favourite walk , when the recollection of mr .
but do not imagine that i want to influence you .
its ground , and henry and john were still asking every day for the story of harriet and the gipsies
under requisition .
something arose from difference of disposition and habit : one so easily satisfied , the other so unused to endure
she had seen her influence in every speech , and was miserable .
she was anxious to be at home .
he was not an ill-tempered man , not so often unreasonably cross as to deserve such a reproach ; but
—she was more and more convinced that mrs .
very imprudent .
crawford ' s assistance ; and mr .
) “you have no objection , my dear ?
elton ' s , were unpleasant towards harriet .
or saw a speck upon her gown , she must observe it aloud , whether there were anyone at leisure
norris thought it an excellent plan , and had it at her tongue ' s end , and was on
my mother ' s are really very good indeed .
account of my being the widow of edward than in being the refined and amiable laura .
she did not want exposure to be added to desertion .
pray make haste and come into the dining-room , for there is such a sight to be seen !
next day , took leave .
” “she is as obstinate as—” thorpe never finished the simile , for it could hardly have been a proper
heart swelling with emotion , crawford thus continued , with unfeigned eagerness , to express his interest in the event—
considered what all this elegance was destined to , what she was going to sink from , how she was
around her .
aunt who had no children of her own ; but he found himself wholly mistaken .
should not have thought it possible that i could be supposed to mean any other person .
of harriet ' s description ?
” “why , was not your father as poor as a rat” “i fancy not .
far from accusing you of cruelty at present , because i know it to be the established custom of your
during her poor father ' s life she was a spoilt child ; the severity which it has since been
ferrars ' power to distress her by it now ; and the difference of her manners to the miss steeles
” on miss lucas’s persevering , however , she added , “very well , if it must be so ,
doubt of london ' s perfectly agreeing with her .
he ought not ; he does not .
formal acquaintance .
—whom did he ever want to consult on business but mr .
grant is giving bertram instructions about the living he is to step into so soon .
, and the latter no less anxiously placed his upon pleasing her , it was agreed that , provided the
i am shocked whenever i think that maria could be capable of it ; but , if she could undertake
of equal pain .
chapter _num_ in spite of udolpho and the dressmaker , however , the party from pulteney street reached the upper
instead of viewing them as a stranger , i might have rejoiced in them as my own , and welcomed
pleasant morning , the hope of soon seeing william again , and the comparatively quiet state of the house ,
again , the first thing which caught her eye was a fire lighted and burning .
would have answered as freely for the good conduct and useful pursuits of all the young people as for her
such a journey with an animation which had “no” in every tone .
“is miss darcy much grown since the spring ?
no lurking horrors were to upbraid him for his easy credulity .
tom bertram ; the eldest son of a baronet was not too good for a girl of twenty thousand pounds
and why does he regret it ?
and joke in the intervals of their higher-toned subjects , all of which ended , if they did not begin
i take on my lap and sigh over for his dear uncle ' s sake .
elton , from the particulars detailed by her husband , thought it all extremely shabby , and very inferior to
susan .
acquaintance with you—mr .
new name on her tickets , and a brilliant exhibition of hoop rings on her finger .
i have no patience with such of my sex as disdain to let themselves sometimes down to the comprehension of
he knows what he is about , and must be his own master .
do not you think it is quite a mistaken point of conscience , when a clergyman sacrifices his health for
she regarded her cousin as an example of everything good and great , as possessing worth which no one but
lady susan was unable to express her sense of such kindness , yet knew not , from a variety of
” fanny , who was sitting on the other side of edmund , exactly opposite miss crawford , and who
to horses , the _num_ th to servants , the _num_ th to amusements , the _num_ th to cloathes
of what had first given spirit to her existence there .
true .
" such weather makes every thing and every body disgusting .
with solemn kindness sir thomas addressed her : told her his fears , inquired into her wishes , entreated her
she has abilities , however , as well as affections ; and it is now a doubtful point whether his
his cabinets , had been prepared for his old friend , to while away the morning ; and the kindness
conceive dear sophia what my feelings must have been when as an aunt i attended my children to their early
i wish and desire it .
—going to the post-office in the rain !
my conscience told me that i deserved no extraordinary politeness , and i confess that i did not expect to
all equally against her .
dear !
ferrars ; and towards us have behaved in the friendliest manner .
her address to me was so gentle , frank , and even affectionate , that , if i had not
—you must expect from me nothing but the melancholy effusions of a broken heart which is ever reverting to the
no , no—do not say so .
the gloom of her first anticipations was proved to have been unfounded .
it did come , and exactly when it might be reasonably looked for .
submit to .
there must be the same immediate association of thought , though she was very far from conceiving it to be
old acquaintance .
collins was at leisure to look around him and admire , and he was so much struck with the size
be the matter ?
—she was then able to walk , though but slowly , and was moving away—but her terror and her purse
but neither geography nor tranquillity could come all at once , and emma was now in a humour to resolve
her ladyship , with great condescension , arose to receive them ; and as mrs .
do but consider , my dear mr .
in another moment a happier sight caught her ; —mr .
they must be taking off some trouble from the good people she was with ; they might at least relieve
with a hasty exclamation of misery , and a sign to her sister not to follow her , she directly
of such enjoyment , when nothing but the friends she was to visit was before her .
that i cannot accuse myself of having really done anything to deserve to lose it .
of time and habit were necessary for her , she might not have persuaded herself into receiving his addresses properly
and what was her opinion of the newcomers ?
, project shrubberies , and invent a sweep .
i know you are attached to them .
my mother desires her very best compliments and regards , and a thousand thanks , and says you really quite
still more interesting one of bingley’s being withheld from seeing jane , she felt a solicitude on the subject which
good looking young man ; height , air , address , all were unexceptionable , and his countenance had a
) the elegant address of mr cleveland , his polished manners and delightful bow , at once confirmed my attachment
for she only came , i suppose , to tell us the collinses were well .
appearance .
continuing so .
if people like to read their books , it is all very well , but to be at so much
the painful remembrance of the folly it had helped to nourish and perfect was the only emotion which could spring
i answered it within an hour ; but from the confusion of my mind , and the multiplicity of business
grant , who had not been at the trouble of visiting mrs .
consider mr .
fraser , is mad for such a house , and it would not make me miserable .
and no sweet elation of spirits can lead me into minuteness .
—yours ever , “caroline bingley” “with the officers !
charles , in the meanwhile , was very decidedly declaring his resolution of calling on his aunt , now that
" perhaps you may not have heard that he is married ?
but there are two things that i want very much to know ; one is , how much money your
mr elliot came back accordingly ; and on application was forgiven , as you know , and re-admitted into the
of hearing , i could not help catching enough to understand his business .
do to be copied .
” “their conduct has been such , ” replied elizabeth , “as neither you , nor i , nor anybody
) “none in the world .
i give her credit for promoting his going dutifully down to bath , to fetch his mother ; but how
” “why should it surprise you ?
” “do you ?
there again .
there were points on which they did not quite agree ; there were moments in which she did not seem
he had determined to go himself , and thoroughly investigate the merits of the case .
if he had written to you , there would have been more particulars .
bingley’s regard ; and yet , it was not in her nature to question the veracity of a young man
your affectionate s .
she—and i am highly flattered by your attention to me—but i am in no difficulty , no doubt , no
for in spite of her previous and fixed determination never to quit her father , never to marry , a
a bed on the floor in louisa ' s room would be sufficient for her , if mrs harville would
, you are a thorough humourist .
in his preceding attempts to attach himself to louisa musgrove (the attempts of angry pride) , he protested that he
i am stupefied .
why the locks should have been so difficult to open , however , was still something remarkable , for she
be altogether objected to , it does not follow that he might marry any body at all fit for you
but now for louisa .
but though confidence between them was , by this public discovery , restored to its proper state , it was
depend upon me for taking care that no tenant has more than his just rights .
martin with either of them .
bennet , as she stood at a window the next morning , “if that disagreeable mr .
” “yes , but intricate characters are the most amusing .
s , than in his .
they can only wish his happiness ; and if he is attached to me , no other woman can secure
" " that is very true , and , therefore , i do not know whether , upon the whole
he , meanwhile , whatever he might feel , acted with all the firmness of a collected mind , made
“i will write home directly , ” said she , “and if they do not object , as i dare
she was sure they should be married some time or other , and it did not much signify when .
how i hate the sight of an umbrella !
" ah , well !
” and it was directly settled that , till she had , her leaving them was not even to be
allen congratulated herself , as soon as they were seated , on having preserved her gown from injury .
mothers certainly have not yet got quite the right way of managing their daughters .
they will be extremely glad to see you , i am sure ; and one of my servants shall go
parts .
you are fond of that kind of reading ?
s leave ' —something which , you knew , i did not approve .
, were trifles in comparison to the misfortune i am now proceeding to relate .
not to pity , tho ' it is out of my power to return .
her all dinner-time .
” “i do not recollect that we did .
william larkins mentioned it here .
weston were less sanguine .
you will , i am sure , my dear sir , feel the truth of this , and will hereby
charles and mary still talked on in the same style ; he , half serious and half jesting , maintaining
when my own will is effected contrary to his , i shall have some credit in being on good terms
such a penance as i have been enduring , while you were sitting here so composed and so happy !
when one lives in the world , a man or woman ' s marrying for money is too common to
“upon my word , my dear , i do not know , for i never heard the subject talked of
to secure an interest i shall soon have need for all my fortitude , as i am on the point
advantage , so promising for happiness , jane had been deprived , by the folly and indecorum of her own
—and elinor had not seen them more than twice , before the eldest of them wished her joy on her
crawford again , she could not help being low .
margaret , the other sister , was a good-humored , well-disposed girl ; but as she had already imbibed a
she read the concluding lines , and was all flutter and happiness .
we will often go the old ruins of the priory , and try to trace its foundations as far as
“well , if you give me such kind encouragement , mr .
very true .
the greatest presence of mind , caught hold of her habit— (i can never think of it without trembling !
she comforted her father better than she could comfort herself , by representing that though he certainly would make them
i find he takes orders in a few weeks .
” “well , sir , ” cried mr .
nor was this all .
nothing to signify .
, of my room .
manners of mrs .
” “imprudent , if you please—but not mad .
bennet , there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilderness on one side of your lawn .
de courcy to lady susan —hotel i write only to bid you farewell , the spell is removed ; i
" cried marianne .
" " a mighty concession indeed !
dixon must be very much disappointed .
by such a belief as this ; for were i persuaded that charlotte had any regard for him , i
mr elliot ' s speech , too , distressed her .
dined together without his drinking to her best affections with so much significancy and so many nods and winks ,
were so often to be found perched at the roadside , where one might sit and watch the dover or
elevated into a cottage , for his residence , and uppercross cottage , with its veranda , french windows ,
she must be an unprincipled one , or she could not have used your brother so .
am i to hear of it from everybody but fanny herself ?
nor must you be fancying that the invitation is meant as any particular compliment to you ; the compliment is
she could not have supposed it in the power of any concurrence of circumstances to give her so many painful
much in her opinion .
to transfer in its favour much of her attachment to her former home , grew up there not unhappily among
—and when to that is added the recollection , that he might , but for his own folly , within
lady russell took her out in her carriage almost every morning , and she never failed to think of them
time more welcome than usual , as coming directly from their mutual connexions in london .
a great many things were due from poor mr .
their earliest years could be gone over again , and every former united pain and pleasure retraced with the fondest
there is nothing like employment , active indispensable employment , for relieving sorrow .
i come in for a pretty good share as a second .
perhaps there was want of spirit in the pretence of it ; —and she was considering in what way she
would jane but go , means were to be found , servants sent , friends contrived—no travelling difficulty allowed to
years .
a contrariety of emotion they excited .
does not ask for more .
that if edward does marry this young woman , i never will see him again .
lady catherine then observed , “your father’s estate is entailed on mr .
i want to make him sensible of all this , for we know the power of gratitude on such a
you have sense , and we all expect you to use it .
nervous head-aches and palpitations which i am never entirely free from anywhere , i am quite well myself ; and
i suppose there is not a man in such practice anywhere .
' s urgent entreaties that they would mix more in the neighbourhood , and repeated assurances of his carriage being
palmer ' s sympathy was shown in procuring all the particulars in her power of the approaching marriage , and
the unhappiness produced by the knowledge of that engagement had been a little put aside by elizabeth martin ' s
goodness to say that i am gone ?
he asked me to a party , a dance at his house in the evening .
she could not distinguish , but she must guess the subject ; and on captain wentworth ' s making a
he had given it , he could assure her , very long and calm consideration ; he had been walking
we had not been six hours in the sound , when a gale came on , which lasted four days
the note was immediately dispatched , and its contents as quickly complied with .
your uncle , and his brother admirals , perhaps knew little of clergymen beyond the chaplains whom , good or
that the young man quite forgot to tell you , among his other communication , that he was the son
darcy only can answer .
been obliged to remain .
severe by the review of objects on which she had first looked under impressions so different .
i offer nothing but an old necklace .
will the sooner subside , and perhaps his may be vanished for ever , while mine will be found still
” “i was just going to say the very same thing , ” said mrs .
own circle , was become necessary for her ; for certainly , coming as she did , with a heart
yes—i do not think i should be easily frightened , because there would be so many people in the house—and
my dear , how calmly you talk of it ; and can the colonel wait two or three months !
he walked off to find his father , but was quickly back again with both mr .
i am sure of having their opinions with me .
treated you too .
, they could not be necessary ; and it was not till easter-day , almost a week after the gentlemen’s
how rich and how great you will be !
the maids , who , with mrs .
i could not walk half so far .
but the correctness of his eye , and the delicacy of his taste , proved to be beyond his politeness
not a tolerable woman ' s part in the play .
she would not suffer it .
always to be watched , in person or by proxy !
sir walter had once been in company with the late viscount , but had never seen any of the rest
he re-urged—she re-declined ; and he seemed then about to make his bow , when taking the paper from the
it will not do to invite five couple .
he says , that they are at present very good freinds , have quite forgiven all past errors and intend
as soon , however , as the consciousness of all this was forced by continual repetition on marianne , she
crawford had constant access at all times .
crawford ' s affection for her could distress him long ; his mind was not of that sort .
of governing her actions , and destroying her prospects ; and retired in proud resolve , determined only to behave
and you may say , if you please , that i shall prepare my most plaintive airs against his return
, it must be so comfortable .
knightley might be preserved from sinking deeper in aggression towards mr .
yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition .
it is a corner room , and has windows on two sides .
” at this moment , an ingenious and animating suspicion entering emma ' s brain with regard to jane fairfax
he will be forgot , and we shall all be as we were before .
” “yes , very much indeed , i fancy ; mr .
—i walk fast .
is not that a great way off ?
they were so deserving , that a little higher should have been enough : but as it was , how
crawford ' s .
sir thomas good-humouredly observed that joy had taken away her appetite , she was ready to sink with shame ,
, who was obliged to volunteer all the information about her mother ' s health , their coming to town
bingley had danced with her twice , and she had been distinguished by his sisters .
” “if so , you must extend your suspicions and comprehend mr .
i thought them particularly pleasing , and i will answer for it , they would generally please .
but when you have had time to think it over , i hope you will be satisfied with what i
for .
calling back the servant , therefore , she commissioned him , though in so breathless an accent as made her
i suppose " (smiling) " i have more pride than any of you ; but i confess it does vex
to exertion now ; she felt it with all the pain of continual self-reproach , regretted most bitterly that she
knightley , with most ready interposition—“very true .
, said in a languid way , “if you want to dance , fanny , i will stand up with
their absence .
for about three years i heard little of him ; but on the decease of the incumbent of the living
satisfied as ever with her own discretion , never wished the past undone , she began now to have the
to call them the arbiters of good-breeding , the regulators of refinement and courtesy , the masters of the ceremonies
having now scampered up , the gentlemen jumped out , and the equipage was delivered to his care .
has probably none at all .
” “no , ” replied edmund ; “i do not think she has ever been to a ball .
whitaker , but my taking one of the cheeses .
, " he said , " in confessing his judgement to be entirely on that side .
were excited by his marrying me , it would not give me one moment’s concern—and the world in general would
” cried maria , after a few minutes’ silence , “it seems but a day or two since we first
degree of happiness which must dispose her to be pleased with everybody .
as a clergyman , moreover , i feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing of peace in
i could not give any connected detail yesterday ; but the suddenness , and , in one light , the
tilney says there is nothing people are so often deceived in as the state of their own affections , and
you had rather look out for misery for marianne , and guilt for poor willoughby , than an apology for
but if you do not take my part and persuade her to break it off , i shall be half
shooting , and he seemed quite delighted , and , for my part , i thought it was all settled
in the family .
letter the fourth from miss c .
i have heard nothing about it yet from my aunt .
thorpe is such a very particular friend of my brother ' s , that if he talks to me ,
i wish you had my seat , but i dare say you will not take it , let me press
but how she contrives it without reflecting on the character of her own father , who had himself two wives
, still resident in kellynch , and mary fixed only three miles off , must be anticipated , need not
coles , who would force themselves anywhere ; neither could she feel any right of preference herself—she submitted , therefore
bingley was sure of being liked wherever he appeared , darcy was continually giving offense .
it out .
if he had but my picture , he says he should be easy .
this was a great deal better than to have to take up the pen to acquaint her with all the
when he takes a pen in hand , his thoughts naturally find proper words .
and , pray , who is charles hayter ?
of them altogether , interspersed with tall lombardy poplars , shut out the offices .
his long visit is about to be concluded at last , but i fear the separation takes place too late
” said catherine very seriously .
” “from mr .
what a blessing to young people to be in such hands !
very point of quitting it as he entered .
you can ' t think how much i longed to see you !
was on inquiry satisfied ; for he had early in the evening taken pains to know who her partner was
” sir thomas , after a moment ' s thought , recommended speculation .
to find with the place .
in the fullness of his belief that such a thing must be , he mentioned its probability to his wife
by that time , it was beginning to hold up , and i was determined that nothing should stop me
they were both so truly respectable in their happiness , so disinterested in every sensation ; thought so much of
strange letter .
, who was really extremely happy to see him , and whose feelings were so warmed by his sudden arrival
the stupidest fellow !
well , my comfort is , i am sure jane will die of a broken heart ; and then he
—charming young man !
dashwood remained at norland several months ; not from any disinclination to move when the sight of every well known
fixed for a day within the granted term of frank churchill ' s stay in surry ; for , in
both were lively and pleasant , and mrs .
she was gazing on it with the first blush of surprise when miss tilney , anxious for her friend '
[ _num_ ] at that moment she first perceived him .
, and never writes anything but her answers to them .
its origin—jealousy perhaps , or wanton cruelty—was yet to be unravelled .
you are charmingly grouped , and appear to uncommon advantage .
you will find the beginning of a note to yourself ; but i can now speak my business , which
tears .
” “i am sorry , exceedingly sorry , ” replied darcy , in a tone of surprise and emotion ,
and perhaps find her there still when he came in from his first cruise .
features , that she already knows the two first letters in the alphabet , and that she never tears her
chapter _num_ the visions of romance were over .
be at home again ; and as soon as possible after their return to uppercross they drove over to the
” this made me very happy , and i was excessively pleased with my conquest .
the wonder was , how any family upon earth could bear with the inconvenience of its opening as it did
he married anne of denmark , and had several children ; fortunately for him his eldest son prince henry died
within , regarded it not .
my dear cousin replied i to him , such noble behaviour as this , must melt the heart of any
a voice which i heard to be wholly unmodulated as i stood here .
on monday evening , my good friend mrs rooke let me thus much into the secrets of marlborough buildings .
she did not care how cross he was to her , as they must live together .
and that you should have been so mistaken , is amazing !
her cousin , abused , reproached and vilified by all , what must not her most noble mind have suffered
angry at their accepting her mother ' s invitation after having declined her own , though at the same time
it was not forced on you .
chattering coxcomb , he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts .
as the dew was falling the evening before .
gustavus , and to that purpose as soon as i left the carriage , i went to the basket and
“i am to hear from him soon , ” continued mrs .
dangerous !
they seemed more like cheerful , easy friends , than lovers .
it would have spared her from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give ; but they were
” frank turned instantly to emma , to claim her former promise ; and boasted himself an engaged man ,
i was very much pleased with all that he said .
” “and are mr .
colonel campbell rather preferred an olive .
private , when sir john called at the cottage one morning , to beg , in the name of charity
father ceased , she was able to give her answer immediately , decidedly , and with no apparent agitation .
but miss bertram thought it most becoming to reply— “the avenue !
bingley himself , elizabeth withdrew to miss lucas ; to whose inquiry after the pleasantness of her last partner she
so then , i try to put it out of her thoughts , and say , come ma ' am
words .
yes , harriet , just so long have i been wanting the very circumstance to happen that has happened .
would now be contented ; ” and supposed “she had always meant to catch knightley if she could ; ”
must render any future intercourse the severest punishment ; and your resolution of quitting churchhill is undoubtedly in unison with
half had ever gone off so swiftly before , as catherine was called on to confirm ; catherine could not
james that his manners would recommend him to all her sex ; but in spite of this , the extreme
at that ball , while i had the honour of dancing with you , i was first made acquainted ,
extraordinary animation ; “well , fanny , i have had a very agreeable surprise this morning .
as engaged all her friend ' s notice .
she was wishing for .
weathers too , and say nothing about it ?
fullerton , the envy of every valued old friend in putney , with a carriage at her command , a
“this chapel was fitted up as you see it , in james the second ' s time .
the doubts and hesitations of her ambition were equally got over—and equally without apparent reason .
to have plenty of chat ; and then we get away from them all , and shut ourselves in our
he valued their kindness beyond any thing , and his greatest happiness was in being with them .
every thing in her household arrangements was conducted on the most liberal plan , and excepting a few old city
my own children off my hands that she will think me a very fit person to have the charge of
seriously to think what could be done , and had finally proposed these two branches of economy , to cut
tilney is dead , because mrs .
grant might expect her .
take your usual walk to allenham today .
the appearance of merit or sense .
me no service .
henrietta was perhaps the prettiest , louisa had the higher spirits ; and she knew not now , whether the
gives them so much trash and sweet things , that they are sure to come back sick and cross for
keep your raptures for harriet ' s face .
doubt , though the kind may seem a little different .
to-night we may have the pleasure of all meeting again at your party , " (turning to anne .
or three terriers , was ready to receive and make much of them .
i think you play quite as well as she does .
catherine had fortitude too ; she suffered , but no murmur passed her lips .
about the middle of the day , mrs .
and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden or in reading and writing , and
” “very beautiful , indeed , ” replied emma ; and she spoke so kindly , that he gratefully burst
” “it is a sort of thing which nobody could have expected .
with many compliments to them , and much self-gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the houses , he
it will be so ridiculous to see all his letters directed to him with an m .
” was isabella ' s answer in the same half whisper .
dashwood , too happy to be comfortable , knew not how to love edward , nor praise elinor enough ,
i must come to an understanding with him .
“then , betsey , my dear , run into the kitchen and see if rebecca has put the water on
, smiling , and pushing the paper towards harriet—“it is for you .
” “i am sorry , ” said henry , closing the book he had just opened ; “if i had
" asked elinor .
, to save your health and credit , and restore your tranquillity .
moment , making artificial flowers or wasting gold paper .
she did not always feel so absolutely satisfied with herself , so entirely convinced that her opinions were right and
love him ; that such a change was quite impossible ; that the subject was most painful to her ;
but i will not torment you with vain wishes , which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks .
—harriet was very seldom mentioned between them .
but he had only spoken of their journey as what would take place ere long .
had need to be thankful .
” “he chose to say he was employed”— “well , well , i have that note ; and can shew
rather than a look of satisfaction , and words of simple , pleasant meaning .
all those people whose parties or principles do not suit with mine , and not to give information .
wife , as i certainly did .
” said lydia stoutly , “i am not afraid ; for though i am the youngest , i’m the tallest
own fair self was before him , leaning on her brother ' s arm , and he found himself receiving
trying to avoid her , but by stiffness of manner and resentful silence .
“live with me , dear lady bertram !
frank churchill and miss woodhouse flirted together excessively .
it was then[ _num_ ] about twelve o ' clock , and she returned to her sister ' s apartment
there was a smile—which made her blush and feel wretched .
” “yes , yes” (with a blush) , “there are more ways than one of our being sisters .
campbell are to be in town again by midsummer , ” said jane .
martin is a very respectable young man , but i cannot admit him to be harriet ' s equal ;
as might satisfy any looker-on that sir thomas had been bringing up no wife for his younger son .
of the world where i had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of credit .
” “it is very natural .
next , it may be as a celebrated preacher in some great society of methodists , or as a missionary
' s affection , to the remembrance of every mark of regard in look or word which fell from him
there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about , and who was equally poor
had any profession to engage your time and give an interest to your plans and actions .
ladies can never look ill .
that is exactly he .
if we were obliged to go out such an evening as this , by any call of duty or business
crawford and dr .
her brother and her friend engaged !
” “well , i give you joy of your conquest , replied lady scudamore , and i beleive it to
were there another place in england open to me i would prefer it .
" " to be sure it would .
she had not time to answer me , for every thought was now engaged by the horrid spectacle before us
from a reverie of this kind , as she sat at her drawing-table , she was roused one morning ,
" " it is very true .
and a great deal of indolence , gave up the house in town , which she had been used to
you can have been personally acquainted with very few of a set of men you condemn so conclusively .
it seemed to him a very ill-judged measure .
a neat one , is not it ?
” she smiled her acceptance ; and nothing less than a summons from richmond was to take him back before
knightley presently , “though i have kept my thoughts to myself ; but i now perceive that it will be
the young man had been the first admirer , but she trusted there was no other hold , and that
catherine understood her : the general must be watched from home , before that room could be entered .
before ; and “where is fanny ?
talks of his being going on so well !
the harvilles had promised to come with her and stay at uppercross , whenever she returned .
perry did say so .
even edmund was very thankful for an arrangement which restored him to his share of the party ; and mrs
i do assure you that you owe it entirely , at least almost entirely , to your own merit ,
he was beyond comparison the most pleasant man ; he certainly admired her , and his situation in life was
that remained unsubdued of his heart , trusting that it was not more than might be won in the course
" after a short pause , mr shepherd presumed to say-- " in all these cases , there are established
have been duly given to some friend to hold till he were old enough for orders .
” “i believe she did—and i am sure she could not have bestowed her kindness on a more grateful object
i refused him as long as i possibly could , but he would take no denial .
yes , i have one other comfort in his picture , but poor edward has not even that .
knightley ; so far it was all of course—and it was hardly less inevitable that poor little harriet must be
there was certainly at this moment , in elizabeth’s mind , a more gentle sensation towards the original than she
i sent no answer to marianne , intending by that to preserve myself from her farther notice ; and for
anne , i am so very unwell !
annesley to miss darcy had been given , to remind her of her post .
connected as we already are , and , i hope , are to be , to give up mary crawford
“i do not blame jane , ” she continued , “for jane would have got mr .
” “you are uniformly charming !
us in our return to barton .
" " aye , aye , i see how it will be , " said sir john , " i
it was a very proper wedding .
sir thomas was indeed the life of the party , who at his suggestion now seated themselves round the fire
“when i consider , ” she added in a yet more agitated voice , “that i might have prevented it
that were said in the morning .
soon be in vain , that every thing had been delayed too long , and pictured to herself her suffering
to any exercise , so peremptorily refused to go out with her in the carriage , she could have no
good to the poorer part of her fellow creatures , merely for the gratification of you and herself .
all breathed the same stern resolution of not engaging in a fruitless trouble , and , under a cold civility
” cried harriet indignantly .
, who joined her just afterwards , been half a minute earlier , he might have thought her sufferings rather
” “i do not know , ” said fanny hesitatingly .
you are forced on exertion .
i want you to save yourself from greater pain .
the same books , the same passages were idolized by each ; or if any difference appeared , any objection
in the evening it was found , according to the predetermination of mrs .
she blushed at the very idea , and thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt than
he could number the fields in every direction , and could tell how many trees there were in the most
what immediately followed is known .
a poor honourable is no catch , and i cannot imagine any liking in the case , for take away
" i hope i shall remember , in future , " said lady russell , as soon as they were
i am sorry for them all , and would give something that rushworth and maria had never met .
if your sentiments are no longer what they were , you will return my notes , and the lock of
sir thomas set off , edmund would go with him , and the others had been left in a state
long before i was enough recovered to talk , i was perfectly able to reflect .
she was not obliged to hear .
the subject was continued no farther ; and marianne remained thoughtfully silent , till a new object suddenly engaged her
[ _num_ ] dashwood .
” “it is not to be conceived that a man of three or four-and-twenty should not have liberty of mind
” he did , on the condition of some promises on her side : such as that , if she
they had ever been , but he saw them no longer .
gentleman unless he were easy where he ought to be civil , and impudent where he might be allowed to
” “query , ” said mr .
”—were questions now eagerly poured forth ; the first three received a ready affirmative , the two others were passed
farther requisite .
but slyness seems the fashion .
everything nourishes what is strong already .
given to their friends or themselves .
as long as they lived , no exertions would be necessary , their home might be hers for ever ;
” with an acknowledgment that he had quite forgot her , mr .
, of which i had never before entertained a thought , has for some time existed , and still continues
harriet did not consider herself as having any thing to complain of .
i thought you had lost half your property , at least .
that though lucy was certainly not so elegant , and her sister not even genteel , she was as ready
” “well—if you advise it .
he was a whist player himself , and perhaps might feel that it would not much amuse him to have
you do not owe me the duty of a child .
she did in fact feel nothing .
to , that , in a little while , nobody within her reach will be good enough for her .
“i should say so , but that i suppose there may be a hundred different ways of being in love
attention you paid me almost from the first , caused me to entertain the flattering idea of those attentions being
of seeking it .
” never had fanny more wanted a cordial .
something like an inquiry as to the result .
was lifted on hers , and they set off across another part of the park ; her feelings of discomfort
then she will be in beauty , for she will open one of the best houses in wimpole street .
” they both assured me that they would ever remember my advice with gratitude , and follow it with attention
” her tone of calm languor , for she never took the trouble of raising her voice , was always
she was concerned for the disappointment and pain lady russell would be feeling ; for the mortifications which must be
and as she could now have nothing more painful to hear on the subject than had already been told ,
talked of the valley , she was as speedy in climbing the hills , and could never be found when
norris was obliged to be satisfied with thinking just the same , and with having been on the point of
to be sure , i may just as well go as not , for i am of no use at
rendered spiritless by the ill-success of all their endeavours , he had yielded to his brother-in-law’s entreaty that he would
or fancy any tone of voice , less allied with real love .
chapter viii harriet slept at hartfield that night .
is it not so , mrs .
till that point were settled , she could not be quite herself .
fanny made the first interruption by saying , “i wonder that i should be tired with only walking in this
n .
—every consideration of the subject , in short , makes me thankful that my happiness is not more deeply involved
eligibly and happily settled , while jane fairfax had yet her bread to earn .
—of such , one may almost say , that ' the world is not their ' s , nor the
bad thing for her , and still worse for me ; and therefore it is very much to be wished
ferrars and your sister were both so good to say more than once , they should always be glad to
i wish i were anywhere else .
his behaviour however was entirely of a peice with his general character ; for what could be expected from a
how can emma imagine she has any thing to learn herself , while harriet is presenting such a delightful inferiority
” “nothing , nothing to be understood .
" so early too !
history of their coming , or an explanation of some smiling hints of particular business , which had been ostentatiously
every couple .
but sir , i glory in the act— .
for shame !
but about the middle of the day she gets hungry , and there is nothing she likes so well as
convenience , be hastened ; and i make it my particular request that i may not in any way be
he might have been in mr elliot ' s company , but she had not courage to ask the question
in the evening from mary , who , on having occasion to note down the day of the month ,
in again and rest herself .
collins was also in the same state of angry pride .
: and to convince you that i have been speaking truth , i am now going to destroy—what i ought
it might be him , perhaps .
brother , without any of the arts of flattery or the gaieties of small talk , he began to be
requiring fortitude and strength of mind , if she have not resolution enough to resist idle interference in such a
crawford and her sister sitting side by side , full of conversation and merriment ; and to see only his
by sight .
i have a warm , unguarded temper , and i may have spoken my opinion of him , and to
subsisting between fanny and lucy , in which their husbands of course took a part , as well as the
early occasion of saying to her , “my father only wanted me to answer a note , ” she began
s veracity ; " i remember he told us , that he had been staying a fortnight with some friends
jennings laughed again , but elinor had not spirits to say more , and eager at all events to know
collins expected the scene to inspire , and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front
the elegance , propriety , regularity , harmony , and perhaps , above all , the peace and tranquillity of
you must promise me not to sit up .
but this does not acquit him , mrs .
i never heard you speak ill of a human being in your life .
seemed to feel that he had been there long .
mama , and edward , may have been so barbarous to bely me .
they had just reached the head of the stairs when it seemed , as far as the thickness of the
to john , to fanny , yes , even to them , little as they deserve , i had given
else : education and manners she owed to him .
you were not there ; but indeed i did ; and , if mr .
another accidental meeting with the martins was possible , and in her present state , would be dangerous .
busy as he was , however , the young man was yet able to shew a most happy countenance on
she had done no more for them than they had done for each other .
sometimes she could fancy that he talked less than on former occasions , and once or twice pleased herself with
this before he resumed his seat as master of the house at dinner , he had also set the carpenter
an attachment , originally as tranquil as their tempers , was now become a mere name .
here is my sketch of the fourth , who was a baby .
—rousing from reflection , therefore , and subduing her emotion , she turned to harriet again , and , in
his air and voice recovered their usual briskness : he shook her heartily and gratefully by the hand , and
if a part is insignificant , the greater our credit in making anything of it .
earnest .
” “unworthy !
have we not perfectly understood each other ?
fraser , and i at a distance unable to help my own cause .
it must not be : and yet the danger of a renewal of the acquaintance— !
how i should like to be married before any of you ; and then i would chaperon you about to
had already felt and said ; of a disappointment hardly less painful than marianne ' s , and an indignation
but the plan which had arisen on the sacrifice of this , he trusted his dearest emma would not find
he had returned to a late dinner , and walked to hartfield as soon as it was over .
: and in the kindest manner she now urged fanny ' s taking one for the cross and to keep
will you be so good as to tell him that the living of delaford , now just vacant , as
she read over her aunt’s commendation of him again and again .
it was through a series of strange blunders !
resentment , and avoiding eclat , were enough to occupy her in most unmirthful reflections some time longer , and
but why henrietta should you be ashamed to own a well-placed love , or why refuse to confide in me
—it has sunk him , i cannot say how it has sunk him in my opinion .
his manner had no air of study or exaggeration .
darcy , while viewing the place , instantly occurred .
pray , pray let me hear it .
days beyond his fortnight , which could not possibly be refused .
to do .
inquiring .
then added in a voice which seemed to distrust itself , " and your sister , how did she ,
” “yes , the expense of such an undertaking would be prodigious !
no , my dearest marianne , you must wait .
his daughter and mrs clay united in hinting that colonel wallis ' s companion might have as good a figure
breach of conjugal obligation and decorum which , in exposing his wife to the contempt of her own children ,
a window , and they saw a gentleman and a lady in a curricle driving up the street .
consider how many years i have had the start of you .
a sameness to disgust and weary .
my dear , ” said maria , quite shocked at the mistake , “it is not lady catherine .
” “but , my dear child , the time is drawing near ; here is april , and june ,
necessary to reinstate her in a proper share of the happiness of the evening before .
i think i can give you a proof that it must be so .
given it a beginning ; for his attachment , she must believe to be produced only by a consciousness of
tête-à-tête between two women can never end without a quarrel .
ferrars ; but elinor could not learn whether her sons were to be of the party .
” “have you indeed , sir ?
the marriage of a daughter , which had been the first object of her wishes since jane was sixteen ,
she wished to prove to him that she did desire his comfort , and sought to regain his favour ;
it was indeed sir thomas who opened the door and asked if she were there , and if he might
imagination ; and fancying the road to be now just passable for adventurous people , but in a state that
” “no , no .
weep when i behold his bride , for too surely this is the case— .
woodhouse at last was off ; but mr .
of soup .
you may have drawn him in .
” “he is also handsome , ” replied elizabeth , “which a young man ought likewise to be , if
” “they have none of them much to recommend them , ” replied he ; “they are all silly and
a fine preacher is followed and admired ; but it is not in fine preaching only that a good clergyman
nothing of that kind could be hired in the village .
her grateful and gratified heart could hardly restrain its expressions within the language of tolerable calmness .
indolent , gentlemanlike sort of pride that would harm nobody , and only make himself a little helpless and tiresome
; and so decided to her eye was her cousin maria ' s avoidance of him , and so needlessly
" you have probably entirely forgotten a conversation—(it is not to be supposed that it could make any impression on
” “thank you ; but will not your horse want rest ?
courage , her character to the end of her life , as thoroughly as it appeared to have influenced her
no ; he was talking to mrs .
the letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will prove what she felt .
” this emma felt was aimed at her ; and it made her quite angry .
a little from view .
after another pause , he went on—“pray , miss price , are you such a great admirer of this mr
you do believe that there is true attachment and constancy among men .
" then it is settled , musgrove , " cried captain wentworth , " that you stay , and that
darcy with him , and sat down again by her sister .
those parts of the letter which related only to mr .
he had certainly formed such a plan , and without meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him
be able to take leave of them , as he immediately did , with the utmost sang-froid , and go
" " they will be brought up , " said he , in a serious accent , " to be
i have always heard him spoken of as such , and your brother i know esteems him highly .
he did every thing best in the world ; and she was sure he would kill more birds on the
inclination .
” “no , certainly not ; and i am glad you do not think of it .
; had she tried to know her better ; had she done her part towards intimacy ; had she endeavoured
no , kitty , i have at last learnt to be cautious , and you will feel the effects of
he had left the girl whose youth and innocence he had seduced , in[ _num_ ] a situation of the
to their lasting approbation .
but this was one of the points on which the lady shewed her strength ; and when he recommended the
good fires and carriages would be much more to the purpose in most cases of delicate health , and i
” fanny was doubly silenced here ; though when the moment was passed , could regret that she had not
the same ideas , the same fears , immediately occupied her mind , and i know not which reflection distressed
, louisa is a great favourite with both .
” “yes , indeed , and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight .
” proceeded from good-breeding and goodwill alone , and had nothing to do with mr .
the relationship— .
” “well , then , fanny , you shall not get up to-morrow before i go .
lydia was exceedingly fond of him .
—can you explain it ?
jane would have caught cold again .
the first place , that she was without any excuse for staying at home ; and , in the second
when he came back he had the pain of finding very altered manners , and of seeing captain wentworth .
after receiving a very indifferent education she is left in mrs .
bustle and the world , for a wounded spirit .
following morning she wrote again to say , in the most feeling language she could command , that she would
but tell me all about it !
how could mr .
all the principal family connexions , on purpose to be introduced to them ?
the dangerous intimacy of his unjustifiable theatre , made an impression on his mind which , at the age of
' s appearing and tearing her away , and one or two subsequent moments , marked by returning hope or
cannot do without her .
neighbour .
each sister believed herself the favourite .
" " indeed , my dear mrs smith , i want none , " cried anne .
but what is distance , mr .
overcame the hope , that bingley would return to netherfield and answer every wish of her heart .
“his father ' s marriage , ” he said , “had been the wisest measure , every friend must rejoice
, and an anxiety for her doing right , which no other creature had at all shared .
sight .
that would be a noble thing , indeed , for henrietta !
the place deserves it , and you will find yourself not satisfied with much less than it is capable of
that miss crawford should endeavour to secure a meeting between him and mrs .
he deprecated her mistaken but well-meaning zeal .
could she have been at home , she might have been of service to every creature in the house .
been known to be unhappy , induced her to accept it with pleasure .
—how—how has it been possible ?
upon my word we shall be absolutely dissipated .
give me joy : i have got rid of sir walter and miss .
to be explicit .
cold insipidity of lady middleton was so particularly repulsive , [ _num_ ] that in comparison of it the gravity
wretchedness .
churchill ' s state , however , as many were ready to remind her , was liable to such sudden
for , though elated by his rank , it did not render him supercilious ; on the contrary , he
he felt the going away almost too much to speak of it .
sir william , and there being only one card-table in the evening , every such entertainment was the counterpart of
her thoughts to herself—and as for understanding any thing he wrote , she was sure she was incapable of it
nothing of all that she had been used to think of as the proof of importance , or the employment
—you know who i mean (nodding to her husband) .
with edward had not rather been fulfilled , than that she should thus be the means of spreading misery farther
when she might have a house of her own ?
—here was a new scheme for getting her to delaford !
her heart was really grieved .
to stay half a moment there , soon after she came out it began to rain , and she did
in general , his voice and manner were studiously calm .
; —but no sooner had he deliberately begun to state his objections , than mrs .
to be remembered with that other memorable escape of sir roger de coverley ' s ancestor , who was only
it was to herself an amusing and a very welcome piece of news , as proving that mr .
no , he could not believe it a bad house ; not such a house as a man was to
” “that is just what i was going to say , ” added his wife .
was not fortunate enough to find yourselves and mrs .
great spirits exclaimed , “at last i have got you .
—she was quite struck by the likeness !
lovely scene !
mind in time .
she had many acquaintance in the place , for her father was universally civil , but not one among them
elton , on his return , made his own indifference as evident and indubitable as she could not doubt he
i am excessively concerned that he should have any regard for me—but indeed it has been quite unintentional on my
" " what do you mean ?
dashwood declared they should not stay a minute longer in the house , and your brother was forced to go
but your sister does not—i think you said so—she does not consider quite as you do ?
something like tranquillity might now be hoped for ; and accordingly , when rebecca had been prevailed on to carry
does it appear impossible to your vile and corrupted palate , to exist on love ?
he looked very ill ; evidently suffering under violent emotions , which he was determined to suppress .
trouble of urging a removal which lady susan had doubtless resolved on from the first .
there was soon no leisure for quarrelling with mr .
the power of actual comparison , of her preferring his younger brother .
and happy , ) when the carriage reappeared , and all was over .
surpassing his expectation , gave her confidence , comfort , and tears of joy .
westward , with the elephant .
sir thomas gave her more credit for discretion on the occasion than she deserved ; and fanny could have blessed
they did not see more of her cousin by the alteration , for the chief of the time between breakfast
perhaps she might have passed over more had his manners been flattering to isabella ' s sister , but they
he returned immediately to his brother , who took him the next day to every shop in town , and
into composure .
resist even matrimony offered by him .
reynolds was of no trifling nature .
for her to be calm .
his father ' s decease ; but the indelicacy of her conduct was so much the greater , and to
such was his own account at randall ' s .
" do not boast of it , however , " said elinor , " for it is injustice in both
at last , however , my resolution was taken , and i had determined , as soon as i could
s most striking virtues .
suppose that the wish of establishing her reputation by following though late the path of propriety , occasioned her removal
, when the society of the village received an addition in the brother and sister of mrs .
comfort they had built on , they were obliged to give up the lakes , and substitute a more contracted
miss smith !
her eldest was a boy of ten years old , a fine spirited fellow , who longed to be out
i cannot be the only woman .
i shall always detest them both .
emma saw how mr .
we might meet at bath , at tunbridge , or anywhere else indeed , could we but be at the
, and in the promotion of whose enjoyment their own had been gently increased .
grant now the time draws near .
" she repeated to herself again and again , in nervous gratitude .
her life to the past , it would yet find her more rational , more acquainted with herself , and
they were only asked , she was sure , because lady dalrymple being kept at home by a bad cold
if he marry prudently , his wife may teach him .
it did assist ; for though he began with grave looks and short questions , he was soon led on
” “it would be very hard , indeed , my dear , if poor isabella were to be anywhere but
at the ill-grounded accusations of the malevolent and contemptible macdonald .
catherine had read too much not to be perfectly aware of the ease with which a waxen figure might be
each sister looked anxious ; for each felt the best claim to agatha , and was hoping to have it
his father had no apprehension of it .
a dream .
every other leaf were powerless , he could read his own history with an interest which never failed .
as in the country , since his acquaintance must now be dropped by all who called themselves her friends .
how merry we shall be together when we meet !
; and what robert had done to succeed to it , might have puzzled them still[ _num_ ] more .
this before , i would have spoken of the cloth with more respect , ” and turned the subject .
niece , he could not help paying more attention to what she said ; and at length determined on a
grant himself went out with an umbrella , there was nothing to be done but to be very much ashamed
make him happy , and that whenever he were attached , he would willingly give up much of wealth to
frasers were not in the country .
it was the arrival of this very invitation while the westons were at hartfield , which made their presence so
can you not conceive the luxury of living in every distress that poverty can inflict , with the object of
afraid of her being fatigued by the journey , which is not very likely , considering the care that will
it was no time for hesitation .
the fire in melancholy meditation .
to draw no limits in future to the impudence of an impudent man .
a saunter into other meadows , and through part of the village , with a visit to the stables to
that was what happened before tea .
on you and your family , monday , november _num_ th , by four o’clock , and shall probably trespass
no humour to indulge him .
— he heard her declare that she had never loved him .
sees you , and is altogether very pretty .
only in the dread of being supplanted , found how inexpressibly important it had been .
“ever since the day—about four years ago—that miss taylor and i met with him in broadway lane , when ,
your uncle is as much surprised as i am—and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned would
twice was he called almost from the door by her eagerness to have him gone .
lydia has no brothers to step forward ; and he might imagine , from my father’s behaviour , from his
it was of gold , prettily worked ; and though fanny would have preferred a longer and a plainer chain
some pains , portsmouth could have no pleasures .
and even against your character ?
your conduct would be quite as dependent on chance as that of any man i know ; and if ,
ceremonious politeness of her curtsey and address to his friend .
leave her less to regret when it were gone .
” (said my mother , ) “the sooner the better .
more lucky , she wanted exactly the advice they gave .
her spirits sank under the glow of theirs , and she felt herself becoming too nearly nothing to both to
palmer , and the middletons .
in the fact a fresh confirmation of that traditional blindness of authors to their own best work , which is
elinor , confirmed in every pleasant hope , was all cheerfulness ; rejoicing that in her letters to her mother
, which yesterday had produced .
it is tenderness of heart which makes my dear father so generally beloved—which gives isabella all her popularity .
i will not disguise my sentiments on this change from you , my dear mother , though i think you
manners were all that could be safely judged of , under a much longer knowledge than they had yet had
but this idea was soon banished , and her spirits were very differently affected , when , to her utter
to be constantly living with an ill-tempered person , must be dreadful .
yates did not chuse would perfectly satisfy him , and a short parley of compliment ensued .
he will marry her , and be poor and miserable .
my poor mother is really ill , and keeps her room .
” “whose stables do you use at bath ?
escape from many certain evils , that she could have stood against a great deal more indifference than she met
but at last they were in the drawing-room , and she was able to think as she would , while
i have been scolding him to such a degree , my dear catherine , you would be quite amazed .
surely , after doing so , she cannot be imagined liable to any impression of sorrow or of joy on
[ _num_ ] chapter xiv the sudden termination of colonel brandon ' s visit at the park , with his
" good heavens !
, i shall never think of doing it myself , as i very much suspect that i should not have
room before he entered it .
had so much sense ; i am glad you are come back .
had been guarded by youth , a youth of mind as lovely as of person ; whose modesty had prevented
” she looked over the letter again .
her most favourite maxims .
to remain .
i thought so at the time ; but you would give him cowper .
, spirited details with full satisfaction , seeing in them the proof of good principles , professional knowledge , energy
girl , and i wish with all my heart she were well settled .
it , and make mrs .
and jane will have such another .
kind congratulations , as far as they relate to my dearest william .
miss lucas is married and settled .
should not the colonel write himself ?
into the very grounds of northanger , without having discerned even an antique chimney .
we do not call bermuda or bahama , you know , the west indies .
“they told me—that mr .
it is so much beyond any thing i deserve .
when he did perceive and acknowledge her , however , it was done with all his usual frankness and good
who would have thought that she could be so thin and small ?
anne had no uppercross hall before her , no landed estate , no headship of a family ; and if
the envelope contained a sheet of elegant , little , hot-pressed paper , well covered with a lady’s fair ,
regard which interested him in every thing that befell her , and made her his secret standard of perfection in
great animation , for julia and her partner , mr .
but she had never felt so strongly as now the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable a
her cause , meanwhile , went on well .
and she sits so upright !
i never saw a girl of her age bid fairer to be the sport of mankind .
one might guess twenty things without guessing exactly the right ; but i am sure there must be a particular
" " as good a kind of fellow as ever lived , i assure you .
will have sir james martin before she leaves london again .
, and only afforded more frequent opportunities of proving them .
his card was on the table when they came in from the morning ' s drive .
sir walter could not have borne the degradation of being known to design letting his house .
whatever might be the cause , she preserved the same appearance of knowledge , and contempt of what was generally
i can finish my visit here , you know , at any time ; or i hope you will come
painting , " do you know who that is ?
" there could not be an objection .
have passed away .
he could be in possession of the living , surprised her a little at first .
uppercross instead .
dashwood and margaret came down stairs at the same time , and they all sat down to look at one
his , therefore , must be worn ; and having , with delightful feelings , joined the chain and the
be that as it may , she saw him go with regret ; and in this early example of what
your interest , which i am sure you would be kind enough to use out of friendship for him ,
a flush of vexation , he inclined to hope that so much could not have been said and listened to
this , we know , must be a work of time .
should have had this hot walk to no purpose .
he had an affectionate heart .
her resolution was formed as she read .
the scene-painter was gone , having spoilt only the floor of one room , ruined all the coachman ' s
your own .
so mildly , to receive her and her husband at longbourn , as soon as they were married , that
“i do not think i shall ever wish for a letter again !
as soon as they entered the copse , lady catherine began in the following manner : — “you can be
—what did she say ?
miss smith , and miss bickerton , another parlour boarder at mrs .
” “we must have a curtain , ” said tom bertram ; “a few yards of green baize for a
for information as to the probable period of the antwerp ' s return from the mediterranean , etc .
and , if in little things , must it not be so in great ?
just such a contrast with his early opinion on the subject when the poor little girl ' s coming had
" my judgment , " he returned , " is all on your side of the question ; but i
" charles laughed again and said , " now mary , you know very well how it really was .
—you will find how very much he suffers .
visit in consequence was to the portrait in her bed-chamber .
you and miss crawford have made me too nice .
had not mrs .
' dear me , how clever !
crawford meant to be in town by his uncle ' s accustomary late dinner-hour , and william was invited to
by her suggestions , and tried to make everything agreeable by her encouragement .
must be pleasing to witness and detect .
goddard ' s , had written out at least three hundred ; and harriet , who had taken the first
" " pray , pray be composed , " cried elinor , " and do not betray what you feel
don ' t let her imagine that you have spoken of her as a pretty young woman .
he will suffer enough in them .
tilney in every box which her eye could reach ; but she looked in vain .
" " but you , yourself , brought mrs harville , her sister , her cousin , and three children
" " by feeling that i was doing my duty .
pitying freind who would receive and comfort me in my afflictions .
little lighter .
” “i beg you would not put it into lizzy’s head to be vexed by his ill-treatment , for he
that was now the home .
who , from our near relationship and constant intimacy , and , still more , as one of the executors
she was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject , and related , with much bitterness of spirit
“she looks sickly and cross .
, widow of sir lewis de bourgh , whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the valuable rectory of
gives me very little idea .
labours towards you during your education .
wallis sent them by her boy ; they are extremely civil and obliging to us , the wallises , always—i
in short the affair was soon adjusted .
bertram again .
you were the person slighted , you will forgive me instantly ; but i must work on my father '
with a sorrowful countenance , which declared that no willoughby had been there .
her coming there was the most unfortunate , the most ill-judged thing in the world !
no , it is ' fanny ' that i think of all day , and dream of all night .
after a short struggle , however , charles hayter seemed to quit the field .
tease him—laugh at him .
jennings had determined very early in the seizure that marianne would never get over it , and colonel brandon ,
, and take you back to mansfield .
i read .
yours too and bring them to you .
with us tomorrow , you could not have the pleasure of walking with her till tuesday .
woodhouse came in , and very soon led to the subject again , by the recurrence of his very frequent
" we have heard sir john admire it excessively , " said lucy , who seemed to think some apology
signs of obstinacy or perverseness during her whole stay in wigmore street , till she was detected in this scheme
if we had not been able to give them in person .
and pursuits .
novelty , less interest , less peculiar gratification , than would be attributed to her .
should the result of her observations be unfavourable , she was determined at all events to open the eyes of
why should they not go on to scotland if that had been the case ?
—i want his directions no more than his drugs .
i found myself entering this beautifull vale which i find is in south wales , when i had expected to
it had been their school-room ; so called till the miss bertrams would not allow it to be called so
i mentioned nothing of the matter , they desired me to step into the basket as we might there converse
his sense of her merits , describing and describing again his affection , proving as far as words could prove
when i think of them i am so agitated !
exactly the sort of people he would like .
said i , i hope you have not done .
” “when they all removed to brighton , therefore , you had no reason , i suppose , to believe
he had a considerable independence besides two good livings—and he was not in the least addicted to locking up his
of a pleasant nature to send .
i am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about mr .
when i am in town it is pretty much the same .
i should not have been allowed to invite them .
her intimacy there had made him seriously determine on her being handsomely legacied hereafter ; and to speak of her
while lady elliot lived , there had been method , moderation , and economy , which had just kept him
you must give me a plain , direct answer .
never be touched on by him ; but after a day or two of mutual reserve , he was induced
will not it be a good plan ?
behaviour to eliza williams .
they care no more about such things !
it darted through her , with the speed of an arrow , that mr .
nay , i know not whether i ought to be quite tranquil now , for i have had more trouble
do your sisters play and sing ?
they were received with great cordiality .
cheerlessness of her own small house , without reproaching herself for some little want of attention to her when they
what praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant ?
, and the lid closed with alarming violence .
" this , and the manner in which it was said , immediately brought back to her remembrance all the
two dances , unfortunately , were all that could be allowed .
gardiner smiled .
i could not bear that she should be frightened from the visit by such nonsense .
” miss bingley made no answer , and soon afterwards she got up and walked about the room .
to communicate to his brother , in the hope of separating them forever , she could not have her partner
her skin was very brown , but , from its transparency , her complexion was uncommonly brilliant ; her features
their visitors stayed with them above half-an-hour ; and when they arose to depart , mr .
elinor , having once delivered her opinion on william ' s side , by which she offended mrs .
harriet ' s mind , producing reserve and self-command , it would .
twice did i leave them purposely together in the course of the last morning , and each time did he
elizabeth soon observed , and instantly understood it .
greatness will not make me so .
sentiments—no , no , do not desire it ; for when the romantic refinements of a young mind are obliged
) by some such improvements as i have suggested (i do not really require you to proceed upon my plan
surprize .
bingley intended it likewise , and sometimes made choice of his county ; but as he was now provided with
i quite detest her .
we must not meet .
am sure , are very kind to you ?
jennings , in the meantime , talked on as loud as she could , and continued her account of their
the man whom he always most wished to avoid , and whose very name it was punishment to him to
often impertinently expressed , was perfectly of a piece with her general inquisitiveness into the concerns of their family .
” “true , sir ; and emma , because she had miss fairfax .
at that moment i happened to be passing by the door of the court , and was beckoned in by
gardiner’s door , jane was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival ; when they entered the passage she was
he did consent .
and when crawford proceeded to ask his opinion and give his own as to the properest manner in which particular
sometimes one officer , sometimes another , had been her favourite , as their attentions raised them in her opinion
i thought it must be so .
is so dark you do not see her .
" said elinor .
darcy , the superior in consequence , to begin the acquaintance .
presumed ever to see imperfection in her , as rather negligent in that respect , and as not contributing what
her first attempts at usefulness were in an endeavour to find out who were the parents , but harriet could
" mrs clay , " said she , warmly , " never forgets who she is ; and as i
however , she will not find her grandmama at all deafer than she was two years ago ; which is
the other less interesting mode of attachment .
from this delightful engagement , though she could not speak of her loss without many tears .
did he ?
circumstance , but in a greater to her having been less the darling of that very aunt , less flattered
away , and mrs .
knightley , a sensible man about seven or eight-and-thirty , was not only a very old and intimate friend of
herself among her other relations .
i would have everything done in the best style , and made as nice as possible .
gardiner , that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before she leaves the south .
here is excellent room for three , i assure you .
all my remorse .
all that is known after this is , that they were seen to continue the london road .
sit an hour with them , and she had taken a piece of cake and been so kind as to
i think he is just the person to do it , even without being in love .
it would have been very unpleasant to me in every respect .
it stands in one of the lowest spots of the park ; in that respect , unfavourable for improvement .
for a long time , she firmly relied on the liberality of his intentions .
heard with complacency .
she endeavoured to be composed , and to be just .
charles musgrove was civil and agreeable ; in sense and temper he was undoubtedly superior to his wife , but
as only miss steele had curiosity enough to desire .
doubts her fear of a too hasty decision , or her wish of detecting falsehood might suffer to linger in
almost as soon as i entered the house , i singled you out as the companion of my future life
" cried marianne in the wildest anxiety .
half a day ' s work about those side-doors .
but , in general , i can assure you that they are all passed over , and all very ill
but from the severity of that blame which was last night so liberally bestowed , respecting each circumstance , i
the young lady’s whispering to elizabeth again , he walked away .
bingley had never met with more pleasant people or prettier girls in his life ; everybody had been most kind
" mrs musgrove thinks all her servants so steady , that it would be high treason to call it in
style of life which their fortune could not warrant ; seeking to better themselves by wealthy connections ; a forward
distressing scene before her than ever that spot had yet witnessed .
it was a look , however , very well bestowed , for it relieved her own feelings , and gave
in one perhaps there may be a dagger , in another a few drops of blood , and in a
; she still expected that it would all end well , and that every morning would bring some letter ,
wickham was as far beyond them all in person , countenance , air , and walk , as they were
the powerful protection of a very magnificent concerto— " i will honestly tell you of one scheme which has lately
if that had been nearer , she would not have gone so soon .
exclaim , in the anguish of her[ _num_ ] heart , " oh !
, and sciences .
she condescended to wait on them at pemberley , in spite of that pollution which its woods had received ,
dashwood ?
it now first struck her , that she was selected from among her sisters as worthy of being mistress of
seriously near ; and she so little understood her own claims as to think that if mr .
, whose name had not long been enrolled in the lists of hymen , and who had promised to become
but then , i must have a london audience .
just , and discriminating , of lady russell , and insinuations highly rational against mrs clay .
what i say is , why should a brother ' s happiness be dearer to me than a friend '
she is of a temper to do a great deal for anybody she really interests herself about , and she
” “yes , she did .
all the difficulties that must have perplexed the engagement , and retarded the marriage , of edward and herself ,
now i shall be comfortable .
crawford desired that might not be thought of : he was very sure his sister had no wish of acting
i have seen you only as the admirer of my friend .
satisfying every sensible and well disposed person whose opinions have been properly guided by a good education—and this argument is
, i think we may flatter ourselves that your hunsford visit cannot have been entirely irksome .
the situation of the house was good .
see anybody better looking .
what , in heaven ' s name , is to be done next ?
diffused again among the others , and it was only at intervals that he could return to lyme .
“i will go to meryton , ” said she , “as soon as i am dressed , and tell the
i do admire your patriotism .
john dashwood did not at all approve of what her husband intended to do for his sisters .
“i did not think caroline in spirits , ” were her words , “but she was very glad to see
the age of fourteen , to books—or at least books of information—for , provided that nothing like useful knowledge could
lizzy , my dear , run down to your father , and ask him how much he will give her
very recently in alternation .
attempting to pursue them .
bring his passion to an early proof .
in vain did elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother’s words , or persuade her to describe her
it did her no service however .
he could now , without the drawback of a single unpleasant surmise , without a glance forward at any possible
departure of the “poor little boys , ” or in fondly pointing out , as he took up any stray
some other person .
as i assure you it makes none in my willingness to part with it .
all that passed , in the company of lucy !
we will go round the park every day .
tilney , i have been quite wild to speak to you , and make my apologies .
bennet !
” cried maria : “oh dear !
“how near it may be to mine , i cannot pretend to say .
weston—he was continually here—i always found him very pleasant—and , in short , for (with a sigh) let me swell
; but she feared from his looks , that the same unfortunate persuasion , which had hastened him away from
unsuitable increase of ease and unreserve ; and was even partly determined never to mention the subject again .
it would be unpardonable to fail .
was fixed on .
in .
very sufficient invitation for his cousin , mrs .
' of local colouring there is as little in sense and sensibility as in pride and prejudice .
sensible of its being exceedingly wholesome ; and the day was concluding in peace and comfort to all their little
i was sixteen years old when you were born .
especially to mr .
” “how contemptible !
bingley’s first choice .
for my part , mr .
as to any thing superior for you , i suppose she is quite in the dark .
stokes , ' said i—but i had not time for more .
, and she was again applied to , could readily answer , and with a proper air of indifference ,
philippa has long paid the debt of nature , her husband however still continues to drive the stage-coach from edinburgh
allen , by the communication of the wonderful event .
rushworth , “in my opinion it is very disagreeable to be always rehearsing .
life .
so brilliant a leader in the fashionable world , having quitted her husband ' s roof in company with the
her sister and bingley) shall take place .
grant is very anxious for her not finding mansfield dull as winter comes on .
, for three months , in laura place , and would be living in style .
by the idea of its being a wicked thing for her not to be happy .
” “look at that young lady with the white beads round her head , ” whispered catherine , detaching her
feeling .
divided them .
jennings , whose active good-nature made her friendly and hospitable for other people as well as herself , engaged with
the sofa with herself and pug , and vain was even the sight of a gooseberry tart towards giving her
freckles do not disgust me so very much as they do him .
they never once thought of her heart , which , for the parents of a young lady of seventeen ,
one thing , especially , i remember , because it served to identify the man still more : —as soon
she would have been glad to know when these difficulties were to cease , this opposition was to yield ,
be talked , flattered , and finessed into an affection for her which , allowing leisure for the conquest of
bennet , in short , was in very great spirits ; she had seen enough of bingley’s behaviour to jane
never had catherine listened to anything so full of interest , wonder , and joy .
she can never be more lost to you than she is now .
shilling , and begged them not to want more , or to use her ill .
a friend , they departed as soon as the carriage could be found .
i met colonel brandon monday morning in bond-street , just before we left town , and he told me of
“oh , no ; catherine was sure they would not have the least objection , and she should have great
i shall only just mention the circumstance to the others in a common way .
as john dashwood had no more pleasure in music than his eldest sister , his mind was equally at liberty
property had not grandeur and wealth enough in himself , at what point of interest were the demands of his
not been above four or five times in the miss musgroves ' company , and charles hayter had but just
it ended in mrs .
old quarters at the park ; from whence he usually returned in the morning , early enough to interrupt the
that instant , she had never suffered .
” her sister , however , assured her of her being perfectly well ; and their conversation , which had
was such a general wish to walk along it once more , all were so inclined , and louisa soon
a few awkward moments passed , and he sat down again ; and in a more determined manner said ,
here he is .
honoured as i see it , (looking at the book again , and replacing it on the table) , he
yes ; he had done it .
‘ah !
from his style of education , it was always to be expected .
given , they would not refuse to spare her to her friend .
" said mrs musgrove to mrs croft .
jennings , was a temptation we could not resist .
i will attack them with more address .
attention : " she has not such good health as her sister , —she is very nervous , —she has
she danced next with an officer , and had the refreshment of talking of wickham , and of hearing that
“does that young lady know mr .
sir thomas did not know what was wanting , because , though a truly anxious father , he was not
“indeed i have , sir , ” was her answer .
weston ended with , “we have not yet had the letter we are so anxious for , you know ,
the party from uppercross passing down by the now deserted and melancholy looking rooms , and still descending , soon
i am tired of submitting my will to the caprices of others ; of resigning my own judgment in deference
” “to be sure .
—he , who had never yet alluded to their marriage but as a distant event .
her language , and the warmth of her attachments .
bingley’s being imposed on , than that mr .
she would not calculate , she would not compare .
why would not marianne come ?
who is your party ?
i love you better than any body in the world .
” “no , i never inquire .
again , she was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by her sister mary , who having , in consequence of
if , at certain points , it is half-hearted and inadequate , it is still fairly accurate in its recognition
to supply the place of what was taken away .
they were on union street , when a quicker step behind , a something of familiar sound , gave her
you think only of yourself , and because you do not feel for mr .
this is my advice .
shark is only one syllable .
he can take it .
” they did not see the gentlemen again till tuesday ; and mrs .
you will easily comprehend , from these particulars , that mr .
an idea last spring ; for mrs .
him from the attacks of mr .
” “not at all .
—how much more must an imaginist , like herself , be on fire with speculation and foresight !
on the morrow the crawfords were gone .
" " i cannot suppose it possible that she should .
engagement , an engagement which may be long .
had been a question of his .
darcy , she saw on looking up that colonel fitzwilliam was meeting her .
dull .
at the end of the broad , neat gravel walk , which led between espalier apple-trees to the front door
if he had been anxious for secrecy , he would not have left the paper while i was by ;
we have been winding in and out ever since we came into it ; and therefore , when i say
allen , that she would move a little to accommodate mrs .
them in .
they had stopped at mrs .
nothing happened the next day , or the next , to weaken her terrors .
said , in a whisper , " i have been guessing .
of it elsewhere ; but charles was on the point of marrying miss de courcy , and the event has
when edmund , therefore , told her in reply , as he did when she would give him the hearing
)—but ever since we had the history of that day , i have been so fond of mr .
by g— , you are just in time !
little did mr .
he paid her only the compliment of attention ; and she felt a respect for him on the occasion ,
that home as she directed , or differing only by a less scrupulous opinion , and more noisy abuse of
crawford contrived a minute ' s privacy for telling fanny that his only business in portsmouth was to see her
vanity , extravagance , love of change , restlessness of temper , which must be doing something , good or
” “you are in the right my love , ” said she .
but perseverance in humility of conduct and messages , in self-condemnation for robert ' s offence , and gratitude for
i am not born to sit still and do nothing .
what a difference in the weight of a woman ' s arm from that of a man !
i ' m sure there ' s a vast many smart beaux in exeter ; but you know , how
am gone home ?
“we thought you were to bring them .
he might talk of necessity , but she knew his independence .
yes , that will be quite enough for pleasure .
there was no recovering the complexion from the moment that i spoke of ' fanny , ' and spoke of
weston , if there were an account drawn up of the evil and the good i have done miss fairfax
it might not be saving them much , but it was something , and i could not bear to sit
as convinced her that the improvement of manners which she had yesterday witnessed however temporary its existence might prove ,
" marianne was astonished to find how much the imagination of her mother and herself had outstripped the truth .
cox ' s family , the lawyer of highbury .
allen ; and , when catherine saw what was necessary here , she began to be amazed herself .
and stood talking some time ; but i know no more what i said—i was in such a tremble !
weston were soon out of the house together and on their way at a quick pace for randalls .
to confine him to my elbow .
he was very much pleased with randalls , thought it a most admirably arranged house , would hardly allow it
so good a husband to so bad a wife !
step in regular approach was heard ; a heavy step , an unusual step in that part of the house
” “just as you please , my dear .
allowed to choose any myself , i returned home to be completely idle ; and for the first twelvemonth afterwards
” “good god !
as for myself , it is many , many years since i first began to think of him in a
“well , my dear , ” said mrs .
she does not think evil , but she speaks it , speaks it in playfulness ; and though i know
” a long dispute followed this declaration ; but mr .
” “oh , horrid !
in eleanor ' s presence friendship and pride had equally restrained her tears , but no sooner was she gone
persuaded that we could be happy together .
' so then it all came out ; and the long and the short of the matter , by all
at breakfast she neither ate , nor attempted to eat any thing ; and elinor ' s attention was then
her heart had been but slightly touched , and her vanity was satisfied with believing that she would have been
he was full of joy and attention .
ever in town .
we never could agree in our choice of a profession .
certain it was that she was to come ; and that highbury , instead of welcoming that perfect novelty which
so near a vicinity to her mother and meryton relations was not desirable even to his easy temper , or
” “henry is a fine boy , but john is very like his mama .
[ _num_ ] introduced to mrs .
be of use .
” “anybody would have thought so indeed .
tell me edward (said i) tell me i beseech you before you die , what has befallen you since that
pheasants , sir , i assure you , as much as you could desire .
his fortune and consequence might do away .
he really believed , that were it not for the inferiority of her connections , he should be in some
the truth is , harriet , that my playing is just good enough to be praised , but jane fairfax
“do you want to be told that you are only unlike other people in being more wise and discreet ?
shyness of a girl ; her person pleasing , and , when in good looks , pretty—and her mind about
” “for my own part , ” said isabella , “my wishes are so moderate that the smallest income in
” harriet had not surmised her own danger , but the idea of it struck her forcibly .
with the family of de bourgh .
so very abusive , especially of elizabeth , that for some time all intercourse was at an end .
elliot maintaining that mrs clay had a little cold already , and mr elliot deciding on appeal , that his
" elinor did not offer to detain him ; and they parted , with a very earnest assurance on her
a place of my own in the country , i should be most thankful to any mr .
already part of the second version of _num_ - _num_ .
miss steele was the least discomposed of the three , [ _num_ ] by their presence ; and it was
any one ' s conduct on so illiberal a foundation , as a difference in judgment from myself , or
as heartily as ever .
good morning to you .
it is a most serious business .
might be expected at hartfield very soon .
now i cannot say , that i think you are any of you looking well at present .
harriet was too much agitated to encounter him .
it is yet too early in life to despair of such a happiness .
saw there was no other door , and that there were signs of habitation before her , she called back
their evil was incalculable .
it was an unaccountable business .
marianne ' s abilities were , in many respects , quite equal to elinor ' s .
for him to know beforehand when it will be .
” “yes , ” said harriet earnestly , “and well she might , nobody could ever have a better .
trust me for that ; (replied i) .
” “no , indeed i do not .
at the same time , nobody could wonder if mr .
look at the back .
, seemed likely to disappoint mr .
" what felt elinor at that moment ?
a theatre at everingham .
" " dear ma ' am , " replied elinor , smiling at the difference of the complaints for which
at that moment , she cared for no other .
of regard .
” “you intend to be very rich ?
” she could think of nothing more to say ; but if he wished to converse with her , he
” emma looked graciously .
beyond you three , is there a creature in the world whom i would not rather suspect of evil than
" i have let my house to admiral croft , " would sound extremely well ; very much better than
between him and his wife decided what was to be done .
and all this by such a man as general tilney , so polite , so well bred , and heretofore
they think charles might not be learned and bookish enough to please lady russell , and that therefore , she
if i could be sure of the rooms being thoroughly aired—but is mrs .
we must descend a little .
a mind lively and at ease , can do with seeing nothing , and can see nothing that does not
elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment ; nor were the other ladies often absent ; the gentlemen
by this , you may perceive that he has entirely regained that chearful gaiety , and sprightly wit , for
' s recommendation ?
which they hoped might keep mr .
however , she seems a very obliging , pretty-behaved young lady , and no doubt will make him a very
i have not that pain .
she will enjoy the scheme , i am sure ; and i do not know a properer person for shewing
his heart was warmed , his fancy fired , and he felt the highest respect for a lad who ,
, as you will conclude , immediately opened to me the happiest prospects , i should not have presumed on
noted down the names of those she recommended , and promised to procure and read them .
at preventing their union , which have been attributed to selfishness in lady susan ; but in this case ,
to what was right and support her in it very tolerably .
insulting me , you chose to tell me that you liked me against your will , against your reason ,
the money which our grandfather had left me and which they had unjustly deprived me of , but finding that
" " yes , marianne , but i would not go while mrs .
—did you speak to me ?
or a scruple was there on his side , with respect to her birth .
civil answer for everybody .
better , for as you are as handsome as any of them , mr .
; and that of two sisters , who both deserve equally well , and who have always been such good
if catherine does not go , i cannot .
" she exclaimed , " he is there—he is there—oh !
, “if you mean miss fairfax and frank churchill , i have heard that already .
all the rest of the world , with the gratitude , wonder , and veneration , which are so proper
him to colonel brandon for his admiration .
she could do nothing but glide in quietly and look at him ; but when able to talk or be
, attention , and flattery can do , i have no inclination to believe fanny one of them , or
darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt’s ill-breeding , and made no answer .
of several minutes , was only recalled to a sense of her situation by the voice of her companion ,
conversation opposed to her instead of his brother .
; and that , though he had his separate engagements , it was not without difficulty , without considerable address
woodhouses had long held a high place in the consideration of the neighbourhood which mr .
were to be the thing unfolded ; and was now trying to be in a bustle without having anything to
i could hardly get her to speak .
there were none in her father ' s house ; but wealth is luxurious and daring , and some of
churchill was unwell—far too unwell to do without him ; she had been in a very suffering state (so said
it were newly fitted up—a couple of hundred pounds , willoughby says , would make it one of the pleasantest
that ?
of uppercross , in the county of somerset , " and by inserting most accurately the day of the month
thankful ; and then you may say whatever you like of me .
match ; and be ready to believe , for everybody’s sake , that she may feel something like regard and
for my part , i think the less that is said about such things , the better , the sooner
one evening in particular , about a week after colonel brandon left the country , his heart seemed more than
were it for nothing but his love of you , i must always have esteemed him ; but now ,
be kind to my intentions , and consider it , as it really is , a token of the love
we want none of them ; do we ?
the absurdity of her curiosity and her fears—could they ever be forgotten ?
rushworth will be at home , and i am sure i can answer for your being kindly received by both
musgrove , for the sake of his horses , would not consent ; and when it came to be rationally
your sister ' s lovely person and interesting manners could not but please me ; and her behaviour to me
" " that is an expression , sir john , " said marianne , warmly , " which i particularly
" the rent of this cottage is said to be low ; but we have it on very hard terms
sir john and lady middleton wished it very much .
collins , who was complimenting mr .
” upon the whole , she was equally contented with her view of his feelings .
but then i have always supposed it to be my own fault—because i will not take the trouble of practising
thought it a great shame that such a present was not made , he always contended for his father '
softened its impropriety of expression .
i sent wilson to say that i desired to speak with him before he went ; he came immediately .
but if it be only a slight , thin sort of inclination , i am convinced that one good sonnet
an ancient family to be so driven away !
contemplation of actual and natural evil , the solitude of her situation , the darkness of her chamber , the
” i saw that she wanted to mortify me , and was resolved if i possibly could to prevent her
— i am not in want of that sort of compassion .
if you look across the street , you will see admiral brand coming down and his brother .
you really liked him .
some explanation on his father ' s account he had to give ; but his first purpose was to explain
“independently of the interest which mr .
two important events now at hand , which were to fix his fate in life—ordination and matrimony—events of such a
for a moment repent her refusal , or feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again .
clime in christendom is cried , concerning you , with caution and care i commend to your charitable criticism this
the clifton scheme had been deferred , not relinquished , and on the afternoon ' s crescent of this day
” “pray say no more .
we talked and laughed so loud , that anybody might have heard us ten miles off !
by whom he finally seated himself ; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into conversation , though
the feelings of the person who wrote , and the person who received it , are now so widely different
your affectionate daughter , c .
in his manner .
this , to anne , was a decided imperfection .
unequalled love and unexampled passion could not fail of having some effect , and in short , very much resolved
though her nephew had had no particular reason to hasten back on her account , she had not lived above
" " because , " replied he , smiling , " among the rest of the objects before me ,
she had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her sister must bring them more frequently together .
last two years of her life , and can answer any question you may wish to put .
—emma then felt it indispensable to wish him a good night .
is she solemn ?
—very well i thank you , quite well .
he cannot succeed , to bring her to churchhill for the present , till some other situation can be found
" " well , as your joint acquaintance , then , i shall be very happy to see captain benwick
" " no , ma ' am .
” “a mother would have been always present .
collins has made you an offer of marriage .
be vain of in the littlenesses of a town ; and she must sigh , and smile , and wonder
for what is to be done in the church ?
imagine to yourself , my dear elinor , the delight of a gallop on some of these downs .
i have another reason for urging this : mainwaring came to town last week , and has contrived , in
he came with a pretence at an apology from their sister-in-law , for not coming too ; " but she
he has no business to withdraw the attention of my partner from me .
you see complete ; the iron-work as good as new , or better .
you much better as i sit by the fire .
” “i thought he meant to try his skill , by his manner of declining it yesterday .
“to want to nail me to a card-table for the next two hours with herself and dr .
she interested him more than he had foreseen .
edmund , who had taken down the mare and presided at the whole , returned with it in excellent time
not tell it , for it ' s a great secret .
with such means in his power he had a right to be listened to ; and though mrs .
he was shy , and disposed to abstraction ; but the engaging mildness of her countenance , and gentleness of
this double unkindness ; but for remonstrance , either opportunity or comprehension was always against her .
whereas , in my opinion , by her taking so much notice of you , and treating you in this
that he would go .
" no—nor many weeks .
she had long suspected the family to be very high , and this made it certain .
poultry—was very much in want of some variety at home .
nay , most likely they are married already , for i do not know what they should wait for .
letter _num_ th laura in continuation when we were somewhat recovered from the overpowering effusions of our grief , edward
there was nothing in all this either to astonish or interest , and it caught emma ' s attention only
jennings was governed in it by an impulse of the utmost good-will .
was very short ; indeed i am sure it was but a few lines .
and he earnestly tried to impress his eldest son with the same conviction , in the hope of its producing
—there is a great difference .
the servant she kept to herself .
—i remain , dear sir , with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters , your well-wisher and friend ,
she immediately held out to him , was such , as , in elinor ' s conjecture , must arise
it was not long before a good understanding took place between this lady and herself .
she gloried in being a sailor ' s wife , but she must pay the tax of quick alarm for
am afraid he took something in my conduct amiss .
dream about people whom it was not very likely you should be thinking of at enscombe .
who had been into dorsetshire lately ; and who , treating her at once as the disinterested friend of mr
churchill will not be second to any lady in the land for”— mrs .
" the man replied that none had .
it was so ; he had said it .
chapter v no sooner was her answer dispatched , than mrs .
from the river were imagined even by him , stirred no more ; and his daughter resolved to remain with
should be without .
; and even the clergyman-- " she stopt a moment to consider what might do for the clergyman ; --
these are the motives which i have been pressing on you .
saucy conscious smile about it , and found amusement in detecting the real cause of that violent dislike of mr
for the very moment mr .
but nothing can be done—i know very well that nothing can be done .
over that she knew he was giving her the affectionate farewell of a brother .
elton , ” she replied , starting on this appeal ; “is he—is he a tall man ?
i would really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of hearing the very best
when he and crawford walked into the drawing-room , his mother and fanny were sitting as intently and silently at
' thank you , my mother is remarkably well .
maria was more to be pitied than julia ; for to her the father brought a husband , and the
crawford , desirous of accepting as a favour what was intended as such , though he had seen the dockyard
” “you assign greater consequence to the clergyman than one has been used to hear given , or than i
you spoke of the balls at northampton .
” “but you , who are so extremely fond of it—there can be no danger , surely ?
saying to you in this letter .
but then you know , how should i guess such a thing ?
louisa ' s limbs had escaped .
it was the very event to engage those who talk most , the young and the low ; and all
than that their brother’s fortune and their own had been acquired by trade .
and impossible ; and she could only protest , over and over again , that no two hours and a
and i must say , that its being for you has raised him inconceivably in my opinion .
she got away as soon as she could from a room in which her conduct produced such unpleasant reflections ,
churchill , of a great yorkshire family , and miss churchill fell in love with him , nobody was surprized
norris ' s anger against fanny was so much the greater , from considering her residence there as the motive
in which she was readily joined by jane , and by making a variety of remarks on the happiness that
cole , were left very busy over parish business—that as long as he had staid , however , it had
mrs clay ' s affections had overpowered her interest , and she had sacrificed , for the young man '
in this spirit he began the attack , and by animated perseverance had soon re-established the sort of familiar intercourse
ease as to the necessity of any sudden removal of her own .
” “my dear miss fairfax , young ladies are very sure to be cared for .
” “i thank you for my share of the favour , ” said elizabeth ; “but i do not particularly
at least highly interesting .
path .
" it would not be a great match for henrietta , but charles has a very fair chance , through
description , no longer able , in the picture she had been forming of a future thornton , to shut
be done without neglecting his comfort—how certainly mrs .
; and though she sighed as she rejoiced , her sigh had none of the ill-will of envy in it
immediately rushed across her ; and though there could be nothing really in it , there was something whimsical ,
passing you in argyle street : you were so kind as to look back on purpose .
bates , and appearing to attend to the good old lady ' s replies , she saw her with a
smith your only friend ?
girls , he left them a thousand pounds a-piece .
i think i have heard you say that you know them .
a kind , low whisper , as she placed herself , “never mind , my dear miss price , this
her illness .
” “never , madam , ” cried he , affronted in his turn : “never , i assure you .
dangerous recurrences to the past , and give the most decided proof of what degree of intimacy was chosen for
that he was perfectly agreeable and good-natured , and altogether a very charming man , did not admit of a
designedly , at least , henry could not have betrayed her .
henry could not have afforded her such a house .
wishes to be known to you .
' s amusement ; cold provisions were to be taken , open carriages only to be employed , and every
i can only guess at .
“how quick you are !
he talked of foregrounds , distances , and second distances—side-screens and perspectives—lights and shades ; and catherine was so hopeful
lady dalrymple had acquired the name of " a charming woman , " because she had a smile and a
” thorpe then said something in the loud , incoherent way to which he had often recourse , about its
” “may we ?
it then occurred to her to employ him in reading .
without having a wish beyond it .
but she had no reason to fear mr .
she had been expecting to see him the whole morning , and all the evening , too , was still
—oh !
i have now another motive for being glad that i can produce it .
if she had only made me a formal courtesy , for instance , without saying a word , and never
and how unpleasantly her having only walked out without her aunt ' s knowledge could be dwelt on , she
the actual space to the best account , to supply the deficiencies of lodging-house furniture , and defend the windows
; but no one was less likely than mrs .
he did not suppose they could be damp now , in the middle of the day .
suckling was always rather a friend to the abolition .
” but soon it came to be on one side , “but will there be good room for five couple
don ' t disturb him .
the history of england henry the _num_ th henry the _num_ th ascended the throne of england much to his
she was by her promise of secrecy to lucy , she could give no information that would convince marianne ;
tied up from much gaming at present by a promise to his father , and of being sir thomas hereafter
bingley was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly .
, in the expectation and in the actual arrival of the very person whose presence must really be interfering with
if i could but play as well as you and miss fairfax !
nor , for the first half hour , to be easily pardoned .
with a heart full of the matter , mrs .
disengaged was the wonder !
the clock struck ten while the trunks were carrying down , and the general had fixed to be out of
" elinor ' s astonishment at this commission could hardly have been greater , had the colonel been really making
" repeated elinor within herself , regarding her sister with uneasiness .
thought of .
—did you ever see any thing ?
eleanor looked and declared herself much concerned .
; and in another moment , henrietta , sinking under the conviction , lost her senses too , and would
if the man who holds it is so , it is by the neglect of his duty , by foregoing
about their journey , and the friends they had left behind .
his merit , and the suspicion—the hope—of his affection for me may warrant , without imprudence or folly .
” “much superior ma ' am in point of beauty .
that was all prior to my coming to bath .
your father and mother seem so totally free from all those ambitious feelings which have led to so much misconduct
you , miss woodhouse , i well know , play delightfully .
”—she did not suspect him .
palmer ' s eye was now caught by [ _num_ ]the drawings which hung round the room .
the house was handsome , and handsomely fitted up , and[ _num_ ] the young ladies were immediately put in
who missed no opportunity of engaging her in conversation , or of striving to improve their acquaintance by an easy
must make allowance for your cousin , and pity her deficiency .
your portion is unhappily so small that it will in all likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable
” she was going to exclaim ; but she presently found that it was a family of old friends ,
she returned just in time to join the others as they quitted the [ _num_ ]house , on an excursion
i should be surprized if , after seeing them , you could be in company with mr .
of her dear isabella , to whom she particularly longed to point out that gentleman , she could see nothing
i will be calm , i will be mistress of myself .
king of scotland and had the happiness of being grandmother to one of the first characters in the world .
listen with pleasure ; but she would be ready to quarrel with you for using such words .
darcy would bring his sister to visit her the very day after her reaching pemberley ; and was consequently resolved
jennings , " and how did you travel ?
to have him near her ; it was enough .
it , make it unfit to become the public conversation .
—i am sure nobody ought to be , or can be , a greater advocate for matrimony than i am
return alone to camden place , and in walking up milsom street she had the good fortune to meet with
light , as a penance , a lesson , a source of profitable humiliation to her own mind , she
lightly of the friendship which had been so dwelt on .
impede her frugality , or lessen the comfort of making a yearly addition to an income which they had never
when she turned round to harriet , she saw something like a look of spring , a tender smile even
nothing can be said in her defence , except that she had given somewhat of a trial to the latter
to doubt her truth or good intentions was impossible ; and yet , during the whole of their conversation her
his diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case , but his reliance on
rising behind , to give it shelter , were beautiful even in the leafless month of march .
i am aware how dreadfully angry it will make mamma , but i remember the risk .
are so moderate , you do not consider how little you ever want , my dear .
dashwood and her daughters were met at the door of[ _num_ ] the house by sir john , who welcomed
no , indeed .
how is mr .
she was not present when the suspicion first arose .
as it was too on every side by such probabilities and proofs , and contradicted by nothing but her own
pity and surprise were strongly depictured in your mother ' s countenance , during the whole of my narration ,
—now for the cream .
we were always good friends ; and now we are better .
have been some amusement to myself in the same situation .
" he engaged to be with them by four o ' clock .
little sister mary had left it to her upon her deathbed , and she ought to have had it to
was a glance at fanny) ; “that nineteen times out of twenty i am thinking how such a prayer ought
her father never went beyond the shrubbery , where two divisions of the ground sufficed him for his long walk
she is too tall and robust .
have you yet honoured the upper rooms ?
nothing can be more simple , you see .
as unworthy to make part of a landscape .
at a ball : she longed to dance , but she had not an acquaintance in the room .
” “we consider our hartfield pork , ” replied mr .
jane’s is nothing to it—nothing at all .
she paused a moment in breathless wonder .
” she was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico , muslin , and cambric , and would shortly
long is as good a creature as ever lived—and her nieces are very pretty behaved girls , and not at
better seat somewhere else , and she would go on till she overtook her .
” james accepted this tribute of gratitude , and qualified his conscience for accepting it too , by saying with
" [ _num_ ] came to take a survey of the guest .
” it was a terrible pause ; and terrible to every ear were the corroborating sounds of opening doors and
" elinor said no more .
fairfax ' s feelings to frank churchill .
and therefore , deferring all particular enquiry till she could make it personally in london , ceased writing minutely or
she was regretted by no one at mansfield .
and all minuteness of praise , all praise that had much meaning , was supplied by the general : the
in an alarm not wholly unfounded , for general tilney was pacing the drawing-room , his watch in his hand
instrument ; you and miss smith .
grant ' s gouty symptoms and mrs .
has their level : but as for myself , i am not , i think , quite so much at
and now here’s mr .
cream-cheese and having formed my plan and concerted a scheme of revenge , i was determined to let her have
, he was to determine and direct in what manner his friend was to be happy .
” “he is a person i never think of from one month ' s end to another , ” said
me warn you against suffering yourselves to be meanly swayed by the follies and vices of others , for beleive
she gets out at all .
she could not but hear ; she could not avoid answering , “till i have a letter from colonel campbell
excepting one short period of her life , she had never , since the age of fourteen , never since
” “some acquaintance or other , my dear , i suppose ; i am sure i do not know .
" sir walter , without hesitation , declared the admiral to be the best-looking sailor he had ever met with
” “i am not now to learn , ” replied mr .
do not think i have had a volume of shakespeare in my hand before since i was fifteen .
i will not apologize therefore for bringing it forward again .
with her handkerchief at her eyes ; and without noticing them ran up stairs .
, and one whose acquaintance will not be ineligible .
no comparison .
' said i , ' i shall not forestall jane ; i left her dancing with mr .
” here catherine again discerned the force of love .
how do you like it ?
—you are determined , i see , to have no curiosity .
passing through it into the park , that their views and their plans might be more comprehensive .
be in that quarter of the mind which could not be opened to lady russell ; in that flow of
” “three o ' clock yesterday !
do not think yourself excused by any weakness , any natural defect of understanding on her side , in the
—this is a new resolution .
acquaintance with captain tilney , and comforting herself under the unpleasant impression his conduct had given her , and the
thought of colonel brandon , in spite of the modesty with which he rated his own deserts , and the
—harriet was to go ; she was invited for at least a fortnight ; she was to be conveyed in
, for they gave no dinners in general ; delighted , in short , by every proof of cousinly notice
trees scattered on its banks and the winding of the valley , as far as she could trace it ,
anne found a nice seat for her , on a dry sunny bank , under the hedge-row , in which
” cried harriet .
nobody that wishes me well , i am sure , would propose it .
now seriously , what have you ever known of self-denial and dependence ?
years ; and now , poor old man , he is bed-ridden , and very poorly with the rheumatic gout
s daughters , no one , i apprehend , will deny .
i know no man more likely than mr .
did not keep the horses a moment .
whole of which sir walter found himself obliged to confess to her soon afterwards .
” “will he , indeed ?
to the cultivation of which he attended himself .
that she too must have become indifferent to me ; talking to myself of our past attachment as a mere
a thousand vexatious thoughts would recur .
do not tell his father , but that young man is not quite the thing .
she resigned herself at first to all the misery of her situation ; and happy had it been if she
it is quite settled .
of being again at home , and all the forbearance it could supply , to save sir thomas from anger
i shall call hills steep , which ought to be bold ; surfaces strange and uncouth , which ought to
” she must try to find amusement in what was passing at the upper end of the table , and
and her looks and language very often indefensible , fanny could not cease to feel ; but she began to
she knew that when she played she was giving pleasure only to herself ; but this was no new sensation
” for a few moments she was unanswered .
" " but , could you be comfortable yourself , to be spending the whole evening away from the poor
—would not he like to have him always on the spot ?
just the place for young people—and indeed for everybody else too .
, i might not attend ; " and walked back to her chair , recomposed , and with the comfortable
the chaise of a traveller being a rare sight in fullerton , the whole family were immediately at the window
that she had not really any dislike to the scheme .
another more necessary .
no one had ever come within the kellynch circle , who could bear a comparison with frederick wentworth , as
' my dear courtland , ' said i , immediately throwing them all into the fire , ' do not
knightley ' s or mr .
your father is so very liberal !
—but her mind had never been in such perturbation ; and it needed a very strong effort to appear attentive
but really , i could almost venture , if harriet would sit to me .
the door and the amiable moralist with her father and sister was obliged to depart ; but not without a
i have never told you how this was brought on .
very cheerful agreeable woman , he hoped the young ladies would not find it so very dull as they might
goddard ' s in his way .
cole once whispered to me—but i immediately said , ' no , mr .
it could not be general tilney ' s fault .
that i was absolutely determined on her marrying him .
" " no , " replied anne , " nor next week , nor next , nor next .
right line of conduct .
had he done as he intended , and as he knew he ought , by going down to everingham after
” elizabeth listened in silence , but was not convinced ; their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated
weston and emma were sitting together on a sofa .
” and miss bates was obliged to give a direct answer before he would hear her in any thing else
what was unwholesome to him he regarded as unfit for any body ; and he had , therefore , earnestly
in the consideration of the blunders which often arise from a partial knowledge of circumstances , of the mistakes which
was going to hartfield , he thought i had much better go round by mr .
attention and deference towards herself perfectly valueless .
” “well ?
and what sort of young lady is she ?
now especially there cannot be—but however , you[ _num_ ] and marianne were always great favourites .
, and though her intentions did not vary for an instant , she was at first sorry for the pain
what was to be done ?
got up and hurried out of the room .
” “i am more likely to want more time than courage , elizabeth .
—i must speak to him if possible , just to thank him .
by tea-time , however , the dose had been enough , and mr .
to suffer from the recurrence of any such uncertainty .
harriet is disgraced by any comparison .
austen leigh prints extracts—must have been more often exasperating than sympathetic .
window-tax , and find employment for housemaids , “now , ” said mrs .
they would be married , and settled either at or near enscombe .
now free from all restraint , his life was a life of idleness and dissipation .
“i was afraid it would be too much for her , ” said lady bertram ; “but when the roses
she had by no means forgotten the past , and she thought as ill of him as ever ; but
of separation from my own daughter .
for julia had removed from wimpole street two or three weeks before , on a visit to some relations of
so much fatigued by[ _num_ ] the exercise .
in their sentiments on the present occasion , as far at least as it regarded mrs .
” “well , i saw him at that moment turn up the lansdown road , driving a smart-looking girl .
you can form no idea sufficiently hideous , of its dungeon-like form .
gardiner , highly amused by the kind of family prejudice to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her master
careful in all their ways !
” “when miss smiths and mr .
at last—it seemed an at last to fanny ' s nervousness , though not remarkably late—he began to talk of
what is miss morton to us ?
but her condemnation of him did not blind her to the impropriety of their having been written at all ;
after willoughby ' s leaving the house , she was again called down stairs by the sound of another carriage
heaven forbid !
” “i have been making the tour of the park , ” he replied , “as i generally do every
it made her animated—open hearted—she voluntarily said ; — “oh !
they were all at her disposal .
, with an urgency which she knew would be acceptable to the early hours and civil scruples of their guests
i think , on the contrary , when people shut themselves up entirely from society , it is a very
i am my dearest musgrove most truly and faithfully yours for ever and ever henrietta halton .
only way of proceeding with any advantage , in henry crawford ' s opinion ; and he directly saw a
really think poor mrs clay may be staying here in perfect safety .
palmer , on her baby ' s account .
" (laughing heartily) ; " i would not venture over a horsepond in it .
weston , unasked , promised to get frank over to join them , if possible ; a proof of approbation
she suspected that it had ; that it would not have been so resolutely encountered but in full expectation of
” “mr .
" and even the clergyman , you know is obliged to go into infected rooms , and expose his health
” “no , i am sure you are too good .
to her father and sister , she had nothing worse to hear than isabella ' s kind inquiry after jane
the attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by him .
my whole heart to you , and by convincing you , that though i have been always a blockhead ,
she felt as if hearing it all , and saw in the motion of his lips the words “apology ,
” chapter ii mr .
—if one could but go to brighton !
the highlands , that she had prevailed on her father to undertake a tour to scotland and had persuaded lady
" " upon my word , " replied elinor , " i cannot tell you , for i do not
“i have many pamphlets to finish , ” said he to catherine , “before i can close my eyes ,
, found little hardship in attaching herself as a mother to the man who was securing the happiness of her
i love to look at her ; and i will add this praise , that i do not think her
we have been exactly an hour coming from pulteney street , very little more than seven miles ; and ,
opinions ; and , for my own part , i have been long wishing to wait upon your good mother
she then broke the lace off short , and dexterously throwing it into a ditch , was presently obliged to
” kitty owned that she had rather stay at home .
established at mansfield , with every appearance of equal permanency .
, rendered that impossible , yet i knew her all her life afterwards , or at least till within the
those whose distress she thought of most .
" [ _num_ ] drinking to her best affections .
as he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of the family , the
she was pretty too—at least i thought so then ; and i had seen so little of other women ,
i declare i can hardly stand .
upon my soul , you might shake it to pieces yourself with a touch .
the musgroves are behaving like themselves , most honourably and kindly , only anxious with true parental hearts to promote
there is actually a barton place to the north of exeter , not far from lord iddesleigh ' s well-known
holding out her hand to me , asking me for an explanation , with those bewitching eyes fixed in such
her beauty and acquirements had held but a second place .
our actions coincide !
in the middle of a speech about something very different , to start forth her obligation of going away very
bingley and his sisters came to give their personal invitation for the long-expected ball at netherfield , which was fixed
when he suddenly reminded them , with some consternation , that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for
marianne ' s feelings had then broken in , and put an end to all regularity of detail ; and
in the least fatigued , had not sophia who was just recovered from her swoon , intreated me to consider
of every unbound copy of lovers ' vows in the house , for he was burning all that met his
for she had not only received him with the utmost civility , but even pointedly included him in her invitation
she was as happy as possible with the martins in the summer .
she was so deep in conversation with john knightley , that it would have been too positive an interruption ;
jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the society of her two friends , and the attentions of their
i shall be back by dinner .
what is it that you want to consult me about ?
time unpleasantly .
in the full possession of her own , betsey handsomely declaring that now she had got one so much prettier
elton is the standard of perfection in highbury , both in person and mind .
yrs ever—a .
cold towards a man whom he must consider as the first of human characters ; but he was of an
made a most satisfactory acquaintance , for she had set him right as to his grandson ' s illness ,
i shall insist on his keeping his conjecture to himself .
must be materially concerned .
her cousins might attack , but could hardly tease her .
she had changed her position ; and , with her eyes fixed intently on one of the windows , was
” “at sea , has she ?
—the very recollection of it , and all that i felt at the time—when i saw him coming—his noble look—and
what has he to do with books ?
and pleasant , always inviting one out , and never too hot for exercise .
it was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously so strong an affection .
encouraging their taste by admitting them to a residence within his own manor .
what was due to her cousin .
if i could not be persuaded into doing what i thought wrong , i never will be tricked into it
half his destiny would then be determined , but the other half might not be so very smoothly wooed .
i cannot suppose that you have not the wish to love him—the natural wish of gratitude .
" " beautifully indeed !
turned her eye on charlotte .
in this perturbed state of mind , with thoughts that could rest on nothing , she walked on ; but
on the other were tressels and trays , bending under the weight of brawn and cold pies , where riotous
now there is nothing grandmama loves better than sweetbread and asparagus—so she was rather disappointed , but we agreed we
” they were laying themselves open to that very phrase—and to having it sent off in a letter to maple
she will be disagreeable in infancy , and correct herself as she grows older .
will give us consequence .
” “no , ” said fanny slowly , “not immediately , but—” “but what ?
so at the time .
so emma thought , at least .
directly , that he might have his tea in comfort afterwards .
” exclaimed emma .
well , i am sure : but i still think you see things too strongly ; and i really cannot
well as great .
an established correspondence .
grow up in this neighbourhood without many advantages .
over its attendant felicities .
well aware of the uncertainty of all human events and calculations .
the end chapter i emma woodhouse , handsome , clever , and rich , with a comfortable home and happy
” her husband was really deserving of her ; independent of his peerage , his wealth , and his attachment
” “one should be sorry to see greater pride or refinement in the teacher of a school , harriet .
sir , you are most kind .
it is of no consequence .
the girls grieved over such a number of ladies , but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing
that he was not a good-tempered man had been her firmest opinion .
body ' s hurrying away is no great compliment ; and miss woodhouse ' s doing it would be more
darcy could be so unworthy of mr .
sir james martin had been drawn in by that young lady to pay her some attention ; and as he
i cannot forget that , when she first knew what my father would do for them , she seemed quite
a friendly meeting , and not a fine dinner , is all we have in view .
cousins , talking both together , far more ready to give than to receive information , and each hearing very
emma accepted it with a very eager hand , with an impatience all alive to know what he would say
i would not say so to every body , mrs .
you had better have staid with us .
this living of colonel brandon ' s—can it be true ?
you do us a great deal of honour to-day , i am sure .
" do come , anne , " cried mary , " come and look yourself .
is not fit for me to answer them .
of business , having two persons ' cards to manage as well as his own ; for though it was
she had yet another source of joy unthought of by elinor .
mamma says i am never within .
how came it never to be thought of before ?
it was not thrown away on her , she bounded higher than ever , flew farther down the middle ,
” “which is , perhaps , more in favour of his liking julia best , than you , fanny ,
pray write to her , if it be only a line .
well , some people ' s feelings are incomprehensible .
the room in which the ladies sat was backwards .
of their father , who , though cleared from the grossly injurious suspicions which she must ever blush to have
darcy’s look and behaviour .
jennings , i had repaid with ungrateful contempt .
there was never much laughing in his presence ; or , if there is any difference , it is not
conversation of mrs .
pray , when are they to be married ?
could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections ?
elton , in person , had driven away all such cares .
bingley , ” she added , “for when you went to town last winter , you promised to take a
arrived for her to join them there .
) " the laconia had come into plymouth the week before ; no danger of her being sent to sea
very determined against any young man who told her he loved her .
that they will not disgrace their education i have every reason to beleive .
my object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself , with due consideration for the advantage of all
s words , and parted with the last relics of marianne .
which makes celibacy contemptible to a generous public !
longer sit at the head of her father ' s table— .
bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave london and promised to write again very soon .
bertram ' s acquaintance with him had begun at weymouth , where they had spent ten days together in the
weston had agreed to chuse some fine morning and drive thither .
goddard , and notice of there being such a set of people in the neighbourhood to mr .
country air of an inn at clifton .
—can you come ?
darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her .
“well , ” said emma , “there is no disputing about taste .
eight years , almost eight years had passed , since all had been given up .
hurst and elizabeth herself .
they expected to have a better view of the house from that part of the park , and will be
—i am going this moment .
“the painter was sent off yesterday , and very little will remain of the theatre to-morrow .
came crying to me the day after , in a great fright[ _num_ ] for fear of mrs .
” “unpleasant !
the ivory , the gold , and the pearls , all received their appointment , and the gentleman having named
she would endeavour to be rational , and to deserve the right of judging of miss crawford ' s character
the weather , you would have had a good sharp east wind blowing on you the whole time—for here are
a short silence succeeded her leaving them ; but her brother soon returned to business and lovers ' vows ,
she has been in love with him ever since they first met , and while my father ' s consent
containing only two houses superior in appearance to those of the yeomen and labourers ; the mansion of the squire
behold the coffin in which they were said to be enclosed—what could it avail in such a case ?
" " i do not doubt it , " replied he , rather astonished at her earnestness and warmth ;
very same distressing and delicate office to perform by harriet , which mrs .
her only resource was to get out of the subject as fast as possible , and turn the current of
, received her with perfect self-command , and without betraying the least tenderness of spirit .
” “thank ye , ” cried thorpe , “but i did not come to bath to drive my sisters about
perhaps you would like some tea as soon as it can be got .
, and does not know how to drive .
weston presently , “what became of mr .
my next enquiries were concerning philippa and her husband , the latter of whom i learned having spent all her
captain benwick listened attentively , and seemed grateful for the interest implied ; and though with a shake of the
jennings , " and how did it end ?
she was very low .
—but she is charmingly recovered .
they were wretched together .
false and insolent estimate of her own—but still , from family attachment and habit , and thorough excellence of mind
” said frank churchill , as soon as they were out of hearing : —“how well they suit one another
it was in her power to compare him with !
she wanted to hear of him , when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence .
let her marry robert martin , and she is safe , respectable , and happy for ever ; but if
(replied my edward) .
be as ready as yourself to think our connection the greatest blessing to us in the world .
lady catherine will not think the worse of you for being simply dressed .
collins was not a sensible man , and the deficiency of nature had been but little assisted by education or
, replied thus : “my dear miss elizabeth , i have the highest opinion in the world in your excellent
' my dear sir , you are too obliging .
musgrove and my brother hayter had met again and again to talk it over ; what my brother hayter had
contemptible as a regard founded only on compassion must make them both in my eyes , i felt by no
such was jane fairfax ' s history .
let no time be lost” (cried i .
it could be protracted no longer .
to the amiable solicitude of the sister and the aunt .
guest , in no very favourable consideration of his character .
am most thankful for , it is impossible for me not to be often solitary .
i never saw such fine children in my life .
charles , anne , must not it ?
penelope , my dear , can you help me to the name of the gentleman who lived at monkford :
stand a good chance of pleasing some young man who might afford to marry a girl without a shilling .
i was never more astonished .
being proud and reserved .
on her return , without spending many hours in the examination of her feelings , that she had gone to
weston was to call in the evening , and she must return it by him .
such a very kind attention—and so thoughtful an attention !
" " your sister ' s marriage .
elton and i are very good friends , and nothing more ; ” and she walked on , amusing herself
by letters of ceremony , ever since the death of that said late viscount , when , in consequence of
elton ' s , i should have imagined , would rather disgust than gratify miss fairfax .
crawford ' s visit .
all in the same room together , were not you ?
i told them that you were of all human creatures the one over whom habit had most power and novelty
thrill with transport , now arrived to be read with less emotion than mirth .
edward said very little ; but what he did say , was in the most determined manner .
" " i am extremely glad to hear it , upon my word ; extremely glad indeed .
and she never quitted the house but to be conveyed into the warm bath .
norris could not help thinking that some steady old thing might be found among the numbers belonging to the park
nobody was there .
both as they looked at each other , was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting .
one since my father ' s death .
“chapman helped her to dress .
i am no dancer .
she clung to her aunt , because she would miss her ; she kissed the hand of her uncle with
she was carried out of the room therefore in her mother ' s arms , in quest of this medicine
than a thick mizzling rain ; and having given a good shake to her habit , she was ready to
exclaimed , " dear me , is not this the day the crofts were to come to kellynch ?
; and when it closed , elizabeth , in the solitude of her chamber , had to meditate upon charlotte’s
what has mr .
emma ' s going away directly after tea might be giving offence .
” “so far as that it relates to mr .
the style in which they travelled , of the fashionable chaise and four—postilions handsomely liveried , rising so regularly in
she would sit whenever i asked her .
there , look at that speech , and that , and that .
till the carriage came to the door , and mrs .
she had taken up the idea , she supposed , and made every thing bend to it .
” and if catherine had not most warmly asserted his innocence , it seemed likely that william would lose the
she entertains me ; and she is so extremely pretty , that i have great pleasure in looking at her
” “by dozens .
“yes , ” he answered , “she is engaged to me ; but” (with a smile that did not sit
i remember her perfectly .
and now—what had she done , or what had she omitted to do , to merit such a change ?
where could you expect a more gentlemanlike , agreeable man ?
have a more yielding , complying , mild disposition than would suit your notions of man ' s perfection .
could they be much together , i feel sure of their liking each other .
” on pursuing the subject , he found that , dear as all these brothers and sisters generally were ,
the force of habit was to be added .
" " certainly ; and i think i may afford to give them five hundred pounds a-piece .
i shall be pleased .
who do you think is here ?
afraid of everybody , ashamed of herself , and longing for the home she had left , she knew not
was this like wishing to avoid her ?
my dear , dear jane , i am so happy !
— i must be in love ; i should be the oddest creature in the world if i were not—for
" these would have been all my friends , " was her thought ; and she had to struggle against
but i am sorry to say , that to the eternal reproach of her sensibility , the latter infinitely predominated
not a syllable was uttered by either ; and elizabeth was on the point of going away again , when
” “no more there are , indeed .
this is however of little consequence for as our mothers were certainly never married to either of them it reflects
you are very cautious , i suppose , as to its being created ?
she played and sang ; —and drew in almost every style ; but steadiness had always been wanting ; and
my uncle disapproved it all so entirely when he did arrive , that in my opinion everything had gone quite
” this was too loud a call for a compliment to be passed by , and mr .
lived at uppercross , and were intimate with dr shirley .
of giving her relief .
desire to tease her , i shall never force your name upon her again .
she lived with her single daughter in a very small way , and was considered with all the regard and
” “depend upon it , mrs .
elasticity of her walk , which corresponded exactly with the spirit of her dancing , and making her one of
from being the mere gentleman ' s residence , it becomes , by judicious improvement , the residence of a
norris had been indulging in very dreadful fears , and trying to make edmund participate them whenever she could get
not that i mean to find fault with you , for such things i know are all chance in this
, in some degree , as you do ; who have not , at least , been given a taste
as education had given to their address ; and no one would have supposed the girls so nearly of an
say all manner of pretty things to you .
” harriet said , “very true , ” and she “would not think about it ; ” but still she
subject , she took the first opportunity of being suddenly alone with eleanor , and of eleanor ' s being
to highbury in general it brought no material change .
' s house in camden place , or her own sister ' s intimacy with mrs clay .
elliot , to make it an object to yourself , of course it is done .
crawford was more rapturous than anything which miss crawford ' s habits made her likely to feel .
ever appeared in robert ' s style of living or of talking to give a suspicion of his regretting the
“and do you see her , sir , tolerably often ?
by the opinion of other people .
books .
after a short suspension , to ruin the concert ; and that had influenced him in everything he had said
the distress of her sister too , particularly a favourite , was before her ; —and as for their mother
" " to be sure , " continued lucy , after a few minutes silence on both sides , "
lady russell had little taste for wit , and of anything approaching to imprudence a horror .
and to see dear wickham too !
" no , i cannot go to cleveland .
i really believe i shall always be talking of bath , when i am at home again—i do like it
but the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man , whom they had never seen before
with ease .
allow him to spend the evening with you , that i may be in no danger of his returning here
indeed , i think i may say that you cannot , for your behaviour to him is perfectly cordial ,
you will tell sir walter what we have done , and that mr shepherd thinks it the greatest improvement the
” “beyond a doubt , they do wish him to choose miss darcy , ” replied jane ; “but this
the only offence against him of which she could accuse herself had been such as was scarcely possible to reach
i was ready to move heaven and earth to persuade my sister , and at last i did persuade her
the meeting was very satisfactory on each side .
in his company .
, i must , for my own part , declare that i have seldom seen so lovely a woman as
forster should not ask me as well as lydia , ” said she , “though i am not her particular
elinor was very ready to adopt mrs .
but lizzy , you have been very sly , very reserved with me .
his eldest brother .
let him stand his chance and be taken in .
i , you may well believe , could talk of nothing but my child ; —he could not conceal his
; but she learned from charles that , very recently , (since mary ' s last letter to herself) ,
personally of those who had sinned , or of those who were sorrowing—if she could help rejoicing from beginning to
her disposition was naturally easy and indolent , like lady bertram ' s ; and a situation of similar affluence
was to be done to prevent a rupture .
grant had brought on apoplexy and death , by three great institutionary dinners in one week , they still lived
, was shocked to perceive by elinor ' s countenance how much she really suffered , and a moment afterwards
vernon ; but i confess myself not equally satisfied with the behaviour of his lady .
his relations on both sides , there was no convincing his father of it ; no persuading him to believe
her sister’s situation remained the same , her peace equally wounded .
be of any use ; and if i cannot convince them myself , i shall let things take their course
” it seemed the best scheme ; and yet it was not so good but that many of them wanted
collins , with all his solemn composure , being run away with by his feelings , made elizabeth so near
how i should like such a house for myself !
, been hitherto happily exempt ; nor could she therefore , in her presence , search for those proofs of
by william that was due to him for a whole fortnight .
what are you about ?
” “and if you would stand by yours , you would not be much distressed by the disappointment of miss
without saying a word to miss dashwood about it .
you really like the work , perhaps you will be as well pleased not to cut in till another rubber
from mr .
” “handsome !
james cooper ; and of more than i can enumerate .
few short sentences in her praise , after thorpe had procured mrs .
around in the stage coach they were then in , from one of which excursions they were at that time
spare him , and the purity of her principles added yet a keener solicitude , when she considered how little
here anne had often been staying .
” on his approaching them soon afterwards , though without seeming to have any intention of speaking , miss lucas
fanny naturally turned upstairs , and took her guest to the apartment which was now always fit for comfortable use
one young man whose origin was unknown .
be inclined to take immediate advantage of .
” “yes , sir , i was there last monday .
undergone , relating her absolute certainty that his affection was not the work of a day , but had stood
a curricle behind , she caught the last view of bath without any regret , and met with every milestone
he was weary .
how beautiful , how welcome , how wonderful the evergreen !
it was really march ; but it was april in its mild air , brisk soft wind , and bright
a great deal at home , nobody can tell what may happen ; for , when people are much thrown
could induce a woman to keep a man to an engagement , of which she seemed so thoroughly aware that
it is only by seeing women in their own homes , among their own set , just as they always
emma watched and decided , that with such feelings as were now shewn , it could not be fairly supposed
but any morning will do for this .
to sea .
but now , let us go and sit down at the other end of the room , and enjoy ourselves
do you find it equal to the one you have left ?
told !
such insolence of behaviour as miss tilney ' s she had never heard of in her life !
if a woman conceals her affection with the same skill from the object of it , she may lose the
prospect of her removal ; a satisfaction which was but feebly attempted to be concealed under a cold invitation to
bennet was perfectly satisfied , and quitted the house under the delightful persuasion that , allowing for the necessary preparations
of the place .
she is never tired of playing .
i must now , my dear maria , tell you , that i think it exceedingly unfit for private representation
it must be her ardent wish that harriet might be disappointed ; and she hoped , that when able to
gardiner , after general assurances of his affection for her and all her family , told her that he meant
that edmund must be for ever divided from miss crawford did not admit of a doubt with fanny ; and
or thereabouts .
they behaved very well , however , to him on the occasion , betraying no exultation beyond the lines about
jane was not happy .
, at least , that it was not to be done now , by any of those attempts which he
the door ; who would not have felt safe ?
she was in a state of mind to be glad that she had secured her fate beyond recall : that
” “you are not quite so miserable , though , as when you first came .
as to his going , it was inevitable .
if he were quite sincere , if he really tried to come , it was to be inferred that mrs
the like reserve prevailed on other topics .
they are a set of very worthy men .
in some degree of constant danger ; and it would be imprudent , i think , with regard to maria
—but upon my honour , there seems no limits to the licentiousness of that woman ' s tongue !
“would she not , then , persuade her daughters to take advantage of such weather , and allow him the
we shall never forget what you did .
him--of her being , in short , intently observing him .
wingfield before you left home .
it had , however , been a very happy one to fanny through four dances , and she was quite
the rapid decay , the early death of a girl so young , so lovely as marianne , must have
and as for james , you may be very sure he will always like going to randalls , because of
that tall , proud man .
the first mentioned was , that , regardless of the sentiments of either , i had detached mr .
and not very politely , declined eating anything ; and then , rising up , said to elizabeth , “miss
do write me another just like it , and tell me you are in love with me in every other
the supposition did not pain her .
we must be serious and decided ; for after all , the person who has contracted debts must pay them
left one of the happiest creatures in the world .
” this information made elizabeth smile , as she thought of poor miss bingley .
you will laugh at me ; but i got out and walked up .
the housekeeper at netherfield had received orders to prepare for the arrival of her master , who was coming down
not with his wife , but with him , and that he now visits you every day .
he particularly built upon a very happy summer and autumn there this year ; he felt that it would be
” “prejudiced !
two inferences , however , were plainly deduced from the whole : one , that elizabeth was the real cause
” “if that is your opinion with regard to the girls it certainly is no proof of their fathers beauty
she had never been supplanted .
beat sir william gascoigne .
two steps , jane , take care of the two steps .
wentworth himself say , was very sure that he had not made less than twenty thousand pounds by the war
to talk to you of my happiness .
“i believe i have now told you every thing .
being long in reaching it .
the affection of isabella was to be secured to her in a sister .
” would they often exclaim in the bitterness of woe .
when , because things did not go quite right , did not proceed with all the rapidity which suited his
and then of having a large party to dinner , and once or twice began even to calculate the number
long ; and , after a due course of useless conjecture , that “it was a strange business , and
—not i , indeed—i never look at it—i do not know who does .
the long chorus of intelligent approval by which she was afterwards greeted did not begin to be really audible before
you have space to work upon there , and grounds that will well reward you .
no—till cole alluded to my supposed attachment , it had never entered my head .
collins well .
at stake ?
on their return from the park they found willoughby ' s curricle and servant in waiting at the cottage ,
” “no , indeed , i do not wish to avoid the walk .
” “very probably .
“this is the luxury of a large party , ” said she : —“one can get near every body ,
she had just settled this point when the end of the path brought them directly upon the general ; and
shoes and stockings—given marianne a cold so violent as , though for a day or two trifled with or denied
contrive .
on the morrow they were walking about together with true enjoyment , and every succeeding morrow renewed a tete-a-tete which
labour thrown away .
perhaps it would have been as well if he had left it wholly to myself .
—what is to be done ?
i had a vast deal more to say to you , but i must not stay away from them not
” “i am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me , when we met at pemberley .
he had all the disposition to persevere that sir thomas could wish him .
where her friend was to be found .
her passion for ancient edifices was next in degree to her passion for henry tilney—and castles and abbeys made usually
" elinor kept her concern and her censure to herself ; and was very thankful that marianne was not present
" when once married people begin to attack me with , -- ' oh !
bingley’s conduct to design , ” said elizabeth ; “but without scheming to do wrong , or to make others
but i shall always think it a very abominable sort of proceeding .
whole .
to express herself properly by letter , it was at least preferable to giving the information by word of mouth
jane ; so much of every body , and so little of themselves , that every kindly feeling was at
the conclusion of her visit , however , was diversified in a way which she had not at all imagined
her letter was scarcely finished , when a rap foretold a visitor , and colonel brandon was announced .
your mother should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters .
but just turning into their lodgings as she came within view of them ; and the servant still remaining at
in such considerations time passed away , and it was certainly in his favour that eleanor should be so glad
" " poor young man !
of the family .
my dear mr .
collins was walking the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into hunsford lane , in order to have
the compliments of his neighbours were over ; he was no longer teased by being wished joy of so sorrowful
and walk with her .
at length she was obliged to confine herself solely to the bed allotted us by our worthy landlady— .
he told her that he had been impatient to leave the dining-room—hated sitting long—was always the first to move when
you and miss fairfax gave us some very good music .
i do not think she has been in this house three times this summer .
i could hardly keep my seat .
to oppose or delay it .
the case admitted of no comfort .
, and fatigues at their own command , made her thoroughly sensible of the restraint which the general ' s
—what an idea !
crawford ' s business had been to declare himself the lover of fanny , make decided proposals for her ,
that everything is to be got with money , i was a little embarrassed at first by the sturdy independence
” “have i ?
” “i am ready , ” said emma , “whenever i am wanted .
, i am now persuaded she is the very one to make you happy .
norris ' s situation , and the improvement in fanny ' s age , seeming not merely to do away
at this moment ; but be as little uneasy as you can .
character as the wittiest letter in the alphabet had been long established with elinor .
your sister does not part with the queen .
you have bought her too dearly , and your brother does not offer half her value .
" [ _num_ ] this remark was not calculated to make edward or elinor more easy , nor to conciliate
i am sure of this—that if everybody was to drink their bottle a day , there would not be half
should be done .
i have not had a creature call on me since the second week in january , except charles hayter ,
dependant on her father , who will neither have his own inclination nor my permission to give her anything at
to be sure , you knew no actual good of me—but nobody thinks of that when they fall in love
i remember the time when i liked a red coat myself very well—and , indeed , so i do still
one of those days .
was all curiosity .
pointer i ever saw .
crawford and miss bertram were much more gay , and she thought that he was taking particular pains , during
well convinced of lady catherine’s discernment as to be certain she could never bestow a favour unworthily .
your brother will find my ideas of time and his own very different to-morrow .
he is the handsomest young man that ever was seen !
but they happened to be points on which i had been previously informed .
was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been so ready to close with their kind
” said he with a tender sigh , as he received it .
fanny felt the advantage ; and , drawing back from the toils of civility , would have been again most
” catherine had no leisure for speech , being at once blushing , tying her gown , and forming wise
it was the only point of resemblance .
there was deep consciousness about him , and he found it easier to meet her eye than her friend '
with such warm feelings and lively spirits it must be difficult to do justice to her affection for mrs .
” well might his sister , believing as she really did that his opinion of fanny price was scarcely beyond
her tranquillity was not improved by the general ' s impatience for the appearance of his eldest son , nor
it had not been necessary , and the few occasions of its being possible for her to go to the
i have been to turner ' s about your mess ; it is all in a way to be done
was but too soon given in the death of my dear capt .
—robert martin had probably ceased to think of harriet .
of his indignation .
—“particularly pleasant .
”—and in a louder , steadier tone , he concluded with , “he will soon be gone .
emma guessed him to be the drudge of some attorney , and too stupid to rise .
second carriage by mr .
down every evening in a journal ?
consequence of her sister ' s marriage , been mistress of his house from a very early period .
happily for her , they were not many .
to do so .
she had left her intent ; and of her continuing on the best terms with james .
cleveland was a spacious , modern-built house , situated on a sloping lawn .
” she paused—“oh !
susan was only acting on the same truths , and pursuing the same system , which her own judgment acknowledged
” “difference !
elton ' s seeing ready wit in her .
he had been sitting with her , it appeared , most companionably at home , till her usual hour of
sophia shreiked and fainted on the ground—i screamed and instantly ran mad— .
“my mother ' s deafness is very trifling you see—just nothing at all .
churchill , oh !
his presence was beginning to be odious to her ; and if maria gained him not , she was now
attempts were made to prejudice you against me .
” “and i longed to do it—but there was such a dead silence !
” it would be impossible to say what emma felt , on hearing this—which of all her unpleasant sensations was
” catherine coloured , and said , “i was not thinking of anything .
” “to think of your sending us all your store apples .
—emma thought it most prudent to go with her .
“i rather wonder julia is not in love with henry , ” was her observation to mary .
guide him than selfishness .
” “i cannot make a question , or listen to a question about that .
" and away she went ; but returning again in a moment— " i have just been thinking of betty
she dwelt most .
her change was equal .
drawing-room party did receive an augmentation .
henry crawford was again in the house : he walked up with dr .
knightley and harriet smith !
all the habits and manners that are important ; equality in every point but one—and that one , since the
now .
miss maria (said her ladyship as she saw me advancing to the door of the carriage) you seem very smart
he could not be accountable for his children ' s want of spirits , or for her want of enjoyment
and now what provokes me more than anything else is that the match is broke off , and all my
” “she is not entirely without it , i think .
—ay , we all know how that will end : —they will wait a twelvemonth , and finding no good
he was not ill-inclined to obey this request , for , though his heart was greatly relieved by such unlooked-for
that she had never seen mrs .
as it was certain , however , that somebody was coming , bingley instantly prevailed on miss bennet to avoid
i longed to know whether he would be married in his blue coat .
it was so agreeable to her to see him again , and hear him talk , to have her ear
" " i was not at all aware of this .
the real state of things between willoughby and her sister was so little known to herself , that in endeavouring
could not reach him ; and the concert being just opening , she must consent for a time to be
things are settled so oddly .
talk to her .
soup too !
her aunts finished the subject of william ' s appointment in their own style .
think alike .
kitty was the only one who shed tears ; but she did weep from vexation and envy .
some doubts always lingered [ _num_ ]in her mind when they parted , which could only be removed by another
; and he was more communicative , and less eccentric , than the other had ever seen him .
saved only by her own indifference—(for still her resolution held of never marrying)—the honour , in short , of being
dashwood ' s romantic delicacy .
on what her eyes were fixed , till roused by miss bates ' s saying , “aye , i see
with whomsoever he was , or was likely to be connected , his own consequence always required that theirs should
their rank , fortune , rights , and expectations will always be different .
" she was very much honoured , and should be happy in their acquaintance .
“is your master much at pemberley in the course of the year ?
elinor derived no comfortable feelings from this conversation , to lessen the uneasiness of her mind on other points ;
her dearest catherine must excuse her , and must sit quietly down again .
occupy his own house at thornton lacey .
before he could say , “your lively mind can hardly be serious even on serious subjects .
this decided the matter at once .
of her bodily and mental charms .
let them carry you far , unless you are persuaded of his liking you .
was over , and he was so far pronounced safe as to make his mother perfectly easy ; for being
to compose a letter which might at once do justice to her sentiments and her situation , convey gratitude without
everything was said that could encourage , every encouragement received with grateful joy , and the gentlemen parted the best
three days had passed without his coming once to uppercross ; a most decided change .
expectation of seeing him which every morning had brought , the assurance of his attentions , his liveliness , his
it , and has generally taken me when i have called on mrs smith .
it was good of a lower standard , for what could be offered but general acquiescence ?
by herself , by supposing that she did not like to go home again so soon , she added :
his own circumstances were rendered less fair than heretofore , by some recent losses on his west india estate ,
the arrival of letters was the grand object of every morning’s impatience .
and i am heartily glad to hear you say the same .
the certainty of meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that might not unreasonably have alarmed
must confess , that to him nothing could make amends for the want of the fine glow of health .
soon slept away ; and though , when they all met the next morning , her recovery was not equal
the morning was fine and dry , and marianne , in her plan of employment abroad , had not calculated
upon his opinion of her danger , two others were called in the next day , and remained in almost
she was obliged to kneel down by the sofa , and remain there to satisfy her patient ; and thus
what it was when we first had it .
i forgot to tell tom of something that happened to me this very day .
ferrars ' s heart , and that she wishes for nothing so much as to be on good terms with
jennings ' s suggestion ; and she could not help believing herself the nicest observer of the two : she
you will never go to swisserland .
breath to cool your porridge’ ; and i shall keep mine to swell my song .
i should like to know how many of all my numerous engagements take place without your being of the party
weston to come with me , that i might be sure of succeeding .
sir thomas to accomplish , and what only he could have accomplished at all .
clouded again .
it is not possible but that you must have had some thoughts on the subject , some surmises as to
i expected much pleasure in it , but i have found none .
chapter xi it may be possible to do without dancing entirely .
his wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of the highest kind .
neither more nor less than his being in love with louisa , and not choosing to venture to uppercross till
very demure , and never says a word .
—i cannot deny that miss woodhouse was my ostensible object—but i am sure you will believe the declaration , that
therefore lost no time in going .
forming parties to eat cold ham and chicken out of doors , and in winter his private balls were numerous
palmer ' s departure , and her situation continued , with little variation , the same .
he will satisfy you .
longs to be acquainted .
” elizabeth felt herself completely taken in .
large farm of mr .
smith ?
it was safe to stay ; and while the others were variously urging and recommending , mr .
” elizabeth added privately , “and how much i shall have to conceal !
” “nay , henry , not by all ; not forgotten by all ; not friendless or forgotten .
' — ' i can see nobody , ' said she ; and up she got , and would go
but , perhaps—i may be equally in the way here .
; and before it was suffered to close , she was enabled to judge how far he was sanctioned by
who were coming , like herself , by particular desire , to help mr .
said i .
she had seen enough of her pride , her meanness , and her determined prejudice against herself , to comprehend
i hope this pleases you” (turning her back on him) ; “i hope your eyes are not tormented now .
looked at and spoken to ; and she was tolerably able to bear his eye , and hear that he
can there be any disagreement between us here ?
to their faults , and always innocently busy , might have been a model of right feminine happiness .
, if they can persist in such opinions when they reflect that these men , these boasted men were such
throw them in the way of other rich men ; and lastly , it was so pleasant at her time
a winding staircase , believed herself at last within the reach of something worth her notice ; and felt ,
of some of the ladies .
rushworth if she could .
hartfield , she fully acknowledged in him all the appearance of sense and worth which could bid fairest for her
to her it was but the natural consequence of a strong affection in a young and ardent mind .
it was a splendid sight , and she began , for the first time that evening , to feel herself
this has been a most agreeable piece of news indeed .
" cried louisa more eagerly , and taking her sister aside , seemed to be arguing the matter warmly .
able to give it .
—deceived myself , i did very miserably deceive you—and it will be a painful reflection to me for ever .
two play on the pianoforte , and one on the harp ; and all sing , or would sing if
out of the superfluity of your own !
chapter _num_ one morning , about a week after bingley’s engagement with jane had been formed , as he and
crawford ; and edmund , fanny , and miss crawford remained in a cluster together .
the coles had the advantage of naming among their acquaintance , and the male part of mr .
” emma could not like what bordered on a reflection on mr .
she drew , or played , or sang , and whether she was fond of riding on horseback .
chapter xv miss crawford accepted the part very readily ; and soon after miss bertram ' s return from the
an evil hanging over her in the hour of explanation with harriet , as made it impossible for emma to
“i almost envy you the pleasure , and yet i believe it would be too much for me , or
to have lived some years longer in the world than her real eight-and-thirty .
they all felt the refreshment of it , and for some time could only walk and admire .
” in a few moments catherine , with unaffected pleasure , assured her that she need not be longer uneasy
remember me kindly to her .
robert ferrars (with his excursus in chapter xxxvi .
—he delivered these papers to john , at his chambers , and was asked by him to join their party
” chapter xlvii it had been a miserable party , each of the three believing themselves most miserable .
mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are packed up .
god-daughter was a good girl , and learnt her book .
miss darcy , the daughter of mr .
she felt that edward stood very high in her opinion .
john dashwood , is the person i mean ; you must allow that i am not likely to be deceived
dashwood was acting on motives of policy as well as pleasure in the frequency of her visits at delaford ;
she is not expected .
wreck of the good looks of everybody else ; for he could plainly see how old all the rest of
“they do not want me at all , ” said she , seating herself .
soldiers and sailors are always acceptable in society .
the more anxious to get miss darcy for her brother , from the notion that when there has been one
" [ _num_ ] " you must remember , my dear mother , that i have never considered this matter
harley street .
” “oh , yes you would indeed ; i know you better than you know yourself .
a military life is not what i was intended for , but circumstances have now made it eligible .
you will be under the care of a motherly good sort of woman , of whose kindness to you i
bennet had designed to keep the two netherfield gentlemen to supper ; but their carriage was unluckily ordered before any
she could remember dozens who had persevered in every possible vice , going on from crime to crime , murdering
she could not win him , however , to any conversation ; he merely answered her question , and read
, an acquaintance of mrs .
how could she have been so brutal , so cruel to miss bates !
up his abode with the lucases , his arrival was no great inconvenience to mrs .
but now , another occupation and solicitude of mind was beginning to be added to these .
to see , and nobody remembers to talk to .
in justice to jane , apologise for her writing so short a letter—only two pages you see—hardly two—and in general
it is on your account that he has been so frequently invited this week .
they meant to take a long drive this morning ; perhaps we may hail them from some of these hills
allen , and she repeated it after every fresh proof , which every morning brought , of her knowing nobody
should be always planting and improving , for naturally i am excessively fond of it .
to be necessary to each other ' s ultimate comfort .
no harm .
she has great discernment .
' s company .
” “i am perfectly satisfied , ” replied emma , with the brightest smiles , “and most sincerely wish them
willoughby could not hear of her marriage without a pang ; and his punishment was soon afterwards complete in the
i should be quite in the way .
”—and emma distinctly heard him add , in a lower tone , before he quitted the room , —“i have
i write without any intention of paining you , or humbling myself , by dwelling on wishes which , for
it was the very circumstance he could have wished for .
and who but mr .
elizabeth made no answer , and took her place in the set , amazed at the dignity to which she
and here i can admit , that my manners to miss w .
of that he had no suspicion .
, how well edmund could supply his place in carving , talking to the steward , writing to the attorney
from childhood , connected together , as i think you said , in the closest manner !
very shameful and degrading connexion .
when robert first sought her acquaintance , and privately visited her in bartlett ' s buildings , it was only
years of her life , that can or will read .
ladyship’s residence .
so unlike what a man should be !
their conversation turned upon those subjects , of which the free discussion has generally much to do in perfecting a
and intelligent , and glad to be employed in any errand in the town ; and though spurning the remonstrances
there is not a better girl in the world , and you do not want for fortune ; and as
' s ailments lessened by having a constant companion , and their daily intercourse with the other family , since
she was sick of exploring , and desired but to be safe in her own room , with her own
” “you have been abroad then ?
you will allow me to bring jane fairfax ?
“had you seen her this morning , mary , ” he continued , “attending with such ineffable sweetness and patience
to prefer blair ' s to his own , do all that you speak of ?
compared with me , all the rest were blameless .
” “i do not believe a word of it , my dear .
change of scene might be of service—and perhaps a little relief from home may be as useful as anything .
i would not allow myself yesterday to say how delighted , or to repeat half that the admiral said in
—when we heard your footsteps .
this has been the greatest relief , and now we will have done .
and so he hardly looked once at you the whole day ?
now be tolerably frequent .
he saw how ill he had judged , in expecting to counteract what was wrong in mrs .
they were no sooner in the hall than all restraint of countenance was over on miss crawford ' s side
’tis as good as a lord !
but in england it was not so ; among the english , she believed , in their hearts and habits
poor dear , " immediately gave her her salts ; and sir john felt so desperately enraged against the author
i am sure i said as much as that and more ; and i should have said still more ,
the adieu is charity itself .
“tell your sister i am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp ; and pray let her know
they had sung together once or twice , it appeared , at weymouth .
” “aye , that is what i meant .
” emma began to listen better .
” “and only made believe to do so for mischief ' s sake ?
comfort by increasing the fears she already had of doing wrong and being looked at .
letter ; and about a fortnight ago i answered it , for i thought it a case of some delicacy
the miss bertrams have never seen the wilderness yet .
the principle was good in itself , but it may have been , and i believe has been , carried
now offering of disposing of her carriage , she agreed to sell that likewise at the earnest advice of her
john dashwood put an end to the subject .
rushworth ' s repeated question of , “shall i go too ?
any society , secure her a great deal to enjoy , and she had again a home to offer mary
julia wavered ; but was he only trying to soothe and pacify her , and make her overlook the previous
she had always attributed to miss bingley the principal design and arrangement of them .
kind excessively .
a week had passed in this way , and no suspicion of it conveyed by her quiet passive manner ,
their conversations , however , were not always on subjects so high as history or morals .
what say you both to our collecting the same party , and exploring to box hill again , while the
long does not keep a carriage , and had come to the ball in a hack chaise .
—how to do her best by harriet , was of more difficult decision ; —how to spare her from any
the next opening of the door brought something more welcome : it was for the tea-things , which she had
she knew the importance of it , and said every thing in her power to do it away .
as pale as ashes , came running up , and rushed by me into her own room .
“it is not worth minding .
with you , it shall not be my fault .
had been before , much more within reach of a passer-by .
the present evil .
is she prudish ?
at her perseverance in dwelling on the subject ; and having so much to ask and to say as to
were very adequate restoratives .
laura letter _num_ rd laura to marianne as the daughter of my most intimate freind i think you entitled to
or anyone else ?
” “you are very obliging .
her fears , he had no courage , no confidence to attempt the removal of ; he listened to them
they have a sharp , shrewish look , which i do not like at all ; and in her air
she could never forget henry tilney , or think of him with less tenderness than she did at that moment
, at the same time , for the consolation of yourself and mrs .
done much to deserve !
" " you have had your little boys with you ?
thrush in all his glory in another light .
my own trouble , you know , i never regard .
you are best off , i can tell you : but if nobody did more than you , we should
” “when they are at a distance from all their family , ” said fanny , colouring for william '
—so very obliging !
it was so proper and modest , so calm and uninviting , that he had nothing to censure in her
bennet , and we shall very soon settle it with her , i am sure .
i have not forgot your description of mr .
) , they happened to say , that her brother , captain wentworth , is just returned to england ,
such a contrast between him and your brother !
that he was really fond of jane , she doubted no more than she had ever done ; and much
to return !
having now said enough to make his poverty clear , and to[ _num_ ] do away the necessity of buying
she is naturally extravagant and not very affected ; she never reads anything but the letters she receives from me
you carry it off very well , but i cannot be quite so far imposed on .
all together .
i have always wanted some other motive for his conduct than appeared .
crawford , as her niece has been entirely brought up by her ?
—he ought not to have formed the engagement .
of the morlands—confessed himself to have been totally mistaken in his opinion of their circumstances and character , misled by
such officers had attended them , and where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as made her quite wild ;
now so long divided from everybody who knew the place , she felt it quite the voice of a friend
not get a partner .
pay every proper attention to a lady—and a bride , especially , is never to be neglected .
did he never gaze on you with admiration—tenderly press your hand—drop an involantary tear—and leave the room abruptly ?
by such very letters as these .
the evening rewarded her confidence ; she was met by one with the same kindness , and by the other
—never , never .
seemed impossible .
” “never , never !
the letter , with a direction hardly legible , to " miss a .
slight noise called their attention to captain wentworth ' s hitherto perfectly quiet division of the room .
could i have sent a few happy lines , they should not have been wanting , but nothing of that
allen , proposed their walking .
the first question on her side , which led to farther particulars , was— " how long has this been
she seldom listened to anybody for more than half a minute , and never attended to mary at all .
and from his habits of gentle selfishness , and of being never able to suppose that other people could feel
i wish he could have such company oftener .
insulted the footmen with injunctions of despatch ; but sir thomas resolutely declined all dinner : he would take nothing
and not at all elegant .
were seated thus addressed them .
it was by no means unreasonably large , and contained neither tapestry nor velvet .
declared herself as much attached to me as ever , and laughed at my fears .
collins was punctual to his time , and was received with great politeness by the whole family .
he does not give the least fling at benwick ; does not so much as say , ' i wonder
but your family owe me nothing .
she so honestly felt that she could have loved him , as now , when all love must be vain
” “you observed it , mr .
” emma knew that he was now getting to the box hill party , and grew uncomfortable .
own words , without knowing it to be you ?
can .
” “the clerks grow expert from habit .
that he should see marianne no more .
if attention , in future , could do away the past , she might hope to be forgiven .
the cottage , and mr .
happen) she was obliged , or could oblige herself to speak to him .
be less in earnest in it than they appear .
no , it was not regret which made anne ' s heart beat in spite of herself , and brought
(interrupted augusta) is my brother dead then ?
i only wonder how the good people can keep it up so long .
the lady .
in a negotiation for william price ' s knave increased .
sufferings , yet i dare say he ' ll die soon , and then his pain will be over and
” “if you cannot do without me , ma ' am—” said fanny , in a self-denying tone .
with a deep sigh , that he wished i might find as much happiness in the marriage state as he
” “i had actually begun folding my letter when henry walked in , but he brings no intelligence to prevent
expected ; but i got into a dreadful scrape last year from the want of them .
what is right to be done cannot be done too soon .
rushworth ' s best friend .
would have felt almost secure of success if he had not been to leave hertfordshire so very soon .
i certainly will not persuade myself to feel more than i do .
rushworth arrived , escorting his mother , who came to be civil and to shew her civility especially , in
did he see you last summer or autumn , ' somewhere down in the west , ' to use her
collins , after assuring them that he bore his young cousin no ill-will , and should never resent her behaviour
here is a nut , " said he , catching one down from an upper bough , " to exemplify
but it shows you the man .
do you know , there are two odious young men who have been staring at me this half hour .
lucy ' s marriage , the unceasing and reasonable wonder among them all , formed of course one of the
said : “miss eliza bennet , let me persuade you to follow my example , and take a turn about
the desire , without waiting to be argued into it ?
, this charming mr .
vernon , to whom she was always much attached , would be wholly destroyed by the marriage .
” “that is , ” replied mr .
long convinced to the contrary .
weston , stood for hartfield ; and she trusted to its bearing the same construction with him .
to how many idle assertions and impudent falsehoods the excess of vanity will lead .
till midnight , she supposed it would be in vain to watch ; but then , when the clock had
collins returned , the gentlemen accompanied him .
” he perfectly agreed with her : and after walking together so long , and thinking so much alike ,
” “i do not at all know .
of great misconduct on her side so very generally known .
" " no .
a short account of myself , i believe , will be necessary , and it shall be a short one
my father means to fetch you himself , but it will not be till after easter , when he has
i assure you , was all that i had in view ; widely different certainly as to the guilt of
the one missent must first be attended to ; it had been written five days ago .
whitaker is a treasure !
dare not say that man forgets sooner than woman , that his love has an earlier death .
pretty equally knew was already entirely his own ; for , though henry was now sincerely attached to her ,
upon the whole , i commend my own conduct in this affair extremely , and regard it as a very
a weariness , arising probably , in great measure , from the same feelings which he had acknowledged in the
the sweet man !
" his wife hesitated a little , however , in giving her consent to this plan .
it by the force of selfish inclinations only .
martin talks of taking a boy another year .
gardiner about this time reminded elizabeth of her promise concerning that gentleman , and required information ; and elizabeth had
at length lady susan , weary , i believe , of her situation , proposed walking ; and we left
of the heart , but i hope , my dear reginald , that you will be superior to such as
friend .
humble servt .
from him she directly received the amends which were her due ; for while he slightly and carelessly touched the
that she was really ill was very certain ; he had declared himself convinced of it , at randalls .
he seemed astonished at the summons , and looked as if half wishing and half fearing to be softened by
what can it be ?
miss crawford ' s attentions to you have been—not more than you were justly entitled to—i am the last person
but , suppose he had made her very much in love with him ?
edward had been staying several weeks in the house before he engaged much of mrs .
i am very much obliged to you ; if you will be so good as to give that to miss
he danced only four dances , though gentlemen were scarce ; and , to my certain knowledge , more than
acquaintance .
their persuasion that the general would , upon this ground alone , independent of the objection that might be raised
good as he could afford , and should give charles hayter the promise of it .
give anne your arm to her father ' s door .
was prone to take disgust towards a girl so idolized and so cried up as she always was , by
her eldest daughter had great personal beauty , and the younger ones , by pretending to be as handsome as
though aware , before she began it , that it must bring a confession of his inconstancy , and confirm
none of that interesting sensibility or amiable simpathy in her manners and address to me when we first met which
perhaps it was because they were habituated to the finer performances of the london stage , which she knew ,
—however , i assure you , miss woodhouse , i wish her no evil .
only can explain to him the grounds of that misconception of your sentiments , which , unfortunately for himself ,
there she was welcomed , with the utmost delight , by her father , who had been trembling for the
your cousins are not of a sort to forget their relations , and mr .
sir thomas had appealed to her reason , conscience , and dignity .
northanger ; he was to continue at bath .
i am not going to marry mr elliot .
the doctor , and i cannot think why .
isabella been gradually increasing ; and by merely adding twice as much for the grandeur of the moment , by
in spite of this defect (or rather by reason of it) there is something very noble and majestic in the
it seemed to her that captain tilney was falling in love with isabella , and isabella unconsciously encouraging him ;
” “i do assure you , sir , that i have no pretensions whatever to that kind of elegance which
they always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to have their share of vexation ; and it is better to
i hope my dinners are good enough for her .
profit and loss .
more exertion and confidence than you can be supposed to have .
—if one leads you wrong , i am sure the other tells you of it .
the studied indifference , insolence , and discontent of her husband gave[ _num_ ] her no pain ; and when
dashwood then begged to know to whom she was obliged .
to be unprincipled or unjust—anything that spoke him of irreligious or immoral habits ; that among his own connections he
the fortunes of jane and eliza bennet .
she was quite determined not to utter a word that should hurt jane fairfax ' s feelings ; and they
bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly ; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could
own carriage had not fetched them , she should have known nothing about , if she had not happened to
i see what she has been about .
he had always something to entreat the explanation of .
i really am a most troublesome companion to you both , but i hope i am not often so ill-equipped
chaperone was provided with a dress of the newest fashion .
protection of light after she were in bed .
probable recurrence of many past scenes of misery to his mind , brought back by that resemblance between marianne and
why should he have it more than anybody else ?
it to yours .
the servants , i suppose , forgot to tell you that mr .
attended their recent meeting—and this she had every reason to expect .
, the insolence of it .
so , i give you notice , lady russell .
for miss mason and i cannot agree whether he was a grocer or a bookbinder .
into foreign parts .
told us of the present report ; and i know i appeared distressed .
every day in a rational manner .
there is no reason on earth why mr .
bennet was not imagined to be very rich , he would have been able to do something for him ,
it is scarcely possible , also , not to believe that , in mrs .
" " a great many things , i assure you .
but i was really quite shocked the other day—for mr .
” “do you indeed !
elton is totally without .
she was a manager by necessity , without any of mrs .
what can be the meaning of it !
year , was given .
it deranged his best plan of domestic happiness , his best hope of keeping sir walter single by the watchfulness
can have no doubt .
“he was afraid they should have a very bad drive .
but this i can say , that if he ever was a beau before he married , he is one
julia could rejoice that he was gone .
emma was just describing the nature of her friend ' s complaint ; —“a throat very much inflamed , with
as a tall woman : but however there is no accounting for some men ' s taste and as william
mr and mrs musgrove cannot think it wrong while i remain with him .
in highbury .
the next day while we were at dinner lady greville ' s coach stopped at the door , for that
tilney , was desirous of being acquainted with her , and readily talked therefore whenever she could think of anything
—neither of them thought but of mr .
tell me that you submit to my arguments , and do not reproach me for using such .
she always travels with her own sheets ; an excellent precaution .
; they compressed themselves into the smallest possible space to leave her a corner , and captain wentworth , without
she could not but suppose it to be a match that every body who knew them must think of .
be the general excuse for every thing strange on the part of her son .
of girl to do such a thing if she had been well looked after .
” were questions immediately following with the readiest good-humour .
at all cared about me , we must have met , long ago .
but at last there seemed a perverse turn ; it seemed all at once as if he were more afraid
bennet came from it .
collins , meanwhile , was meditating in solitude on what had passed .
marianne was vexed at it for her sister ' s sake , and turned her eyes towards elinor to see
she was happy whenever she looked at william , and saw how perfectly he was enjoying himself , in every
collins and myself on this happy event , let me now add a short hint on the subject of another
i think every thing has passed off uncommonly well , i assure you .
i know you will be impatient to hear my opinion of the beauty of three ladies of whom you have
allen was quite struck by his genius .
elton , than it was removed .
must be , who does not see charms in the immediate environs of lyme , to make him wish to
and cottagers who might have had a hint to show themselves , and anne walked up at the same time
' s last best gift .
lose ; and emma engaging to give assurance of her safety to mrs .
is a picturesque one too , because you admire it ; i can easily believe it to be full of
” “i am , ”—she answered—“i am fatigued ; but it is not the sort of fatigue—quick walking will refresh
see alleviations of the evil before her , and to depend on getting tolerably out of it .
course of streets from the old bridge to camden place , amidst the dash of other carriages , the heavy
" he replied impressively , " there is nothing worth my staying for ; " and he was gone directly
i did not think charles would have been so unfeeling .
like mr .
" and with a quivering lip he wound up the whole by adding , " poor fanny !
but at last a soft , genial morning appeared ; such as might tempt the daughter ' s wishes and
on a serious consideration of the possibilities of such a case , was against mr elliot .
chapter xlviii let other pens dwell on guilt and misery .
knightley soon afterwards made to “what does weston think of the weather ; shall we have rain ?
churchill is ordered , or has ordered herself , to spend in some warmer place than enscombe—in short , to
ever yours , s .
you will soon have exhausted each favourite topic .
she hoped to be wise and reasonable in time ; but alas !
the ladies had crowded round the table , where miss bennet was making tea , and elizabeth pouring out the
but this was an unworthy feeling .
—i am my dear neice your affectionate aunt the author .
price having kindly kissed her daughter again , and commented a little on her growth , began with very natural
might hereafter appear ; and upon this conviction she need not fear to acknowledge some actual specks in the character
collins made his declaration in form .
had he been in a situation to act independently and marry immediately , it might have been odd that he
miss crawford , who had been repeatedly eyeing dr .
hearing from some one very dear , and that it had not been in vain .
heart at ease by it ; for i was somehow or other afraid i had offended you by what i
on to the engagement , because it must be for her loss , for he had nothing but two thousand
have caught his attention and have very much distressed him .
“yes , your advice and opinion .
he will think all the happiness , all the advantage , on your side of the question ; all the
especially towards those to whom he owes his preferment .
it was dated from rosings , at eight o’clock in the morning , and was as follows : — “be
elinor returned the partiality .
more than a reasonable , becoming degree of prudence , she was very sure did not belong to mr .
—i am sure you had .
knew it was just the sort that my sister would be delighted with .
what do you advise ?
the gentleman , without the least conceit or puppyism .
you were kept waiting at the door—i was quite ashamed—but somehow there was a little bustle—for it so happened that
unfeeling , selfish girl !
he is now , perhaps , sorry for what he has done , and anxious to re-establish a character .
it had been first projected ; more tender , more tried , more fixed in a knowledge of each other
wickham for those very dances ; and to have mr .
” “yes ; he introduced us to his sister .
invaluable acquaintance .
but she was a very good woman , and if her second object was to be sensible and well-judging ,
the pianoforte nor wore fine pelisses , they could , on farther observation , admit no right of superiority .
it might be useful in diverting her thoughts from pursuing edmund to london , whither , on the authority of
chapter xl fanny was right enough in not expecting to hear from miss crawford now at the rapid rate in
” “i do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your ladyship .
—emma looked at harriet while the point was under consideration ; she behaved very well , and betrayed no emotion
; and , while politics and mr .
how they are singing out !
’ “can you possibly guess , lizzy , who is meant by this ?
my business was to declare myself a scoundrel , and whether i did it with a bow or a bluster
i shall entreat his pardon for not having done it earlier .
” “what think you of books ?
i cannot easily resolve on anything so serious as marriage ; especially as i am not at present in want
no more , had no voice to inquire after her , no voice even for elinor ; but she ,
best right to stay in henrietta ' s stead !
look , one quick , conscious look at her .
seven years would be insufficient to make some people acquainted with each other , and seven days are more than
, it would not be more advisable to do something for their mother while she lives , rather than for
my watchfulness has been effectual ; and though i certainly should be a more interesting object to all my acquaintances
may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money , great connections , and pride
” “it is very odd !
he had no pleasure at norland ; he detested being in town ; but either to norland or london ,
with that view endeavoured , in the first place , to lessen her fears of them all , and gave
of course i have not transcribed beyond the first eight lines .
, alike sensible that no time was to be lost in detaching their brother , we shortly resolved on joining
he dined with us the next day , and was to leave town again on wednesday or thursday .
foot of an old pier of unknown date , were the harvilles settled .
i used to think she was not capable of being fond of any body , except herself : but she
i advise you by all means to refuse him .
in life acquainted with the manners and amusements of london .
” “i never can be thankful , mr .
jennings with her still-room ' parmaceti for an inward bruise ' in the shape of a glass of old constantia
the gardens and shrubberies would be kept in almost as high order as they are now .
laugh , that it was a great while since she had been there .
palmer looked up on her entering the room , stared at her some minutes , and then returned to his
i have been a liberal housekeeper enough , but i shall not be ashamed to practise economy now .
calling in berkeley street .
to consider it as the certain wish of every being who could hope to influence you !
away in spite of all the too public opposition she foresaw to it , had it not been for the
or indulgence , he has been gradually learning to pin his happiness upon the consequence he is heir to .
was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and pleasing ; and in spite of his asserting that her
had she tried to speak , or had she been conscious of half mrs .
no harm in her , to her having that sort of disposition , which , in good hands , like
” “you feel , as you always do , what is most to the credit of human nature .
how could i be so silly as to wish it !
—the ejaculation in emma ' s ear expressed , “ah !
it was three weeks since she had heard at all .
letter _num_ th laura in continuation “i have a relation in scotland (said sophia to me as we left london)
this however was what lady russell had now to do .
when sir thomas understood this , he felt the necessity of making his own wife and sister-in-law acquainted with the
that nothing will be wanting on her part to counteract me ; but having once made him doubt the justice
they had been all solitary , helpless , and forlorn alike ; and now the arrival of the others only
she does not like his unsettled habits .
again to-morrow .
” no scheme could have been more agreeable to elizabeth , and her acceptance of the invitation was most ready
she went , however ; and when they reached the farm , and she was to be put down ,
the rooms were shut up , the lodgers almost all gone , scarcely any family but of the residents left
astonished to see edward himself come out .
she would willingly have given up all the happiness which its walls could supply—the happiness of a progress through a
s style of living and tone of society ; and it was not till after she had tried in vain
their dress was very smart , their manners very civil , they were delighted with the house , and in
she was sorry , very sorry .
taunton ; and indeed , he had received a hint of the admiral from a london correspondent .
very unfriendly , certainly ; and he must be a very odd man ; but we are so glad to
sir thomas was most cordially anxious for the perfection of mr .
the winter came and passed without their being called for ; the accounts continued perfectly good ; and mrs .
he is rich , to be sure , and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than jane
road could engage a moment ' s attention , she found no stage of it tedious .
it was no more than a wish .
it was a large , handsome stone building , standing well on rising ground , and backed by a ridge
the little rusticities and awkwardnesses which had at first made grievous inroads on the tranquillity of all , and not
elton ' s resources were inadequate to such an attack .
” “no , my dear miss price , and for reasons good .
” “that will make your ladyship’s situation at present more pitiable ; but it will have no effect on me
was demanded—mr .
resent a project which influenced me six years ago , and which never succeeded at last .
nothing , but to grow more worthy of him , whose intentions and judgment had been ever so superior to
julia might be justified in so doing by the hints of mrs .
this violent oppression of spirits continued the whole evening .
" marianne is not well , " said she .
from six o ' clock till half-past nine , there was little intermission of noise or grog .
torment him , as sir james , though extremely gallant to me , very soon made the whole party understand
" " i have known it these four months .
emma was gratified , to observe such a proof in her of strengthened character , and refrained from any allusion
; i was afraid of being late .
she thanked him for it with all her heart , spoke of edward ' s principles and disposition with that
i don ' t know what sir thomas may think of such matters ; he may be too much of
” “impropriety !
” “my dear sir , do not make a stranger of me .
she would not look again .
” fanny was most civil in her assurances , though she could not give them in a very steady voice
been so strong in fanny , with a disposition much less inclined to sedentary pursuits , or to information for
“if i had not persuaded harriet into liking the man , i could have borne any thing .
was first in agitation that no one less amiable and mild than himself could have overlooked it all ; and
so you would all .
me , and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming to london .
i wonder my son did not propose it .
” “very true , miss woodhouse , so she will .
“where did you get that quiz of a hat ?
" willoughby !
—i am sure it would put me quite out of patience !
happy to show it you ; it is very like .
i feel a strong persuasion , this morning , that i shall soon be abroad .
” “very true .
the names of this noble five who never forgot the duty of the subject , or swerved from their attachment
he could ride to london at any time .
had she merely dined with him , she might only have discovered whether he had a good appetite ; but
engagements in order to wait on her .
girls might be sent to be out of the way , and scramble themselves into a little education , without
now extinguished for ever , without great pain .
angry impatience at the waiters , made catherine grow every moment more in awe of him , and appeared to
” “yes , sir ; but i do not know when that will be .
” “i would ask for the pleasure of your company , mr .
given up my point .
, prolonged the conversation on dancing in general , and was so well engaged in describing the balls of antigua
what can he write about , but yourself ?
he was not a man to be endured but for his children ' s sake , and he might be
was uncommonly handsome , received additional charms from his voice and expression .
shock of such an attack from her cousin tom , so public and so persevered in , and her spirits
seat of upton pynes .
me to it again ; but one good thing i have just ascertained : it is the very room for
i see a very dirty lane .
to be greatly increased .
; but while you do wrong together , i can overlook a great deal .
to assist him .
means of getting home ; and the distress in which she must have been thereby involved filling the minds of
we were going through the three first acts , and not unsuccessfully upon the whole .
—i wonder whether jane has any suspicion .
for my feelings as a daughter , all that i know , all that i answer for , is that
weston , instantly .
be miserable .
i think you must be deceived so far .
had henry returned , as he talked of doing , at the end of three or four days , she
and his absence was unhappily most welcome .
though spoken low , she could distinguish , “what !
he must do it all himself .
fanny as the only , or even as the greater gainer by such a friendship .
” “then i am quite at a loss .
" they were interrupted by the servant ' s coming in to announce the carriage being at the door ;
, and miss crawford still on horseback , but attended by edmund on foot , pass through a gate into
" " thank you , ma ' am , " said elinor .
" were the first words which burst from captain wentworth , in a tone of despair , and as if
or mrs .
a man who had long ago made his indifference clear .
weston remained with mr .
no , lizzy , let me once in my life feel how much i have been to blame .
the season and duties which brought mr .
you cannot think your husband so deficient in personal charms as you speak of , nor can you surely see
, by the natural return of her former regard for the writer , and the very strong attraction which any
not answering them sooner .
" " and you will never see me otherwise .
catherine had not loitered ; she was almost dressed , and her packing almost finished .
—the preparatory interest of this dinner , however , was not yet over .
her answer was warmly in his favour .
accepting her share of the civility .
such occasions , dearly earned .
of moderation and composure , which seemed rather consistent with the common feelings of common life , than with the
frederica never shall .
the idea of wanting gratitude and consideration for miss woodhouse , whom she really loved extremely , made her wretched
you are resolved to think him blamable , because he took leave of us with less affection than his usual
he had said that jane fairfax received attentions from mrs .
the worst objections to the match , made her too angry to have any wish of doing him justice .
town last month .
she lost all concern for him in finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous gallantry
still see , hear , and remember .
affection , or at least her good behaviour , is only to be secured by her seeing nothing of captain
" edward returned to them with fresh admiration of the surrounding country ; in his walk to the village ,
i would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest—there is no occasion
be aware of .
my sweetest catherine , how have you been this long age ?
spending much , very much , of his time there ; always there , or in the neighbourhood .
she was a plain , motherly kind of woman , who had worked hard in her youth , and now
she was not of so ungovernable a temper as lydia ; and , removed from the influence of lydia’s example
” “how many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a year !
help him on .
wondered why , without violently caring for her , he chose to elope with her at all , had she
morland ' s common remarks about the weather and roads .
but the hindrance thrown in the way of a very speedy intimacy , by the frequent want of one or
mary does not above half like henrietta ' s match .
my regard for hartfield is most warm”— he stopt again , rose again , and seemed quite embarrassed .
he is less polished , less insinuating than mainwaring , and is comparatively deficient in the power of saying those
a party ; but i am the more concerned , as i fear my presence is necessary to gain your
i wish him very happy ; and i am so sure of his always doing his duty , that though
” “i had no notion that he liked me so very much , ” said harriet , contemplating the letter
he will be able to tell her how we all are .
it was no part of my education ; and the only dose i ever had , being administered by not
but i am a partial old friend .
daughters is surely very singular , for if i understood you right , you said you did not find them
bennet’s invention was again at work to get every body away from him and her daughter .
“then poor yates is all alone , ” cried tom .
no , no , let me shift for myself ; and , perhaps , if i have very good luck
and thoughtfulness there had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend .
sir william could not have interrupted two people in the room who had less to say for themselves .
she ran away to indulge the inclination , leaving the tender and the sublime of pleasure to harriet ' s
by them before many months had passed away .
of his promise to his father was by this arrangement rendered impracticable .
his father might have disdained to speak to , and of becoming prematurely an object of disgust himself , than
she might in time regain tranquillity ; but he , what had he to look forward to ?
ellison , and that , as i have been since informed , is the name of miss grey ' s
darcy liked me less , his son might have borne with me better ; but his father’s uncommon attachment to
she spoke to him , ordered , entreated , and insisted in vain .
is deceiving herself .
if wednesday should ever come !
bit of string ?
but it is an excellent thing to have frank among us again , so near as town .
the more i see of the world , the more am i dissatisfied with it ; and every day confirms
that he should not escape them all .
" upon my soul , " said he , " i do not know much about him as to all
and hemmed in by the barns and buildings of a farm-yard .
repeating them and dwelling on them to me , will only encourage and increase them , and that it will
i shall get the dairymaid to set them under the first spare hen , and if they come to good
yes madam , i had the happiness of adoring you , an happiness for which i cannot be too grateful
to be sure , ” cried emma , “it is always incomprehensible to a man that a woman should ever
such events are very interesting , but the suspense of them cannot last long .
, might not it be fairly supposed that he would not much longer persevere in a suit so distressing to
thorpe , and then we wanted for nothing .
but everybody has their failing , you know , and everybody has a right to do what they like with
that neither harville nor his wife entertained a doubt of our mutual attachment .
, —not classing himself with the husbands , and fathers , and whist-players , who were pretending to feel an
education .
his brother would be most happy to be introduced to her .
we ought to be acquainted with enscombe , and with mrs .
weston , your argument weighs most with me .
attempted in vain to turn away from him , she got up , and said only , with much agitation
fanny thought she had never known a day of greater agitation , both of pain and pleasure ; but happily
at some other , and almost each was feeling it a stroke the most unwelcome , most ill-timed , most
jennings , who called on her again the next day with her congratulations , that she had never seen him
chapter _num_ instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend , as elizabeth half expected mr .
” lady catherine seemed pleased .
might be equal to feel , though not equal to discuss with herself .
" " my dear mary , recollect what a comfortable account you sent me of yourself !
he did not leave his name , and till the next day it was only known that a gentleman had
the only pain was in leaving her father , who would certainly miss her , and who , when it
tricking us all .
young ladies the concern which the same subject had drawn from him the day before , at being unable to
he knew them to be going to dinner , and therefore pretended to be waited for elsewhere .
and the rest of those who filled the cheif offices of state were deserving , experienced , and able ministers
and their uncle promised , at parting , to prevail on mr .
in its increase .
i assure you , that if darcy were not such a great tall fellow , in comparison with myself ,
you give me fresh life and vigour .
ferrars , as well as not knowing how to get to plymouth ; for lucy it seems borrowed all her
she had a sister married to a mr .
” “i sick of prosperity and indulgence !
henry crawford ' s chair was the first to be given a direction towards them , and he sat silently
with such rivals for the notice of the fair as mr .
" " forgive me , forgive me , " throwing her arms round her sister ' s neck ; "
he was too diffident to do justice to himself ; but when his natural shyness was overcome , his behaviour
he bestowed his hearty approbation however on their species of house .
” said i—but instantly recollecting myself , exclaimed , “alas i fear it will be too long a journey for
” cried emma , shaking her head .
she is removed there .
so anxious for .
as usual , upstairs , they were stopped by the knock of a visitor , whom they felt they could
poor little dears , how glad they will be to come .
in this reign as well as in that of elizabeth , i am obliged in spite of my attachment to
“no , ”—replied emma—quite confirmed by the depressed manner in which he still spoke—“i should like to take another turn
it was from lady middleton , announcing their arrival in conduit street the night before , and requesting the company
wind was extremely high and very cold .
at nine in the evening on the following day , they came , accompanied by one of lady lesleys brothers
elinor resolving to exert herself , though fearing the sound of her own voice , now said— " is mrs
of the late mr .
to him ; but it was too often for emma ' s charity , especially as there was all the
you would think him quite ill .
in a very small and quiet way ; and i think a theatre ought not to be attempted .
morris immediately ; that he is to take possession before michaelmas , and some of his servants are to be
—did he ever give you any thing ?
concurrence , excepting edmund , who heard it all and said nothing .
weston , that excellent mr .
right !
" elinor ' s heart could easily account for his not putting himself forward ; and mrs .
—and left a name behind her that would not soon die away .
he is to be married very soon—a good-for-nothing fellow !
" he has not , perhaps , a more sorrowing heart than i have .
my poor mother was half frantic .
; and standing back , well shaded and sheltered , and looking over a ha-ha into the park , was
quick resources , and playful impudence that could do honour to the game ; and the round table was altogether
the first actual pain which miss crawford occasioned her was the consequence of an inclination to learn to ride ,
your friend : never cared whether she were dead or alive , but as your friend .
—then , with the gladness which must be felt , nay , which he did not scruple to feel ,
in what way of business was your grandfather ?
of him so much , and , as she sat drawing or working , forming a thousand amusing schemes for
, to the needful civilities of the moment , with exquisite , though agitated sensations .
her answers to the kindness and the remarks of her companions were at first unconsciously given .
very circumstance which had been designed to turn his thoughts from elizabeth seemed to have fixed them on her more
” “i have always admired her complexion , ” replied emma , archly ; “but do not i remember the
it was always : “when i go back into northamptonshire , or when i return to mansfield , i shall
to her that he did not excel in giving those clearer insights , in making those things plain which he
” “as usual , believing yourself unequal to anything !
“i am all astonishment .
” “and so was i .
after courting you from the protection of real friends to this—almost double distance from your home , to have you
rushworth turned to her with a black look , and said , “do you think there is anything so very
but you do not know all .
the others returned , the room filled again , benches were reclaimed and repossessed , and another hour of pleasure
prepossessing .
to bayes , goes " to elevate and surprise , " must make amends by displaying depth of knowledge and
news .
in one respect it was better , as it gave him the means of conferring a kindness where he wished
" " happy for her , to have such a mind as yours at hand !
anne could relate , and who now asked in vain for several particulars of the company .
the reason why all this was to be done by him alone , was such as i have given above
when first he came in , he had spoken to her but little ; but every five minutes seemed to
of her father and mother for putting it off till summer ; and to lyme they were to go--charles ,
earlier ; —it would have been a great pleasure to talk over jane fairfax ' s situation with mr .
if i am missed , it will appear .
he was writing and , without raising his head , coolly replied : “just as you please .
time with them at norland , when he must have felt his own inconstancy .
past hope , and leave him nothing to do but to keep away from uppercross : but there was such
“it is undoubtedly the best thing we can do now , as we are so far from the house already
she looked and looked , longing to know which might be least valuable ; and was determined in her choice
you have always a profession , pursuits , business of some sort or other , to take you back into
we have cast almost every part .
you must not confound my meaning .
springing over puddles with impatient activity , and finding herself at last within view of the house , with weary
, that i do not know what to do with myself .
had been struck by the sight of a pianoforte—a very elegant looking instrument—not a grand , but a large-sized square
in all the business before her .
seen) , she was yet perfectly conscious of lady russell ' s eyes being turned exactly in the direction for
take care of the cheese , fanny .
and invariably silly .
he had dined at the parsonage only the preceding day .
dear miss grenville said i , you appear extremely young—and may probably stand in need of some one ' s
too violent , is i dare say conducive to health in its consequences—run mad as often as you chuse ;
this will be a bad day ' s amusement for you if you are to be knocked up .
known it , what would it have availed ?
hope of having acquitted herself well .
her notice when service is over .
look , voice , and manner , restored to all her usual animation , and elevated to more than her
to express her anxious solicitude for marianne , and entreat she would bear up with fortitude under this misfortune .
catherine sometimes started at the boldness of her own surmises , and sometimes hoped or feared that she had gone
my past sufferings under it are only triumph and exultation to me now .
as they went downstairs together , charlotte said : “i shall depend on hearing from you very often , eliza
i know my own strength , and i shall never be embarrassed again by his coming .
the weather soon improved enough for those to move who must move ; and mr .
pretty little girl , whom she had left there not much younger when she went into northamptonshire , who had
a little time , therefore—i shall certainly try to get the better .
, having seen him so seldom , his reserve may be a little repulsive .
at length , however , he did look towards her , and he bowed—but such a bow !
tilney himself .
i took him down several times , you know , in my way .
we shall not have to explore our way into a hall dimly lighted by the expiring embers of a wood
finally adopted .
she was sorry , really sorry ; and yet in spite of this and the two or three other things
“i am perfectly acquainted with the play , i assure you ; and with a very few omissions , and
” “but i have never fixed on june or any other month—merely looked forward to the summer in general .
she thought he was often looking at her , and trying for a fuller view of her face than it
will you not shake hands with me ?
successful ; but how strangely mysterious !
regular features , and a look of great sweetness , and , before the end of the evening , emma
” “very true , ” he gravely replied ; “it was very bad .
all are supplanted sooner or later .
protesting against his proposals , but she dared not believe it , and could not help saying so .
if she suspected any prepossession elsewhere , it could not be in that quarter .
” dr .
thing ?
compared with the past—a sombre family party rarely enlivened .
her , even towards some of those who loved her best .
for the night ; but as soon as he was gone , he turned to his daughter , and said
protection ; and at length in allowing elizabeth to bring this amiable woman to an untimely , unmerited , and
” “well , and so we breakfasted at ten as usual ; i thought it would never be over ;
forward while it is so threatening .
there is any difference nobody would ever find it out .
he came with mrs .
its green chasms between romantic rocks , where the scattered forest trees and orchards of luxuriant growth , declare that
yates ; and though he and maria are very good friends , i think she likes sotherton too well to
then she could gradually rise up to the genuine satisfaction of having a partner , a voluntary partner , secured
, to be convinced that she would get him at last ; and her expectations of advantage to her family
for willoughby ' s sake , would have been unwilling to believe .
smiles of intelligence passed between her and the gentleman on first glancing towards miss fairfax ; but it was most
much is settled on his side on our sister , we shall exactly know what mr .
forming at it any useful acquaintance .
and it was in a great measure his own doing , for had not the cabinet appeared so exactly to
putting captain wentworth off , and only be sorry to think that the cottage party , probably , would not
bingley , ” said her husband ; “it is a person whom i never saw in the whole course of
jane speaks so distinct !
not like , and she saw his eye glancing for a moment at her necklace , with a smile—she thought
pride was hurt , he suffered in no other way .
lady middleton was more agreeable than her mother only in being more silent .
today ?
throughout the whole of this business , i will immediately give directions to haggerston for preparing a proper settlement .
everything answered ; it was all gaiety and good-humour , the heat only supplying inconvenience enough to be talked of
” he smiled , and said , “you have formed a very favourable idea of the abbey .
when crawford walked up with the newspaper in his hand , which he had hoped would bring the first tidings
could he have colonel fitzwilliam in his thoughts ?
the happiness of miss smith was quite equal to her intentions .
wickham was sure to be one ; and on these occasions , mrs .
, and from knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer .
i have heard him speak , and so must you , so very highly of jane fairfax !
to his own daughter ' s marrying , nor could ever speak of her but with compassion , though it
of the feelings of others ; and much was said on the subject of rain by both of them .
he had been most agreeable , most delightful ; he had told harriet that he had seen them go by
let wickham be your man .
the tyrannic influence of youth on youth , it had not shaken his determination of never settling till he could
a fine place , but very retired .
carry their point , be they ever so poor , or ever so imprudent , or ever so little likely
the word curricle made charles musgrove jump up that he might compare it with his own ; the servant in
but this did not last long ; elinor had hardly got their last visitors out of her head , had
time , said to me , " i find from wilson that we are going to lose mr .
by the time i get to the knoll they may be gone somewhere else .
to the former she was an interesting object , and he saw with pleasure the general elegance of her appearance
be a great deal more suffered than a stander-by can judge of .
charles shewed himself at the window , all was ready , their visitor had bowed and was gone , the
“they desired me to stay—my cousin maria charged me to say that you would find them at that knoll ,
and he knew what he had to offer her , he had many anxious feelings , many doubting hours as
i saw a vast deal of that in the neighbourhood round maple grove .
the little particulars of the circumstance , with the conviction soon forced on her by the noise he was studiously
rushworth could hardly be more impatient for the marriage than herself .
”—and when she had gone through the whole letter , though scarcely knowing anything of the last page or two
to herself , individually , it was most tempting .
nothing less .
end of a week of such intercourse , to be a good deal in love ; and to the credit
and , as i ever wish to be believed , i solemnly protest that no syllable of such a nature
mrs .
there is a daughter of mr .
“so it does indeed .
not that i am an advocate for the prevailing fashion of acquiring a perfect knowledge of all languages , arts
i cannot think of it .
be ever perfectly at ease .
her hair was cut and dressed by the best hand , her clothes put on with care , and both
“dear sir , — “the disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured father always gave me much uneasiness ,
to neglect it on any account .
dear , dear catherine , in being the bearer of such a message , i seem guilty myself of all
introduce her into good society ; she would form her opinions and her manners .
grant ' s bailiff , i believe i had better keep out of his way ; and my brother-in-law himself
struck a less interested person with concern .
but by writing to you , for i am forbidden even speaking to my uncle and aunt on the subject
“i shall be very sorry to go away , ” said she , with a faltering voice .
chapter viii fanny ' s rides recommenced the very next day ; and as it was a pleasant fresh-feeling morning
you should learn to think of other people ; and , take my word for it , it is a
' s being in no such state as could make it inconvenient , captain wentworth would not be satisfied without
in the church .
gentle ; and twelve years had transformed the fine-looking , well-grown miss hamilton , in all the glow of health
observing-- " i think you are very likely to suffer the most of the two ; your feelings are less
she is awkwardly circumstanced .
” the contents of this letter threw elizabeth into a flutter of spirits , in which it was difficult to
—such elegance and profusion !
dare say , a good scholar and clever , and often preaches good sermons , and is very respectable ,
there is an anxiety , a curiosity in what one feels for emma .
really almost made up my mind—to refuse mr .
with thanks for the honour of your note , i remain , dear miss crawford , etc .
' s manners .
wentworth very much in the way .
morland ?
” said she , as they proceeded—speaking more to assist mr .
their drive , even when this subject was over , was not likely to be very agreeable .
anne smiled and said , " my idea of good company , mr elliot , is the company of clever
" is your sister ill ?
shirts , stockings , cravats , and waistcoats faced her in each .
“ ' smallridge !
wickham , suspended , amongst several other miniatures , over the mantelpiece .
” “in point of composition , ” said mary , “the letter does not seem defective .
at once , and there is no help for it .
you got hannah that good place .
where is your sash , my dear ?
—a style of living almost equal to maple grove—and as to the children , except the little sucklings and little
” i was never so surprised—“married , ma ' am !
the young people could not be surprised at a decision like this .
mr marlowe is so desirous of my appearing at some of the public places every evening that i do not
she will be more hurt by it , and on the same principle will forgive him much sooner .
" " come , come ; this is all an effusion of immediate want of spirits , edward .
" added miss steele .
i would not take eight hundred guineas for them .
i could think of you only as one who had yielded , who had given me up , who had
do either singly .
were miserable .
” “not at all , sir .
elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse , and that she could not leave her
it was a long , well-written letter , giving the particulars of his journey and of his feelings , expressing
, and not very ineligible for being supposed to have a lover .
' s losing a single pleasure , or suffering an hour ' s ennui , from the want of her
if i had not luckily thought of standing up with you i could not have got out of it .
” “no , ” cried mr .
” “it is a very simple story .
all , their heads were both turned by him ; and off they ran , quite as full of glee
simple lines expressed so natural and motherly a joy in the prospect of seeing her child again , as to
of six years old , who knows nothing of the matter ?
” emma was sure he had not forgiven her ; he looked unlike himself .
” while she spoke , wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoice over her words , or to
she is a very headstrong , foolish girl , and does not know her own interest but i will make
long a period had occasioned , on the advantages of some , and the disadvantages of others .
the contrast between mrs .
" " at present , " continued elinor , " he regrets what he has done .
style of writing .
her prudent mother , occupied by the same ideas , forbore to invite him to sit by herself .
it might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself in his way again !
sister’s being in town .
i know i shall never have courage to open the letter .
” “i wish we had any—it would be somebody to go to .
now , i must apply to you for information .
” convinced her that he had nothing more to say or surmise about hartfield .
desired success from one naturally so well disposed ; whose errors in the affair had only arisen from a want
barton .
; they dread the effects of both .
goddard ' s hands to shift as she can ; —to move , in short , in mrs .
less reasonably excited , nor less properly worded than if it had arisen from an offer of marriage .
did you speak ?
while robert was inevitably endowed[ _num_ ] with a thousand pounds a-year , not the smallest objection was made against
there is one difficulty unprovided for , ” cried emma .
be , you have no right to repeat them .
they were speedily provided from amongst those who had formed their establishment at norland .
when you leave barton to form your own establishment in a more lasting home , queen mab shall receive you
miss anderson !
that i had no right to be trying whether i could attach myself to either of the girls , at
” and she talked in this way so long and successfully that , when forced to give her attention again
he will make you happy , fanny ; i know he will make you happy ; but you will make
lost on the side of dignified seclusion , must be amply repaid in the splendour of popularity .
that they were to come .
weston , who had been calling on her daughter-in-law elect , and took hartfield in her way home , almost
—“do not you remember one morning ?
ignorant like other girls ; but lizzy has something more of quickness than her sisters .
i knew that we should either go to the bottom together , or that she would be the making of
“if he would be so good as to read to them , it would be a kindness indeed !
i wear nothing but purple now : i know i look hideous in it , but no matter—it is your
collins instead !
convince lucy that her heart was unwounded .
“you begin to comprehend me , do you ?
going there some very fine morning .
a little too far , it is all very proper .
for lydia , we may draw from it this useful lesson : that loss of virtue in a female is
and yet that he should look at her because he disliked her , was still more strange .
what a contrast between him and his friend !
cox , and mr .
yes—mr .
evil disposition than hers ; and from what i can see of the behaviour of each to the other ,
she recommended it to her daughters , therefore , by all means not to shorten their visit to mrs .
you will soon know why .
“but so we all do .
but at last your uncle was forced to yield , and instead of being allowed to be of use to
more distinction , again became her favourites .
he could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood ; and his civilities were worn
ended anne ' s share of suffering from it .
of her first dinner-visit , when she found herself in an agitation of a higher nature , watching in the
price , it appeared , scarcely ever stirred out of doors , except of a sunday ; she owned she
it is impossible that your own observation can have given you much knowledge of the clergy .
to be so , you know .
my comprehension .
still , however , he was not happy .
” so began miss bates ; and mr .
” “i do not think i should be tired , if i were to stay here six months .
” “and so i am at home—only i do not find so much of it .
his sisters were fine women , with an air of decided fashion .
convinced , that no reflection could alter his wishes or his opinion on the subject .
was not that her own doing too ?
as for jane , her anxiety under this suspense was , of course , more painful than elizabeth’s , but
' she was quite in an agony .
” “what you ask , ” said elizabeth , “is no sacrifice on my side ; and mr .
in the sweet dependence of his having a most comfortless visit , and of their all missing her very much
of her would be !
rushworth might imagine it a blessing ; but every other heart was sinking under some degree of self-condemnation or undefined
a message from sally at the park to her brother , who is one of the post-boys .
i do not refuse to confide in you or blush to say that i do love your cousin mr musgrove
that is what i dislike most particularly .
intimate with : a family of lively , agreeable manners , and probably of morals and discretion to suit ,
to discover in the space of _num_ minutes , as many of my descendants !
and then the poor horses too !
it was become a matter of indifference to her , whether she went or not : and she prepared quietly
my dear sweet fanny , this is a long letter from london : write me a pretty one in reply
what would i give to hear your strictures on them !
to her belief , just opposite her own , it struck her that , if judiciously watched , some rays
-- , camden place , was swept away for many days ; for the dalrymples (in anne ' s opinion
” “i know he must have exerted himself very much , for i know the parties he had to move
the gentlemen did approach , and when mr .
consider what you are about .
the future must be my proof .
their visitors , except those from barton park , were not many ; for , in spite of sir john
of mind were all that could account for her being the choice of a sensible , intelligent man like mr
”—and “dear miss woodhouse , ” was all that harriet , with many tender embraces could articulate at first ;
what would she have been if we had not taken her by the hand ?
—no ; do not pity me till i reached highbury , and saw how ill i had made her .
, perhaps , have rather offered it—but he took her hand , pressed it , and certainly was on the
i hope we may often meet again .
their other engagements were few , as the style of living in the neighbourhood in general was beyond mr .
known , and that their sisters will not be often involved in the disgrace ?
, an interest which she felt must ever attach her to him with a most sincere regard ; and she
they came from birmingham , which is not a place to promise much , you know , mr .
" and here is my sweet little annamaria , " she added , tenderly caressing a little girl of three
she had brought evil on harriet , on herself , and she too much feared , on mr .
an explanation she could ever be happy with another ; and for a moment wished willoughby a widower .
but you are now of an age to be treated better ; i think she is behaving better already ;
unhappy , there may be error , and there may be misery .
your affectionate mother , c .
he talks of you , " cried charles , " in such terms-- " mary interrupted him .
elton , in your case , i should certainly excuse myself .
her husband ' s sisters without any affection , and almost without having anything to say to them ; for
bennet’s visit , and sat about ten minutes with him in his library .
norris a hint of his having hoped that her advice might have been interposed to prevent what her judgment must
other he will soon find an opportunity .
but still his attentions made no part of her satisfaction .
prudent man , and to be sure must have cleared the estate by this time .
” and letting down the side-glass to distinguish , “ ' tis crawford ' s , crawford ' s barouche
” “well , if he have nothing else to recommend him , he will be a treasure at highbury .
very well , with all the interest and all the commendation that could be requisite , and always putting forward
the kingdom .
pair the momentous matter of the amount to be devoted to mrs .
child , that she was persuaded to believe herself in love , and to consent to an elopement .
she was perfectly unsuspicious of being inflicting any peculiar wound .
crawford was in the room ; for once or twice a look seemed forced on her which she did not
which she hoped had been spoken in haste , and would never be said again ; and upon this she
elton ' s marrying , harriet , is the strongest reproach you can make me .
though i know it must be a scandalous falsehood , though i would not injure him so much as to
they went through the particulars of their first meeting a great many times .
matrimony was her object , provided she could marry well : and having seen mr .
written , her eyes devoured the following words : " i can listen no longer in silence .
miss crawford ' s kind opinion of herself deserved at least a grateful forbearance , and she began to talk
—my representation , you see , has quite appeased her .
it had been my doing , solely mine .
later , and quicker , that he might gain half a day .
laugh which had considerably lengthened out the genuine gaiety of the moment ; " but , upon my soul ,
if in cool deliberation-- " not yet .
tell her that you insist upon her marrying him .
it was a dislike so little just—every imputed fault was so magnified by fancy , that she never saw jane
environs , and afterwards drove through those streets which conducted them to the hotel .
they were rather handsome , had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town , had a
reached it only to a late breakfast , ought to be imitated , though it could not be equalled ,
i was obliged to confess one thing , which for a time , and not unjustly , offended him .
” when we arrived at warleigh , poor augusta could scarcely breathe , while margaret was all life and rapture
had been unreasonable in expecting it .
" sir walter , however , would choose his own means , and at last wrote a very fine letter
it is really too distressing .
friend , than lady middleton was to be his wife , or mrs .
i am glad you are no enemy to matrimony , however .
affection .
impartiality on the conduct of every one concerned in it .
he said nothing worth hearing—looked without seeing—admired without intelligence—listened without knowing what she said .
“why is not it settled ?
jennings could not prevail on him to stay long .
circumstances .
and the last that must be inevitably reminding him of its existence .
i will go directly to mr .
edmund had little to hope , but he was still urging the subject when henry crawford entered the room ,
it is unaccountable !
” “perhaps i intended you to say so , but i meant self-command .
i have for some time been more particularly resolved on the match from seeing the rapid increase of her affection
“but , ” he added , “you will of course wish to have your humble respects delivered to them ,
visible .
part .
” “i am very glad to hear it indeed , and now i shall never be ashamed of liking udolpho
” “you shall hear then—but prepare yourself for something very dreadful .
" said colonel brandon , " there is , indeed !
anxious as were all her conjectures on this point , it was not , however , the one on which
” “whatever my connections may be , ” said elizabeth , “if your nephew does not object to them ,
put it into his pocket-book .
his wife was not always out of humour , nor his home always uncomfortable ; and in his breed of
was by delicate attentions to recommend himself to her and that he should therefore make a point of remaining close
—to come among us with professions of openness and simplicity ; and such a league in secret to judge us
conviction of his preference for maria had been forced on her , she submitted to it without any alarm for
the horror of being blocked up at randalls , while her children were at hartfield , was full in her
” he then went away , and miss bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to
i had attributed them to you before .
and being so near , to lose it all , was an injury to be keenly felt , and mr
a different sort of place of it , and live in a very different sort of way ; and with
might have been misunderstood before .
gardiner , whose manners were very easy and pleasant , encouraged her communicativeness by his questions and remarks ; mrs
he should certainly have come back for her , had she not been tired already ; but this was not
“could i expect it to be otherwise !
took a cheerfuller turn , and he began to congratulate elinor on having such a friend as mrs .
at length , however , his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of elizabeth after the health of
that she was exactly in a temper to admire everything as she ought , and enter most readily into all
cannot wonder .
i was glad to see you so well entertained .
" colonel brandon means it as a testimony of his concern for what has lately passed—for the cruel situation in
his manners now , though not polished , were more than passable : they were grateful , animated , manly
thomas with an increase of gravity which was not lost on all .
her mother’s ungraciousness , made the sense of what they owed him more painful to elizabeth’s mind ; and she
thorpe ' s being in love with her , and the consequent impossibility of her having ever intended to encourage
any other appointed meeting of the two families might be .
” fanny could not answer him .
i am much concerned to find there was anything in my behaviour last night that did not meet your approbation
new hat ?
" " you will not like him , i will answer for it .
, being now certain of her ball , began to adopt as the next vexation mr .
meet him with any feeling answerable to his own ?
the death of my father and my mother and my husband though almost more than my gentle nature could support
was the next moment in his own concerns and with his own jane , and his next words were ,
what a softener of the heart was this persuasion !
everything supplied an amusement to the high glee of william ' s mind , and he was full of frolic
” “i am talking of possibilities , charles .
you have a large acquaintance in the navy , i conclude ?
walls of their sitting room .
in that interval the plan was completed , and as soon as she came again , her agreement was demanded
morland objects to novels .
i understand that he intends to take orders .
in everything but disposition they were admirably taught .
has contrived by the most artful coquetry to subdue his judgment to her own purposes .
bennet rejoiced to see jane in undiminished beauty ; and more than once during dinner did mr .
young lady in the room .
words explained it to be mr wentworth of whom she spoke , that she had said nothing which might not
found herself so affectionately received .
' have you , upon your honour ?
poor eloisa is still so very indifferent both in health and spirits , that i very much fear , the
—no , madam , my visits to hartfield have been for yourself only ; and the encouragement i received—” “encouragement
be a blockhead indeed , if , whatever befell me , i could think of your kindness and sympathy without
they were stopping , however , in the first place at mrs .
” “the nothing of conversation has its gradations , i hope , as well as the never .
“how much i am obliged to you , ” said he , “for telling me to come to-day !
her eyes should be darker , but she has a sweet smile ; but as for this wonderful degree of
go , we must be in a good situation : none of your queen squares for us !
of september in all the white glare of bath , and grieving to forego all the influence so sweet and
“to be justified in your eyes , he must do it in the most complete uncertainty of any provision .
the unkindness she was treated with , procured her in time the haughty notice which overcame her by its graciousness
body else would with eight .
she was still in the astonishment and confusion excited by her friend ' s penetration , unable to imagine how
at once .
vernon to receive me at present , i shall hope within a few days to be introduced to a sister
whom she had hated to see or to speak to , in whom she could believe no good quality to
stranger .
a little disagreement (in which she had sometimes more share than she wished , being appealed to by both parties)
being always at home .
i think you cannot stand out any longer now .
bennet’s curiosity ; and elizabeth was spared from much teasing on the subject .
she thinks so little of her own beauty .
elton was only too happy .
rushworth , ” said lady bertram , “if i were you , i would have a very pretty shrubbery .
he is ruined for ever .
can you , when you return from this lord ' s , come to fullerton ?
they had been walking some time before emma came , and he had taken pains (as she was convinced) to
seemed to make her worse .
moreover , i have too good an opinion of miss thorpe ' s prudence to suppose that she would part
i assure you it is very refreshing after sitting so long in one attitude .
” continued the anxious mother , “what a sad fire we have got , and i dare say you are
was in the hall .
i brought her into plymouth ; and here another instance of luck .
he has a fine dignified manner , which suits the head of such a house , and keeps everybody in
elton ' s situation was most suitable , quite the gentleman himself , and without low connexions ; at the
there had been no real affection either in his language or manners .
much beyond my hopes .
in time , of course , mr .
everybody was shortly in motion for tea , and they must squeeze out like the rest .
him up .
it was better to pay my visit , then”— he hesitated , got up , walked to a window .
name your day , and i will come .
i hope he will be more agreeable now .
you have tastes in common .
how fast i made money in her .
” “but still it has not your approbation .
ends the resemblance .
i graciously promised that i would , but could not help observing that the unsimpathetic baronet offered it more on
the postilions had at first received orders only to take the london road ; as soon as we had sufficiently
day to make on the difference between him and his sister .
her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes , but his eagerness to grasp at anything .
it was now perfectly dark , not a single star was there to direct my steps , and i know
before she entered the abbey , had been craving to be frightened .
treading that path before .
she was afraid she had used some strong , some contemptuous expressions in speaking of the clergy , and that
law of their existence .
the word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering
jennings was not struck by the same thought ; for soon after his entrance , she walked across the room
one cannot creep upon a journey ; one cannot help getting on faster than one has planned ; and the
all our dealings with each other ?
” “and i assure you , mr .
—most strange indeed !
—i have been walking over the country , and am now , i hope , rational enough to make the
were i rich enough i would instantly pull combe down , and build it up again in the exact plan
” “we never had any governess .
like your way of getting husbands .
yates ' s help , to ascertain what scenery would be necessary—while maria and henry crawford conversed together in an
bates , &c .
never had been able to understand what she meant by a basin of nice smooth gruel , thin , but
and , in spite of their father ' s great civilities to her—in spite of his thanks , invitations ,
lucy ' s behaviour in the affair , and the prosperity which crowned it , therefore , may be held
and it is not merely the house—the grounds , i assure you , as far as i could observe ,
i certainly have had my share of beauty , but i do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now .
he continued .
he sat down with them , and improved their conversation very much .
miss bates , “four weeks yesterday .
the poor girl , however , i am sure , dislikes him ; and though his person and address are
she sent in a message by the servant to say that “she should not get out but that miss maria
degree claim the respect of abilities , excite the interest of friendship , or give pleasure as a companion .
' may produce ?
—had we been met walking together between donwell and highbury , the truth must have been suspected .
and never had he found greater difficulty in keeping his countenance .
the gravel ; you will have the shrubbery to yourself , and will be the better for air and exercise
his surprise was not so great as his father ' s at her refusing crawford , because , so far
" his colour increased ; and with his eyes fixed on the ground he only replied , " you are
of spirits herself .
, as she sprang down with his help ; “i am very strong .
thing in the world ; but she equally feared to say too much or too little , and sat deliberating
at pemberley .
i had quite depended upon meeting you there .
she confined herself , or tried to confine herself , to the simple , indubitable family misery which must envelop
they are gone off together from brighton .
“the truth is , that our inquiries were too direct ; we sent a servant , we went ourselves :
darcy’s indifference , and she could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration , or fear that
to call on lady middleton .
he will be a completely gross , vulgar farmer , totally inattentive to appearances , and thinking of nothing but
if i were to go through the world , i could not meet with a better .
even she could not fancy dry or pleasant weather for walking .
bates ' s house .
if he should have a numerous family , for instance , it would be a very convenient addition .
, and throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be otherwise explained .
be more truth in it than i could believe possible at first .
some vague report had reached her before of my attachment to some young lady in devonshire , and what had
concluded mary could not like to go with them ; and when mary immediately replied , with some jealousy at
why did not you ask the gilberts to come to us today ?
on the contrary , when he saw more of captain wentworth , saw him repeatedly by daylight , and eyed
” “i don ' t , upon my word—i wish i did .
a miss hawkins—” “i was with mr .
i should not attempt it , if it were to be the means of inconvenience to the highbury people ,
sir walter had at first thought more of london ; but mr shepherd felt that he could not be trusted
—(here was a side-glance of great meaning at jane .
elinor said no more ; it immediately struck her that she must then be writing to willoughby ; and the
but self , though it would intrude , could not engross her .
down upon his knees too , to persuade her to let them stay till they had packed up their clothes
this daring action was suggested to him by his elder brother who promised to furnish two rooms and a closet
engagement , could be authorised by nothing else ; for a few moments , she was[ _num_ ] almost overcome—her
marked out for her by all their joint acquaintance .
wickham frequently invited her to come and stay with her , with the promise of balls and young men ,
it was an unsuitable connexion , and did not produce much happiness .
“might he not ?
any thing , for unluckily , i was not in the way at first , and knew nothing of it
it to be bingley from believing him the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort
how came they acquainted ?
a generosity so polite and so determined , that the others were obliged to settle it for them ; miss
he came back , had had his hair cut , and laughed at himself with a very good grace ,
i shall have no fortune , and i fancy she is an exceeding proud woman .
colonel brandon , who had a general invitation to the house , was with them almost every day ; he
will marry somebody or other , ) till she grow desperate , and is glad to catch at the old
at length however , the question was asked by her uncle ; and she turned away with alarm , while
this is meeting quite in fairy-land !
the profession has its utility , but i should be sorry to see any friend of mine belonging to it
would forward them after that period to her at— : in short , the full direction to mr .
every kind had met her .
i shall speak a good word for you to all the young men , you may depend upon it .
your sincerely attached alicia .
" " fifteen years !
my maintaining with pleasure a correspondence with you .
it was only the spring twelvemonth before mr .
i shall not go away till you have given me the assurance i require .
in the fact ; and afterwards , contrary to my judgement , submitted to an amicable compromise .
be pitied for having .
, anxious , uneasy .
my dear , you are very modest .
as long as she could without fatigue , in the lane before the house .
are at leisure—i have something that i should like to tell you—a sort of confession to make—and then , you
weston was the most used of the two to yield ; till a little bustle in the room shewed them
when he comes home , find all the varnish scratched off .
then she was shrinking again into herself , and blushing and working as hard as ever ; but it had
—and how does he travel now ?
my understanding is at length restored , and teaches no less to abhor the artifices which had subdued me than
to fanny , however , who had known too much opposition all her life to find any charm in it
from her real opinion , and making use of mrs .
if she does not object to it , why should we ?
nearly half an hour had passed , and she was growing very comfortable , when suddenly the sound of a
miss ward ' s match , indeed , when it came to the point , was not contemptible : sir
the day at lyme , the fall from the cobb , might influence her health , her nerves , her
live to be in easy circumstances .
the evil is now irremediable , and it has been entirely your own doing .
if she belonged to me , i ' d give her the rope ' s end as long as i
they cannot be traced .
i need not ask after her .
thirteen springs shewn their blossoms , as she travelled up to london with her father , for a few weeks
there she spoke very rationally .
what must be his principal , his only object of happiness .
him from mixing in proper society , he candidly and generously attributed it much less to any natural deficiency ,
meeting this christmas , but be the occasion of so much vexation and trouble !
the ever-varying hues of the sea , now at high water , dancing in its glee and dashing against the
what a blessing it is , when undue influence does not survive the grave !
, that if you was to say to me , ' i advise you by all means to put an
of his arrival .
” “speak to lizzy about it yourself .
my love for mr .
knightley , to come out at this late hour to call upon us .
; he talked to mary , said all that was right , said something to the miss musgroves , enough
” “perhaps it would have been better , ” replied her sister .
his ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable addition to their evening party ; and he bore with the
he must have been dreadfully cruel to her !
she had known her before .
time , as strongly as his son had ever supposed he must ; he felt it too much , indeed
if there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable , stop me .
the horror and distress you were involved in , the stretch of mind , the wear of spirits !
but very little remained to be done .
a dismal old weather-beaten castle as this .
i am not in the least ashamed of my meaning .
to hear something not very agreeable .
it exactly answers my idea of a fine country , because it unites beauty with utility—and i dare say it
to whom an introduction could at all discompose the feelings of her young companions .
i should not wonder if he is not more than five foot eight .
she saw in it but an aggravation of the evil .
now nothing !
but miss crawford persevered , and argued the case with so much affectionate earnestness through all the heads of william
the death of mary queen of scotland ; but as it was impossible that he should be conscious of what
his want of spirits , of openness , and of consistency , were most usually attributed to his want of
sir thomas himself was watching her progress down the dance with much complacency ; he was proud of his niece
we were only in anxiety and distress during the last two hours , and previously there had been a great
this is so much my opinion , that i am sorry to think how little likely my own eldest son
smith ; and if that is the case , it must be highly expedient for willoughby to be but little
but history , real solemn history , i cannot be interested in .
” “very true , ” said harriet .
“why do you not speak my laura ?
i believe it is the only way that mr .
edward ferrars , the eldest son of mrs .
or not .
i am glad to hear that my father continues so well ; and am , with best love , &c
no .
been read .
, calling on him for help which he could not give .
would settle on him the norfolk estate , which , clear of land-tax , brings in a good thousand a-year
her mind was so much weakened that she still fancied present exertion impossible , and therefore it only dispirited her
the play after the present happy interruption (with a courteous glance at sir thomas) , because , in that case
” it required a longer time , however , than mrs .
is a very strenuous opposer of sir walter ' s making a second match .
was answered by an invitation equally polite , her ladyship was introduced to them the next day .
had been little thought of in uninterrupted health , had probably induced his being conveyed thither too early , as
with less alarm and greater eagerness she seized a second , a third , a fourth ; each was equally
the two youngest of the family , catherine and lydia , were particularly frequent in these attentions ; their minds
nor did that day wear out her resentment .
their praise , might be allowed to be a tolerable judge , for he had formed parties to visit them
to barton park , the place of his own residence , from whence she might judge , herself , whether
the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request , as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting
good joke , faith !
sincerely affected herself , accompanied her out of the room .
his father very much wished him to meet captain wentworth , and there being no sufficient reason against it ,
to be apologising for the badness of his house .
could i mention any thing more fit to be done , than to go to mrs .
entirely forgot how long she had been in the room , that when on hearing a carriage drive up to
—do , if it be possible .
i only wanted to prove to you that mrs .
did you ever see her ?
she was wanting to see him again , and especially to see him in company with mrs .
miss bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any extenuating circumstances in the case , unknown
who was leaning against the mantelpiece with his back towards them .
rushworth was not forgotten : a most friendly reception and warmth of hand-shaking had already met him , and with
now therefore nothing to do but to marry all the rest of the world .
have felt the same--her own family , nay , perhaps herself--i was no longer at my own disposal .
a most welcome negative followed the last question—and her alarms now being removed , she was at leisure to feel
something must be done for them whenever they leave norland and settle in a new home .
morland ' s promise ; his honour was pledged to make everything easy ; and by what means their income
you must be convinced , by my having no recollection of it , that i never thought , nor expected
pitied for having that house .
of these evils .
she could plainly perceive , at different times , the most striking resemblance between this baby and every one of
what would you advise me to do ?
every other look upon an average was directed towards the opposite box ; and , for the space of two
" " yes ; which i objected to , but he would not regard .
more dear , her daughter never met with greater kindness from her than on the first day of her arrival
are the middletons pleasant people ?
rushworth , mrs .
sentiments or renewal of those offers which were last night so disgusting to you .
' beauty ; yet they are certainly extremely pretty .
that there had in fact been no want of looking about , that the object only had been deficient .
so far from hence !
how henry would think , and feel , and look , when he returned on the morrow to northanger and
” said miss crawford archly .
oh , said i , patty do not come with your bad news to me .
” said emma .
and ah !
believed , but i know it was so .
in the prospect of julia ' s return , which would otherwise have taken place about this time .
and constant pain ; and all this among strangers , with the absolute necessity of having a regular nurse ,
this , you know , speaks a great degree of weakness—but now she is so impatient to be in town
“pray , emma , ” said he , “may i ask in what lay the great amusement , the poignant
and with a sincerity which no one could question— “she is a sort of elegant creature that one cannot keep
at that moment catherine thought she heard her step in the gallery , and listened for its continuance ; but
in such moments anne had no power of saying to herself , " these rooms ought to belong only to
elizabeth immediately began playing again .
he believes himself secure .
very entertaining indeed .
having , by some complication of mutual trick , or some overbearing authority of his , been obliged to attend
nor am i ashamed of the feelings i related .
perry to be that sort of character .
miss bates ' s powerful , argumentative mind might have strengthened yours .
a dangerous illness of sir walter ' s at the same time , there had been an unlucky omission at
ford ?
—he knew miss fairfax could have no music here .
” “and when she had come away , mrs .
, and his sister overcome with confusion , and unable to lift up her eyes .
our agatha was inimitable , and the duke was thought very great by many .
it is downright labour to him where ladies are concerned .
norris ' s threats of catching cold .
of their personal charms , there is a portion of them too reasonable and too well informed themselves to desire
lovers to excite her uneasiness , or make her quit them in apprehension .
ever so many resources , it is not possible for her to be always shut up at home ; —and
my eyes are opened .
it will do us all good .
should you be afraid ?
to do with myself , or when i should hear from him next ; but as long as we could
taste .
no great distance ; and he had so much delight in the idea of obliging her to love him in
bingley’s friend , without being heard by either of them .
illness ; and with a blush which shewed me how it was all connected , desired me , whenever i
—i do not know when i have been so disappointed .
those were pleasant days when i had the laconia !
to speak when there .
” “but is it not very natural , ” observed edmund , “that mrs .
their daughters , and of all the young men who came near them , seemed to leave everything to take
at least , of that knowledge which it is impossible he should escape as he is now .
every feeling of duty , honour , and tenderness was wounded by her sister ' s speech and her mother
everything that a considerate parent ought to feel was advanced for her use ; and everything that an affectionate mother
to engage for her attendance , and the day after the next was fixed on .
mansfield ; you shall have no trouble about it .
her heart was almost broke by such a picture of what she appeared to him ; by such accusations ,
palmer expects you ; so you cannot refuse to come .
it right to inform him that her letter to the king was dated on the _num_ th of may .
there was not a baronet from a to z whom her feelings could have so willingly acknowledged as an equal
their power to spare a horse .
alarm of a lover .
the delight of all the family , indeed !
forster , the wife of the colonel of the regiment , to accompany her to brighton .
; had given each of them a needle book made by some emigrant ; called lucy by her christian name
soon as ever she was sensible , she expressed a determination of going instantly to henry , and was so
is this my gratitude ?
and if you will stay another month complete , it will be in my power to take one of you
and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen .
go on , my dear fanny , and without fear ; there can be no difficulties worth naming .
acquaintance than to pass my time pleasantly while i was obliged to remain in devonshire , more pleasantly than i
she had imagined such difficulties of fortune to exist there as must prevent the marriage from being near at hand
she felt all the honest pride and complacency which her alliance with the present and future proprietor could fairly warrant
she turned away , and wished he would not say such things .
in two places at once ; and i was talking to mr .
i considered your marrying him as certain , though he might not yet have made the offer , and i
lying awake the whole night to indulge meditation , elinor found every day afforded her leisure enough to think of
by its gloomy aspect , and eager to enter it , could not , even by the general ' s
it is a melancholy consideration .
he then told me , mixing in his speech a few insolent compliments and ill-timed expressions of tenderness , to
she was always having a glimpse of him somewhere or other .
, yet merited reproach , her sense of shame was severe .
—as therefore it is not my intention to give any particular account of the distresses into which this king was
camden place .
no , i only mean what i have read about .
going in dismal weather , to return probably in worse ; —four horses and four servants taken out for nothing
" " pardon me , dear cousin , you are unjust in your own claims .
when i talked of a whole history , therefore , you see i was not romancing so much as you
” “true love is ever desponding replied i , but i my dear tom will give you even greater hopes
how could it ever be ascertained that his mind was truly cleansed ?
is most valued is so easily to be made up by something else , your resolution , your self-command ,
” “nay , i had it from you .
nay , it would be too hard upon you , if it were otherwise .
, " observed sir walter .
dare not be impertinent , as my mother is always admonishing me to be humble and patient if i wish
” “but pray tell me what you mean .
originally perhaps it was applied only to express neatness , propriety , delicacy , or refinement—people were nice in their
henry is the eldest , he was named after me , not after his father .
she thought he was wishing to speak to her unheard by the rest .
my elinor , is it possible to doubt their engagement ?
and who is there , whatever might be their former conduct , that she would think capable of such an
matrimonial fracas in the family of mr .
—what can it be ?
this kindness distracts me—i cannot bear it—i come to you on such an errand !
” “do you , ma ' am ?
as rank is rank , your being known to be related to them will have its use in fixing your
younge was of course removed from her charge .
an affectionate[ _num_ ] brother to both .
—such a blow for harriet !
for that matter .
committing some great imprudence—such as going to churchhill , for instance , which would be dreadful !
and it will not be very long , i hope , before that becomes the acknowledgment of more than your
of what i had to look over when i lost him .
there were in fact but two years between the youngest and fanny .
mr wentworth was the very man .
and been compelled to smother among the musgroves , were now become but of secondary interest .
his temper is not happy , and something has now occurred to ruffle it in an uncommon degree ; some
every body seemed injured by me .
" anne smiled , and let it pass .
two or three more of the chosen only were to be admitted to join them , and it was to
” “miss morland , do not mind what he says ; but have the goodness to satisfy me as to
i could not have stood it .
—where is my father ?
of one thousand pounds would be a very insufficient support therein .
edgar ' s buildings .
dashwood had determined that it would be better for marianne to be any where , at that time , than
after wandering along the lane for two hours , giving way to every variety of thought—re-considering events , determining probabilities
readiness to talk , which convinced her that he came intending to be acquainted with her , and that acquainted
she was not thoroughly comfortable herself .
married to sir james martin .
bennet and her daughters apologised most civilly for lydia’s interruption , and promised that it should not occur again ,
we had better not mention it .
real state of the affair , and of instantly removing all mystery , that she could not help suggesting it
" " of what use , my dear sister , could be any application to you , however the affair
temper under your own command rather than mine .
, without a saddened heart .
consult your own understanding , your own sense of the probable , your own observation of what is passing around
we did not mind trifles however— .
and i hope you may have as good luck yourself soon , —but perhaps you may have a friend in
weston ' s hint .
" " offended me !
it proceeded so smoothly as to enable her to remove , within four days after the arrival of the latter
how odious i should think them !
did she think of being up before you set off ?
“having understood as much , i was rather astonished to find her so very lady-like !
“on the evening before my going to london , ” said he , “i made a confession to him ,
she had long seen it .
” “if you were aware , ” said elizabeth , “of the very great disadvantage to us all which must
elton ' s voice from the sitting-room had not checked her , and made it expedient to compress all her
the revolution which one instant had made in anne , was almost beyond expression .
than were derived from the letters from antigua , which soon afterwards reached mansfield .
defiance of honour and humanity , ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of mr .
but pray lady scudamore did your cousin himself tell you of his affection for me i shall like him the
” “that is , i can read poetry and plays , and things of that sort , and do not
she had never perceived , while the regiment was in hertfordshire , that lydia had any partiality for him ;
tilney ?
have a strong feeling of gratitude .
if the situation pleased her .
time suspended by his conversation on subjects very different—returned in full force , and every bend in the road was
—i know that i must have disgusted you .
" it was all said very gracefully , and the cards with which she had provided herself , the "
in spite of his being allowed once more to live , however , he did not feel the continuance of
no man will admire her the more , no woman will like her the better for it .
she told him that she did not love him , could not love him , was sure she never should
this conviction , though not entirely satisfactory , gave her pleasure , and she continued her letter with greater alacrity
cole ' s ; and without being able to forget that among the failings of mr .
our poor mother is sadly grieved .
than any little exertion it needs .
returned from a solitary ramble .
this man was on the whole of a very amiable character , and is somewhat of a favourite with me
you will see her , however , before she goes .
” “i think they will neither of them do the other any good .
as to the universal felicity and advantage of firmness of character ; and whether it might not strike him that
he could not help indulging himself in the purchase , hoping that some of our good neighbours might be so
weston ' s judgment ; and they were so very closely followed by another carriage of cousins , who had
three children , to get rid of , in less than two days after our arrival .
have dictated some very plentiful orders , had not jane , though with some difficulty , persuaded her to wait
crawford would have fully acquitted her conduct in refusing him ; but this , though most material to herself ,
collins’s admiration .
five-and-thirty frights ; and once , as he had stood in a shop on bond street , he had counted
bear to have you think me impertinently curious .
their brother .
something between both , i think .
in short , i will do my best .
there will be a great many people talking at once .
goddard being able to come ; and her last pleasing duty , before she left the house , was to
, so comfortless , so slatternly , so shabby .
" " but she raises none in those most concerned .
herself for loving him so little , and thinking his return a misfortune ; and when , on having courage
wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to elizabeth , and she was very willing to hear him , though
it was very natural for you to say , what right has he to lecture me ?
in the first place , he must make such an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and
it too .
by circumstances ; and if mr .
so , " replied lucy quickly— " but there was no reason in the world why mrs .
i mean while the woman you love lives , and lives for you .
he cannot be the instigator of the three villains in horsemen ' s greatcoats , by whom she will hereafter
; and may declare that i see no wonder in this shrubbery equal to seeing myself in it .
but edmund , delighted with her having such an happiness offered , and ascertaining with half a look , and
” “well , then , i only meant that your attributing my brother ' s wish of dancing with miss
she immediately felt that whatever desire miss darcy might have of being acquainted with her must be the work of
elizabeth bennet had been obliged , by the scarcity of gentlemen , to sit down for two dances ; and
wickham was to the last so steady , that in his will he particularly recommended it to me , to
much she enjoyed them , and he asked whether we were not got to the end of our stock .
no , emma , your amiable young man can be amiable only in french , not in english .
assistance towards discharging their bills .
the actors may be glad , but the bystanders must be infinitely more thankful for a decision ; and i
others in a most mortifying degree ; that she had been imposing on herself in a degree yet more mortifying
and the two miss sneyds , with others of their acquaintance .
” “i will say no more about him , ” cried emma , “you turn every thing to evil .
every kind than any other family in the neighbourhood .
rushworth had set off early with the great news for sotherton ; and she had fondly hoped for such an
the party , and spoke to elizabeth , if not in terms of perfect composure , at least of perfect
speech proclaimed ; and its happy effect on his spirits was immediate .
i have done with you from this very day .
” “yes , sometimes he can .
' i say , you will come to belle ' s wedding , i hope .
it would be needless to say , that the gentlemen advanced in the good opinion of each other , as
if he were deficient there , nothing should make amends for it .
“we will stay till this is finished , fanny , ” said he , turning his back on the window
madam , ” cried emma , “if other children are at all like what i remember to have been myself
credit of the writer .
i am sure it almost killed me once .
my command shall ever convey a family of ladies anywhere , if i can help it .
at present we have nothing to guide us .
we are not boy and girl , to be captiously irritable , misled by every moment ' s inadvertence ,
his gratifications it was yet an untasted pleasure , was quite alive at the idea .
weston ' s friends were all made happy by her safety ; and if the satisfaction of her well-doing could
in such a case , a plain and open avowal of his difficulties would have been more to his honour
it was not four and twenty hours ago since they had met there to the same repast , but in
to her must be imaginary .
she went on herself , to give that portion of time to an old servant who was married , and
collins appears to be very fortunate in his choice of a wife .
william had wanted to buy her a gold chain too , but the purchase had been beyond his means ,
" captain wentworth was folding up a letter in great haste , and either could not or would not answer
“i only puzzle them , and oblige them to make civil speeches .
, though when i first heard of such things being done in england , i could not believe it ;
upon hearing how long a walk the young people had engaged in , they kindly offered a seat to any
the money is nothing , it is not an object , but employment is the thing .
” “indeed , i hope it is not true , ” said mrs .
studious of your comfort .
thinks that nobody else can marry on less .
” “and mine , ” said mr .
fond of his wife .
you are quite enough alike .
you know , mrs .
to hear some pleasant assurance of her power from one who she thought must know , and her spirits were
there she was impregnable .
and the abilities which i could have wished in my daughter , or had i even known her to possess
drawing-rooms .
his company so sought after , that every body says he need not eat a single meal by himself if
my accomplishments too , begin to fade—i can neither sing so well nor dance so gracefully as i once did—and
what was lost , and in part reconciling him to himself ; though the anguish arising from the conviction of
the thrush had had her orders , the wind had changed , and he was sailed within four days from
' and how much do you think he did , miss morland ?
on elinor its effect was very different .
more intelligible , but though not confined for time , my head is so bewildered that i cannot answer for
it was plain to them all that colonel fitzwilliam came because he had pleasure in their society , a persuasion
into devonshire .
” she did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses were engaged .
present , i thought it would be doing a good-natured action by my brother to let him know as much
that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot she had chosen .
norris , and being just then in the happy leisure which followed securing the odd trick by sir thomas '
of his opinion : he was in a reverie of fond reflection , uttering only now and then a few
the possibility of meeting mr .
concealed from her as much as possible .
if you could do without her , you would not wish to keep her at home ?
a circumstance to interest her .
anybody between fifteen and thirty may have me for asking .
i am glad you saw it all as i did .
common politeness of bingley , in half an hour’s visit , had revived .
then came your dear mother to torture me farther , with all her kindness and confidence .
to herself : — “i do not know whether it ought to be so , but certainly silly things do
morland was a very good woman , and wished to see her children everything they ought to be ; but
dear , miss woodhouse , i was absolutely miserable !
“her mother is a very good sort of woman , ” was catherine ' s answer .
two natural divisions ; on one side he and his daughter ; on the other the two mr .
nature would be enough for me .
of cool air for her flushed cheeks ; and as she walked along a favourite grove , said , with
fit , or a swoon .
” he cried , “i wish your father might be half as easily convinced as john will be , of
this meeting of the two parties proved highly satisfactory , and decided the whole business at once .
lydia , my love , ring the bell—i must speak to hill this moment .
i have not the smallest doubt of the issue .
she is an excellent housemaid , and works very well at her needle .
to an independence .
not know of any prepossession ; her eldest daughter , she must just mention—she felt it incumbent on her to
” “no , but it did not absolutely rain when i set out .
” “i do not see much sign of it .
how charles could take such a thing into his head was always incomprehensible to me .
it was therefore necessary to keep the secret from him and from every one , till some fortunate opportunity might
wickham’s being among them .
am afraid it has torn a hole already ; i shall be quite sorry if it has , for this
in short , i found that she had in the first place actually written to him to request his interference
securing his knave at an exorbitant rate , exclaimed , “there , i will stake my last like a woman
indeed , to say the truth , i am convinced within myself that your father had no idea of your
i think we are a great deal better employed , sitting comfortably here among ourselves , and doing nothing .
see your friends before they leave the country .
the consciousness of having done amiss , had exposed her to a thousand inquietudes , and made her captious and
churchills had removed to richmond , a few lines from frank , to say that his aunt felt already much
" my dear , " said he to his lady , " it is very provoking that we should be
" " our acquaintance , however , is of many years date .
i was never bold enough to say before) how much i like him .
woodhouse had confined them to a foot-pace .
jennings was so far from being weary of her guest , that she pressed them very earnestly to return with
, into a thin quarto of hot-pressed paper , made up by her friend , and ornamented with ciphers and
how troublesome they are sometimes .
: “i imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the sake of having someone at his disposal
song i go to town and when i come down , i shall be married to streephon * [*note the
this may be bad morality to conclude with , but i believe it to be truth ; and if such
my father and mother will be very glad to see you .
opposition was vain ; and as to mrs .
way to kingston .
“oh , these odious gigs !
it would shew great want of feeling on my father ' s account , absent as he is , and
woodhouse ' s visits , emma having it in view that her gentle reasonings should be employed in the cause
he was to leave them early the next day ; and he soon began with— “well , emma , i
“take it all and all , i never spent so happy a summer .
govern their inclinations and tempers by that sense of duty which can alone suffice .
now there would be pleasure in her returning—every thing would be a pleasure .
emma saw its artifice , and returned to her first surmises .
society , may well be illiberal and cross .
, that she means to sleep only two nights on the road .
choose properly , choose a gentlewoman for my sake ; and for your own , let her be an active
sure of a good example , and the poor of the best attention and relief , that however sorry and
between the parties ?
things , and the reports beginning to prevail .
my edward ' s death— .
under the abbey walls , was springing , with henry ' s assistance , from the carriage , was beneath
but if he wrote to his father , no wonder he was concise .
i can easily suppose that his age may appear much greater to you than to my mother ; but you
her carefulness in guarding her sister from ever hearing willoughby ' s name mentioned , was not thrown away .
back again , and told them that he had been out of doors to examine , and could answer for
astonishment , that would have been as painful as it was strong , had not an immediate disbelief of the
daughter , he could command the visits of his own little circle , in a great measure , as he
crawford to the top of the room , and standing there to be joined by the rest of the dancers
circumstances that might swell to half an hour ' s relation , and contained multiplied proofs to her who had
—the house was larger than hartfield , and totally unlike it , covering a good deal of ground , rambling
their interesting , almost too interesting conversation must be broken up for a time , but slight was the penance
quick , quick !
that submission to edmund could do , and all the help of the coinciding looks and hints which she occasionally
previously seen the upper servant , brought in everything necessary for the meal ; susan looking , as she put
i like her the better for it .
they were not only all three together , but were together without the relief of any other person .
cole , to add his very pressing entreaties ; and as , in every respect , it suited emma best
” “he likes to have his own way very well , ” replied colonel fitzwilliam .
favourable would turn up—but nobody believed me .
churchill ' s illness .
weston ventured this apology for jane .
in such employments as these they were interrupted soon after breakfast the next day by the entrance of their landlord
elton , papa , —i must look about for a wife for him .
he had the best right to be the talker ; and the delight of his sensations in being again in
everybody belonging to either of you ; and you may depend upon it that all your acquaintance have disposed of
” “i am afraid , ” returned emma , sighing , “that i must often have contributed to make her
anne understood it .
" " ay , if we can do that , ma ' am , " said elinor , " we
marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening .
knightley as infinitely the superior , or when his regard for her had not been infinitely the most dear .
my reproofs at hunsford could not work such a change as this .
if we are to act , let it be in a theatre completely fitted up with pit , boxes ,
i could not but see that mr .
“i know it must be five and twenty , ” said he , “by the time we have been doing
if she had so misinterpreted his feelings , she had little right to wonder that he , with self-interest to
i felt that i must be the jest of the room at the time , and miss crawford , it
” “unless where they like women of fortune , which i think they very often do .
though she had learnt very little more than what had been already foreseen and foreplanned[ _num_ ] in her own
bragge ; the only school , and not more than five-and-twenty children .
her virtue nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy prey .
bates as well as mrs .
circumstances how different !
however she scarcely expected to receive any support in her endeavour to prevent a visit , which she could not
anxiety of a parent !
she had much to recover from , before she could move .
she is playing robin adair at this moment—his favourite .
—“poor knightley !
” emma turned away her head , divided between tears and smiles .
his looks shewing him not pained , but pleased with this allusion to his situation , she was emboldened to
, in all their former parties , had belonged to him , by her sister .
as to all that , of course nothing can be thought of yet .
by anticipation before the appointed time .
the family circle became greatly contracted ; and though the miss bertrams had latterly added little to its gaiety ,
elton ' s invitations i should have imagined any thing but inviting .
when their promised visit to the park and consequent introduction to these young ladies took place , they found in[
” cried thorpe .
he talked , therefore , for several minutes without fanny ' s daring to interrupt him .
only think of their coming so suddenly !
he then saw mr .
work out a happy conclusion .
the table , fully expecting to feel a most melancholy difference in the change of masters .
—a situation , a most desirable situation , was in question .
to receive us .
mainwaring can have told you to occasion so extraordinary a change in your sentiments .
i could rather believe every creature of my acquaintance leagued together to ruin me in his opinion , than believe
as must , if possible , be prevented .
be gone when his enjoyment among his friends was at the height .
mercy of chance .
reading again .
, with a strong emphasis on the word .
i call it ?
and besides , i want to play something more to you—a very pretty piece—and your cousin edmund ' s prime
should think so .
haunt of hers .
one scarcely sees a clergyman out of his pulpit .
a scotch peer by an italian opera-girl—i was born in spain and received my education at a convent in france
her good-nature , too , is not so very slight a claim , comprehending , as it does , real
bennet joined them at supper , his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was .
she was confident of having performed her duty , and to fret over unavoidable evils , or augment them by
of poverty , or get the better of those false ideas of the necessity of riches , which i was
for a day .
hume or mr .
above all , his unwillingness to accept her mother ' s invitation—a backwardness[ _num_ ] so unlike a lover ,
ferrars has never yet mentioned edward ' s name , which does not surprise us ; but , to our
seemed to mean always to speak of her with respect .
has she any family ?
collins was only a clergyman ; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news
to her sister .
modest reluctance on her part , to come in .
my illness , i well knew , had been entirely brought on by myself by such negligence of my own
places .
she might have made just as good a woman of consequence as lady bertram , but mrs .
as under the patronage of your sister and mrs .
on his quitting the room she sat down , unable to support herself , and looking so miserably ill ,
she could only hang over little charles , with most disordered feelings .
all anne ' s wishes had been for the latter .
and consequence on his niece ' s spirits , and the past attentions of the lover producing a craving for
lady catherine might see him in her way through town ; and his engagement to bingley of coming again to
how eloquent , at least , were her wishes on the side of early warm attachment , and a cheerful
morland had hurried for the comfort of the poor traveller , whose pale and jaded looks soon caught her notice
—and for some time she could only exclaim , and require confirmation , repeated confirmation .
and i am sure she will make a very good servant : she is a civil , pretty-spoken girl ;
be done .
i make it a rule never to mind what they say .
the most disagreeable .
” “nay , she has always been a first favourite with him , as you very well know .
” cried he , with quickness .
supposed capable of .
however , we ' ll call in the surgeon to help us .
miss elliot , surrounded by her cousins , and the principal object of colonel wallis ' s gallantry , was
jennings , before her company was claimed by mrs .
, though she had been so much wanting his affection to be cured , this was a sort of cure
i do not know who is good enough for him .
in support of the plausibility of this conjecture , it further occurred to her that the forbidden gallery , in
colonel fitzwilliam’s occasionally laughing at his stupidity , proved that he was generally different , which her own knowledge of
by the butler , who said : “if you are looking for my master , ma’am , he is walking
they walked thither directly .
a glance at the old chest , as she turned away from this examination , was not without its use
the tête-à-tête surprised them .
richard ?
tell a falsehood even to please isabella ; but the latter was spared the misery of her friend ' s
she was short , plump , and fair , with a fine bloom , blue eyes , light hair ,
we have been unguarded in forming this hasty engagement , but we must not complete the imprudence by ratifying it
this brother of yours would persuade me out of my senses , miss morland ; do but look at my
weston ' s letters lately have been full of very little else than mrs .
doubtless it was so , and she could take no revenge , for he was not altered , or not
it would not do , so you lent him another , and this was left upon the table as good
” “i am sure i shall break mine , ” said lydia .
what a pity that we should not have been introduced to each other !
had he done his duty in that respect , lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever
her opinion was sought as to the probable continuance of the open weather , but her answers were as short
but her curiosity was unavailing , for no farther notice was taken of mr .
i had no hope of interfering with success ; and sometimes i thought your sister ' s influence might yet
these girls have no music , but scotch airs , no drawings but scotch mountains , and no books but
what were nine miles to a young man ?
is it necessary for me to use any roundabout phrase ?
and a treat .
compound for the want of much real enjoyment from any of their evening parties , which , whether at home
for i might have sold it for ten guineas more the next day ; jackson , of oriel , bid
he had a very fine flock , and , while she was with them , he had been bid more
she was not often invited to join in the conversation of the others , nor did she desire it .
” “none of it , i suppose .
” fanny was affected .
crimes with which she was accused , and of which her beauty , her elegance , and her sprightliness were
i tell him he is quite in luck to be sent here for his health .
" go to him , elinor , " she cried , as soon as she could speak , " and
” emma laughed , and replied : “but i had the assistance of all your endeavours to counteract the indulgence
he then said , “i have received a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly .
my theoretical and his practical knowledge together could not have failed .
, witnessed by those who had been always so inferior to the elliots of kellynch .
“i shall walk down immediately after breakfast , ” said he , “and am sure of giving pleasure there .
his character was to speak for itself .
he was then the inferior in circumstances ; he was then the poor one ; he had chambers in the
she never failed to think over and calculate every day , as she and susan were preparing to remove ,
i think her as beautiful as an angel , and i am so vexed with the men for not admiring
perhaps he had quitted the field , had given louisa up , had ceased to love , had found he
are not you astonished ?
them , i trust .
of her easy and unobtrusive art .
the sufferings which lady bertram did not see had little power over her fancy ; and she wrote very comfortably
pursuing her way along the lane , she then began it .
two-penny post .
she became jealous of his esteem , when she could no longer hope to be benefited by it .
and julia is with them .
edmund so inconsistent !
i can stand it no longer , and i think , i may say , that nothing shall ever tempt
wickham began the subject himself .
of ?
she had that moment settled with miss tilney to take their proposed walk tomorrow ; it was quite determined ,
she understood their ways , could allow for their ignorance and their temptations , had no romantic expectations of extraordinary
knightley , as to think he deserved even her dearest emma ; and it was in every respect so proper
you know how i detest it , unless i am particularly acquainted with my partner .
that he might reform the legislature , and rectify all its abuses .
by a most fortunate chance his leaving highbury had been delayed so as to bring him to her assistance at
collins , and as they walked down the garden he was commissioning her with his best respects to all her
norris sharply ; “but i shall think her a very obstinate , ungrateful girl , if she does not do
lady who saw it .
if you can pity me , miss dashwood , pity my situation as it was then .
martin , and there was evidently no dislike to it .
charles , my dear , " (beckoning him to her) , " do ask captain wentworth where it was he
in truth i must acknowledge that , with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage , i should not think
sensibilities are not of a nature to comprehend ours .
” “never , never augusta will i so demean myself .
to london , when the intelligence of sir walter ' s being settled there had of course reached him ,
" you are a good woman , " he warmly replied .
the next morning brought another short note from marianne—still affectionate , open , artless , confiding—everything that could make my
be equalled in this or the next century by one who tho ' now but young , already promises to
, young ladies of nineteen and twenty , who had brought from school at exeter all the usual stock of
could she be secure of that , indeed , of his never marrying at all , she believed she should
he does not think of the draught .
visit them these several years !
now and then it is very well ; but going to inns and public places together !
away , was such a temptation to openness as nothing could have conquered but the state of indecision in which
with those who have always set him the example of it .
i do not envy his situation , either as a lover or a son .
” “did you go out in the heat ?
be at last , had better be soon .
and as it is—only half blood !
to appear properly submissive and indifferent .
the others then joined her , and expressed admiration of his figure ; but elizabeth heard not a word ,
de courcy upper seymour street .
he was gone ; he had disappeared , she felt a moment ' s regret .
have avoided , if possible , but which became necessary from the totally opposite feelings of mr .
she did not invite them by any participation of sentiment .
she did—almost always—believe that henry loved her , and quite always that his father and sister loved and even wished
still , however , she had enough to feel !
“nothing but pleasure from beginning to end !
should ever separate us , and i would rather be overturned by him , than driven safely by anybody else
that genius or vigour of mind which will force itself forward .
“i have had a little fit since i came into this room , as you may perceive , ” said
” then forming his features into a set smile , and affectedly softening his voice , he added , with
was immediately before them .
is always so gentle and quiet—never was there such a quiet little thing !
edward , than he had been with respect to marianne ; indeed it was rather his favourite joke of the
mr shepherd answered for his being of a gentleman ' s family , and mentioned a place ; and anne
him from having a most forbidding , disagreeable countenance , and being unworthy to be compared with his friend .
to the latter .
in spite of her vexation , she could not help feeling it almost ridiculous , that she should have the
might have allowed .
captain harville , though not equalling captain wentworth in manners , was a perfect gentleman , unaffected , warm ,
do there , or anybody to speak to , except each other .
allow them to wait in the drawing-room , and whose shyness , as they had not seen her for a
i was at plymouth dreading to hear of him ; he sent in letters , but the grappler was under
pang for willoughby .
they were in different sets .
the day of the ball , there was such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to meryton once
he never will succeed with me .
she declared her resolution .
we must not allow her to accept the part .
i am sorry for it ; i am sorry they find anything so disagreeable in me .
were i to fall in love , indeed , it would be a different thing !
approve my charade and my intentions in the same glance .
john knightley must be in london again by the end of the first week in november .
elton were talked over , emma could fairly surrender all her attention to the pleasantness of her neighbour .
—how teasing to edward !
i thought we never should have got into the coach .
mr shepherd was eloquent on the subject ; pointing out all the circumstances of the admiral ' s family ,
” “among all the great variety that you have known and studied .
quitting her father .
and satisfies his judgment .
woodhouse taken from hartfield !
but she always was silly—intolerably so in marrying him at all , she the heiress of a large fortune and
moving herself in her chair , from the irritation of weariness , much oftener than she moved her needle .
” it was some time however before she could unfasten the door , the same difficulty occurring in the management
her father and lady dalrymple were speaking .
he addressed her with easy civility , and twisted his head into a bow which assured her as plainly as
your competence and my wealth are very much alike , i dare say ; and without them , as the
the hope of an opportunity , which sir thomas had then given , was not given to be thought of
careless of her happiness , thinking only of my own amusement , giving way to feelings which i had always
chapter _num_ the time now approached for lady russell ' s return : the day was even fixed ; and
if jane repressed her for a little time , she soon began again ; and though much that passed between
martin ' s having “two parlours , two very good parlours , indeed ; one of them quite as large
“do you certainly leave kent on saturday ?
still , however , it was her private regale .
preferment ; but it must not be forgotten that no benefit of that sort would have been beyond his natural
he had formerly visited at stanhill , but it was too long for his young cousins to remember him .
staying there more than once , in spite of all that lady russell , who thought it a friendship quite
of doors , i am very apt to get into this sort of wondering strain .
“you regret having left suffolk then miss grenville ?
friendship , were long under discussion ; and to them succeeded one , which must be at least equally unpleasant
i care for nothing else .
” “if i were to decline the part , ” said maria , with renewed zeal , “julia would certainly
want of an anhalt .
, either to her affection for him , or her curiosity to see how his wife conducted herself ; and
, though his entreaties were carried to a point of perseverance beyond civility , they could not give offence .
two of them were hunters ; the third , a useful road-horse : this third he resolved to exchange for
to his rival ' s , the reward of her sister was due , and wished any thing rather than
churchill rules at enscombe , and is a very odd-tempered woman ; and his coming now , depends upon her
" it would not be a great match for her ; but if henrietta liked him , " --and henrietta
do not let us quarrel about the past .
from well at the time ; and i do not think i ever was so ill in my life as
was a perpetual source of irritation , which her own sense of propriety could but just smooth over .
why should it be placed here ?
the miss musgroves were not at all tired , and mary was either offended , by not being asked before
not that marianne appeared to distrust the truth of any part of it , for she listened to it all
how could you be so insolent in your wit to a woman of her character , age , and situation
they must be separated ; but there was a great deal of pain in the process—so much to herself at
found little , except the professed affection of the writer , that could give her any comfort .
after the business of arriving was over , it was first necessary to eat , and the doors were thrown
thank god , we leave this vile place tomorrow .
' s income allow her to jockey us into its public-places , during winter .
she still tried to appear cheerful and easy , her sister could safely trust to the effect of time upon
temper , or died of a broken heart , must not be depended on—for he did neither .
” “i wish your heart were independent .
is required and what can be borne ; and you may be certain that one will never tease the other
like to refuse him , but at the same time so much wish to remain at home , that independant
they all three called in rivers street for a couple of minutes ; but anne convinced herself that a day
lord st clair .
she was perfectly convinced of it .
you must be very much altered indeed since we parted , if that could be the case , and you
goddard ' s for news of her fair friend , the last thing before he prepared for the happiness of
, did i turn away from every exertion of duty or friendship ; scarcely allowing sorrow to exist but with
quite unpractised in such sort of note-writing , had there been time for scruples and fears as to style she
seeing a man who could satisfy her ideas of perfection , had been rash and unjustifiable .
i hope mr .
by saying that he was going away for some time , he should seem to act an ungenerous , a
fall ; elizabeth was glad of it ; —till it appeared whether her inquiries would receive any satisfaction , she
the fire , and every morning in the appearance of the atmosphere , the certain symptoms of approaching frost .
this was placing her in a very uncomfortable situation , and she felt great compassion for captain tilney , without
we hear of him for ever at some watering-place or other .
a deeper shade of hauteur overspread his features , but he said not a word , and elizabeth , though
to get home .
if gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection , elizabeth’s change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty
weston if she did not , papa .
then the baked apples came home , mrs .
but her conclusion was false ; for on the very morning after their arrival at lambton , these visitors came
it might do very well ; she believed she should accept him ; and she began accordingly to interest herself
catherine , as she crossed the hall , listened to the tempest with sensations of awe ; and , when
unfair conjectures was so little pleasing , that she soon allowed herself to believe her visit had been long enough
he saw her concern , and coming to her , took her hand , pressed it , and kissed it
maddox that i shall shorten some of his speeches , and a great many of my own , before we
i am not particularly disposed to favour a tenant .
; but it must be confessed that they were not of long continuance , for she soon recollected , in
usual cordiality .
” “yes , ” added the other ; “and of the roman emperors as low as severus ; besides a
to discern him .
as well as in many others , the world has most grossly injured that lady , by supposing the worst
palmer .
“well , lizzy , ” continued her mother , soon afterwards , “and so the collinses live very comfortable ,
a quick-looking girl of susan ' s age was the very worst third in the world : totally different from
rushworth and julia say ?
elizabeth noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness , with an attention which it had hardly received on the
you really are a very sad girl , and do not know how to take care of yourself .
thousand pounds .
“such an extraordinary dream of mine !
” catherine did not think the portrait a very inviting one , but it was too late to retreat ,
heart as his ; and could frederica ' s artless affection detach him from her mother , we might bless
to see him in a circle of strangers !
she felt the want of his society every day , almost every hour , and was too much in want
rushworth , never weary in the cause , would have proceeded towards the principal staircase , and taken them through
him best .
what it ought , neither damp , nor cold , nor windy .
i wish you had been there .
of his endless conceit , of his being altogether completely agreeable .
but , unfortunately—in short , if your compassion does not stand my friend—” “oh !
; nor among the walkers , the horsemen , or the curricle-drivers of the morning .
her , a very respectable man , and one in whom she had always placed great confidence .
they recommended the army .
” she advanced and examined it closely : it was of cedar , curiously inlaid with some darker wood ,
during two whole scenes .
do not imagine that you can cope with me in a knowledge of julias and louisas .
which he had , with little scruple , left her sister to misery , was likely to prove a source
of them how they did , and observed that they both looked very ugly .
but this was far from being the case , and though by unwearied diligence they gained even the top of
he could have thought of frank churchill then , he might have deemed him a very good sort of fellow
very soon after the rushworths ' return to wimpole street , sir thomas had received a letter from an old
—we think she is the better for highbury already .
weston engaged to lose no time in writing , and spare no arguments to induce him to come .
said : “by the bye , charles , are you really serious in meditating a dance at netherfield ?
i long to see her , and shall certainly accept your kind invitation , that i may form some idea
an opportunity of speaking with her in private—a circumstance occurred—an unlucky circumstance—to ruin all my resolution , and with it
the morning that we parted too !
evil .
have been so very delightful to them .
it was evident that she would rather remain where she was .
poor mary little thought it would be such a bone of contention when she gave it me to keep ,
it would have been a vast deal pleasanter to have had her more disinterested in her attachment ; but his
been wrong .
think .
the bustle of the intrigue was over , and a very few months had taught him , by the force
—no , he felt that it ought not to be attempted .
was as fruitless as it was melancholy .
his mother ' s house , he had got upon his horse , and rid into the country , some
" indeed !
away , as her mother was unwilling to take her where there might be infection .
” “with three younger sisters grown up , ” replied elizabeth , smiling , “your ladyship can hardly expect me
the greatest happiness i could be capable of enjoying .
this was one point , with regard to lydia , at least , which was now to be settled ,
she was not a woman of many words ; for , unlike people in general , she proportioned them to
” “poor comfort !
why , colonel brandon ' s only object is to be of use to mr .
—do not we often talk of mr .
the loveliness of the day , and of the view , he felt like herself .
a richly endowed convent at the time of the reformation , of its having fallen into the hands of an
but isabella had promised and promised again ; and when she promised a thing , she was so scrupulous in
' ” “there , mrs .
” “a very praiseworthy practice , ” said edmund , “but not quite universal .
” “it is not now worth a regret , ” said emma .
one can think of nothing else .
i can ' t imagine why you should object to it .
it has been , and is , and probably will always be a heavy misfortune to me , that i
it proper that marianne should be left to the sole guidance of her own judgment , or that mrs .
i ought to have waited for official information .
" " how strange !
jennings soon appeared , and the note being given her , she read it aloud .
all the minor arrangements of table and chair , lights and music , tea and supper , made themselves ;
jenkinson , in whose appearance there was nothing remarkable , and who was entirely engaged in listening to what she
more than momentary in them .
i really am quite agitated on the subject .
morland could not but feel that it might have been productive of much unpleasantness to her ; that it was
of not being equally beloved by the other , she would at each moment of each day have been perfectly
he recalled , and rather sentimentally recited , that well-known charade , my first doth affliction denote , which my
were to inhabit overcame their dejection , and a view of barton valley as they entered it gave them cheerfulness
be done ; and , except her being so dull , she must add she saw no harm in the
she drew up plans of economy , she made exact calculations , and she did what nobody else thought of
that would be almost as bad as the complaint ; and i believe there is scarcely a young lady in
i have now been here nearly five months ; and , moreover , the quietest five months i ever passed
to marianne it had all the distinguishing tenderness which a lover ' s heart could give , and to the
ferrars is certainly nothing to me at present—but the time may come—how soon it will come must depend upon herself—when
for they say every body is in love once in their lives , and i shall have been let off
” catherine looked round and saw miss tilney leaning on her brother ' s arm , walking slowly down the
airing might be of the greatest service—and every thing that message could do was tried—but all in vain .
to her connexions , they are more than good .
be able to say that my health and spirits put it quite out of the question ; besides that ,
—let it stay , however , ' said she ; ' give it houseroom till colonel campbell comes back .
acquitted of the crimes for which she was beheaded , has been by many people supposed to have led an
” harriet kissed her hand in silent and submissive gratitude .
open to every greedy speculation .
' dearer , much dearer than ever .
thoughtful and indisposed for any other .
her father was a grazier , her grandfather had been a butcher , but that was all nothing .
she felt reproved .
" february _num_ st .
his recitals were amusing in themselves to sir thomas , but the chief object in seeking them was to understand
she had gone to her letters , and found it all as she supposed ; and the re-perusal of these
as they were turning into the grounds , mr .
of the ways to winthrop ?
he stood as opposed to captain wentworth , in all his own unwelcome obtrusiveness ; and the evil of his
most to laugh at its absurdity , or censure its impertinence , for she considered it as an unfeeling reflection
she thought she would just step in and see how it went on ; and though she did not seem
degree of gratitude and good behaviour which it ought to produce , and her consciousness of misery was therefore increased
weston , perfectly true .
“humph !
” “but , my dear papa , it is supposed to be summer ; a warm day in summer .
considered how much of the truth was unknown to him , she believed she had no right to wonder at
that you should not be married , or going to be married !
i know you will contrive it all .
seven miles were travelled in expectation of enjoyment , and every body had a burst of admiration on first arriving
her situation myself .
would be the death of that honest pride with which i have hitherto considered my son ; i should blush
he spoke of it as a certain event , of which the time alone could be undecided .
charles and mary also came in , of course , during their visit , and mr musgrove made a point
he looked at them slightly , without seeming to know who they were , and merely nodded to mrs .
cole ' s note—no , it cannot be more than five—or at least ten—for i had got my bonnet and
“i could not stand your countenance dressed up in woe and paleness .
we feel things differently .
the country , and the retirement of lyme in the winter , appeared exactly adapted to captain benwick ' s
i declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading !
mr shepherd had once mentioned the word " advertise , " but never dared approach it again .
" " i have burnt all your letters , and will return your picture the first opportunity .
but i have no right , and i could have no chance of succeeding .
elton ' s—probably some vulgar , dashing widow , who , with the help of a boarder , just made
schemed successfully .
" " at marlborough !
for i cannot be ignorant that to you , to your goodness , [ _num_ ] i owe it all
defend its own vanities .
welcome back , my boy .
dashwood could neither pretend to be unconscious , nor endeavor to be calm .
there is something so shocking in a child ' s being taken away from his parents and natural home !
yes , and i shall be very happy in his acquaintance .
towards her husband and mother she was the same as to them ; and intimacy was therefore neither to be
the morrow came , the plan for the evening continued , and fanny ' s consideration of it did not
he has done it already .
a very pretty silly wife , to whom he tells things which he had better not , and he repeats
you said you should like to see it .
had read the chief of the letter to him ; and then she had to listen to his admiration of
jennings , most attentively civil ; and on colonel brandon ' s coming in soon after himself , he eyed
my card was not lost , i hope .
she talked to elizabeth again and again ; coaxed and threatened her by turns .
decided on almost as soon as whist ; and lady bertram soon found herself in the critical situation of being
i hope she is well ?
fear from you—and can chearfully conduct you to mrs cope ' s without a fear of your being seduced by
all the others ; for who , as lady catherine herself condescendingly says , will connect themselves with such a
because , if you are , i shall have no scruple in asking you to take my place , and
i do not look upon myself as either prosperous or indulged .
as soon as all had ate , and the elder ones paid , the carriage was ordered ; and after
collins , for she vows she will not have him , and if you do not make haste he will
crawford to have all the claims which his sisters think he has , how was i to be prepared to
her heart was grieved for a state which seemed but the more pitiable from this sort of irritation of spirits
shame , shame !
after a short pause , her companion added , “you are too generous to trifle with me .
a likeness in our destiny ; the destiny which bids fair to connect us with two characters so much superior
i had no reason to believe her of less authority now .
” jane’s delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to elizabeth privately of what lydia had let
her all her attention .
" after an hour or two spent in what her mother called comfortable chat , or in other words ,
as bad as any of them .
but in endeavouring to engage mrs .
" " do you compare your conduct with his ?
consider , she is sitting down—which naturally presents a different—which in short gives exactly the idea—and the proportions must be
i am not competent .
”—thought emma .
interest , she calmly said , " yes , it is mr elliot , certainly .
nothing could be more unnatural in either .
any difficulty .
; proud , assuming , conceited ; very full of his own claims , and little concerned about the feelings
constant in her own feelings , and as full of faith in the constancy of mine as ever , awakened
why was it ?
of udolpho .
s ; we were escorted by mr fitzgerald who is a very amiable young man in the main , tho
” “i begin to think i shall never be a lieutenant , fanny .
lute , on the other a ponderous chest which no efforts can open , and over the fireplace the portrait
him like heat—he could bear any degree of cold , etc .
nobody can call such an undersized man handsome .
finish it at once .
is plain , has heard the story .
she coloured as she spoke ; but neither that , nor anything else , awakened a suspicion of the truth
put into her hands .
they did meet , by such great openness of conduct , such readiness to apologize for the past , such
for the world in general to be aware of half her accomplishments , and too highly accomplished for modesty to
well might charles wonder how captain wentworth would feel !
no opportunity of projecting weddings among all the young people of her acquaintance .
“suppose we turn down here for the present , ” said mrs .
falls into another .
have an indifferent tone—what shall i say ?
season of the year which one should have chosen for it : days almost at the longest ; weather genial
round towards the group , and saying , “how happy mr .
some time previously sitting , her rising colour , as she spoke , and her unsteady voice , plainly showed
the horses were post ; and neither the carriage , nor the livery of the servant who preceded it ,
she was out of the room .
be guilty of another ?
when i understood his intention , however , and at the same time began to think that we had been
struggling sobs , because she had displeased him ; and as for edmund , she could neither speak , nor
but what do you think we have been talking of ?
the miss bertrams were much to be pitied on the occasion : not for their sorrow , but for their
as an excuse for assisting them .
agitating consciousness , found herself , as she anticipated , in another minute alone with mr .
catherine , you always were a sad little scatter-brained creature ; but now you must have been forced to have
she only roused herself from the broodings of this restless agitation , to let mrs clay know that she had
i must own i saw nothing reprehensible in what mr elliot was doing .
" " well , whenever it suits you .
, and the venison cut up without supplying one pleasant anecdote of any former haunch , or a single entertaining
it would seem , by her manner of talking , as if she wanted to persuade herself that he is
off , and not upon his own .
it was generally evident whenever they met , that he did admire her and to her it was equally evident
that time , could they at all discover the cause , or collect the particulars , of her sudden return
you need not be afraid of unwholesome preserves here .
as he has done so well by smith , i think i had better have him at once .
morland ' s account of it was no inflated representation , no studied appeal to their passions .
— he is to be in town next week , if not sooner .
, with great elasticity , though she had never thought of it before .
, knocked off his horse by a brickbat from an upper window .
that he has hit upon the very best method in the world of preserving peace at home and preventing his
she rated lady russell ' s influence highly ; and as to the severe degree of self-denial which her own
” succeeded in the true english style , burying under a calmness that seemed all but indifference , the real
when lady catherine and her daughter had played as long as they chose , the tables were broken up ,
walls would allow them to judge , that a carriage was driving up to the door , and the next
poor janet has been sadly taken in , and yet there was nothing improper on her side : she did
rushworth ' s account , who was partly expected at the park that day ; but it was felt as
—but that good mrs .
his disposition must be dreadful .
“the long-expected moment is now arrived (said she) and we shall soon be in the world .
" it is truly astonishing !
" elinor , startled by his manner , looked at him anxiously , saying— " what ?
though but a few lines , to satisfy her , remained without any uneasiness .
this matter may be considered , therefore , as finally settled .
the colonel , too !
” cried she playfully .
hear every thing .
opinion to give , as she had never thought about it .
” having formed her mind and gained her affections , he had a good chance of her thinking like him
" asked marianne .
he had come , in his anxiety to see how she bore frank churchill ' s engagement , with no
said , and placing a screen in the proper direction before her eyes .
”—mr .
—she listened with much inward suffering , but with great outward patience , to harriet ' s detail .
and see the progress , and be charmed .
vernon that her sisterly cautions have been bestowed in vain , and to persuade reginald that she has scandalously belied
your cousin edmund moves slowly ; detained , perchance , by parish duties .
” “upon my word it is , miss bates .
” lady catherine seemed resigned .
churchill in fortune .
might have been hit on .
” miss crawford , rallying her spirits , and recovering her complexion , replied only , “if i had known
bring her back to town , and maria was with these friends without any restraint , without even julia ;
is a favourite gown , though it cost but nine shillings a yard .
error—more disgraced by mis-judgment , than she actually was , could the effects of her blunders have been confined to
, that a mistress might be found for it at longbourn , produced from her , amid very complaisant smiles
to have it asked .
she crossed the low hedge , and tottering footstep which ended the narrow , slippery path through the cottage garden
in itself not apparently likely to produce evil to her .
i have the pleasure , madam , (to mrs .
, “well ; —if you wish me to stay and join the party , i will .
" who can this be ?
" " no , sir , she is not one-and-thirty ; but i do not think i can put off
goddard that harriet was liable to very bad sore-throats , and had often alarmed her with them .
her place in it !
but sir john did not sport long with the curiosity which he delighted to raise , for he had at
” emma ' s attempts to stop her father had been vain ; and when he had reached such a
i had known you by character , however , long before .
i meant only myself .
she had not seen him before since his engagement became public , and therefore not since his knowing her to
and william .
was a blessing , in comparison of the misery of continuing her daughter-in-law ' s guest ; and to remove
she never mentioned it before , because she would not alarm us .
, and julia , i am sure of meeting again and again , and all but you .
not one party , or scheme , or anything .
” she was in the adjoining chamber while she still spoke , and opening the casement there , immediately called
mr shepherd was all gratitude .
elton was sitting here , i remember , much about where i am now .
and for part of one of those days the young travellers were in a good deal of alarm on the
lord , i have been as busy as a bee ever since dinner !
you would be surprised to hear how often i watched you , how often i was on the point of
his having such an intention ; and it was only on the supposition of his being spontaneously solicited by some
s liveliness repeated to her at such a moment , and on such a subject , was a bitter aggravation
s not being in town by several days so soon as i expected ; and i have only just now
i know that lady susan in coming to churchhill was governed only by the most honourable and amiable intentions ;
is it not inexcusable to give such an example to a daughter ?
have nothing of that sort to endure .
she hoped to marry him , and they continued together till she was obliged to be convinced that such hope
weston must be between forty and fifty .
a good night ' s rest improved her spirits .
” emma , who was not really at all frightened herself , tranquillised this excess of apprehension by assurances of
yet her judgment told her it was so .
should assist his widow and daughters .
bennet , and they gave way only to the greater distress of mr .
it was rather too late in the day to set about being simple-minded and ignorant ; but she left her
wear the necklace , as you are engaged to do , to-morrow evening , and let the chain , which
seemed very uncertain ; and the reservedness of his manner towards her contradicted one moment what a more animated look
, elegant , highly accomplished , and perfectly amiable : and when mr .
a little more justice , mr .
she knew not that she had been the means of sending the owners of cleveland away , in about seven
i really could not help exclaiming !
again she read on ; but every line proved more clearly that the affair , which she had believed it
miss fairfax knows it is not from the campbells , or they would have been guessed at first .
the gallery .
, it was extremely natural : —and you agreed to it , expressing yourself very warmly as to your sense
” i was right in my conjecture ; for mary instantly entering the room , informed us that a young
she wished such words unsaid with all her heart .
" " i would suppose him—oh , how gladly would i suppose him !
louisa , or those who were wrapt up in her welfare .
, proper measures will undoubtedly be taken by government to prevent its coming to effect .
will be put to it to make out all that checker-work ' —don ' t you , ma ' am
reginald should know anything of a matter which we foresaw would make him so uneasy .
fancy ; for he is a most disagreeable , horrid man , not at all worth pleasing .
to say the truth this tragedy was not only the best , but the only play that we ever performed
" cried marianne with sparkling eyes , " and with elegance , with spirit ?
one is nothing , indeed .
, catherine vernon vii lady susan vernon to mrs .
john knightley came—i think the very evening .
she saw the proof of it in miss crawford , as well as in her cousins ; her attachment to
now , it would be really having frank in their neighbourhood .
and could we carry our selfish point with you , we should leave it without a single regret .
a state , where a scene so wonderful and so lovely is exhibited , as may more than equal any
and would not join them in finding much fault with .
been happy and rich .
crawford , with two or three grooms , standing about and looking on .
" " i should not have hazarded such an opinion , " returned she , " if it had not
she has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most idle and frivolous manner , and to adopt
cheerful character .
“but it is not merely this affair , ” she continued , “on which my dislike is founded .
” “by all means , if you can .
but i am not fishing ; don ' t compliment me .
yet such was the case .
blaming herself for her own weakness , could not go on .
elizabeth did not long survive his loss , and died so miserable that were it not an injury to the
" his character is now before you ; expensive , dissipated , and worse than both .
price walked off at the same time to carry back his neighbour ' s newspaper .
bends a slave , and woman , lovely woman , reigns alone .
to her ; to think as i think , be interested in all my possessions and pleasures , try to
such censure ; “at least , he is very good natured , and i shall always feel much obliged to
but” (with an affectionate smile) “let him succeed at last , fanny , let him succeed at last .
there is no great wonder in their liking one another ; but that matters should be brought so forward between
account , was not to be in town before february ; and that their visit , without any unreasonable abridgement
their concerns had been sunk under those of uppercross ; and when lady russell reverted to their former hopes and
i was in safe hands .
" " well may you wonder , marianne , " replied her brother , " at the obstinacy which could
“five and twenty if it is an inch .
weston for her approbation of the plan .
had known something like impatience to be alone with her , and her countenance , as she spoke , had
kellynch , and it pleased her : especially , as she had satisfied herself in the very first half minute
my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken .
as a child i was taught what was right , but i was not taught to correct my temper .
” the remembrance of mr .
” the wedding took place ; the bride and bridegroom set off for kent from the church door , and
she would hardly join even when william was the subject , for his commission came all from the right hand
hughes and miss tilney with seats , as they had agreed to join their party .
riches only will not satisfy me .
had it been the effect of gratitude , had he learnt to love her , because he believed her to
as to connexion , there emma was perfectly easy ; persuaded , that after all his own vaunted claims and
; though , in that respect , i think the difference between us too great , infinitely too great :
“i am come to make my own apologies for keeping you waiting ; but i have nothing in the world
and when i think of benwick , my tongue is tied .
i come back !
—selina would stare when she heard of it .
nobody drinks there .
" " your feelings may be the strongest , " replied anne , " but the same spirit of analogy
dashwood feel this ungracious behaviour , and so earnestly did she despise her daughter-in-law[ _num_ ] for it , that
are you going near camden place ?
, and seating himself with a look of great vexation .
well , i never observed that .
i hope you think louisa perfectly recovered now ?
worth and warmth than any other set of men in england ; that they only knew how to live ,
” thornton lacey was the name of his impending living , as miss crawford well knew ; and her interest
” on reaching the spacious lobby above they were shown into a very pretty sitting-room , lately fitted up with
, tho ' i would by no means pretend to affirm that he was equal to those first of men
he was invited to contribute any really good enigmas , charades , or conundrums that he might recollect ; and
what have you got on ?
unconcern which was not in the least altered by her communication .
" cried captain harville , in a tone of strong feeling , " if i could but make you comprehend
elton was called on , within a month from the marriage of mr .
she could not equal them in their warmth .
edmund could not but agree to it .
we really must wish you good night .
" " yet i hardly know how , " cried marianne , " unless it had been under totally different
the high-spirited , joyous-talking louisa musgrove , and the dejected , thinking , feeling , reading , captain benwick ,
best scene , or the best speeches of each ; and whether it were dignity , or pride , or
been there repeatedly .
it was very strange !
catherine walked to a window in the hope of catching another glimpse of his figure .
[xiii] excellent again are mr .
do you suppose she does not often say all this to herself ?
—stop ; mr .
very much .
she found , however , that it was one to which she must inure herself .
it is his own idea .
—beautiful lace !
” became no uncommon question , even without her being wanted for any one ' s convenience .
to harriet , that , as well as she could calculate , they were just now quite safe from any
the happier for having mr .
” “now you are going to say something about law being the worst wilderness of the two , but i
with people of rank , and were therefore in every respect entitled to think well of themselves , and meanly
the last office of the four carriage-horses was to draw sir walter , miss elliot , and mrs clay to
the style of the visit , and the shortness of it , were then felt to be decisive .
pray say so , with my compliments .
catherine , for a few moments , was motionless with horror .
—you were both talking of other things ; of business , shows of cattle , or new drills—and might not
and i am now going to murder my sister .
captain benwick came not , however .
" elinor was prevented from making any reply to this civil triumph , by the door ' s being thrown
feelings , as far as the observances due to mr elliot ' s character would allow , when anne '
" for worlds would not i have had a letter of hers seen by you in former days .
from any fear of disadvantage from it individually to herself , for , at any rate , there seemed a
elton indeed !
but he hoped he should in time .
own descendant .
it is remarkable , that emma , in the many , very many , points of view in which she
the garden sloping to the road , the house standing in it , the green pales , and the laurel
there may be some old woman at thornton lacey to be converted .
entire extinction of all hope , such a progress might be made towards a state of composure by the time
balls will be absolutely prohibited , unless you stand up with one of your sisters .
state of spirits , of his perfect approbation and increased regard ; and happy as all this must make her
jane will be treated with such regard and kindness !
—in our communications we deal only in the great .
—i believe mrs .
bath is a nice place , catherine , after all .
situated as we are with lady dalrymple , cousins , we ought to be very careful not to embarrass her
" " i have never yet known what it was to separate esteem and love .
of less moment in his eyes than in those of any other person in the house .
” “but , harriet , is it necessary to burn the court-plaister ?
charles ' s attentions to henrietta had been observed by her father and mother without any disapprobation .
shall i tell you how mrs .
this was so very well understood between them , that emma could not but feel some surprise , and a
bennet , who could by no means wish for so speedy a return , immediately said : “but is there
ever be admitted to the same , and listened , therefore , without an idea of any nearer concern in
be uncomfortably circumstanced .
but i did not love only him ; —and while the comfort of others was dear to me , i
opinion of all that she had seen at rosings , which , for charlotte’s sake , she made more favourable
owner having once been within some thousand pounds of being obliged to sell out at a loss , nothing gave
indulging them , without any power of engaging their respect .
there was employment , hope , solicitude , bustle , for every hour of the day .
—harriet is my superior in all the charm and all the felicity it gives .
had given them a lecture on toothpick-cases at gray ' s .
two obstacles of the five being thus removed , mrs .
herself , when she saw his look , and heard him reply , “never !
it was a jumble without taste or truth .
removal with her infant ; and mr .
there is something in a chapel and chaplain so much in character with a great house , with one '
there not being the smallest difficulty in their getting home , whenever they liked it , either now or an
, i was determined to preserve every document of former intimacy .
i can hardly write for laughing .
increased sobs explained to him where the grievance lay .
meet with any thing at all like what one has left behind .
an evil .
she is now an object of indifference to him , and she would be one of contempt were he to
ferrars look well ?
, she did not seem to ask for compassion .
you had better not go .
this proposal of his , this plan of marrying and continuing at hartfield—the more she contemplated it , the more
—harriet submitted , and approved , and was grateful .
knightley and harriet !
” tom listened with some shame and some sorrow ; but escaping as quickly as possible , could soon with
and she , after apologising for not returning herself , had obliged him to enter , by saying that miss
and mrs .
herself been treated as from sensibility for her son .
not regret her leaving highbury for the sake of marrying a man whom i could never admit as an acquaintance
twelve years had changed anne from the blooming , silent , unformed girl of fifteen , to the elegant little
she persuaded , that he could have no explanation to give , which a just sense of shame would not
what ought to be ; she , who had had no cousin edmund to direct her thoughts or fix her
see lyme themselves , and a project for going thither was the consequence .
i have been saying how glad i should be if the skinners were here this winter instead of last ;
her taste , or a remembrance of what she had said ; and in the very last time of its
it was sad to fanny to lose all the pleasures of spring .
come , come , this won ' t do .
the public pays and must be served well .
to the agitation of hope , by an article of news which then began to be in circulation .
rest , i shall probably put that project in execution ; for london will be always the fairest field of
” “i am sure i do not know how it was to have been done better , ” cried mrs
dashwood ' s and elinor ' s appetites were equally lost , and margaret might think herself very well off
“and there is no reason to suppose , ” added sir thomas , “but that his visits to us may
“very like maple grove indeed !
me tell you , fanny , that you may live eighteen years longer in the world without being addressed by
he asked my opinion as to what he was now to do .
talk of the curiosity of women , indeed !
she would be very glad to stay .
which never had been there .
of it between themselves .
” “i ' m glad of it (cried my father) for i long to know who it is .
let my father ' s servant go with you .
poor fairfax , before his own return to england put any thing in his power .
” at that moment they were met from another walk by mrs .
” “that is a fair remark .
let us hope for better things .
elton gaily , “in resolving to be always on the watch , and employing my friends to watch also ,
spared much solicitude on her account .
the operation of a sensible , discerning mind .
“what could become of mr .
darcy , who sat opposite to them .
when the orchestra struck up a fresh dance , james would have led his fair partner away , but she
, and forget how much he had been forgotten himself as soon as he could , after the house had
here , i know , i am of none , and yet i love the place so well .
leave the next generation to purchase .
rude to his wife and her mother ; she found him very capable of being a pleasant companion , and
a deviation from what i may think right and consistent .
" my dear anne , --i make no apology for my silence , because i know how little people think
for it would be rather a pleasure to hear him talked of by such a good friend .
discovery of what she was doing , of this very project of hers , which determined him to come forward
” emma had not another word to oppose .
” “removed !
" this desponding turn of mind , though it could not be communicated to mrs .
martin ?
this well meant plan we had often successfully put in execution ; but alas !
” “do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place ?
he looked around , as if to see that no one were near , and then said , “emma ,
” “i am very glad i did think of her .
love , it must be attributed ; and as such its impression on her was of a sort to be
” and she leaned back in the corner , to indulge her murmurs , or to reason them away ;
, and a smartness of air , which though it did not give actual elegance or grace , gave distinction
” fanny imagined this to be an appeal to her judgment , and therefore , after a moment ' s
william , the eldest , a year older than herself , her constant companion and friend ; her advocate with
be his to bestow the only advantages she wants .
” “thank you , but i am not at all tired .
persuasion of his being by far too fine a gentleman to approve of her , that at least they should
marianne restored to life , health , friends , and to her doting mother , was an idea to fill
” said elizabeth , still addressing colonel fitzwilliam .
would , in all probability , be a continual supply of the most amiable and innocent enjoyments .
—she should see them henceforward with the closest observance ; and wretchedly as she had hitherto misunderstood even those she
” “if she is really ill , why not go to bath , mr .
yes , --i am quite convinced that , with very few exceptions , the sea-air always does good .
few hours with you in comfort ; but as there is a boat ashore , i had better go off
more than former happiness would be restored .
the visit was of course short ; and there was so much embarrassment and occupation of mind to shorten it
of fashion and expense , and being the younger son of a lord with a tolerable independence ; and sir
he stepped to the door , rejoicing at that moment in having the means of immediate communication , and ,
brother and sister .
" " charles may say what he pleases , " cried mary to anne , as soon as he was
this state she continued till noon , scarcely stirring from her sister ' s bed , her thoughts wandering from
norris almost started .
yet how different now the source of her inquietude from what it had been then—how mournfully superior in reality and
she roused herself to say , as they struck by order into another path , " is not this one
miss tilney met her with great civility , returned her advances with equal goodwill , and they continued talking together
but you have now shewn me that you can be wilful and perverse ; that you can and will decide
fresh word , and finding out none , directly took it up , and fell to work .
i should like to see two more here , —your pretty little friend , miss smith , and my son—and
a cold sleety april day rush out again into the world !
what anne first heard was-- " and so , i made her go .
situation with what so lately it had been , —saw him honourably released from his former engagement , —saw him
—in spite of this little rub , however , emma was smiling with enjoyment , delighted to see the respectable
” “but they are such very different things !
ever on the sore subject of the silver knife , canvassed as it now was continually , and the riches
blessing of having one such truly sympathising friend as lady russell .
at any rate it must be exaggerated .
elton ; but he was actually hurried off by miss bates , she jumped away from him at last abruptly
to be seen .
the young people were all at home , and sustained their share in the introduction very well , with much
for the world would she not have her weakness suspected , and yet , unequal to an absolute falsehood ,
there were still some subjects , indeed , under which she believed they must always tremble—the mention of a chest
” such were the counsels by which mrs .
, must ever present the remembrance of .
though the chief of his concerns with the son of his patron were imperfectly understood , it was yet a
i hoped i was perfectly equal to any sacrifice of that description .
it is an evil , but i am certainly making it less than it might be .
—what do you deserve ?
w .
to the suspicions of this very day ; she could have talked to him of harriet , and the three-quarters
people who have extensive grounds themselves are always pleased with any thing in the same style .
it may be only the hair of some great uncle of his .
those that best pleased her , as placing his conduct in the noblest light , seemed most improbable .
she had even condescended to advise him to marry as soon as he could , provided he chose with discretion
were dictatorial and insolent .
more careful and jealous than the other ; and to two of the three at least , charles hayter might
woodhouse would never believe it .
—you are a judge .
a manner at home at the parsonage , you are not to be taking place of her .
, where there was something more of wildness than in the rest , where the trees were the oldest ,
elton , though she had always considered the ball as peculiarly for her .
their claims to the notice of mrs .
” this had just taken place and with great cordiality , when john knightley made his appearance , and “how
s lover was scarcely better founded .
vindication of edward from every charge but of imprudence , was readily offered .
was fully resolved to be the real and consistent patron of the selected child , and mrs .
; and though the death of my old cousin , mrs .
dashwood , she preferred going directly to the cottage to being a visitor at barton park ; and she relied
she was distressed whenever mr .
” “you make me laugh , charlotte ; but it is not sound .
his information and prospects as to enscombe were neither worse nor better than had been anticipated ; mrs .
elizabeth , equally next to jane in birth and beauty , succeeded her of course .
maria was in a good deal of agitation .
of her face and her frock in easy indifference .
which she has scarcely allowed herself to entertain a hope .
—extremely disagreeable !
attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by suspense , according to the usual practice of elegant females
“i have made a most wretched discovery , ” said he , after a short pause .
she said she was very well , and did not like to be supposed otherwise ; but take it all
anything might be bearable rather than such reproaches .
of taste , will , i dare say , be pleased with them .
she continued to look back , but in vain ; and soon , with what appeared unusual speed , they
” “i am sure , ” cried catherine , “i did not mean to say anything wrong ; but it
woodhouse ' s tender habits required almost every evening throughout the year , he soon afterwards took a hasty leave
martin to every other person ; if you think him the most agreeable man you have ever been in company
among such friends , however , and such flattery , he did revive .
one could not expect anybody to take such a part .
they seem not able to do any thing without him .
i always say a woman cannot have too many resources—and i feel very thankful that i have so many myself
to her the whole evening .
” “i hope we shall always think the acquaintance worth any trouble that might be taken to establish it .
new acquaintance ' s feelings , and on catherine ' s , without the smallest consciousness of having explained them
meant for her sister ' s benefit .
do you like them best dark or fair ?
of my life , chose to set herself so violently against the match that i thought it better to lay
scarcely a hope of getting out in the following june ; and in september , an extract from the diary
it has been my own doing , and i ought to feel it .
to macdonald-hall , therefore we went , and were received with great kindness by janetta the daughter of macdonald ,
martin , i imagine , has his fortune entirely to make—cannot be at all beforehand with the world .
it stood the record of many sensations of pain , once severe , but now softened ; and of some
a woman who , firm as a rock in her own principles , has a gentleness of character so well
a short absence from home had left his fair one unguarded by his attentions at this critical period , and
satisfy even the tragedians ; and the rivals , the school for scandal , wheel of fortune , heir at
but i will endeavour to banish every painful thought , and think only of what will make me happy—your affection
of some self-command to marianne .
i had little enjoyment there , but have less here .
" i was at norland about a month ago .
but there is nobleness in the name of edmund .
“what did that shake of the head mean ?
the very day of lydia’s leaving home .
side as conscience must forbid .
bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike ; he had a pleasant countenance , and easy , unaffected manners .
ready money enough to supply all that was wanted of greater elegance to the apartments .
willoughby , an equally striking opposition of character was no hindrance to the regard of colonel brandon .
her a very good joke , and which she treated accordingly , by hoping , with a laugh , that
william .
she was not less pleased another day with the manner in which he seconded a sudden wish of hers ,
elinor and her mother rose up in amazement at their entrance , and while the eyes of both were fixed
i flatter myself that their education has been such as will not disgrace their appearance in the world , and
of answering him , by the arrival of mrs .
her a few minutes after her setting off ; that , when he told them she was gone out with
of wretchedness , inferior only to what followed the receipt of the next letters from london .
” from an unwillingness to confess how much her intimacy with mr .
with captain harville ; and under the irresistible governance of which he had seized a sheet of paper , and
” emma restrained her indignation , and only turned from her in silence .
, i would not dance with him , unless he would allow miss andrews to be as beautiful as an
it is such enjoyment to them , that if their uncle did not lay down the rule of their taking
did you see him while you were at lambton ?
credit and his lungs in the baron , and was not sorry to withdraw ; and to make you amends
it is the influence of the fashionable world altogether that i am jealous of .
_num_ ] chapter i the family of dashwood had long been settled in sussex .
she thought of what had just passed with anxiety and distrust .
i have heard you mention them with consideration these last twenty years at least .
john knightley came ; but mr .
entered , when the sound of footsteps , she could hardly tell where , made her pause and tremble .
“i never heard anything so abominable .
who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that so much wickedness existed in the whole race of
seeing in her husband , who was fond of society , a perfect willingness to accept it , she ventured
the housekeeper to receive her assistance in the most comfortable manner .
, that she was to think of her at four .
, and would rather stay at home .
of the young man himself .
we will walk to the farm at the edge of the down , and see how the children go on
side the argument , and i do not think i ever opened a book in my life which had not
, came as soon as possible ; and scarcely ten days had passed since fanny had been in the agitation
but then , mrs .
i would not bind myself to allow them any thing yearly .
norris discussed the other .
when lucy first came to barton park last november , she told me in confidence of her engagement .
” “and if i had not a letter to write myself , i might sit by you and admire the
the confinement of such an intrusion , and walk away with him into the shrubbery .
i am delighted to find that you can vouchsafe to let your imagination wander—but it will not do—very sorry to
” “has he so !
pray , what is henry going for ?
she loved anne better than she loved her own abilities ; and when the awkwardness of the beginning was over
her , a quarter of an hour had elapsed ere she returned downstairs with the volume from which so much
to the beauty and grace of each .
charles has been upon the leaders so often now , that i am sure there is no fear .
the affectionate entreaties of augustus and sophia that we would for ever consider their house as our home , easily
mixture of sweetness and archness in her manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody ; and darcy
“now , ”—said emma , when they were fairly beyond the sweep gates , —“now mr .
—your soft eyes shall chuse their own time for beaming .
vernon , how fully i am aware of that ; but i would wish to forget every circumstance that might
the rushworths were the only addition to his own domestic circle which he could solicit .
right side”—after all this , came poor dear isabella ' s cold approbation of—“yes , it was a little like—but
after having seen all the principal wonders of the country ; and within five miles of lambton , elizabeth found
“i dare say she is , ” replied mary coldly .
but there were other causes of repugnance ; causes which , though still existing , and existing to an equal
at hartfield .
darcy was delighted with their engagement ; his friend had given him the earliest information of it .
" — " and who are the ellisons ?
mine ?
and what does talking ever do you know ?
it is to be supposed that henry was married , since he had certainly four sons , but it is
being the only plain one in the family , worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments , was always impatient for
and break it to mr and mrs musgrove .
” there was a general cry out at this .
one takes up a notion , and runs away with it .
grant was in the vestibule , and as they stopt to speak to him she found , from edmund '
quite unknowingly , within twenty miles of each other .
" going so soon !
lady catherine was generally speaking—stating the mistakes of the three others , or relating some anecdote of herself .
she entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious , made no other reply to elizabeth’s salutation than
to see dancing—miss smith .
it was too old a story .
very mortifying to know that her neighbours might all see mr .
if she had felt impatience and regret before—if she had been sorry for what she said , and feared its
" " that is to say , " cried marianne contemptuously , " he has told you , that in
his children .
miss bertram is certainly the handsomest , and i have found her the most agreeable , but i shall always
” “he did .
a constancy ; it would not do for a constancy .
a few moments ' reflection , however , produced a very happy idea , and she exclaimed— " oh ,
should only think worse of her understanding than i now do of her heart .
' s portion .
the dejection was almost universal .
everything would have touched mrs .
the affair thus happily settled , she was introduced by miss tilney to her father , and received by him
there would be no serious difficulty , on harriet ' s side , to oppose any friendly arrangement of her
knightley presently , “i have a piece of news for you .
tire of your great book .
please .
” the ladies here probably exchanged looks which meant , “men never know when things are dirty or not ;
still have been hopeless , for mrs .
this was enough to make lucy really and reasonably happy .
to the recollection of each ; they could not but be reverted to ; the year of their engagement could
” upon this information , they instantly passed through the hall once more , and ran across the lawn after
“if edmund were but in orders !
seemed more sudden than usual in his disappearance .
but the interest then excited had been very properly lively , determining him on his return to town to apply
for they say he is monstrous fond of her , as well he may .
of distress upon distress , which in former conversations had been merely hinted at , were dwelt on now with
she was mortified .
now , it so happened that in spite of emma ' s resolution of never marrying , there was something
the other two warmly agreed with what he said , and she then appeared .
hurst , by whom elizabeth sat , he was an indolent man , who lived only to eat , drink
if miss summers will not keep her , you must find me out another school , unless we can get
bingley ; “but i am sure it will be too much for kitty .
could have but one effect on him .
“certainly , sir , i have no idea but of residence .
the end of them .
displace me ; but it would be simple to be duped by a man who has no right of creditor
he undertakes it ; " (looking towards captain wentworth , ) " he is writing about it now .
involuntarily turned to hers ; but she was indeed behind , and too busy with her shawl .
quietly into it herself .
before she had believed her wishes to predominate , she began to regret that he came .
the misery of a parting , a final parting ; and every consolation was required , for she had to
much !
still they moved on—something better was yet in view ; and by a continued exertion of strength and ingenuity they
darcy who , though extremely surprised , was not unwilling to receive it , when she instantly drew back ,
and she was too young to own herself frightened ; so , resigning herself to her fate , and trusting
sarah indeed still indulged in the sweets of incomprehensibility , exclaiming and conjecturing with youthful ardour .
” “everything .
do not distress me .
but poor harriet could not follow .
their resemblance in good principles and good sense , in disposition and manner of thinking , would probably have been
s capital play and her own against dr .
” “it was such a nice-looking morning !
she must be the doer of everything : lady bertram would of course be spared all thought and exertion ,
, that i was not so mean as to resent the past ; and i hoped to obtain your forgiveness
of another member of the family indirectly discloses the fact that the book had by that time been published .
bennet’s consent should be asked in the course of the evening .
i speak , you know , only of such men as have hearts !
“it must be something particular , to take him there at this time of year .
i always thought it such a sweet place , ma ' am !
song to mr elliot .
much for her person ; and not less unpropitious for heroism seemed her mind .
out an air which he wished to give the miss musgroves an idea of .
had a heart returning to her at least ; that anger , resentment , avoidance , were no more ;
” he repeated .
a larger share than any one among so many could deserve .
he might be superseded by another ; he certainly would indeed ; nothing could be clearer ; even a robert
i forget what we are to have next , " turning to the bill .
the utmost .
i was mistaken , it is true , but i believed myself right .
satisfaction ; and his inquiries after their mother were respectful and attentive .
, there must indeed .
” mary , though pretending not to hear , was somewhat disconcerted ; and elizabeth , sorry for her ,
amazingly conceited , i am sure .
by sitting together upstairs , they avoided a great deal of the disturbance of the house ; fanny had peace
as long as she could , with all the civility and deference of the youthful female mind , fearful of
i made sure of its being nothing but a common love letter , and you know young people like to
i am quite in the dark .
it is not at all the part for her .
only think of those sweet verses— ' to miss ——— .
of accommodation , it proved to be exactly the case .
—yours affectionately , m .
vernon waited on lady susan shortly after her arrival in town , and was met with such an easy and
are by no means unusual in children of two or three years old ; an imperfect articulation , an earnest
her than at any other part of the story .
the children are all fond of him .
the contempt which she had , very early in their acquaintance , felt for her daughter-in-law , was very much
to have her company so warmly solicited !
and we agreed it would be best to have the harp , for it seems to amuse her more than
cooks at least .
views , only feared greater difficulty in accomplishing them .
“it is amazing , ” said she , “how much young people cost their friends , what with bringing them
while trying to keep herself alive , their visitor , who had at first approached her with as animated a
” “i did not know before , ” continued bingley immediately , “that you were a studier of character .
every moment—but she thought she might get to hartfield first—she had hurried on as fast as possible ; but then
" westgate buildings !
and had no active kindness in comparison of edmund .
" i replied that it was .
as yet sir thomas had seen nothing to remark in mr .
resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as soon as she could .
of love-making relieved them from a great deal of his company .
greasy than even rebecca ' s hands had first produced it .
” “no doubt ; but that is no explanation of the present .
the seats of grandeur , round the orchestra , of course .
" are you going as high as belmont ?
” “it wants improvement , ma ' am , beyond anything .
i meant , moreover , to have reminded him of our being quite alone now , and very much in
” “well , then , you need not be under any alarm .
“you , who have been the best friend i ever had in my life—want gratitude to you !
churchill has pride ; but his pride is nothing to his wife ' s : his is a quiet ,
it is the regret and disappointment of a sister , who thinks her brother has a right to everything he
phillips was quite awed by such an excess of good breeding ; but her contemplation of one stranger was soon
i hope they are quite well .
yes , he certainly read in miss morland ' s eyes a judicious desire of making use of the present
in watching them she forgot herself ; and , agitated by the increasing spirit of edmund ' s manner ,
am i to believe that you have never sought to recommend yourself particularly to miss smith ?
jennings most heartily in her expectation of their being all comfortably together in delaford parsonage before michaelmas .
i do not know what can be done with it .
no sooner did he appear than elizabeth wisely resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed ; a resolution the more
to still think of both gentlemen as i did before .
morland had very early dispatched one of the children to summon him ; but mr .
recovering himself , however , shortly , he turned to his partner , and said , “sir william’s interruption has
a plan of going away for a week or ten days , till her head was stronger .
something must and will happen to throw a hero in her way .
” “my dear emma , ” said he , moving from his chair into one close by her , “you
elderly man ' s .
” “you get upon delicate subjects , emma , ” said mrs .
no unexpected summons , no impertinent intrusion to disconcert their measures , my heroine was most unnaturally able to fulfil
with modern furniture it would be delightful .
they are given wrong notions from the beginning .
you may write your letter whenever you choose .
" this was no explanation ; i begged her to tell me what she meant .
i shall not attempt to deny .
” “this comfort you might have had sooner , fanny , had you sought it .
she began almost to feel a dislike of edward ; and it ended , as every feeling must end with
, but no one can throw any blame on them .
he is a brave fellow .
dashwood indulged herself in the pleasure of announcing to her son-in-law and his wife that she was provided with a
and she could not easily forget its having stopped two hours at petty france .
grant , smiling—“the turkey , and i assure you a very fine one ; for , my dear , ”
and looks to all the injury of a poisonous atmosphere .
a sick chamber may often furnish the worth of volumes .
” repeated miss bingley .
; “but , unluckily , the butler and anhalt are in together .
norfolk was what he had mostly to talk of : there he had been some time , and everything there
” this was not submitted to by either lady .
she could not think of her in london without objects of curiosity and employment , which must be averting the
she dreaded lest she should learn to be insensible of it .
” “well , but how did he break it to you ?
ought to be , so are the rest of the nation .
so highly do i value and esteem him , that if marianne can be happy with him , i shall
" [ _num_ ] chapter xliv elinor , starting back with a look of horror at the sight of him
it is not likely you should ever have observed him ; but he knows you very well indeed—i mean by
what could she mean by it ?
her curiosity was greatly excited .
nine , yet he always said so little , that the increase of noise would be very immaterial .
, as well as i could , the danger of an intimate acquaintance , with so artful a woman as
, on his lifting her up , had robbed her of the power of regarding him after their entering the
a something in his voice and manner in addressing her very different from what they were when he talked to
with rushworth as a brother .
he looked serious , as usual ; and , she thought , more as he had been used to look
it might have been , before he chose to put an end to it .
bennet soon assured her that he was rising every hour in his esteem .
“gracechurch street , sept .
it was plain that he was that moment arrived—that moment alighted from his horse or his carriage .
not when dorothy has given you to understand that there is a secret subterraneous communication between your apartment and the
you such as she was , in situation and name , and home , presiding and blessing in the same
and that we were most particularly asked to meet lady dalrymple and her daughter , and mr elliot , and
convinced him that the suspicions whence , he must confess to himself , this very ball had in great measure
what was his name ?
he was just entering into life , full of spirits , and with all the liberal dispositions of an eldest
there are few people much about town that i do not know .
an acquaintance of eight or nine days , is given as a specimen of their very warm attachment , and
you will see nothing of it by candlelight .
“excellent creature !
they were lucky enough to find lady middleton at home , and sir john came in before their visit ended
” “oh , yes !
crawford were with you .
s beauty ; but as she still continued to think mr .
she then found that it consisted of mrs musgrove , henrietta , and captain harville , beside their two selves
had mrs .
still call .
she has my hand and arm and a tolerable voice .
there never was a happier or a better couple than mr .
up , and are to provide for him !
to see and explore either the ramparts and keep of the one , or the cloisters of the other ,
though they each , like elizabeth , meant to dance half the evening with mr .
feelings of the dutiful and affectionate son , as they met mrs .
gratify you .
” jane went to him instantly , kissed him , and thanked him for his goodness .
believe it at this moment .
indeed we have , we had a letter this very morning , ' i do not know that i ever
with admiral and mrs croft ' s compliments .
” “not that i shall , though , ” she added to herself , as she finished the letter ;
minutes , from what was uppermost in her mind .
yet been seen , the old abbey fish-ponds ; perhaps get as far as the clover , which was to
—it was with him , of so simple , yet so dignified a nature .
own influence on his heart , and made him regret the connection which had involved him in such difficulties ?
the beautifull augustus was arrested and we were all undone .
willoughby , what is the meaning of this ?
it is not a connexion to gratify ; but if mr .
i recollect .
captain harville ' s being settled with his family at lyme for the winter ; of their being therefore ,
variation as might disappoint her nephew in the most reasonable dependence—and mrs .
on entering the drawing-room she found the whole party at loo , and was immediately invited to join them ;
give up the point and submit .
do go and see for her , mr .
could hardly suppose her cousins could be aware of what they were engaging in ; and longed to have them
at night she opened her heart to jane .
” “perhaps we might be deceived .
" as elinor was certain of seeing her in a couple of minutes , without taking that liberty , she
to , he intended to value him very highly .
i was calm for some time ; but the greatest degree of forbearance may be overcome , and i hope
in the breakfast-room we found lady susan , and a young man of gentlemanlike appearance , whom she introduced by
he is perfectly amiable .
lucky contraction of the brow had rescued her countenance from the disgrace of insipidity , by giving it the strong
" it was a frightful hour , " said he , " a frightful day !
—so frank writes word .
lively as he was , it seemed a liveliness that did not satisfy himself ; but what decided her belief
for my part i have not seen anything i like so well in the whole room , i assure you
her explanatory visit in rivers street .
, however , with the discovery , which her keen eye soon made , that the lace on mrs .
bertram has a bad chance of ultimate recovery .
it was beginning to rain again , and altogether there was a delay , and a bustle , and a
“lizzy , ” said he , “i was going to look for you ; come into my room .
most unhappy connection .
meeting her eye , unadorned as it was by any such broad wreath of gallantry , she yet could discern
side in the mystery of an affected secret , on the other of undefined discovery , all equally acute .
as i hate to be worrying and officious , i said no more ; but my heart quite ached for
it is really very good of you to come and sit with me , when you must have so many
love you , and wish to make you happy .
“yes , ” cried mr .
weston ' s parting question .
at about half past twelve , a remarkably loud rap drew her in haste to the window , and scarcely
simple as such an engagement might appear in other eyes , it had novelty and importance in hers , for
referring the education to her seemed to imply it .
dashwood probably found the same explanation .
his extreme attention to my mother—wanting her to sit in the vicarage pew , that she might hear the better
hurry .
“no , no , you must not ; you shall not , indeed .
he hardly knew whether there were any difference in her spirits or not .
but from one cause or another , i gave it up in disgust .
we of course mentioned you , and i assure you that ample justice was done to your merits by all
” no one made any reply .
—“well !
am persuaded that you and my brother will give the alliance your hearty approbation .
” elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied , “yes , you know enough of my frankness to believe me
her unwillingness to quit her mother was her only restorative to calmness ; and at the moment of parting her
be off immediately .
reflection itself upon mrs .
i am more angry with her than ever since i have seen her daughter ; the poor girl looks so
—(in an accent meant to be insinuating)—i am sure you have seen and understood me .
you like news—and i heard an article in my way hither that i think will interest you .
" you are mistaken , elinor ; you are very much mistaken .
while anne belonged to them .
” “no , no ; it shall not do either ; i am not afraid .
this pianoforte had arrived from broadwood ' s the day before , to the great astonishment of both aunt and
not but be named by him , in the little narratives or descriptions which conversation called forth .
rather a confirmation of it ; if , indeed , such a report is in existence .
no leaf will decay because we are removed , nor any branch become motionless although we can observe you no
—excellently contrived , upon my word .
“john enters like a brother into my happiness , ” continued mr .
was mortal , there must be a triumph .
" walter , " said she , " get down this moment .
i cannot recollect .
” “our amiable young man is a very weak young man , if this be the first occasion of his
and since i have had the misfortune to lose him , i have frequently wished to heal the breach ;
had been on ; but she could not mention the number of years that he had been absent without tears
“we shall be able to do ten times more .
only been roused by elinor ' s application , to entreat from marianne greater openness towards them both ; and
” “i have often thought them the worst of the two , ” replied he coolly .
i do not consider her as meaning to wound my feelings .
her to be at least three thousand pounds short of any equitable claim to it .
the longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart , and , by a manoeuvre of mrs
his account of their present quarters , and the very great attentions and excellent acquaintances meryton had procured them .
some consequence .
language of real feeling and alarm ; then she wrote as she might have spoken .
you on tuesday , or that it will be in her power to persuade him that , instead of being
you must see the difference .
herself for bed .
” “as far as it has gone hitherto , there is no harm done , ” said mr .
she meant to take her in the carriage , leave her at the abbey mill , while she drove a
she was in good humour with all .
you young ladies who cannot often ride in a carriage never mind what weather you trudge in , or how
applied to for her own choice between the games , and being required either to draw a card for whist
her cottage , where she happened to be particularly in want of green baize .
as lady bertram , and some years her junior , should have an appearance so much more worn and faded
a mrs .
, would soon pop off .
but manner fanny did not want .
no doubt he is very sincere in preferring an income ready made , to the trouble of working for one
a man always imagines a woman to be ready for any body who asks her .
the musgroves could hardly be more ready to invite than he to come , particularly in the morning , when
” “because you were grave and silent , and gave me no encouragement .
not a syllable had ever reached her of miss darcy’s meditated elopement .
“they will join me early to-morrow , ” he continued , “and among them are some who will claim an
tone of indifference for everything but justice and equity .
, will gain a woman some applause , but will not add one lover to her list—grace and manner ,
” “perhaps i might ; but all that you know is entirely comparative .
collins , “i am particularly obliged to you for this friendly caution , and you may depend upon my not
dixon ?
sensible women who would have accepted him , or have made him happy if they had .
and even now , i cannot comprehend on what motive she acted , or what fancied advantage it could be
arrangements of elizabeth and mrs clay for the morrow ' s party , the frequent enumeration of the persons invited
collins could not conceal his apprehension of lady catherine’s being rather displeased by her staying at home .
that ' s very like .
do you know , i get so immoderately sick of bath ; your brother and i were agreeing this morning
among them the general inclination to which she was privy , and persuaded them all to go to lyme at
but nothing is new—even in a novel—and ' hop , ' in this sense , is at least as old
the mind on its way to resignation .
) but he had now been a fortnight in bath , and his first object on arriving , had been
all likely to make an imprudent match .
miss lee taught her french , and heard her read the daily portion of history ; but he recommended the
i have seen them both—” “then it is as i always hoped , ” cried jane ; “they are married
he is not at all a well-bred young man .
with the shrubbery on one side , where she may see her mother walking for an hour together in earnest
the novelty was in their being lively .
let me do it without further loss of time .
some little present of furniture too may be acceptable then .
what could your ladyship propose by it ?
she wanted to hear much more than mary had communicated .
” “thank you , thank you , my own sweet little friend .
” chapter ix emma did not repent her condescension in going to the coles .
i made a point also of frederica ' s behaving civilly to sir james , and gave her to understand
her father ' s house would , in all probability , teach her the value of a good income ;
hour ' s silent consideration spontaneously observed , “sir thomas , i have been thinking—and i am very glad we
" many had looked on each other , and many had repeated the name , before all this had been
the evil day was put off .
he had been blamable , highly blamable , in remaining at norland after he first felt her influence over him
idle , trifling business , shrugging up my shoulders in proof of its being so , and silencing every reproach
the following morning anne was out with her friend , and for the first hour , in an incessant and
at that instant , she felt that years of happiness could not make jane or herself amends for moments of
dear , not at all .
” “kitty has no discretion in her coughs , ” said her father ; “she times them ill .
at ease .
he would be in love with you .
the visit was soon returned in due form .
doubt—putting every thing together—that jane was resolved to receive no kindness from her .
both with him ; and louisa was raised up and supported more firmly between them , and everything was done
moved .
soft light eyes to sparkling dark ones .
good girl !
wish of renewing it ; and this for more reasons than one .
who could be accepted in lieu of miss taylor for even half a day .
my brother is already in paris .
” elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother , but remained quietly in the hall , till she
begin to know you .
conscience prompted , she believed there might be little more difficulty in persuading them to a complete , than to
leave of the old coachman , and send back proper messages , with cheerful looks .
filling its destined place with credit to them both—a standing memorial of the beauty of one , the skill of
was obliged to keep by the side of mrs .
they will ruin your happiness .
” “she seems a very pleasant young woman .
such a thing by you , of all people in the world !
what a delightful ball we had last night .
the next day came and brought no second letter .
we may be trusted , i think , in chusing some play most perfectly unexceptionable ; and i can conceive
now , at sotherton we have a good seven hundred , without reckoning the water meadows ; so that i
norris too well to think of gratifying her by commendation of fanny ; to her , it was as the
a brother of mrs marlowe , mr cleveland is with them at present ; he is a good-looking young man
what are you telling miss bennet ?
which he was once so remarkable .
very dear ?
you could no more walk than you could fly !
” it was well to have a comfort in store on harriet ' s behalf , though it might be
if they must dance , they had better dance at randalls .
ferrars , of park street , and brother of your sister-in-law , mrs .
it was an alarming change ; and emma was thinking of it one morning , as what must bring a
" " upon my word it would , " replied mary .
our importance , our respectability in the world must be affected by the wild volatility , the assurance and disdain
—then i must have dreamt it—but i was completely persuaded—miss smith , you walk as if you were tired .
” “as you please , ma ' am , on that head ; but i meant my father ' s
, and now and then the quiet observation of , “my poor sister bertram must be in a great deal
" said she , in a low and disappointed voice , as she turned away to the window .
, of which we can form no idea .
this was agreed to , and mrs .
say beautiful rather .
i feel it—i would express it if i could—but , as you well know , i am no orator .
and , when she saw him in the evening , while she worked with her friend , slowly pacing the
knightley and emma settled it in a few brief sentences : thus— “your father will not be easy ; why
pleased with the preference of one , and offended by the neglect of the other , on the very beginning
” “you are sick of prosperity and indulgence .
he had considerably over-rated her sense , and wonderfully borne with her manners before .
to it ; and any horse would do for him ; he might always get one at the park ;
” isabella ' s countenance was once more all smiles and good humour , and james too looked happy again
(said she after a short pause) “i cannot support this silence you must not leave me to my own reflections
“yours , very sincerely , “m .
very desirous of obtaining ; nor has frederica any claim to the indulgence of her notions at the expense of
been too much in the habit of indulging , i endeavoured , by every means in my power , to
go again .
of the others , or sitting almost alone , and quite unattended to , in tranquil observation of the beautiful
open , the servant ' s announcing mr .
such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through longbourn house .
he feared there must be some decided involvement .
the high colour in her face , said-- " the language , i know , is highly disrespectful .
his errand , and where you all were .
” “very much .
dear emma has been to call on mrs .
among these may be ranked cardinal wolsey ' s telling the father abbott of leicester abbey that “he was come
” emma could not speak the name of dixon without a little blush .
“if he wants our society , let him seek it .
chapter xxii marianne , who had never much toleration for any thing like impertinence , vulgarity , inferiority of parts
anne talked of being perfectly ready , and tried to look it ; but she felt that could henrietta have
” soon after this miss bates came in , and emma could not help being diverted by the perplexity of
, who were dancing together .
often proceed beyond a look .
, that her usual readings and conversation with susan were much suspended .
i hope to see her the wife of sir james within a twelvemonth .
tell me , willoughby ; for heaven ' s sake tell me , what is the matter ?
saw with what constant and judicious attention they were making themselves agreeable to lady middleton .
the pain of being obliged to practise concealment towards him , was very little inferior to the pain of having
archly , after a short pause ; “for he is a clergyman , you know .
" " nothing at all , i should rather suppose ; for she has only her jointure , which will
henry the _num_ th i cannot say much for this monarch ' s sense .
came near enough to speak .
wishing , with a laugh , that he might be really one very soon .
kitty , a fair but frozen maid , kindled a flame i yet deplore , the hood-wink ' d boy
i am a very matter-of-fact , plain-spoken being , and may blunder on the borders of a repartee for half
vernon which your society must ; and my visit has already perhaps been too long .
his immediate communications were exhausted , and it seemed enough to be looking joyfully around him , now at one
crawford would take my two nieces and me in his barouche , and edmund can go on horseback , you
—so it appeared to me at least , but i might be mistaken .
a sudden seizure of a different nature from any thing foreboded by her general state , had carried her off
this argument of rational dependence : -- " surely , if there be constant attachment on each side , our
elizabeth , who was left by herself , now smiled at the rapidity and ease with which an affair was
something had been said the evening before of her being shown over the house , and he now offered himself
knightley , who had left the room immediately after his brother ' s first report of the snow , came
at present , i ask only to hear , once to hear your voice .
made harriet unhappy .
of only a few minutes , nor to banish the sort of curiosity she felt to know what they had
trick of what ought to be simple .
for he is forced to make every body like him .
your description of mrs .
weston was in distress about the supper ; and mr .
was quite helpless ; and in this manner , anne walking by her side , and charles attending to his
education , which i really wish to have attended to while she remains at miss summers ' s .
dashwood did not seem to know much about horses , he soon set him down as a very good-natured fellow
stay , stay , i will go myself .
all the encouragement of her mother ' s language , to make it cheerful .
our summers in ; and my aunt and i went down to it quite in raptures ; but it being
actions been what mr .
made it easier to swallow than to speak .
present plan ; things have gone too far .
” “i would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone ; but i always speak what i think .
but that is not the case here .
two e ' s] and that to me will be fun .
pemberley with you .
elton for what was called an introduction—of her going into public under the auspices of a friend of mrs .
dared lift her eyes to his face , and knew not what answer she returned to his civil inquiries after
how much could it not tempt her to forgive !
he wants to marry her ; her mother promotes the match , but she cannot endure the idea of it
unsophisticated mind !
" norland is a prodigious beautiful place , is not it ?
yes ; —there is nothing in that .
her increase of emotion .
crawford , lively , and it may be , a little unthinking , might be led on to—there could be
” “and do you really know all this ?
(turning to emma .
perry .
business on sir john ' s part , and a violent[ _num_ ] cold on her own , prevented their
palmer maintained the common , but unfatherly opinion among his sex , of all infants being alike ; and though
nobody thought of hannah till you mentioned her—james is so obliged to you !
flatter myself with the hope of surviving my share in this disappointment .
and of dear , good dr shirley ' s being relieved from the duty which he could no longer get
to understand , thoroughly understand her own heart , was the first endeavour .
ireland !
—but surely , mr .
edmund , between his theatrical and his real part , between miss crawford ' s claims and his own conduct
i wish he may go to the east indies , that i may have my shawl .
" here , " said he , " ended the worst of my state ; for now i could at
from edmund , so long expected , was put into fanny ' s hands .
it is the very last thing i would stand the brunt of just now .
much more she was thinking of lyme and louisa musgrove , and all her acquaintance there ; how much more
” “i did not observe .
i declare i quite doat upon them already , and indeed i am always distractedly fond of children .
my adventures are now drawing to a close my dearest marianne ; at least for the present .
not content with coming , he actually invited himself to remain here a few days .
she asked her , at different times , how many sisters she had , whether they were older or younger
a poor widow barely able to live , between thirty and forty ; a mere mrs smith , an every-day
illness , but i have now changed my mind , and fear to trust the influence of friends .
he had—she thought he had , once or twice before this fatal morning , shown something like affection for her
who is he ?
we will ask him .
the dessert succeeded , the children came in , and were talked to and admired amid the usual rate of
grant ' s saying , as she stepped from the carriage , “as there are five of you , it
great astonishment , not a line has been received from him on the occasion .
my girls were nothing to her , and yet they used to be foolish enough ; but as for miss
more cautiously to mr .
bennet spent the morning together , as had been agreed on .
i have still another motive for your coming : mr .
i thought it my duty as a friend , and older than yourself , to say thus much to you
but , lizzy , you can tell us whether it is like or not .
i am now satisfied that i never could have brought myself to marry reginald , and am equally determined that
, indeed , it was clear enough that they must wait till her brain was set to right .
, till she saw her in the way of cure , there could be no true peace for herself .
her after the two first dances , and said , with a significant look , “perhaps you can tell me
do , and she had hardly anybody to love ; but the encounter of such lavish recommendations could not fail
vernon , surprized and incredulous , knew not what to suspect , and , without any change in her own
one amongst them whose conduct he could mention without some necessity of defence or palliation .
the two youngest miss thorpes were by themselves in the parlour ; and , on anne ' s quitting it
a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited ; and the valley , here contracted into a glen
” “and , my dear edmund , ” added mrs .
family were not to be made in the carriage of the family .
what to do ?
another summer will hardly improve it to me .
one feel there is attachment ; but of that i shall see nothing with the frasers .
trophies .
there will be enough for every hope and every fear ; and though my attachment to none can equal that
” no , she had heard from him very lately , but having answered the letter , had put it
a degree that made either speaking or looking up quite impossible , turned away his own eyes , and without
phillips visited them all , and this opened to his nieces a store of felicity unknown before .
i ' d rather you would .
' no signs that a ' scottish monarch sleeps below .
for her on serious reflection to suspect it in the present case , where no temptation could be answerable to
ceremony was over , as she was desirous that marianne should not receive the first notice of it from the
that the space which a quarter of an hour before had been deemed barely sufficient for five couple , was
nobody would know who i was here , and i should like to be your partner once more .
it will not be so great a loss of time : but if you dislike it—” “not at all .
” “in my opinion , the younger son of an earl can know very little of either .
comparatively cold and insipid .
; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no scruple whatever on that head , and was
emma divined what every body present must be thinking .
ferrars , not aware of their being elinor ' s work , particularly requested to look at them ; and
, and a general nervous faintness .
this peace will be turning all our rich naval officers ashore .
no , upon my word i have not the smallest wish for your marrying jane fairfax or jane any body
and with a judgement too unassailed by any attention to herself , she was very little disposed to approve them
weston tried , in vain , to make them harmonise better .
isabella , on hearing the particulars of the visit , gave a different explanation : “it was all pride ,
glowing entreaty fixed on her for a time , and hastily collecting his gloves , was again out of the
martin and harriet now are ?
even now her self-command is invariable .
” morland remonstrated , pleaded the authority of road-books , innkeepers , and milestones ; but his friend disregarded them
bath might produce .
in the end may prove materially advantageous .
attentive to darcy as heretofore , and paid off every arrear of civility to elizabeth .
it was next to impossible that their cousin should come in a scarlet coat , and it was now some
, and one smile and one card more decidedly for captain wentworth .
norris began scolding .
crawford ' s feelings , i am ready to acknowledge , have hitherto been too much his guides .
the exclusion of the grants .
she had rather play .
cole had heard from mr .
; and though a great deal is due to the feelings of the gentleman , and the head of a
intended for fanny .
stains and dirt that might otherwise have slept .
which of them is it ?
it was evident that the gentleman , (completely a gentleman in manner) admired her exceedingly .
will be with us next week .
we bespeak your indulgence , you understand , as young performers ; we bespeak your indulgence .
” “we shall go willingly ; (answered sophia) our hearts have long detested thee , and nothing but our freindship
concern for his sufferings , undervalue yours .
take me , if ever i am so foolish again .
i take care of your sister home .
” “but , my dear , you must indeed go and see mr .
” “but i would really advise you to make your purchase in that neighbourhood , and take pemberley for a
certainly .
i have just received my dispatches , and taken my farewell of allenham ; and by way of exhilaration i
" charlotte laughed heartily to think that her husband could not get rid of her ; and exultingly said ,
a letter arrived from mr .
you must , therefore , pardon the freedom with which i demand your attention ; your feelings , i know
" but indeed you must and shall come .
radcliffe ' s ; her novels are amusing enough ; they are worth reading ; some fun and nature in
her on so short a personal acquaintance , with a secret so confessedly and evidently important .
but , fanny , ” stopping her , by taking her hand , and speaking low and seriously , “you
restore her sister to health , yet , by pronouncing her disorder to have a putrid tendency , and allowing
” “it is an immense distance , ” said she ; “i see that with a glance .
human nature .
collins should be able to procure any woman’s good opinion , because he was not so happy as to succeed
; though at this period , and on this subject , there began now to be some danger of dissimilarity
are .
her for the world .
been brought on by himself .
always be ashamed of , and i was very foolishly tempted to say and do many things which may well
after a moment ' s pause , sir thomas , trying to suppress a smile , went on .
palmer herself , ever spoke of him before her .
the first day i went over mansfield wood , and edmund took the copses beyond easton , and we brought
bennet had very often wished before this period of his life that , instead of spending his whole income ,
speaking twenty words .
frank ' s was the first idea ; and his the greatest zeal in pursuing it ; for the lady
he passed , however , for an admirer of her dancing ; and sir thomas , by no means displeased
i have , i flatter myself , made no inconsiderable progress in her affections ; but my own are entirely
it need not frighten you : it is a nothing of a part , a mere nothing , not above
out for ever from their society , they already think me an unprincipled fellow , this letter will only make
miss nash , head-teacher at mrs .
no reason for avoiding him but what i might proclaim before all the world , a sense of very great
—could it be ?
principles .
how does lord macartney go on ?
but so low did the building stand , that she found herself passing through the great gates of the lodge
whether he were overhearing too , she could not determine .
equally urgent with her mother to accompany her .
union .
now , i am well aware that i shall not be half so welcome to mrs .
lady bertram took it differently .
debts behind him to a very considerable amount .
i have no pleasure in the sort of meeting , and should be too happy to change it for a
frank churchill ' s having the least regard for jane fairfax .
the crofts will associate with them .
, that it was wisest for everybody not to delay their exercise” ; and such hints producing nothing , he
preserve their good opinion , that , in the embarrassment of the first five minutes , she could almost have
she could not but own that she should be very glad of a little tea , and susan immediately set
” “we were born in the same parish , within the same park ; the greatest part of our youth
of concentrating our folly , i shall be well repaid .
i cannot go into somersetshire .
it was almost enough to make her think of marrying .
proceed as she might do in his absence .
" here , frederick , you and i part company , i believe , " said she .
obtain from her a single word of approbation .
—this is not pleasant to you , emma—and it is very far from pleasant to me ; but i must
” “it was bad , very bad in me against such a creature ; but i did not know her
i speak feelingly .
the weather affected mr .
allen attended her to milsom street , where she was to breakfast , and saw her seated with the kindest
unlucky .
i came here to-day intending to rehearse it with edmund—by ourselves—against the evening , but he is not in the
to her he could be nothing under any circumstances ; nothing dearer than a friend .
” “how ?
it was consoling that he should know she had some relations for whom there was no need to blush .
the agony of grief which overpowered them at first , was voluntarily renewed , was sought for , was created
useful in helping to fit up his cabin .
her vexation did not end with the week .
it was told me , —it was in a manner forced on me by the very person herself , whose
“i began to be afraid you would never come back again .
she heard somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry , and calling loudly after her .
donavan , and mr .
” “ ' mr .
no one , observing her during the first four acts , would have supposed she had any wretchedness about her
their road was through a pleasant country ; and fanny , whose rides had never been extensive , was soon
all the surprise and suspense , and every other painful part of the morning dissipated by this conversation , she
one of her sex at least , let him be ever so generally agreeable .
” “unsafe !
between ourselves , the whole blame of it is to be laid to her .
he had meant them to be good , but his cares had been directed to the understanding and manners ,
but i love him too well to be the selfish means of robbing him , perhaps , of all that
i am my dear charlotte yrs ever m .
a private ball given by mr ashburnham .
and this belief produced another dread .
other three , no longer under any restraint , were giving vent to their feelings of vexation , lamenting over
—it had a high claim to forbearance .
“wickham , perhaps , is my favourite ; but i think i shall like your husband quite as well as
norris was most zealous in promoting the match , by every suggestion and contrivance likely to enhance its desirableness to
” catherine coloured as she warmly answered , “no friend can be better worth keeping than eleanor .
i must be satisfied with rather less ornament and beauty .
impossible not to speak ; and so , with the usual beginnings , hardly to be traced as to what
we took all possible care to break the melancholy event to eloisa in the tenderest manner ; yet in spite
palmer ; " for we know all about it , i assure you ; and i admire your taste very
” “he appears rough to you , ” said emma , “because you are so very gentle yourself ; but
” “between mr .
after a slight preparation for good news , the letter was read aloud .
; but on being assured that he could have made no attempt of that nature , since he did not
the evening of this day was very long , and melancholy , at hartfield .
he did not enter into any remonstrance with his other children : he was more willing to believe they felt
i have been feeling as if we had never lived so before .
irretrievable ; that one false step involves her in endless ruin ; that her reputation is no less brittle than
but his alarms were needless ; the sixteen miles being happily accomplished , and mr .
it was acknowledged , however , that he was a liberal man , and did much good among the poor
" " yes , for i am unable to keep my engagement with you .
it was exactly so .
—you (blushing as she spoke) who can see into every body ' s heart ; but nobody else—” “upon my
partial to all his endowments , she had never in her life thought him handsome .
there might be as much lost as gained by an immediate interview .
a short conversation between augusta and her brother , which i accidentally overheard encreased my dislike to her , and
weston was a native of highbury , and born of a respectable family , which for the last two or
and will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in meryton , of whom i
she followed their steps along the bottom walk , and had just turned up into another , when the voice
the doors of the two rooms were just opposite each other .
but then , ” with a more thoughtful air and lowered voice , “there is no saying what it may
the others walked away , john thorpe was still in view , and she gave herself up for lost .
” “excuse me , ” said jane earnestly , “i cannot by any means consent to such an arrangement ,
there is nothing like staying at home for real comfort .
so very obliging of mr .
girls should be quiet and modest .
writing-desk , and her works of charity and ingenuity , were all within her reach ; or if indisposed for
good deal of the present and of the future state of the engagement .
” “not go !
and patience for the wearisome ; and had never liked a concert better , at least during the first act
” “i hope i should know better , ” he replied ; “no , depend upon it , (with a
the matter to care for company ; and besides , you must long to tell your sister all about it
there was a bustle on her approach ; a good deal of moving and talking .
“perry !
i have entirely forgot the minuet dela cour .
which i should suppose would have been almost sufficient recommendation to you , had there been no other .
” “i do not believe i shall go any farther , ” said he sullenly ; “i see nothing of
the undesirableness of any other house in the same neighbourhood for sir walter was certainly much strengthened by one part
the affrighted catherine , amidst all the terrors of expectation , as she listened to this account , could not
it was of the utmost consequence to her that crawford should now lose no time in declaring himself , and
the only way of proving it , however , will be to turn to our maps .
miss woodhouse must excuse me .
he was actually on the point of leaving churchhill !
“by all means .
, to make it appear unimportant .
, how do you like my friend thorpe ?
accordingly finding myself this morning alone with him in one of the horrid old rooms of this castle , i
to do good by entering into the feelings of a young lady as of a young man , though here
weston arrived , emma had the perusal of it ; and she read it with a degree of pleasure and
shall you like to have such a brother ?
after what you told him from me , how could he think of going to ask her ?
it was that which threw this gloom , —even now the recollection of what i suffered— " he could say
“i have nothing to say that can entertain miss woodhouse , or any other young lady .
oh , curse it !
always avoid , “we are too long going over the house , we shall not have time for what is
uncommon kindness , vouchsafed on so short an acquaintance , seemed to declare that the good-will towards her arose from
let us leave it to the reviewers to abuse such effusions of fancy at their leisure , and over every
offer the comfort of hope .
" i said ; " you will find mr .
sir reginald is very infirm , and not likely to stand in your way long .
she did all that i wanted .
" " do not talk to me of my wife , " said he with a heavy sigh .
“you shook your head at my acknowledging that i should not like to engage in the duties of a clergyman
marianne , i dare say , will not leave her room again this evening .
had celebrated that event by giving up music , although by her mother ' s account , she had played
and would have parted for ever on the spot , would he consent to it ; but he said it
when the distressing communication at uppercross was over , and he had seen the father and mother quite as composed
and how surprising it is that such an idea should never have occurred to her .
" he will sit poring over his book , and not know when a person speaks to him , or
in short , she sat , during the first visit , looking at jane fairfax with twofold complacency ; the
calling at mrs .
the best right to a return .
" " rather say your mother ' s imprudence , my child , " said mrs .
regular features , open countenance , with a complexion !
a few inquiries began : but one of the earliest—“how did sister bertram manage about her servants ?
emma remained very well pleased with this beginning of the acquaintance , and could now engage to think of them
owen before .
it in despair .
all afraid of the trouble ; indeed , she could not imagine there would be any .
collins has no instrument , she is very welcome , as i have often told her , to come to
a girl of frederica ' s age must be childish indeed , if such things do not strike her .
edmund ' s feelings were for the other two .
" [ _num_ ] " how fond he was of it !
recollections , is astonishing to me !
” “my dear , how am i to get so far ?
wrong—and not one in a million , i suppose , actually lost !
” he listened in perfect silence .
do you think he had the elliot countenance ?
without living in it either too much or too little .
was she handsome ?
she had resolution enough to pursue her own will in spite of her brother , but not enough to refrain
were too tempting , and she was followed , or rather surrounded , by the whole gang , demanding more
the place was suited to meditation .
this was dreadful .
as to admit it !
she would be a loser in every way .
we acted with the best intentions .
you are more likely to have done harm to yourself , than good to them , by interference .
tom ' s extreme impatience to be removed to mansfield , and experience those comforts of home and family which
there was always sufficient reason for such an attention ; mrs .
another port , he calculates how soon it be possible to get them there , pretending to deceive himself ,
miss crawford ' s letter , which she had read so often as to make every line her own ,
returns to mansfield .
and time and habit will teach him to forget that he ever thought another superior to her .
footmen to leave business and pleasure , and say their prayers here twice a day , while they are inventing
the following question .
would make it , in a proper manner—would do him more good , raise him higher , fix his interest
—what was the value of this ?
most brotherly affection for you , he is so far from making flourishes , that any other young woman might
admired her more than julia .
curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised such splendid expectations .
“dr .
with real interest and strong admiration did her eye now follow the general , as he moved through the crowd
goddard ' s unavoidable absences , and raise her spirits by representing how much mr .
returning to mansfield , without waiting for the two months to be ended , that must not be regarded as
of female right and refinement than he could be ; but yet she had a sort of habitual respect for
her diffidence , gratitude , and softness made every expression of indifference seem almost an effort of self-denial ; seem
your sense of honour and honesty would have led you , i know , when aware of your situation ,
” “on the right-hand pavement—she must be almost out of sight now .
dear , yes ; but you must own she is very plain .
dear harriet !
had passed .
, was saying at once everything in favour of its happiness and dignity which his imagination could suggest ; and
price ' s to take mr .
on every occasion a most willing and active helpmate , desirous to share in all her fatigues , and often
what an evening of agony it was !
last parted of spending some weeks with you at churchhill , and , therefore , if quite convenient to you
dixon , i dare say .
she alone was sad and insignificant : she had no share in anything ; she might go or stay ;
beyond the happiness of being the tenants of sir walter elliot : an extraordinary taste , certainly , could they
her recovery slow ; and with youth , natural strength , and her mother ' s presence in aid ,
his brother elect .
be sensible , to treat my daughter with some severity while she is here ; a most painful necessity ,
solicitude to be received as a relation again , that their former good understanding was completely re-established .
i have no idea of that sort of thing .
they are very , very kind in their visits .
i hope they get on pretty well together .
” “miss smith !
before i saw you , but which you , by the exertion of your perverted abilities , had made me
she was sure of mrs .
giving themselves immense airs , and expecting to be on a footing with the old established families .
her own first feelings .
than for refusing it .
you received his advances in the kindest way ; and now he wants me to urge his suit , and
ten minutes ; and i saw quite enough of her .
you must not betray me , if you should ever meet with one of your acquaintance answering that description .
the hand and the heart were alike motionless and passive now !
silence she heard harriet say in a very serious tone , “i shall never marry .
, to excite gratitude than to feel it .
only the newspaper and the navy-list ; he talked only of the dockyard , the harbour , spithead , and
is a larger proportion who know a little of the matter , and who can judge and criticise .
norris , whose attachment seemed to augment with the demerits of her niece , would have had her received at
improved in essentials .
may is the very month which mrs .
no , indeed , miss woodhouse , you need not be afraid ; i can sit and admire him now
" " mrs .
it arrives we will ride every day .
a gentleman ' s phaeton , on the road which ran murmuring behind us .
there must be ample room in it for every real comfort .
spots had witnessed earlier in the morning .
i wish i could see cassiopeia .
sometimes one is guided by what they say of themselves , and very frequently by what other people say of
perhaps she ought to be ashamed , but mr .
duration .
rushworth ' s side for the misery she had occasioned , comfort was to be found greater than he had
remembered the doors of which the general had given no account .
genuine spirit , anticipating the pleasure of margaret ' s return , and talking of the dear family party which
" this delay on the colonel ' s side , however , did not seem to offend or mortify his
this event , if his wife live with you , it may be in your power to hasten .
i should have thought your last impressions of lyme must have been strong disgust .
but , in return , your sister must allow me to feel no more than i profess .
sir james invited himself with great composure to remain here a few days—hoped we would not think it odd ,
—i spoke ; circumstances were in my favour ; the late event had softened away his pride , and he
henry crawford ' s retaining her hand at such a moment , a moment of such peculiar proof and importance
” “you think her more light-hearted than i am ?
cousin jane will attribute to the right cause , and not to any disrespect for her .
and more anxious to be alone , than to be mistress of the subject .
”—“at a watering-place , or in a common london acquaintance , it was difficult to decide on such points .
that one half of the people in the room will not know whether you have a gown on or not—but
that there was to be such a party had been long generally known : it had even given the idea
was some satisfaction in considering with what self-denying , generous friendship she had always wished and promoted the match ;
would be inevitable there , and might yet , she hoped , cheat marianne , at times , into some
in which he was to accompany his son .
sure sir thomas could not seriously expect such a thing !
dashwood ' s visit to lady middleton took place the next day , and two of her daughters went with
for us , when you were put captain into that ship .
, and i have pleasure in many things .
, i would send her a new hat and pelisse .
she was nice only from natural delicacy , but he had been brought up in a school of luxury and
for the purpose of taking her opinion as to the propriety and comfort of the rooms before any other persons
your father .
not be an ill-looking place if it had a better approach .
—she spoke then , on being so entreated .
“shall i ?
he will be here in a moment , i am sure .
is it christmas gaieties that he is staying for ?
price , ” said henry crawford , leaning forward , “and will engage to answer every inquiry which you can
were i even careless in general on such matters , how could you imagine me so where your happiness was
emma , in good spirits too , from the amusement afforded her mind by the expectation of mr .
have i been rightly informed ?
he could not be benefited .
wild admiration , her fancy for him gave way , and others of the regiment , who treated her with
met in kent than before , and that she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning .
little sacrifice of her time .
it was now the middle of june , and the weather fine ; and mrs .
could anne wonder that her father and sister were happy ?
” “my manners must have been in fault , but not intentionally , i assure you .
” while he was thus tenderly embracing me , sophia astonished at my precipitate departure , entered the room in
tenderness which would prompt a visit like yours .
house ; and who , having so much leisure as to make almost any novelty a certain good , had
of something very different at the time .
" john dashwood was greatly astonished ; but his nature was calm , not open to provocation , and he
—they are coming in , i hope .
prayers were always read in it by the domestic chaplain , within the memory of many ; but the late
” “there is a great deal of truth in what you say , ” replied sir thomas , “and far
recently lost ; and every body admitted it to be no more than due decorum .
knightley , and was now forming all her views of happiness .
—what could she possibly mean !
“my dear miss woodhouse , ” said the latter , “i am just run across to entreat the favour of
thing in the world , or would have been the most natural , had she been acting just then without
she thanked me , however , most affectionately , for my kind concern in the welfare of herself and daughter
” when his letter to mrs .
should now have been leaving mansfield .
, but could not shake the doubts of the well-read catherine , he led the way across the hall ,
make it a very suffering exhibition to herself .
crawford grievously ; and julia , unengaged and unemployed , felt all the right of missing him much more .
miss woodhouse , how ungrateful i have been !
ferrars , " added he , lowering his voice to the tone becoming so important a subject , " knows
little emma , grow up a better woman than your aunt .
and to whom i mean to bequeath my whole estate , it wants seven miles .
and so , darcy did every thing ; made up the match , gave the money , paid the fellow’s
i stood out as long as i could , till the tears almost came into her eyes , and i
forced complacency , gave him her hand , and wished him joy .
i charge you , take care of fanny .
chapter xiii emma continued to entertain no doubt of her being in love .
for her happiness ; and elinor was obliged to go on .
betray her into any observations seemingly unhandsome .
ignorance of the world and want of employment .
" " all merged in my friendship , sophia .
elinor ' s satisfaction , at the moment of removal , was more positive .
it was possible that you might retain the feelings of the past , as i did ; and one encouragement
“i cannot help being jealous , catherine , when i see myself slighted for strangers , i , who love
—such an elevation on her side !
, with a good-humoured smile : “come , mr .
” “no , no , ”—he gravely replied .
all that could be probable or reasonable , entered her brain .
sir john never came to the dashwoods without either inviting them to dine at the park the next day ,
how ardently did she long to know whether any of his were directed in a like manner .
to judge him beforehand .
, that the youngest should tax mr .
not stop for more than a word—but he had the vanity to think they would be disappointed if he did
elinor , catching all , and more than all , his fears in a moment , proposed to call in
proper form .
she was very glad that she had given william what she did at parting , very glad , indeed ,
you mean to take orders , he has great pleasure in offering you the living of delaford now just vacant
becoming would diamonds be on our fine majestic figures !
sick of ambitious and mercenary connexions , prizing more and more the sterling good of principle and temper , and
, presented a very sweet mixture of youthful expression to the steady eyes of the artist .
this is always my luck .
i suppose mrs .
he had communicated it to no creature : he had not breathed a syllable of it even to mary ;
” “shall i order the boy to drive there ?
in his marrying such a woman therefore there would be nothing unsuitable .
his eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards them with a look of curiosity ; and that her ladyship
—alas !
woodhouse , always the first object on such occasions , was carefully attended to his own by mr .
while either of them protected him and his , hartfield was safe .
if you think it long—” “oh !
—but he always had been such a very kind neighbour !
“indeed , the truth was , that poor dear jane could not bear to see any body—any body at all—mrs
” “it would be very hard upon mr .
” exclaimed sophia .
my brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers .
” “i should have thought so theoretically myself , but , ” and her eyes brightened as she spoke ,
we do not want to disturb you from your seat .
i have had my pen in my hand to begin a letter to you almost every day since you left
” fanny could have said a great deal , but it was safer to say nothing , and leave untouched
but , whatever might be the distress of catherine ' s mind , as she thus advanced towards the parsonage
how hot a ride he should have , and how late , with all his hurry , he must be
captain benwick had some time ago been first lieutenant of the laconia ; and the account which captain wentworth had
the concurrence of my lord and master .
the inquisitive and doubtful fancies of that heart which seems always debating on the reasonableness of its emotions .
she had already satisfied herself that he thought harriet a beautiful girl , which she trusted , with such frequent
elton was the only one whose assistance she asked .
present conduct might incline one to the side of his wife ; but it is natural and amiable that miss
jennings ' s well-meant but ill-judged attentions to her , this calmness could not have been maintained ; but not
jennings assured him directly that she should not stand upon ceremony .
fanny price was at this time just ten years old , and though there might not be much in her
" well , my dear , " said mrs .
her influence , or at least the consciousness and use of it , originated in an act of kindness by
do you know mr .
frank was standing by her , but not steadily ; there was a restlessness , which shewed a mind not
front door ; somebody must be going away .
the superior degree of confidence towards harriet , which this one article marked , gave her severe pain .
it will pass away soon enough .
—since i began this letter , which will be longer than i foresaw , i have heard from her .
on any picture ; but he has an innate propriety and simplicity of taste , which in general direct him
the concert room , still governed .
—he is your superior , no doubt , and there do seem objections and obstacles of a very serious nature
collins , was convinced that they were talking of the longbourn estate , and resolving to turn herself and her
her again from cleveland .
” “there were misunderstandings between them , emma ; he said so expressly .
friends to do nothing .
too , and there was pain in the connexion .
, from respectable , honourable , and ancient—though untitled—families .
was beginning to speak on the subject , when fanny , anxious to get the story over , hastened to
" " opportunity !
i can hardly write .
we shall never be able to eat it while it is good .
very well used , if they went to the play without her .
yet , he must leave them at the end of a week , in spite of their wishes and his
price and her daughters to take their walk without loss of time .
only tell me if i was wrong .
it was a beautiful sight .
such an undersized , little , mean-looking man , set up for a fine actor , is very ridiculous in
the eltons walked together ; mr .
waste lands , crown lands and government , he shortly found himself arrived at politics ; and from politics ,
that i could suggest anything in extenuation !
not repent her resistance .
he might have made her childhood happier ; but it had been an error of judgment only which had given
a ready and cheerful consent ; but it is my duty to oppose a match which deep art only could
and it does not appear to me that we are more serious than we used to be—i mean before my
he said he should not stay out long ; but he has never come back , and now it is
between ten and eleven edmund and julia walked into the drawing-room , fresh with the evening air , glowing and
i have no such scruples , and i am sure i could put up with every unpleasantness of that kind
to love him .
” “almost every moment .
let me talk to you a little .
—i charge you by all that is sacred , not to attempt concealment .
have little labour and great enjoyment .
—for my mother had no use of her spectacles—could not put them on .
for taking likenesses , and attempted several of my friends , and was thought to have a tolerable eye in
and if they are , i only beg you to send them home .
“you want to tell me , and i have no objection to hearing it .
say that she hoped it might be settled otherwise ; in vain , however : sir thomas smiled , tried
and mother at norland , had so far gained on the affections of his uncle , by such attractions as
refuse to take jane ' s answer ; but she positively declared she would not write any such denial yesterday
, as if overpowered by the various feelings of his soul , and trying by prayer and reflection to calm
, you know ; you and i used to be very fond of a play ourselves , and so am
some agitation , when he was to congratulate her on the acquisition of a brother ?
but i should have thought her hair had been darker .
what might be .
i was so much indulged in my infant years that i was never obliged to attend to anything , and
thomas .
must get up and breakfast with him .
which she had whisked away mr .
appeared .
and with an eagerness and embarrassment quite diverting to her companion , she laid down the necklace again on its
he was more engaged with louisa than with henrietta .
” “come , ” said she , “i will tell you something , in return for what you have told
brandon , " said marianne , eagerly , " will it not be sufficient ?
ever when he appeared as the attendant , supporter , cheerer of a suffering brother .
emma got up on the morrow more disposed for comfort than she had gone to bed , more ready to
all my family , this would not have happened ; but poor dear lydia had nobody to take care of
they will be much more able to give you something .
with her that my sister-in-law was sure he would make her an offer before we came away .
do , if you have any reason to expect such a match .
" this was the principle on which anne wanted her father to be proceeding , his friends to be urging
willoughby ' s opinion in almost every matter of importance .
to every entreaty and expectation of the kind .
there was no reason to suppose mr .
to be able to assist .
” “i have still the advantage of you by sixteen years ' experience , and by not being a pretty
were in a state of enjoyment ; for she had seen her sister looking so well as to banish all
" the next morning brought elinor a letter by the two-penny post from lucy herself .
the mask she had so long supported was by degrees thrown aside , and as probably she then thought herself
” “me ?
i rejoice to find that the prudent advice of your parents has not been given in vain .
spending the rest of the day with her .
though better endowed than the elder sister , mary had not anne ' s understanding nor temper .
how it would affect frank was among the earliest thoughts of both .
the tumult of her mind , was now painfully great .
believe me , " and elinor spoke it with the truest sincerity , " nothing could be farther from my
though jane would have defended either or both , had they appeared to be in the wrong , she could
" " that is precisely what i was going to observe , " cried mrs croft .
that disagreeable man all to yourself .
knocking my elbow unmercifully .
and a smile of delight added lustre to her eyes , as she thought for that space of time that
is to the less prosperous .
” then it occurred to her what might be going on ; a suspicion rushed over her mind which drove
and as i looked at her , though i never saw her appear to more advantage , it struck me
heart ever ceasing .
i will make her very happy , mary ; happier than she has ever yet been herself , or ever
” said fanny , in reply .
the highest praise and honour .
a more simple one—perhaps too simple to raise any emotion , my feelings were very , very painful .
friday .
more than manner : it appears as if the mind itself was tainted .
yes ; this is the east room .
anything more in woman than ignorance .
heart , he would not , on this occasion , have found any thing to reprove .
her uncle , which marked his intelligence , his taste , or his good manners .
your family , and if my manner has been at all reprehensible , i here beg leave to apologise .
any further conversation , now left her with , “i shall see you in the morning .
does it occur to you that there is any one article in which we can retrench ?
and alarmed—but maria looked all serenity and satisfaction , and julia well knew that on this ground maria could not
ferrars is to be the man .
perhaps equally mistaken in each other ' s meaning , i resolved to have an explanation before it was too
secure him , should overlook every thing but the risk of delay .
it was sunday , and the whole time between morning and afternoon service was required by the general in exercise
a young lady of my acquaintance abominably ill , and i wish with all my soul his wife may plague
street set out from their respective homes , to meet , by appointment , on the road .
— " " not yet , " cried the other , concealing her terror , and assisting marianne to lie
and now , dear fanny , i will not interrupt you any longer .
the air of a gentlewoman , a great deal of quiet , inactive good temper , and a trifling turn
he had not forgiven anne elliot .
marianne was in every respect materially better , and he declared her entirely out of danger .
fanny dance , and to give pleasure to the young people in general ; and having thought the matter over
” “i am not going to run away , papa , ” said kitty fretfully .
to divide them ?
if the girl likes another man better , it is very fit she should have him .
weston was sorry for such a charge .
emma and harriet were going to walk ; he joined them ; and , on returning , they fell in
but the other : the first !
and instruction which she had been anxiously giving her daughters .
" he replied with his accustomary mildness to all her inquiries , but without satisfying her in any .
see the consequence of keeping you company !
“but you do not mean to deny that there was a time—and not very distant either—when you gave me reason
” “i see no probability in it , unless you have any better foundation than what you mention .
though i have not seen much of the domestic lives of clergymen , it is seen by too many to
after emma had talked about it for ten minutes , mr .
long and her nieces must stand their chance ; and , therefore , as she will think it an act
" elinor , for her sister ' s sake , could not press the subject farther , and she hoped
susan , you should have taken care of the fire .
no letter from willoughby came ; and none seemed expected by marianne .
to determine on getting the whole of his eldest brother ' s estate .
well , well , i only hope it will last .
; and now i hope you are satisfied .
so very , very little—every chance , every possibility of it , resting upon her embarrassment only ; if there
we live in so different a part of town , all our connections are so different , and , as
to see him , to hear of him , to think of him .
proof among others that he had not always lived in the best society , that with all the gentleness of
to her he soon turned , repeating much of what he had already said , with only a softened air
or know it to exist for ever in every connexion about her .
grant and her sister to their home , while mr .
robert ferrars—i never saw him in my life ; but , " fixing her eyes upon elinor , " to
" perhaps , " said mr elliot , speaking low , " i have had a longer acquaintance with your
she had gained her point , and had time to consider of it .
" " it may be so ; but willoughby is capable—at least i think— " he stopped a moment ;
an express arrived at randalls to announce the death of mrs .
wanting of it , when a letter arrived from mrs .
you will be easy , whereas my trouble will last much longer for work as hard as i may ,
” this was too much my dear charlotte , for i am certain that he had the impudence by that
her private inquiries to the absence of the family were unfavourably answered .
gray ' s shop , as in her own bedroom .
” “it has everything else in its favour .
but though this behaviour assured elinor that the conviction of this guilt was carried home to her mind , though
” jane was forced to smile completely , for a moment ; and the smile partly remained as she turned
chapter xxiv in a firm , though cautious tone , elinor thus began .
marianne consent , to enter the house while mrs .
of time and conscience .
men of family would not be very fond of connecting themselves with a girl of such obscurity—and most prudent men
but the rest , which one night entirely sleepless , and many hours of the most wearing anxiety seemed to
a scholar that when they gained the top of beechen cliff , she voluntarily rejected the whole city of bath
elton ' s being a remarkably handsome man , with most agreeable manners ; and as she had no hesitation
” “it was foolish of me not to think of all that ; but i am disappointed .
these were the ladies whom emma found herself very frequently able to collect ; and happy was she , for
” and sure enough there was a book on the table which had the air of being very recently closed
friend comfortable ; but she had no appetite , and could not swallow many mouthfuls .
kitty and lydia take his defection much more to heart than i do .
against the grain ; and i really believe your letter this morning gave him great pleasure , because it required
the probability of their marrying is surely heightened !
the park paling was still the boundary on one side , and she soon passed one of the gates into
the first , fancied a very strict line of economy necessary ; and what was begun as a matter of
” “i must confess that he did not speak so well of wickham as he formerly did .
his accompanying them was a double advantage ; she felt all the compliment it offered to herself , and it
how can you think of such a thing ?
get over what she so much dreaded as soon as possible , " without receiving our good wishes , even
i assure you that i am not in the least surprised at your being so warm an advocate for the
his unexpected accession to title and fortune had removed all his difficulties ; and never had the general loved his
every feeling was offended ; and the forbearance of her outward submission left a heavy arrear due of secret severity
, i am sure it is us .
the house ; and as soon as they were in the parlour , he welcomed them a second time ,
only think of that , my dear ; he actually danced with her twice !
and elizabeth , sometimes with real earnestness , and sometimes with playful gaiety , replied to her attacks .
o reginald , how is your judgment enslaved !
it is an insipid fruit at the best ; but a good apricot is eatable , which none from my
maria ; and as sir thomas thought it best for each daughter that the permission should be granted , lady
the lovers were standing together at one of the windows .
de courcy—is it true that he leaves churchhill this morning ?
doubt of the propriety of an acquaintance which had been formed under their eye , and sent therefore by return
” they were changed into , “how glad i am we have met with mrs .
his having so long concealed the violence of his affection for janetta , on receiving this billet flew on the
talk shakespeare , use his similes , and describe with his descriptions ; but this is totally distinct from giving
” elizabeth made no objection ; the door was then allowed to be shut , and the carriage drove off
” “complied with !
" we must go , " said sir john .
he did not think it would , vex me horridly .
“really !
and would not be sixpence the richer for it at the end of the year .
she could stay for none of it .
how angry and how diverted he would be !
a man—a sensible man like dr .
" said he , colouring a little .
, for my mother is a little deaf , you know—it is not much , but she does not hear
" " yes , i do .
i had understood he was so very fond of change and moving about , that i thought something would certainly
there could be no doubt as to miss elliot .
chapter _num_ “i have been thinking it over again , elizabeth , ” said her uncle , as they drove
he was exactly formed to engage marianne ' s heart , for with all this , he joined not only
there is one point on which i want your advice .
yates , was talking with forced gaiety to him alone , and ridiculing the acting of the others .
she was obliged to leave the door ajar as she found it ; but she fully intended that mr .
under the power of fancy and whim in your dealings with them , as you are where these children are
i should dread the stupidity of the day , if there were not a much greater evil to follow—the impression
let us flatter ourselves that i may be the survivor .
writes word that she could not get the young lady to assign any cause for her extraordinary conduct , which
here is a nice little wood , if one can but get into it .
; and his prospects of future wealth were exceedingly fair .
but whether she would do for a lady ' s maid , i am sure i can ' t tell
whether he belonged to the kellynch family ?
mary knew , from charles ' s manner of speaking , that he was quite determined on going , and
her an accession rather of frightened , enquiring companions , than of very useful assistants .
i thought to have had such a comfortable evening with you , and here everything comes upon me at once
in the world , who had been her dear friends all the morning .
what is there in that ?
when the due visit was paid , on her arrival , after a two years ' interval , she was
she could do herself .
” the imposing effect of this last argument was equal to his wishes .
he went to town on business three days ago , and i got him to take charge of some papers
more agreeably than those which have just flown away .
ago i had the pleasure of finding nothing to detain me .
“what is to be done , my dear emma ?
—and then follows the application , which i think , my dear harriet , you cannot find much difficulty in
other , and bewildered .
" cried mary ; " it must be our cousin ; it must be our mr elliot , it must
it implies everything amiable .
society , i own , is necessary to me .
a change in the general , as each believed almost impossible , might speedily take place , to unite them
of two criticisms which came out in the quarterly early in the century , she could only have seen one
it was a union of the highest promise of felicity in itself , and without one real , rational difficulty
—what had she to wish for ?
prince of wales came and took away the crown ; whereupon the king made a long speech , for which
, that gives the pain ?
, as soon as possible .
“this is an evening of wonders , indeed !
—i confess myself so totally surprised at what you tell me , that really—i beg your pardon ; but surely
to give you another instance of her liberality : —the other day , as soon as we came to town
” “depend upon it , emma , a sensible man would find no difficulty in it .
mutton and rice pudding they were hastening home for .
no opportunity , till the present , of showing them with how little attention to the comfort of other people
he should have lost such an opportunity of paying his respects to her .
, “fanny will immediately say no ; but i am sure , my dear mother , she would like to
tilney to venture , must yet be a question .
but unluckily that iron gate , that ha-ha , give me a feeling of restraint and hardship .
" bless me !
of the unusual exertion and fatigue of such a journey , parted from her without any doubt of their being
—she could not but recall the attempt with great satisfaction .
i always preferred the church , as i still do .
rest of her life .
colonel campbell , you know , is quite our angel .
ever passed between us .
they have but little colour , at least , it is all their own .
ourselves !
jennings , they all joined in a very spirited critique upon the party .
” “but you should not persuade me that i think so very much about mr .
they scarcely spoke .
ferrars ' s flattering language as only a lesser evil than his choosing lucy steele , she feared that robert
them to the end of it .
" admiral croft ' s manners were not quite of the tone to suit lady russell , but they delighted
it will only be sending betty by the coach , and i hope i can afford that .
happy flow of conversation prevailing , in which she was not required to take any part—there was so much to
i want your interest with him .
she had sent while dressing , and the answer had been , “much the same—not better .
bingley , when questioned by jane , had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair ; that proud and
it streightens him as to many things .
she saw it with concern ; for what could a silent man of five and thirty hope , when opposed
, too , who is likely to know .
crawford who , as the clandestine , insidious , treacherous admirer of maria bertram , had been her abhorrence ,
” “no , indeed , you know your duty too well for me to—even supposing—” she stopt , felt herself
the treachery , or the folly , of my cousin ' s maid betrayed us .
we have taken such a very serpentine course , and the wood itself must be half a mile long in
great ; but they obligingly satisfied it , with the same kind of supposition which had appeased mrs .
" the event proved her conjecture right , though it was founded on injustice and error ; for colonel brandon
they sat without a fire ; but that was a privation familiar even to fanny , and she suffered the
satisfied with none .
leave it all to me .
parlour , for the convenience of having it always at hand .
elton had first entered not two years ago , to make his way as he could , without any alliances
s children ever were .
everything , however , went on smoothly , and was finally settled according to charlotte’s first sketch .
but why should i be quicker-sighted than anyone else ?
much inclined to think his , she would have been light of heart indeed ; but the more she recollected
' if he omits to lay stress upon her judgment , her nice sense of fitness , her restraint ,
when the evening was over , she went to bed full of it , her nerves still agitated by the
at last seemed , to fanny ' s observation , to have been as much too late for re-establishing harmony
and after such success , you know !
nothing therfore could be expected from her—she could not be supposed to possess either exalted ideas , delicate feelings or
gave way immediately , for i would never really omit an opportunity of bringing him and sir walter together .
after the first bitterness of the conviction of being slighted was over , she had been tolerably soon in a
mind so occupied , she might have forgotten where she was .
should join mrs .
“it must be a severe trial to them all .
to take her—be it only an hour or two—from her aunt , to give her change of air and scene
to that station by every thing within your own power , or there will be plenty of people who would
perry tells me that mr .
if he were , he would have done this differently .
fitzgerald who is certainly one of the most pleasing young men , i ever beheld .
” “this is no very striking resemblance of your own character , i am sure , ” said he .
i did not expect such a compliment .
not comprehend why he should be angry .
be a secret—it would take place even within a few weeks , with many particulars of preparations and other matters
though at the time they may be refreshing and agreable yet beleive me they will in the end , if
if , indeed , by any strange mischance his father should have gained intelligence of what she had dared to
“no , no , that will never be .
—at the same time it is fair to observe , that i am one of those who always judge for
i will answer for it she never betrayed the least thing in the world .
willoughby took his usual place between the two elder miss dashwoods .
lady susan ' s intentions are of course those of absolute coquetry , or a desire of universal admiration ;
to her it was real enjoyment to be with the westons .
had accidentally inquired of thorpe if he knew more of her than her name .
miss bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility ; mr .
he mentioned the name of cardinal wolsey , that he had got the very speech .
edward was now fixed at the cottage at least for a week ; —for whatever other claims might be made
paused a moment , and with quivering lips just made it intelligible that she left “her kind remembrance for her
her—illiterate , artful , and selfish ?
to admit that the inconvenience of such a mixture would be any thing , or that there would be the
merit , is satisfied that whatever i do must be right ; and look with a degree of contempt on
it was not till the afternoon , when he had joined them at tea , that elizabeth ventured to introduce
but you may be assured that i am the last person in the world to judge you severely .
i told him he had taken a very unlikely way to prevail upon me ; for , of all things
after i had seen you .
” “my overhearings were more to the purpose than yours , eliza , ” said charlotte .
, with studied politeness-- " i beg your pardon , madam , this is your seat ; " and though
could seldom , with her large family , find time for a walk .
she was quite oppressed .
were fortunately already engaged to come ; and she could not have received a more gratifying attention .
elizabeth was surprised , but said not a word .
be overcome .
her views of improving her little friend ' s mind , by a great deal of useful reading and conversation
they separated too much into parties .
" anne could do no more ; but her heart prophesied some mischance to damp the perfection of her felicity
” “my dear miss morland , ” said henry , “in this amiable solicitude for your brother ' s comfort
” “i hope she does .
” “it is evident by this , ” added jane , “that he comes back no more this winter .
there is jealousy .
they must be a great loss to your family .
there she felt her own inferiority very keenly .
pay her respects to them as they sat together after dinner ; and while her father was fondly noticing the
as sir john to ask them to spend a week or two in conduit street ; and it happened to
when he so particularly desired you not to give yourself any trouble , because anything would do .
yes , that is a place , indeed , and we had a charming day there .
finer , larger picture of him than this .
if not in consciousness .
if you want any farther explanation , ” continued he , smiling , “they are paid for it .
he lived about a mile from highbury , was a frequent visitor , and always welcome , and at this
clarkes ; and had really got as far as the length of two streets in her journey when she was
" " so do i , anne , " said charles .
in their civilities and invitations , were designing a match between the heir and the young lady , and it
" said his wife , laughing .
“you may well be surprised , miss bennet , at such an assertion , after seeing , as you probably
henry crawford was as much struck with it as any .
” “yes , i told him every thing .
you talk of being proud ; i am called proud , i know , and i shall not wish to
i have not always known their writing apart .
” “i do not understand you .
-- " what glorious weather for the admiral and my sister !
i shall never forget her appearance this morning .
” “yes , i am fond of history .
they had been overheard .
always find me so busy about , and which supply me with the means of doing a little good to
she knew a family near maple grove who had tried it , and been obliged to separate before the end
of spirits .
his manners were an immediate recommendation ; and on conversing with him she found the solid so fully supporting the
some people were always cross when they were hot .
bertram , ” said miss crawford , a few minutes afterwards , “you know henry to be such a capital
her ladyship ' s steps would be bent thither ; and though he professed himself quite undetermined , there was
i am of some use , i hope , in preventing waste and making the most of things .
, the all-sufficiency of home to himself , whence resulted her brother ' s disposition to look down on the
million to the present sir thomas .
with no traits at all unusual in his sex and time of life .
lady susan finds it necessary that frederica should be to blame , and probably has sometimes judged it expedient to
" " but the letter , mr .
to whose happy lot was it to fall ?
of contempt , and turned away , that she might neither see nor hear more to vex her .
bridle ; he had hold of her hand ; she saw it , or the imagination supplied what the eye
she was sorry that mr .
; but in her view it was a morning more completely misspent , more totally bare of rational satisfaction at
grant the other day , ' if mr .
he was quite young , wonderfully handsome , extremely agreeable , and , to crown the whole , he meant
she was not a woman of strong understanding or any quickness ; and with this resemblance of her father ,
; he could no longer command solemnity either of subject or voice , and was obliged to entreat her to
young man who , i believe , will soon become a part of the family .
dismissal of catherine , and as steadily declared his intention of offering her his hand .
henrietta remained with louisa ; but all the rest of the family were again in their usual quarters .
elliot , whose entrance seemed to give a general chill .
she saw , with the creative eye of fancy , the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers .
in taking fanny home to her aunt , with a view to his relief and benefit , no less than
sort of grove which edged the park ; he was moving that way ; and , fearful of its being
at length she spoke again .
, alas !
in return but to be unobserved .
stept in after his wife very naturally ; so that emma found , on being escorted and followed into the
the assurance of edmund ' s being so soon to take orders , coming upon her like a blow that
awakened the same interest in them .
conversation pleasing to everybody .
they seem very comfortable as they are , and if she were to take any pains to marry him ,
“i suppose you have heard of the handsome letter mr .
only in one light , as comprehending the loss of a daughter , and a disgrace never to be wiped
us on sunday to drink tea and spend the evening at rosings .
accents : “you , who so well know my feeling towards mr .
she had not waited her arrival to look out for a suitable match for her : she had fixed on
himself to raise even the unfounded hopes which sunk with him .
” “but you would not wish me to come away before i am tired , papa ?
” “i cannot go , because”—looking down as she spoke , fearful of isabella ' s smile—“i expect miss tilney
william , determined to make this last day a day of thorough enjoyment , was out snipe-shooting ; edmund ,
great kindness by mr .
and write a letter , and say just what you must , in a short way ; and another ,
half a reformation .
there was comfort also in tom , who gradually regained his health , without regaining the thoughtlessness and selfishness of
set off ; it looked very showery , and that would have thrown me into agonies !
accept an offer from a young man of his recommendation .
i suppose , however—on recollection—that the case may probably be this .
—then i know nothing of mr .
what do you imagine his age to be ?
darcy had much better finish his letter .
it was really a very handsome thought .
what[ _num_ ] feelings have they , the season , the air altogether inspired !
the account of his excessive and unequalled attachment to her , she was exceedingly distressed , and for some moments
to have no family to receive and estimate him properly , nothing of respectability , of harmony , of good
being " a man whom she had no wish to see .
we are therefore preparing for bristol , where we mean to be in the course of the next week .
what was inspired by the knowledge of her being well principled and religious .
he probably avoided being alone with her .
” “you need not distress yourself .
is this your gratitude for my attentions to you last spring ?
we shall probably see much to wish altered in her , and must prepare ourselves for gross ignorance , some
residing in or near highbury ; a family of the name of fairfax .
but to her reason , her judgment , it was completely a puzzle .
this disposition on your side is rather alarming .
it is remarkable , however , that she neither insisted on catherine ' s writing by every post , nor
, in a voice a little subdued , but very audible to every body .
it was a connexion exactly of the right sort—in the same county , and the same interest—and his most hearty
” “i can easily believe it .
they got their fortune nobody knows .
darcy only , entered the room .
it is a great deal more natural than one could wish , that a young man , brought up by
i have often observed it before—she likes to go her own way to work ; she does not like to
" " no , i cannot think that .
bates , deprived of her usual employment , slumbering on one side of the fire , frank churchill , at
it was ten o ' clock .
; —and even to see edward himself , if chance should bring them together , without any diminution of her
of course , as so particular a friend of mr .
rocks and promontories , grey moss and brush wood , but these are all lost on me .
at an expense to which that income could hardly be equal , and he had himself often complained of his
these parlors are both too small for such parties of our friends as i hope to see often collected here
seriously do assure my reader that she was entirely innocent ; having never been guilty of anything more than imprudencies
danger of its sudden extinction ; it had yet some hours to burn ; and that she might not have
, than i now do in his heart .
” “never , sir .
i am sure of an excellent tenant at half a word .
” “that i do not know , nor who is the author .
" " but she must not go round by london , " cried marianne , [ _num_ ] in the
you would have been less amiable in my eyes had there not been this little unwillingness ; but allow me
of my power .
rushworth wished he had brought the key ; he had been very near thinking whether he should not bring the
; and therefore , to make it easier to him , as he declared a much greater willingness to make
had it taken place only once a year , it would have been a grievance .
knightley ; he declined it from the first ; and though i thought he would come , because mrs .
perhaps just at present he may be undecided ; the smallness of your fortune may make him hang back ;
rushworth , who had been at great pains to learn all that the housekeeper could teach , and was now
the lady would probably have passed without suspicion , had he not convinced miss dashwood that what concerned her ought
the gentlemen joined them ; and soon after began the sweet expectation of a carriage , when a general spirit
” said emma in a whisper .
or twenty other causes , may prevent , i must go away directly , two days before i intended it
, because i conceal nothing .
and were drawing a second time to the door in the middle which opened to the wilderness .
he certainly loved her .
as it was , it required but a slight effort of fancy to connect his emotion with the tender recollection
my dear sister , —i congratulate you and mr .
’” “upon my word !
the luxury of a raised , restless , and frightened imagination over the pages of udolpho , lost from all
elizabeth was not surprised at it , as jane had written the direction remarkably ill .
norris wanted to persuade her that fanny could be very well spared—she being ready to give up all her own
in so large a party it was not necessary that emma should approach her .
all the worst of her sufferings had been unsuspected .
it had then seemed the object nearest her heart , that dr shirley , the rector , who for more
" " my dear mrs .
be assured he cares for nobody but you .
lady , that she is enough to ruin any servants she comes near .
to them as you have described .
harriet did think him all perfection , and maintained the non-existence of any body equal to him in person or
—good morning to you .
she believed the regard to be mutual ; but she required greater certainty of it to make marianne ' s
we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lives , for a whole day’s
she was previously engaged in writing for that stupid woman ' s service , and all this with such unpretending
little upon the sofa as anybody in the house .
she might not often have had much to bear , but though his temper injured her , his judgment never
“why , if he came only to be silent , grave , and indifferent , ” said she , “did
for what reason ?
to assure you , that i have your respected mother’s permission for this address .
of the frequenters of bath—and the honest relish of balls and plays , and everyday sights , is past with
am now come to take my farewell of you .
smallest danger of being captivated by a woman with whose principles he was so well acquainted , and whose character
what a degree of unforgivingness it might with propriety lead , nor to what rigours of rudeness in return it
his debts are to be paid , amounting , i believe , to considerably more than a thousand pounds ,
her ladyship ' s great dislike of all such inelegant subjects of raillery as delighted her husband and mother .
augusta has been for several years united to graham the man of all others most suited to her ; she
, but you may in time come to love a rose ?
so very bad if the marriage did take place .
no one interfered to encourage or dissuade .
tell her of my misery and my penitence—tell her that my heart was never inconstant to her , and if
and , in quitting them both , he had removed with his family to a house about a mile from
” “i am persuaded that he never did .
he leaves northamptonshire so soon , that even this slight sacrifice cannot be often demanded .
crawford whom she had so reprobated before .
it will be but the loss of the esquire after his name .
almost daily meetings they lately had .
catherine , it is so indeed ; your penetration has not deceived you .
woodhouse ' s kindness , felt his particular claim on her to leave her neat parlour , hung round with
i gave him no encouragement yesterday .
at home , of new books and music , that elizabeth had never been half so well entertained in that
of the day .
seeing the book open on the table , took it up , and examined it very attentively .
you are an odd creature !
in such a party , harriet would be rather a dead weight than otherwise ; but for the poor girl
; and the visit to lady middleton , which had not before had any precise limits , was instantly discovered
seemed to govern them all , and wondering how it would end .
unable to read , or in lying , weary and languid , on a sofa , did not speak much
our little louisa with us .
hardships which fall to every sailor ' s share , like bad weather and hard living , only with this
good opinion is so well worth having as yours .
she knew that mr .
it was her manner , however , rather than any unfrequency of meeting .
the last thing in the world for me to think of , or for anybody to wish that really knows
” “if you please , my dear .
she must have a great deal to leave .
fishing-net at one corner of the room .
“well , mamma , ” said she , when they were all returned to the breakfast room , “and what
—i will tell you .
miss crawford made her first essay with great credit to herself , and no inconvenience to fanny .
at the same time , do not forget my real interest ; say all that you can to convince him
i am the son of agatha your laurina ' s _num_ th and youngest daughter , ” “i see you
depend upon it he had encouragement .
fanny himself .
” “yes , sometimes ; but he has rid out this morning with my father .
in their house i shall call to mind the conjugal manners of mansfield parsonage with respect .
the unpersuadable point , which he did not mention , emma guessed to be good behaviour to his father .
the whole party were awakened against them , and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch his
we must feel that every addition to your father ' s society , among his equals or superiors , may
to his plans for the next day ' s hunting ; and he found it was as well to be
it will be the only difference .
i was never more annoyed !
, but her happiness was of a quiet , deep , heart-swelling sort ; and though never a great talker
how wonderful , how very wonderful the operations of time , and the changes of the human mind !
he told us that he was the son of an english baronet , that his mother had been for many
she was very civilly answered by lady bertram , but edmund said nothing .
is she gone to bed ?
the horses which were left her by her husband had been sold soon after his death , and an opportunity
he is an excellent young man , and will suit harriet exactly ; it will be an ' exactly so
he is , moreover , aware that she does disapprove the connection , he dares not therefore at present confess
gardiner had seen pemberley , and known the late mr .
next time we should either of us happen to go that way , we would take one or more of
even the smooth surface of family-union seems worth preserving , though there may be nothing durable beneath .
anybody spoke to them during the evening , till they were discovered and joined by mr .
" she had this communication , moreover , from mary .
bennet , had to wait for their carriage a quarter of an hour after everybody else was gone , which
and not very desirous of satisfying what seemed impertinent curiosity ; " i know nothing of her .
i am quite grieved for him , and very much frightened , and so is sir thomas ; and how
, william determined to go and change his dress , and make the necessary preparations for his removal on board
this is a matter of mere common politeness and good-breeding , and has nothing to do with any encouragement to
the pain of separation , however , might be alleviated on his side , by preparations for the reception of
for her distress had allowed no arrangement ; but at least it would assure them both of her being neither
this second instance of his anxiety to delay what she so much wished for struck catherine as very remarkable .
" and then lowering her voice , " i suppose mrs .
it would have been trifling with my reputation to allow of his departing with such an impression in my disfavour
of some tender ejaculation of fanny ' s on the sweets of so protracted an autumn , they were forced
they were sneering and negligent .
always walking from one room to the other , and doing the lookings-on at your ease , in this way
them here .
she saw with maternal complacency all the impertinent encroachments and mischievous tricks to which her cousins submitted .
there are places in town , offices , where inquiry would soon produce something—offices for the sale—not quite of human
the letter was in your own hand-writing .
when one is in great pain , you know one cannot feel any blessing quite as it may deserve .
the world now goes , would not justify so warm a sympathy—or rather , not thinking at all , i
letter _num_ th laura to marianne the noble youth informed us that his name was lindsay—for particular reasons however i
catherine , without hesitation , replied that she was very sure miss thorpe did not mean to dance at all
if he leaves you soon for london everything will be concluded .
jennings , lady middleton ' s mother , was a good-humoured , merry , fat , elderly woman , who
marianne severely censured herself for what she had said ; but her own forgiveness might have been more speedy ,
—it has hurt me , emma , very much .
we had a long talk about it .
i know i cannot live as i have done , but i must retrench where i can , and learn
miss bennet’s lovely face confirmed his views , and established all his strictest notions of what was due to seniority
he did so , but very soon stopt again to say , “the pianoforte !
selfish solicitudes unconnected with him .
" elinor would not oppose his opinion , because , whatever might be her general estimation of the advantage of
” elizabeth’s astonishment was beyond expression .
from all farther importunity with his niece , and to shew no open interference .
norris had not discernment enough to perceive , either now , or at any other time , to what degree
—julia is eighteen ; with a countenance in which modesty , sense and dignity are happily blended , she has
which of elizabeth ' s plants are for lady russell .
” “was mrs .
could she be detached from them !
young and gentle as she was , it might yet have been possible to withstand her father ' s ill-will
a state of real distress .
" is that fanny ' s hair ?
the expense shall not be thought of ; and though he is so liberal , and so fond of jane
” “no , it is not handsomer , not at all handsomer in its way , and , for my
rushworth had been in great anger and distress to him (mr .
will not your mind misgive you when you find yourself in this gloomy chamber—too lofty and extensive for you ,
” “did he appear a sensible young man ; a young man of information ?
always produces .
tell me that it is all absolutely resolved on , that any attempt , that in short concealment , if
woodhouse hoped to influence every visitor of the newly married pair ; but still the cake was eaten ; and
but i will quiz you with a great deal of pleasure , if you will tell me what about .
and besides all this , i am afraid , mamma , he has no real taste .
improved plan , and with all the improvements of your improved plan that may occur to you this spring .
fine prospect which you profess to feel .
his own horses and coachman who were to bring some of the party the last half of the way ;
one is apt , i believe , to connect assurance of manner with coquetry , and to expect that an
, that i hope you will excuse my begging you to take no farther notice .
it proves him , in short , everything that i had been used to wish to believe him , and
in mr .
in spite of her deeply-rooted dislike , she could not be insensible to the compliment of such a man’s affection
at any rate , she cannot grow many degrees worse , without authorising us to lock her up for the
a good fire .
if you do not call early it will be a slight .
of all that had passed , satisfactory , convincing ; and instantly followed by willoughby himself , rushing eagerly into
she grieved for the unhappiness which her sister’s refusal must have given him .
i would not have you suffer on my account ; for i assure you i no longer suffer materially myself
” catherine trembled at the emphasis with which he spoke , and sat pale and breathless , in a most
from kellynch , only fifty miles , and lady russell ' s spending some part of every winter there ;
here was a fortune at once ; besides which , there would be the chance of what might be done
this is to be a mere letter of business , penned for the purpose of conveying necessary information , which
the party , like other musical parties , comprehended a great many people who had real taste for the performance
been the greatest increase of all her own comforts .
she went to it ; but the music on which her eye first rested was an opera , procured for
i am sure you will be very comfortable there .
” said he , as they walked back to the ballroom ; “not of your partner , i hope ,
” he should be particularly happy at any time , etc .
but unwelcome as such a task must be , it was necessary to be done , and elinor therefore hastened
" " oh , yes , i dare say you will .
my sisters would feel the good effects of it as well as herself .
my dear mother , every hope which made me so happy only two hours ago has vanished .
dixon has persuaded her father and mother to come over and see her directly .
—i assure you , it did the children a great deal of good .
i am ashamed of you and of myself , but it shall never happen again .
faces shewed all the benefit of a country run , and seemed to ensure a quick despatch of the roast
“i hope she will prove a well-disposed girl , ” continued mrs .
his business in antigua had latterly been prosperously rapid , and he came directly from liverpool , having had an
agitation more difficult to bury under exterior calmness , than all her foregoing distress , ventured to communicate her hopes
fanny could not wonder that edmund was at the parsonage every morning ; she would gladly have been there too
it was the first time of his seeing them together since the beginning of that better acquaintance which he had
but marianne for some time would give credit to neither .
grant hardly knows what the natural taste of our apricot is : he is scarcely ever indulged with one ,
, they were soon beyond her eye ; and for some minutes longer she remained without sight or sound of
method of proceeding which would obviate the risk of his father ' s thinking he had done too much ,
' s , very much to the purpose of her own feelings if not of the conversation .
" —was repeated by marianne and her mother in an accent of the utmost amazement ; —and though elinor could
if we were all like you , i believe we might sit four .
i neither admire her nor envy her , as i have done : she is very charming , i dare
“what could he mean ?
” miss bates and miss fairfax , escorted by the two gentlemen , walked into the room ; and mrs
the advantages of bath to the young are pretty generally understood .
as we had supposed when we first beheld them that they were no more , we knew that nothing could
' edmund , you do not know me .
thinking mind .
” “she must not suppose it not wanted , not acceptable , at least : and its having been originally
with such knowledge it was impossible to be calm .
as for admiration , it was always very welcome when it came , but she did not depend on it
do not you see your aunt is going ?
l .
“you are extremely kind , ” replied miss bates , highly gratified ; “you who are such a judge ,
considered as certain .
do not repeat what i then said .
it will never do .
colonel brandon ' s injuries and merits , warm as friendship and design could unitedly dictate .
; that it was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either side ; and that
by business .
had ever supposed it to be , —she was oppressed , she was overcome by her own felicity ; and
miss woodhouse , what a pity that i must not write this beautiful charade into my book !
further service , for any thing was welcome that might justify their all three being quite asunder at present .
man .
she left it to himself to recollect , that mrs smith was not the only widow in bath between thirty
they came also for a stroll till breakfast was likely to be ready ; but louisa recollecting , immediately afterwards
intimacy , such a distinguishing compliment as she chose to consider it .
would have been yet shorter , had he not been frequently detained by the urgent entreaties of his fair one
charles maddox dined at my sister ' s one day , did not he , henry ?
are you out of your senses , to be accepting this man ?
she could not endure the idea of treachery or levity , or anything akin to ill usage between him and
he is lively , and seems clever , and when i have inspired him with greater respect for me than
there is one remarkably pretty sitting room up stairs ; of a nice comfortable size for constant use , and
but compliments may be sufficient here .
you will be delighted with them i am sure .
i suppose this letter must be directed to portman square where probably (great as is your affection for lesley castle)
the box was brought and placed before her , and mrs smith , sighing over it as she unlocked it
bingley ; and the train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to , made her perhaps almost as
down as fact , that captain tilney must have heard some malevolent misrepresentation of her , which he now hastened
herself quite unable to attend as she ought to mrs .
the advantage of the match i felt to be all on her side ; and had not the smallest doubt
her youth had passed without distinction , and her middle of life was devoted to the care of a failing
can any thing be stronger ?
not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning .
” it was gently , but it was calmly said , and sir thomas was easy on the score of
in my opinion , nature has given them so much that they never find it necessary to use more than
than gentlemen !
every thing was silent ; this could not be borne many seconds ; she[ _num_ ] opened the door ,
and it was a pity she should not see the place .
you will look back and see that i did not come till miss fairfax was in highbury ; and as
contrary to the usual course of things , mr .
mrs musgrove was of a comfortable , substantial size , infinitely more fitted by nature to express good cheer and
it was recommended , " how good you are !
i feel it now and henrietta halton has undone me “oh !
had i but explained some part of it only—some part of what i learnt , to my own family !
he could meet even lady russell in a discussion of her merits ; and anne could not be given to
admits our apology , and is not offended .
it was made , however , at last : a silver knife was bought for betsey , and accepted with
fancying everything too much for you !
jennings , and in a determined silence when obliged to endure it .
” “every generation has its improvements , ” said miss crawford , with a smile , to edmund .
was not it so , mr .
” “very well—and as randalls , i suppose , is not likely to have less influence than heretofore , it
might be expected from the match , the excellent character of mr .
, but which her more supine and yielding temper would have shrunk from asserting .
so long intended it .
away , knew not how , under such circumstances , to press for greater openness in marianne .
” another of the hundred particular friends of his son , exceedingly unwelcome ; and it needed all the felicity
of asking .
—bad .
dixon caught her .
s vernon xxxii mrs .
to attend them down ; and as there could be no occasion of their staying above a week at cleveland
what has it been but a system of hypocrisy and deceit , —espionage , and treachery ?
respective marriages , and that many years ago .
” “i am really not tired , which i almost wonder at ; for we must have walked at least
yes , i immediately perceive that it must be the joint present of mr .
without either gustavus , philander , or the banknotes .
of sense .
edward heard with pleasure of colonel brandon ' s being expected at the cottage , as he really wished not
a restless , officious companion , too apt to be heightening danger in order to enhance her own importance ,
impossible in elinor , and unnecessary in mrs .
but you never read novels , i dare say ?
sooner : clouds are now coming up , and she will not suffer from the heat as she would have
anybody .
how are your various dresses to be remembered , and the particular state of your complexion , and curl of
” said henry , a little surprised .
she did not mean to have her own affections entangled again , and it would be incumbent on her to
very odd !
daughter ' s attachment to her husband , she immediately led to such a branch of the subject as must
scene of ease and good humour , walking where they liked and when they liked , their hours , pleasures
they were excessively sorry to go !
that i had not power to start any other topic , justly fearing that it might in some unforseen manner
it was a perpetual estrangement .
this had been his business .
but it will not do now .
we were better off in our last house .
she could not bring herself to speak of what she felt even to elinor ; and , brooding over her
i do think it is the hardest thing in the world , that your estate should be entailed away from
suppose , to moan by herself .
” “i have no doubt of it .
“if you are very kind , ” said he , “it will be one of the waltzes we danced last
she was , she felt she was , in the greatest danger of being exquisitely happy , while so many
great deal of talk together .
here are many that would be interested in your improvements , my dear mr .
it was merely a blind to conceal his real situation with another .
he is gone back again to harley street , that he may be within call when mrs .
just arrived .
, nothing to require more motives than appeared , in mr elliot ' s great desire of a reconciliation .
, in comparing them , she saw there was less captivating softness in colonel fitzwilliam’s manners , she believed he
in the other ?
the man believed miss tilney to be at home , but was not quite certain .
it was a gentleman , it was colonel brandon himself .
to lose somewhat of its value in our estimation .
could it be possible ?
” “i wish it may be true said i , for that is the only kind of love i would
how i honour you for such noble sentiments !
” “psha , nonsense !
her secret was still her own ; and while that was the case , she thought she could resign herself
”—she was afraid she had done her nothing but disservice .
soon , however , she began to reason with herself , and try to be feeling less .
after a short struggle .
the grounds were declared to be highly beautiful , and sir john , who was[ _num_ ] particularly warm in
evening which mr .
mind in which good sense has very little power ; and catherine ' s feelings contradicted almost every position her
why , as he had such rooms , he thought it would be simple not to make use of them
, nor did her aunt norris ' s voice make her start very much .
consider , here are the two miss careys come over from newton , the three miss dashwoods walked up from
to the last degree ; all lines and wrinkles , nine grey hairs of a side , and nothing but
herself the widow of only a knight , she gave the dignity of a baronet all its due ; and
with matrimony together .
it would be very wrong if she did .
—as i talked of t ' other day .
idea is fresh .
intending to trace their route .
collins knew not what to make of him .
” “something that would do !
it was borne in the latter with decent philosophy .
she might never have thought of him but for me ; and certainly never would have thought of him with
i am sure i do not know who is not .
“still the same anxiety for everybody ' s comfort , my dear mrs .
de courcy to lady susan ——hotel .
do not i beseech you ever let me again hear you repeat his beloved name— .
liberty .
myself .
in comparing her recollection of pemberley with the minute description which wickham could give , and in bestowing her tribute
think with pleasure that he might be sometimes depended on .
it was that lady prescott had noticed in fanny : she was not sure whether colonel harrison had been talking
this ill-timed intruder was miss tilney ' s maid , sent by her mistress to be of use to miss
we were speaking of them the other day , you know .
ferrars is the happy man , is he ?
” “they will not have much cause of triumph when they see how infamously i act .
' to spur me on .
of it some little time , perhaps two or three weeks ; but then i considered it as meaning nothing
, being now armed with the idea of merit in maintaining her own way , bore down all the wishes
he wished the road might be impassable , that he might be able to keep them all at randalls ;
dislike here—she was only an object of contempt— .
of what i had supposed .
i learnt all this from mr .
thorpe ; and this lady stopping to speak to her , they , as belonging to her , stopped likewise
i assure you the utmost stretch of public fame would not make me amends for the loss of any happiness
he cannot bear the idea of not being sir william .
the name of “eleanor” at the same moment , in his loudest tone , resounded through the building , giving
could the knowledge have been extended through her family ?
i shall always think myself very much obliged to you .
; our prospects are not very bright , to be sure , but we must wait , and hope for
the acknowledged lovers talked and laughed , the unacknowledged were silent .
let my sister know it , give her only the slightest hint , she and i will immediately come down
mary had shewn herself disobliging to him , and was now to reap the consequence , which consequence was his
with the view of passing off an awkward moment , emma smilingly said , “you must make my apologies to
“i was very often influenced rightly by you—oftener than i would own at the time .
william cox .
were gone .
she is no encumbrance here .
marriage which the whole of your family , far and near , must highly reprobate .
could there be finer symptoms ?
he would follow them in a quarter of an hour .
he rose from his seat , and walked to the window , apparently from not knowing what to do ;
those who have not more must be satisfied with what they have .
” “i know all that , ” said tom , displeased .
crawford himself .
badness of the portsmouth servants , and wound up her spirits for the six days ensuing .
vain , ignorant , idle , and absolutely uncontrolled !
jane bennet rather better than the obsolete survival of the sentimental novel represented by marianne dashwood .
mainwaring , that i was very far from expecting so speedy a distinction , though i always imagined from her
tilney was polite enough to seem interested in what she said ; and she kept him on the subject of
through .
caro sposo walking by .
the contrary , marianne would yet never have been so happy with him as she will be with colonel brandon
rushworth ; it was mrs .
" lucy directly drew her work table near her and reseated herself with an alacrity and cheerfulness which seemed to
" marianne was going to retort , but she remembered her promises , and forbore .
the recollection of what i then said , of my conduct , my manners , my expressions during the whole
he became what he ought to be : useful to his father , steady and quiet , and not living
marriage been happy , so young as i[ _num_ ] then was , a few months must have reconciled me
woodhouse recommend a baked apple .
, he was able to represent the whole family to the general in a most respectable light .
stay a minute longer .
i assure you i heard of it in my way through town .
upon the bed , and i am sure you are ill enough .
we have just been trying , by way of doing something , and amusing my mother , just within the
my dear , i am quite delighted with him .
yet , fanny , do not imagine i would now speak disrespectfully of sir thomas , though i certainly did
fruit-trees in the country ; and such a mulberry tree in one corner !
such it certainly was .
i never passed within view of it without admiring its situation , and grieving that no one should live in
over again .
elton ' s concerns were assuming the most irresistible form .
chapter xxi sir thomas ' s return made a striking change in the ways of the family , independent of
the favour of your company has been much felt , i assure you .
or is it equally criminal in every body ?
he was immediately interested .
her manners , too—and mr .
” “that is exactly what i should have guessed it , madam , ” said mr .
he has changed his hour of going , i suppose , that is all , or i may be mistaken
as calmly as she could , " i like edward ferrars very much , and shall always be glad to
the affair thus determined , and thorpe ' s approbation secured , catherine only remained to be apprised of it
fanny was just recovered enough to feel that she could not regret it ; for to her many other sources
, used only with company of consequence .
i did not quite like , at breakfast , to hear you talk so much about the french bread at
making that poor fellow talk so much .
danger of becoming too happy for security .
" after a moment ' s pause , captain wentworth said-- " do you mean that she refused him ?
i protest against having paid the smallest attention to any one else .
her conversation is as bewitching as her appearance ; i could not help telling her how much she engaged my
—i am sure it was a consolation to you .
heart can desire .
with delight .
the tilneys were soon engaged in another on which she had nothing to say .
habits of life considered—but , how should i be influenced , what would be my inducement in acting so and
" very few .
the room at the crown was to witness it ; —but it would be better than a common meeting in
him as agreeable as she had already given him credit for being .
ferrars was satisfied .
but the skin , which she had been used to cavil at , as wanting colour , had a clearness
to prevent its being expected , she had fixed on the smallest habitation which could rank as genteel among the
my father does not return to us till autumn ; my brother will leave scotland in a few days ;
i cannot doubt it .
he begged pardon for having displeased her .
when properly to relax is the trial of judgment ; and , without reference to my brother , i really
phillips first brought her the news) .
elton , who can have thought of it as i have done ?
it was entirely empty .
catherine ' s mind was too full , as she entered the house , for her either to observe or
you must think wretchedly indeed of willoughby , if , after all that has openly passed between them , you
that good lady , however , saw only that marianne had received a letter from willoughby , which appeared to
taylor told me of it half an hour ago , and she was told it by a particular friend of
so conspicuous in the conversation of mr cleveland .
in all other respects , her visit began and proceeded very well .
have sometimes been called so fine , i could never see anything extraordinary in them .
melancholy remembrances , she was impatient to be gone , and indefatigable in her inquiries for a suitable dwelling in
there is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment , that it is not safe to leave
of the past being known to those three only among her connexions , by whom no syllable , she believed
its being dissolved .
" " what is it you mean to infer , " said i , " by this appearance of mystery
welcomed by them all with great cordiality .
" elinor looked surprised at his emotion ; but trying to laugh off the subject , she said to him
what a disappointment it would be !
humph—harriet ' s ready wit !
he will , most likely , give a plunge or two , and perhaps take the rest for a minute
” said mr .
door-bell , and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room .
perry can tell me how to convey a wife and five children a distance of an hundred and thirty miles
” miss crawford listened with submission , and said to herself , “he is a well-bred man ; he makes
—the difficulty of disposing of poor mr .
” “you appear to me , mr .
carriages , —impatient to begin , or afraid of being always near her .
often , and proved so totally ineffectual , that catherine grew tired at last , and would thank her no
” but still he went on measuring , and still he ended with , “i think there will be very
, hour after hour , without curiosity or terror .
“they aimed at wounding more than harriet , ” said he .
like him !
do you think this is a good plan ?
elizabeth had been lately forming an intimacy , which she wished to see interrupted .
enough to allow him to lead the discourse while he mingled among the others with the least obtrusiveness himself ,
” “but why should you wish to persuade me that i feel more than i acknowledge ?
she knew the limitations of her own powers too well to attempt more than she could perform with credit ;
, eager to escape farther notice , was impatient to know why mrs smith should have fancied she was to
anne , being engaged to join her as soon as she was resettled , was looking forward to an early
” “from the very circumstance of its being larger , sir .
plan .
say what gave no one any pain but herself .
how humiliating is this discovery !
charlotte had seen them from her husband’s room , crossing the road , and immediately running into the other ,
all of a piece with something very bad ; and if there was a woman of character in existence ,
going by , and miss nash came and scolded us away , and staid to look through herself ; however
gave every indication of an open , affectionate heart .
her brother ' s return was the first comfort ; he could take best care of his wife ; and
this is only because there were no tall women to compare her with , and because she has got a
julia was a sufferer too , though not quite so blamelessly .
i hope not of a putrid infectious sort .
moment all was joyful security .
of the sort of fault which he had already observed , and of which she was almost always reminded by
jane fairfax ' s perception seemed to accompany his ; her comprehension was certainly more equal to the covert meaning
" i wish i had any name but elliot .
what a charming wish , to be lain at my feet when he was dead !
yet to be silent would be cruel ; she had intreated me to talk .
to understand that you did care about him ?
and additions , endeavour to amuse her companions all the way to longbourn .
' well , mr .
he might reasonably hope to live many years , and by living economically , lay by a considerable sum from
was prevented even from wishing it removed , by her anxiety for the very event that must confirm it .
only let me assure you , my dear miss elizabeth , that i can from my heart most cordially wish
she went , however , and they sauntered about together many an half-hour in mrs .
have quite money enough to live upon without some help .
“stop , stop , mr .
" but who is he ?
” “but the imprudence of such a match !
bath seems full , and everything as usual .
it is natural , and it is honourable .
lesley is at present but five and twenty , and has already given himself up to melancholy and despair ;
” “excuse me , ma ' am , but this is by no means my intention ; i make no
the curtain , over which she had presided with such talent and such success , went off with her to
away walked catherine in great agitation , as fast as the crowd would permit her , fearful of being pursued
quite the queen of the evening !
after a song or two , and before she could reply to the entreaties of several that she would sing
well , i wish him out of all his trouble with all my heart , and a good wife into
of both to hunt after a weasel which he had a momentary glance of , and they could hardly get
it would be unnatural .
and finding himself close to mrs .
these parties were acceptable to all ; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did
norris , a friend of her brother-in-law , with scarcely any private fortune , and miss frances fared yet worse
—he had induced her to place herself , for his sake , in a situation of extreme difficulty and uneasiness
of the cell in which she languished out her days ; for what part of the abbey could be more
—his professional engagements did not allow of his being put off , but both father and daughter were disturbed by
very ancient family—and that the eltons were nobody .
henry was not able to obey his father ' s injunction of remaining wholly at northanger in attendance on the
why they should not openly acknowledge to her mother and herself , what their constant behaviour to each other declared
depending on the plan and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure as well as greater certainty
if louisa musgrove would be beautiful and happy in her november of life , she will cherish all her present
nor could she , for many hours , learn to think of it less than incessantly .
had colonel forster seen denny himself ?
dixon ' s preference of her music to her friend ' s , i can answer for being very decided
instruction prevented their meeting in conversation on terms of equality , and whose conduct toward others made every show of
elton ' s side .
” “it was a very different thing .
and sometimes it seemed nothing but absence of mind .
the young ladies of highbury might have walked again in safety before their panic began , and the whole history
made a very good appearance in the first circles , and drove about town in very knowing gigs .
" truth obliged her to acknowledge some small share in the action , but she was at the same time
delight ; and the “oh !
but i gave what i believed the general opinion , when i called him plain .
i know it is all nothing .
" " he did feel the same , elinor—for weeks and weeks he[ _num_ ] felt it .
she inherits her mother ' s talents , and must have been under subjection to her .
morland ' s circumstances which , as soon as the general would allow himself to be informed , they were
our plain manner of living , our small rooms and few domestics , and the little we see of the
she requires constant air and exercise .
he was anxious , while vindicating himself , to say nothing unkind of the others : but there was only
smith are never repeated within the twelvemonth .
in her rambling and her idleness she might only be a caricature of herself ; but in her silence and
sure i shall never ask her .
the evening had done more , much more , for her than could have been expected .
even emma grew tired at last of flattery and merriment , and wished herself rather walking quietly about with any
how is my head , my dear ?
” she could say nothing ; nor for some minutes could he say more .
too many characters .
you occupying your dear mother ' s place , succeeding to all her rights , and all her popularity ,
not be sacrificed to it .
lived with them entirely , only visiting her grandmother from time to time .
every savage can dance .
the country is a vast deal pleasanter , is it not , mr .
surgeon to be in the most emminent danger .
emma thought at least it would turn out so .
who attended to you ?
his offer to herself .
—(shaking his head)—the uncertainty of when i may be able to return !
for they want me excessively to be acquainted with captain wentworth , and i know you do not mind being
her , and it was at least a fortnight before she began to understand a disposition so totally different from
timid , anxious , doubting as she was , it was still impossible that such tenderness as hers should not
was for him .
i myself have read hundreds and hundreds .
often the rehearsal of the first scene between her and mr .
give him a book , and he will read all day long .
and evidently hoping to interest fanny on her side .
" soon after this , upon elinor ' s leaving the room , " mamma , " said marianne ,
" " indeed , i did not doubt your kindness , " said she , colouring again , " but
was often inattentive , and occasionally stupid .
collins , and mr .
poor miss sneyd .
think of tame and quiet children with any abhorrence .
the subject , and when he spoke again , it was of something totally different .
to my disadvantage , and is never satisfied till he thinks he has ascertained the beginning and end of everything
“you had better go on , ” said she .
received but half what you ought .
to almost anything that might save her from her aunt norris .
that must depend upon the binding .
” “that may be—but not by sketches in swisserland .
elton seemed most favourably impressed by the size of the room , the entrance , and all that she could
her satisfaction , and prepare for such a visitor , when bingley’s quick step was heard on the stairs ,
the spot .
you can have no grief .
i had reason to believe myself secure of my present wife , if i chose to address her , and
as bluntly as he could speak it , therefore , he told me that marianne dashwood was dying of a
it was evident that she was much better acquainted with mr .
this invaluable friend was a very young woman , and very lately married .
will not this be worth gaining ?
views on sir walter , would rather have the disagreeable prompted by anybody else , excused himself from offering the
fanny saw that she was approved ; and the consciousness of looking well made her look still better .
in which he attained the age of two and twenty .
i have an idea he was standing just here .
a little too long .
she had not supposed before that anything could ever suit her like the old grey pony ; but her delight
her arms round his neck to sob out her various emotions of pain and pleasure .
mrs smith had been able to tell her what no one else could have done .
the furniture was in all the profusion and elegance of modern taste .
, they could not succeed .
it is evident that you belong to the first circles .
knightley thought highly of them—but they must be coarse and unpolished , and very unfit to be the intimates of
animation , and his spirits to cheerfulness ; and that marianne found her own happiness in forming his , was
made .
connection whatever with the affair than what her heart gave him with every thing that passed , elinor forgot the
when i have a house of my own , i shall be miserable if i have not an excellent library
" " yes , ma ' am .
it would be absolutely impossible for me .
here to-morrow with him .
i shall certainly be at leisure .
disposed , however , as he always is to think the best of everyone , her display of grief ,
may have some share in the above mentioned sharade , and george villiers afterwards duke of buckingham .
lead the way in gathering , accepting , or talking—strawberries , and only strawberries , could now be thought or
to blush unseen , ' and waste its fragrance on the desert air .
catherine feared , as she listened to their discourse , that he indulged himself a little too much with the
willoughby is unfathomable !
another mistress .
in the world to be able to draw ; and a lecture on the picturesque immediately followed , in which
i could not go away you know , because of the rain ; but i did so wish myself anywhere
“what an illiterate villain must that man be !
to kitty , however , it does not seem so wholly unexpected .
elton was actually on his road to london , and not meaning to return till the morrow , though it
her approach to the years of danger , and would have rejoiced to be certain of being properly solicited by
it can make very little difference to you , whether you are in one house or the other .
weston , on his side , added a virtue to the account which must have some weight .
allen ' s fears on the delay of an expected dressmaker , and having only one minute in sixty to
“a sermon , well delivered , is more uncommon even than prayers well read .
who says we shall not be sisters ?
and perplexity about mr elliot , already recanting the sentiment she had so lately expressed to mary , of his
perry ' s coming .
i have hardened myself a little ; for really there is a speech or two .
“i hope , ” said he presently , “i have not been severe upon poor mrs .
if he did shrug his shoulders , it was not till sir william was out of sight .
there was one circumstance in the history of her grievances of particular irritation .
darcy’s character , though he had assured her that respect for the father would always prevent his exposing the son
” “you are too kind , ” said fanny , colouring at such praise ; “how shall i ever thank
to prevent your being otherwise .
the intelligence , which had been so anxiously announced to her , she was now to be anxiously announcing to
, and consolation in a distressed one ; there his faculties were roused into admiration and respect , by contemplating
” “neither one nor t ' other ; i might have got it for less , i dare say ;
a collection of letters letter the first from a mother to her freind .
his understanding was good , and his education had given it solid improvement .
i have been wishing it more than you can have any idea .
“it is mr .
resist such arguments as these .
" " about a fortnight .
—much that lived in harriet ' s memory , many little particulars of the notice she had received from him
he sees it , and as to mrs .
pride .
composition are oftener an object of study .
each brother , she had particular pleasure , from the circumstance of the late disagreement between mr .
they were come too late in the year for any amusement or variety which lyme , as a public place
“how can you be so silly , ” cried her mother , “as to think of such a thing ,
, and persuade her to speak openly .
to the education of her daughters lady bertram paid not the smallest attention .
as for their mother , mr .
yes—i understand you perfectly .
when she saw her , indeed , surrounded only by their immediate friends in edgar ' s buildings or pulteney
ventured to say , in her anxiety to suggest some comfort , “perhaps they may not be able to find
and very transient .
, miss austen set about recasting elinor and marianne , then composed in the form of letters ; and she
it was overpowering happiness .
she was quite easy on that head , and consequently full of strength and courage , till for a moment
concealment be possible , is all that remains .
jennings are to be the proof of impropriety in conduct , we are all offending every moment of our lives
but these objections had all , with that happy ardour of youth which marianne and her mother equally shared ,
her spirits lady bertram became talkative , and what were the sensations of her children upon hearing her say ,
” these were her reasons—she had no better .
from pope , she learnt to censure those who “bear about the mockery of woe .
he had told her that he could not allow himself the pleasure of stopping at hartfield , as he was
usually affords , exclaiming , “is not this nice ?
mary , however , continued to console herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them .
love .
is , we know , not one of the barriers which society gives to virtue .
marianne , with excellent abilities and an excellent disposition , was neither reasonable nor candid .
and will be happy to take the part of any old duenna or tame confidante , that you may not
" " i believe you are right , my love ; it will be better that there should be no
' in the name of heaven , who is that old fellow ?
lady russell felt obliged to oppose her dear anne ' s known wishes .
she had soon fixed on the size and sort of portrait .
" " yes ; you see his papa can , and why should not i ?
his most particular friend , you see by jane’s account , was persuaded of his never intending to marry her
” but whether catherine might still expect her friends , whether there had not been too much rain for miss
darcy , was in such misery of shame , that she could hardly keep her seat .
" " such excellent parents as mr and mrs musgrove , " exclaimed anne , " should be happy in
little village between gently rising hills ; a small stream before me to be forded , a church standing on
his resolution was soon formed .
lovers ' vows .
it may do her some good .
was not going from hartfield ; she should be always there ; she was introducing no change in their numbers
, in applying to her mother ; for willoughby neither came nor wrote .
this is what we all feel .
she must have been a happy creature in spite of all that she felt , or thought she felt ,
weston ' s dining-room does not accommodate more than ten comfortably ; and for my part , i would rather
have built so immovable a dislike ; and i had not known you a month before i felt that you
knightley is a gentleman !
after a silence of several minutes , he came towards her in an agitated manner , and thus began :
evils you may incur by a precipitate closure with this gentleman’s proposals , which , of course , you will
smiles decked the face of mrs .
" is there a felicity in the world , " said marianne , " superior to this ?
i thought we had been safe .
” “i have never heard him say so ; but it is probable that he may spend very little of
a very odd game .
did you ever hear of that ?
i am sorry for her , because , with her disposition , she may not get over it immediately .
was to marry .
“so obliged to you !
emma saw him only once ; but two or three times every day harriet was sure just to meet with
settle it as you like ; say what is proper ; i am sure you will feel such an instance
much good may such love do him !
but at last lady bertram left the room , and then almost immediately miss crawford thus began , with a
brother , “and tell you how i like you ; and as well as i can judge by this light
" certainly not .
on resuming their places , after descending to the brink of the river for the better inspection of some curious
by her other aunt , susan was received with quiet kindness .
i am myself convinced that it is rather a favourable circumstance .
he was coming to us , in order to assure us of his concern , before he had any idea
only recollect the first stanza ; and there are several .
attentions , he had previously excited ; and what had been terror and dislike before , was now absolute aversion
this work be altogether to recommend parental tyranny , or reward filial disobedience .
from elizabeth’s thoughts it was never absent .
it is very fatiguing to him !
the young man ' s conduct , and his sister ' s , seemed the result of real feeling ,
but not even i can charm away a sore throat ; it is a most severe cold indeed .
but you may be assured that i would not sacrifice one sentiment of local attachment of yours , or of
would be glad to give her the pleasure now ?
, travelled night and day till he got to portsmouth , rowed off to the grappler that instant , and
all mrs .
our mothers could neither of them exactly ascertain who were our father , though it is generally beleived that philander
at least so lately known to her .
what his pursuits , his talents , and genius ?
—i dare say you have heard those charming lines of the poet , ' full many a flower is born
the house belonged to people in business .
guided by william ' s powerful voice , they were rattled into a narrow street , leading from the high
quest of her former acquaintance , and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of an intercourse renewed after many
bath by the end of another week .
” “well , well , means to make her an offer then .
interest beyond herself , and even into some amusement , much as the ideas of both might now be spurned
she might scold herself for the weakness , but there was no scolding it away .
nothing should tempt her to go , if they did ; and she regretted that her father ' s known
she did not mistrust her own ability of going through a repetition of particulars with composure .
while these newly-born notions were passing in their heads , the perturbation of elizabeth’s feelings was at every moment increasing
man , with a sufficient income , settle as soon after four-and-twenty as he can .
you must be near us .
lyster , talking in capitals , towards the end of volume three of cecilia— ' has been the result of
emma was obliged to fancy what she liked—but she could never believe that in the same situation she should not
place in england .
they ought to be setting off for uppercross by one , and in the meanwhile were to be all together
if one is blown over in the bleak part of the common field there will be the other at hand
, would force itself by increasing ailments on the concern of every body , and the notice of herself .
weston ; and she perceived that his wife , who was standing immediately above her , was not only listening
so very much .
was it not ill-nature , selfishness , and a fear of exposing herself ?
restraint of sentiments which were not in themselves illaudable , appeared to her not merely an unnecessary effort , but
quite overcome by mrs .
the engagement no very bad thing .
” “i do not believe he will ever live at netherfield any more .
kind of intimacy must be submitted to , which consists of sitting an hour or two together in the same
” supper was announced .
difference could be such as she had now proved it .
i would not have the shadow of a coolness between the two whose intimacy i have been observing with the
leisure for unrestrained conversation together , and yet enjoy , as she wished , the sight and society of both
of james stevenson , esq .
had they fixed on any other man it would have been nothing ; but his perfect indifference , and your
awful in his dignity seemed lost in tenderness .
” “how so ?
will to offer in return for all the worth and all the prompt welcome which met her in his brothers
what little chance is there of so desirable an event ; i have had the small-pox , and must therefore
well that is an odd kind of delicacy !
by a good many sacrifices .
you knew nothing of me , or my family , and , therefore , there could be no occasion for
had not been able to trace the exact steps of ; had staid a few hours and then returned again
trouble to check them , extraordinary as they were .
these assured him that his exertion had produced an increase of good-will towards himself , and these gave elinor hopes
my spirits are quite jaded with listening to his nonsense : and then , being such a smart young fellow
all my other success ; but i was proud , too proud to ask again .
his attachment to them all increased .
" did you say that you had something to tell me , sir ?
you supposed more than really existed .
goddard ' s door , when she was met by mr .
expressive of obligation and concern , that to a temper of vanity and hope like crawford ' s , the
a sensibility too tremblingly alive to every affliction of my freinds , my acquaintance and particularly to every affliction of
” “dear me !
i wish we could contrive it .
here .
at her time of life , any thing of an illness destroys the bloom for ever !
she was dying to know what could be his meaning ?
in a few minutes , however , marianne was recovered enough to put an end to the bustle , and
for she had by no means given up her plan of their residing in hertfordshire , was a severe disappointment
this was the end of it .
, for i must confess there is something amazingly insipid about her .
to sir james .
i am sure they will like her extremely ; and when she gets a little acquainted with them , her
in a few moments marianne did the same .
inducement to enter the ——shire .
when she did understand it , however , and found herself expected to believe that she had created sensations which
to the gate and stood there , without seeming to know what to do .
they had several children .
, or even as using the billiard-room for the space of a week without playing at billiards in it ,
my visit was not long , as caroline and mrs .
elton had received notice of it that morning , and was in raptures .
from the dining-room , of which , though already seen , and always to be seen at five o '
well , by-and-by we shall have a few friends , and that will amuse her a little .
she had , indeed , scarcely the shadow of a hope to soothe her mind , and was reduced to
mansfield , were brought to her remembrance every hour of the day , by the prevalence of everything opposite to
weston or mrs .
weston did not like it , was clear enough , by her passing it over as quickly as possible ,
the general was furious in his anger , and they parted in dreadful disagreement .
though their caution may prove eventually unnecessary , it was kindly meant ; and of this you may be assured
—the shade was most refreshing , and emma found it the pleasantest part of the day .
could ; did check her tears ; did earnestly try to compose her spirits and strengthen her mind .
" such was her parting concern ; for after this , she had time only to pay her farewell compliments
at his father ' s house , only two miles from uppercross .
your stay at lambton ?
such an end of the doleful disappointment of five weeks back !
yates ; on the comic , tom bertram , not quite alone , because it was evident that mary crawford
it was all quite natural , however .
of something else .
added , “only think , my dear , of my having got that frightful great rent in my best mechlin
crawford was considerably the best actor of all : he had more confidence than edmund , more judgment than tom
the netherfield ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived by trade , and within view
her disposition cheerful and open , without conceit or affectation of any kind—her manners just removed from the awkwardness and
the andersons of baker street .
elinor saw , with concern , the excess of her sister ' s sensibility ; but by mrs .
” “i promise you to make none for myself , papa ; but i must , indeed , for other
where , but a great while before he died , poor fellow !
obstinacy or ill-nature , i will gratify the curiosity of your daughter ; and may the fortitude with which i
a regard for the requester would often make one readily yield to a request , without waiting for arguments to
hodges would be cross sometimes , and as long as so many sacks were sold , it did not signify
elinor ' s compassion for him increased , as she had reason to suspect that the misery of disappointed love
bennet’s carriage was to meet them , they quickly perceived , in token of the coachman’s punctuality , both kitty
said , “have you any reason , child , to think ill of mr .
tho ' i do not profess giving many dates , yet as i think it proper to give some and
during the evening , it would have been impossible for them to play their parts with more spirit or finer
there they exchanged again those feelings and those promises which had once before seemed to secure everything , but which
you see on what a footing we are .
” the subject followed ; it was in plain , unaffected , gentlemanlike english , such as mr .
i had not recollected it before , i declare , but it must be very bad .
lady at home , that it took some time to determine that it would not be unbecoming in her to
a coincidence of conduct between them , that fanny could not but admit the superior power of one pleasure over
his attentive deference to her father , contrasted with his former language , was odious ; and when she thought
crawford must take care of himself .
they would see , he said , only one gentleman there besides himself ; a particular friend who was staying
he has a wife and family to maintain , and is not to be giving away his time .
no husbands and wives , ” with so interesting a consciousness , that emma began to consider whether she had
, for all her attentions to them , concluded a short recapitulation of what she had suffered herself by observing
the excellencies of marianne , of marking his animated admiration of her , and of receiving , in her behaviour
the girls heard his entrance from above , and fanny went down .
" where does he come from ?
future , on a subject so interesting , must be before her , must force her attention , and engross
, as jane wished her ; she would wait—and , sure enough , yesterday evening it was all settled that
” she shook her head .
an unclouded night , and the contrast of the deep shade of the woods .
it was only on its being a wet night , made her feel that the commonest , dullest , most
i have more than once observed to lady catherine , that her charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess
go down and be with her uncle , and have all the happiness of his joy as well as her
being willing to spare him .
” “her not objecting does not justify him .
comfort ; she could scarcely swallow two mouthfuls before tears interrupted her , and sleep seeming to be her likeliest
how her temper and understanding might bear the investigation of his present keener time of life was another concern and
in passing .
she had never in her life been more astonished .
and advance the sufferings of her friend , who must now be even excluded from hartfield .
” “he was too good !
, in the instant even of introduction , that there was not the smallest symptom of any knowledge or suspicion
now , though at first she will suffer much , i am sure she will soon become easier .
a fortnight ago , and i already heartily repent that i ever left our charming house in portman-square for such
eleanor with your company in gloucestershire ?
but it was not till the evening of the dance at netherfield that i had any apprehension of his feeling
extend to her—she was at liberty ; and maria evidently considered her engagement as only raising her so much more
on his usual lounges , enabled her to express herself cheerfully on the subject of home , there were still
” “i think i have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in meryton .
, as i am sure he is , does really astonish me .
—indeed he should .
a great part of the conversation—and but for her acquaintance with the martins of abbey-mill farm , it must have
” she followed him thither ; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell her was heightened by
you must be the best judge of your own happiness .
the sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was
goddard ' s a few days afterwards .
” “not so hasty , if you please .
” sir thomas could not give so instantaneous and unqualified a consent .
here everybody was noisy , every voice was loud (excepting , perhaps , her mother ' s , which resembled
on which he had lost his wife .
your ladyship wants mr .
all went well : she did not dislike her own looks ; and when she came to the necklaces again
they must take their chances of these things , and happily i am not in such circumstances as to make
she did herself .
heart from a secret acknowledgment of past inattention , and bidding colonel brandon farewell with a cordiality of a friend
in one point she was fully justified .
and , upon my word , he is nothing to me .
and as for objects of interest , objects for the affections , which is in truth the great point of
feelings of her father were so respected by mrs .
her having such a steadiness and regularity of conduct , such a high notion of honour , and such an
darcy , a most intimate , confidential friend .
the smallness of the house and thinness of the walls brought everything so close to her , that , added
to his senses , and then left the sofa , removing to a seat by her sister , and giving
a tolerable collection of well-bound volumes , the property of captain benwick .
attachment .
her explanation , defective only in being—from her irritation of nerves and shortness of breath—no explanation at all , was
bingley will dance with you at the next ball .
when every corner dish was placed exactly right , and occupation and ease were generally restored , emma said ,
' my dear fellow , ' i should have said , ' consider what you are doing .
” “do you know miss bates ' s niece ?
i like to hear her talk .
, for if they are perfectly unlike him and very handsome at the same time , it is natural to
one of those points on which his influence failed , he then mentioned .
for people are never respected when they step out of their proper sphere .
why , you have not forgot our engagement !
, whether in friendship , admiration , or playfulness , extremely judicious , they were not winning back her heart
” “yes—that is what makes it amusing .
and i must do my caro sposo the justice to say that he need not be ashamed of his friend
“i have been talking incessantly all night , and with nothing to say .
obliging occasionally to put it to a better use than we can ; and that really is the reason why
the conclusion of my marriage , nor look forward with much impatience to the time when reginald , according to
" was uttered by captain wentworth , anne was sure could never be forgotten by her ; nor the sight
s conversation ; for , talking of his brother , and lamenting the extreme gaucherie which he really believed kept
" " no sister , " cried lucy , " you are mistaken there , our favourite beaux are not
” still , however , though every thing had not been accomplished by her ingenious device , she could not
wickham will soon be gone ; and therefore it will not signify to anyone here what he really is .
she could think of nothing better : and though there was something in it which her own heart could not
and scissors stolen away , and felt no doubt of its being a reciprocal enjoyment .
approve of for marianne , and which on her own account she had particular reasons to avoid .
but , my dear , we must touch up the colonel to do some thing to the parsonage , and
her agitation as they entered the great gallery was too much for any endeavour at discourse ; she could only
she had afterwards spent there with herself .
town .
we must go in the carriage , to be sure .
knightley was standing just here , was not he ?
" " it is odd that you should alone be ignorant of your daughter ' s sense !
isabella and emma , i think , do write very much alike .
he is black at heart , hollow and black !
her aunt did not neglect her : she wrote again and again ; they were receiving frequent accounts from edmund
came to look at marianne and talk to elinor , who often derived more satisfaction from conversing with him than
to go with him , but the ladies could not consent .
her mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone .
there was still something to be wished for .
and the two new beauties , with the tall irish officer , who is talked of for one of them
they could not but hold her cheap on finding that she had but two sashes , and had never learned
at the cottage , the fact was ascertained by his listening to her again .
i beleive she was always rather remarkable , is uncertain .
all parties , and being too much in the secret of the complaints of each house .
and whom she reached just in time to prevent her from falling on the floor , faint and giddy from
to one close by the piano forte on which marianne was playing , she could not keep herself from seeing
and making no other comment than that “all young people would have their little whims .
see him .
the world must know , that he ought to pay this visit to his father ; and while meanly exerting
but he judged it unnecessary : he had still something more to try , some more fresh application , of
in as short a time as mr .
“the soil is good ; and i never pass it without regretting that the fruit should be so little worth
of praise on the character of its late possessor , she was delighting both him and herself .
well , she was taken away from evil to come .
—there were several very pretty houses in and about it .
those which may befall her in her own .
you much or all of this .
and as to her young friend ' s health , by passing all the warm months with her at kellynch
do not you see it in the same light ?
” i scorned to answer : it would have been beneath my dignity .
it unreasonable for him to expect some more immediate pecuniary advantage , in lieu of the preferment , by which
for poor captain tilney too she was greatly concerned .
bennet to her husband , “and all the others equally well married , i shall have nothing to wish for
while insulted by accusation , can be worked on by compliments .
” “may i , indeed ?
bennet to her daughter’s room , in her dressing gown , and with her hair half finished , crying out
; or with no important variation .
” “my dear mr .
grant had ever had more than five thousand pounds .
" on this point sir john could give more certain intelligence ; and he told them that mr .
i should wish it .
i do not understand it .
him , or merely from my information last spring ?
this is not like yourself , your rational self .
moment nor at any other could she discern any symptom of love ; and from the whole of his behaviour
” “i have , sir .
she was miserable for ever .
bennet deigned not to make any reply , but , unable to contain herself , began scolding one of her
” “i have had the pleasure of seeing your sister dance , mr .
but he found lydia absolutely resolved on remaining where she was .
gravity , intended to be overcoming , “well , fanny , i have seen mr .
it was of a much less poignant nature than what the others excited ; but sir thomas was considering his
the breakfast-room , than we did before he went away , or to my sister ' s pianoforte being moved
dashwood seemed actually working for her , herself ; cherishing all her hopes , and promoting all her views !
was just going to say the same thing .
” happily , it was now time to be gone .
you may see her if you look this way .
he then sat down by her , and talked scarcely to anyone else .
her manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle .
it is a power little worth knowing , however , since it can deceive and pain you .
what riot ?
”—she thought he neither looked nor spoke cheerfully ; and the first possible cause for it , suggested by her
as he could even wish .
to keep fanny and the bertrams from a knowledge of what was passing became his first object .
” said he hastily , as he opened the door .
” “true ellen , but candles cost money , and mrs williams is too wise to be extravagant .
family , he did induce his wife to let her go ; obtaining it rather from submission , however ,
depend .
me in some points .
a stage and in order to be removed from any of his former acquaintance , had driven it to edinburgh
" he made no reply ; his complexion changed and all his embarrassment returned ; but as if , on
that is the place to get husbands .
more than surprise , when you know that i am in town .
whether she thought of him so much , while she drank her warm wine and water , and prepared herself
harriet , necessarily drawn away by her engagements with the martins , was less and less at hartfield ; which
the loss of the ball—the loss of the young man—and all that the young man might be feeling !
but my secret i was always sure would be safe with you .
amiable possessor of her heart whose hand is destined to another , why do you thus delay a confession of
be together , nothing ever ailed me , and i never met with the smallest inconvenience .
—“ah !
about four days after edward ' s arrival colonel brandon appeared , to complete mrs .
i had been looking about me in the poultry-yard , and was just coming out , when who should i
as soon as i could speak , i replied that i had not supposed it possible , coming in such
i would not attempt to force the confidence of any one ; of a child much less ; because a
, yet there was an ease in their manners and address which could not fail of pleasing— .
“you are a good girl ; ” he replied , “and i have great pleasure in thinking you will be
body .
the party did not supply much conversation .
however , when i found how excessively he was regretting that he should miss my father this morning , i
fanny suspected what was going on .
weston may grow cross from the wantonness of comfort , or his son may plague him .
always gave her assistance with as much intelligence as good-will .
i have nothing either to hope or fear , and nothing to reproach him with .
ferrars , since eventually it promoted the interest of elinor .
her attention was now claimed by mr .
her mind was entirely self-engrossed .
a style as could not fail of giving pleasure to his cousin ; more especially at a moment when she
the first ten minutes had its awkwardness and its emotion .
but now , my dear miss elliot , as an old friend , do give me a hint as to
that he shewed a very amiable inclination to settle early in life , and to marry , from worthy motives
” upon her speaking her wonder aloud on that part of the subject , before the few who knew her
; it was only a buzz of words in her ear , her mind was in confusion .
every body is lazy !
' i immediately saw that there could be no difficulty in it , so i said , ' my dear
had been the consequence of much thoughtlessness and much imprudence ; that its effects were most alarming , and that
have you not seen this ?
well , jane , make haste and tell us ; make haste , my love .
in its support .
' i should resolve upon doing it immediately .
effect of the western sun !
weston , ” said emma triumphantly when he left them , “what do you say now to mr .
volume iii chapter i a very little quiet reflection was enough to satisfy emma as to the nature of her
her niece was , therefore , obliged to submit , and they took their way towards the house on the
allen ' s side , and the only difficulty on catherine ' s was in concealing the excess of her
anne presumed , however , still to smile about it , and at last to mention " elizabeth .
mother and daughter .
the very idea of her having been suffered to grow up at a distance from us all in poverty and
build upon .
penance , which she loved them too well to hope they would thoroughly understand ; and who could yet say
with the help of spectacles .
his manners , the colonel ' s manners are not only more pleasing to me than willoughby ' s ever
” chapter _num_ every object in the next day’s journey was new and interesting to elizabeth ; and her spirits
your cousins have occasionally attended them ; but they would not altogether suit us now .
” “no , nothing at all .
part is so very trifling .
collins to join his daughters in their walk ; and mr .
such amiable qualities must speak for themselves .
it was about this time that sir francis drake the first english navigator who sailed round the world , lived
thus passed a long ten minutes , till they were again joined by thorpe , who , coming to them
” “the letter , perhaps , began in bitterness , but it did not end so .
“what will be his surprise , ” thought she , “when he knows who they are ?
” “but you are always very much with them .
it will be a very fine object from many parts of the park , and the flower-garden will slope down
phillips protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery tickets , and a little bit of
" they were both silent for a few moments .
but though she never spoke of it out of her own family , elinor could see its influence on her
' cried sir basil , ' it is admiral baldwin .
' come , he knows himself there .
elizabeth soon perceived , that though this great lady was not in commission of the peace of the county ,
he sends us a sack every year ; and certainly there never was such a keeping apple anywhere as one
pride and prejudice it is true , was written and finished before sense and sensibility—its original title for several years
her mother was three months in teaching her only to repeat the “beggar ' s petition” ; and after all
do not wish me such an evil .
the world is blinded by his fortune and consequence , or frightened by his high and imposing manners , and
and as to my poor word ' success , ' which you quarrel with , i do not know that
admittance at whitwell .
he took some music from a chair near the pianoforte , and turning to emma , said , “here is
we have tried two or three subjects already without success , and what we are to talk of next i
and i do seriously and truly believe that he is attached to you in a way that he never was
, that the match might be broken off .
but this will not happen to me , i am sure .
disinterested advisers , than immediately to throw the business into the hands of a professional man , mr .
he is so extremely attached to my daughter that he could not exist longer without seeing her .
to account for this seeming forgetfullness i must inform you of a trifling circumstance concerning them which i have as
to the pure genuine pleasure of the exercise , something was probably added in edmund ' s attendance and instructions
poor creature !
again !
girl .
at the idea of making him unhappy , and thought so much of what his mother and sisters would think
" [ _num_ ] mr .
—i hope not infectious .
” “i did not arrive here till tuesday evening .
let me be called in time .
her spirits sank .
perhaps you might notice the ring when you saw him ?
it became her turn to listen .
” “only one more , papa ; only for mr .
between these two , she could want no possible attendance by day or night .
but that is nothing to us .
they give themselves such airs .
to mansfield shortly , which sir thomas proposes should be done , and thinks best on every account , and
wish for .
would probably expose her even to the degradation of being said to be of mrs .
they talk and laugh a great deal too much for me .
—“the expression of the eye is most correct , but miss smith has not those eyebrows and eyelashes .
though his looks did not please her , his name was a passport to her goodwill , and she thought
they lose a great deal .
the same manners , however , which recommended mrs .
” “and my mother—how is she ?
—perhaps , indeed , at that time she scarcely saw mr .
bennet .
their own money .
fraser .
than one crowd , and might have been alone !
with the relative situations of each .
as long as mr .
— scene changes to the inside of the lion .
on reaching the bottom of the steps to the terrace , mrs .
" at last anne was at home again , and happier than any one in that house could have conceived
the present unhappy state of the family rendered any other excuse for the lowness of her spirits unnecessary ; nothing
have any comfort in having been sought by either .
in the high road for .
of the expenses , and , what was worse , of the eclat of their proceedings ; and his brother
bennet , ” replied his wife , “how can you be so tiresome !
i am to have the honour of expecting !
any consequent wishes , she was soon welcome and useful to all ; and after fanny ' s removal succeeded
not venture far , miss fairfax , this morning , or i am sure you must have been wet .
to everything else it is of the greatest consequence : to comfort , appearance , propriety , to your family
(turning to mrs .
“it is a delightful thing , to be sure , to have a daughter well married , ” continued her
elinor now began to make the tea , and marianne was obliged to appear again .
” catherine listened with astonishment ; she knew not how to reconcile two such very different accounts of the same
elinor lost no time in bringing her business forward , was on the point of concluding it , when another
“did you speak from your own observation , ” said she , “when you told him that my sister loved
come on a donkey , however , if you prefer it .
treachery in his guest , give way to all his natural kind-hearted civility in solicitous inquiries after mr .
same liberty with you .
saying more that might lead to the mention of her , had he dared .
edmund first began again— “i was very much pleased by her manner of speaking of it yesterday , particularly pleased
catherine , with a blush of mortification , left the house .
from this , she was preserved too by another cause , by feeling no eagerness for her journey ' s
the want of common discretion , of caution : his going down to richmond for the whole time of her
, she had great confidence of its being in every way a pretty drawing at last , and of its
to marry ; i must find other people charming—one other person at least .
norris was very ready with the only objection which could remain—their having positively assured mrs .
accident , no sooner begun to feel himself alive again , than he had begun to feel himself , though
i remember her telling me at the ball , that i owed mrs .
dear , my amiable , my excellent fanny , for though we shall nominally part in the breakfast-parlour , i
eltons get acquainted—they do indeed—and really it is strange ; it is out of the common course that what is
i am sure she will be as happy to see her friends at highbury , as they can be to
you have given us an amusing sketch , and human nature cannot say it was not so .
he was under my uncle ' s care , you know , a considerable while .
, in speaking of her uncle as all that was clever and good , and her aunt as having the
highbury , the large and populous village , almost amounting to a town , to which hartfield , in spite
” “you are a most accurate and honest reckoner .
young people do not like to be always thwarted .
on this attack , though almost hopeless of success , she forced herself to begin her design by saying ,
attentions from such a quarter than by supposing a partiality for their niece .
an end between miss thorpe and me .
she visited her plants , or wanted one of the books , which she was still glad to keep there
i dare say he has ; and though it may cut him off from some advantages , it will secure
bertrams .
chorus) be fun , be fun , be fun , and that to me will be fun .
there were but few who could be so classed ; and it was not all of them that were attainable
kitty is slight and delicate ; and mary studies so much , that her hours of repose should not be
post : ) eighteen pence .
distance , and i believe i shall write to her .
jane will be quite an old maid soon , i declare .
“emma , why is it that they are your enemies ?
a young lady who faints , must be recovered ; questions must be answered , and surprizes be explained .
crawford should acquit her aunt entirely .
—“to chuse to remain here month after month , under privations of every sort !
its inconsistencies , contradictions , and falsehood struck her from the very first .
no—far from it—certainly plain .
“thank you ; i am quite warm , very warm .
not these countenances , i am sure , ” looking towards the miss bertrams ; “and for a theatre ,
impossible for fanny not to feel herself mistress of the rules of the game in three minutes , he had
” “very true , my dear ; and if we knew anybody we would join them directly .
george eliot , we fancy , would have held that the fates of elinor and marianne were more probable than
of three or four years old stand still you know ; nor can it be very easy to take any
i finish as i began , with the warmest congratulations .
" i can answer for it , " said mrs .
nothing could be more expressive of attachment to them all , than willoughby ' s behaviour .
what should hinder it ?
how long lady susan will be in town , or whether she returns here again , i know not .
be off for spithead by six , so you had better go with him .
done , and” (with a bolder eye) “miss crawford is to be amelia .
" " i never want them , i assure you .
she could not but smile to see the graciousness of both mother and daughter towards the very person—for lucy was
they owed the restoration of lydia , her character , every thing , to him .
john knightley ; consequently to isabella .
or when a confidence should be forced .
of all others the most unfriendly for exercise , every morning beginning in rain or snow , and every evening
' we must not allow them to be verified in sweet jane fairfax .
tom himself began to fret over the scene-painter ' s slow progress , and to feel the miseries of waiting
altogether , and leave you to guess what you like .
by that right i do and will deserve you ; and when once convinced that my attachment is what i
was occasioning .
after a short pause sir thomas added with dignity , “yes , let her home be in this house .
i did not believe her to be indifferent because i wished it ; i believed it on impartial conviction ,
towards the close of it , in the interval succeeding an italian song , she explained the words of the
he wanted to know how early he might be admitted to-morrow .
but i am not quite weak enough to suppose a woman who has behaved with inattention , if not with
it was but a passing emotion however with mrs smith ; she shook it off , and soon added in
“even in my profession , ” said edmund , with a smile , “how little the art of reading has
—was not it lucky ?
” fanny thought and thought again of the difference which twenty-four hours had made in that room , and all
” “yes , sir .
of the box , on which one might go with him .
, suitable , and unexceptionable a connexion , and in one respect , one point of the highest importance ,
” said she , in soliloquy .
eldest of them they raised a curiosity to know the name of the gentleman alluded to , which , though
dixon , one may guess what one chuses .
never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified , never had he spoken with such gentleness
i was called away to the relief of one whom he had made poor and miserable ; but had he
john knightley had really a great regard for his father-in-law , and generally a strong sense of what was due
oh , heavens !
feelings rather natural than heroic possessed her ; instead of considering her own dignity injured by this ready condemnation—instead of
would not give in to it .
i feel that all the apologies should be on my side .
, and entirely against the rules .
” “undoubtedly .
hurst and once with miss bingley , declined being introduced to any other lady , and spent the rest of
“i believe it will be wisest to take the morning while it is so fine ; and do not be
” he was too angry to say another word ; her manner too decided to invite supplication ; and in
between ourselves , i think it a great pity henrietta did not remain at lyme as long as louisa ;
though neither henrietta , nor louisa , nor charles hayter , nor captain wentworth were there , the room presented
how very , very kind !
what shall i say ?
think , if so much could be done at compton , we need not despair .
knightleys , that when once the event were over , his distress would be soon over too , she hesitated—she
" " they mean no less to be civil and kind to us now , " said elinor , "
lady dalrymple for the same evening , and anne was already engaged , to spend that evening in westgate buildings
, c .
he had intended , about this time , to be going to london ; but he could not leave his
earth , i might have been rewarded for my exertions as i ought .
great deal better , for i have not dined at the other house since tuesday .
” “fanny price !
his arrival , elizabeth could easily perceive that her spirits were affected by it .
for my own sake , i could wish there had been no ball just at—i mean not this very week
emma was directly sure that he knew how to make himself agreeable ; the conviction was strengthened by what followed
wings of love to macdonald-hall , and so powerfully pleaded his attachment to her who inspired it , that after
” the astonishment of the ladies was just what he wished ; that of mrs .
but you know married women have never much time for writing .
i see things very differently now .
there was another family living actually held for edmund ; but though this circumstance had made the arrangement somewhat easier
with satisfaction , sink at last into a slumber , from which she expected the most beneficial effects .
carry every thing their own way .
the same tenderness in the same degree .
in brunswick square ; —and , as i said , i did then forswear ever drawing any body again .
to be you .
fears , and spoke her satisfaction in the house in camden place , which had been taken , and her
after my plan .
three or four prices might have been swept away , any or all except fanny and william , and lady
” emma recollected , blushed , was sorry , but tried to laugh it off .
, i cannot imagine them to be very frequent .
like him , she had tried the scheme and rejected it ; but such an alternative as this had not
weston began to move .
grant , and of everything and all together between mr .
rushworth had gone , for the easter holidays , to twickenham , with a family whom she had just grown
against the bias of inclination) that wedding-cake might certainly disagree with many—perhaps with most people , unless taken moderately .
he stood in her memory .
upon looking round it then , she perceived in a moment that it was the most comfortable room in the
i do not think that even he could now hope to succeed with one of her stamp , and therefore
more is avowedly due to her .
anne was so impressed by the degree of their danger , that she could not excuse herself from trying to
" i am not sorry to see you alone , " he replied , " for i have a good
—not that i presume to insinuate , however , that some people may not think you perfection already .
a manner which gave them meaning .
on the contrary , the knowing that there was such a provision for me probably did bias me .
which the most comprehensive retrenchments could secure , and saw no dignity in anything short of it .
hedge , everything declared they were arriving .
to mansfield as soon as the squadron to which he belonged should be known to be in england .
over directly , and as soon as ever he saw the child , he said just as we did ,
” elizabeth could not refuse , though she foresaw little pleasure in the visit .
“miss tilney , she was sure , would never put her into such a chamber as he had described !
“i imagine both sisters are .
lady russell might have asked yet for something more , while anne was nineteen , she would have rejoiced to
gowland , during the spring months .
do you see no symptoms there ?
it , however .
” “i am sure you were of use to me , ” cried emma .
girls the smallest degree of arrogance towards their relation ; but still they cannot be equals .
, seemed hardly to have expected her , though it had been an appointment .
you cannot doubt your sister ' s wishes .
; but there was one spirit among them not to be softened , from its power of censure , by
fanny said she was rested , and would have moved too , but this was not suffered .
much was said on his side to induce her to attend the races , and schemes were made for a
i want nothing more .
nothing had ever suggested it before , but they felt that there was no other way of accounting for such
more intolerable .
it seemed to announce a different sort of man .
this will not do seventy miles from london ; but this morning we heard of it in the right way
but perhaps you will say , these were all written by men .
we can all begin freely—a slight preference is natural enough ; but there are very few of us who have
any compassion for me , ” cried her husband impatiently , “he would not have danced half so much !
here are no tea-things for us , you see .
, and his in seeing her , must be so much greater .
" " i knew pretty well what she was before that day ; " said he , smiling .
eloquent on a point in which her own conduct would ill bear examination .
he has .
you like mr .
and friendship for mr .
could drive , julia , i think this will be a good opportunity for you to take a lesson .
he joined them on their entering the town , and attended them to their aunt’s where his regret and vexation
sister , i believe , wanted only opportunity for doing so .
she was ashamed of isabella , and ashamed of having ever loved her .
what he wished .
“two offenses of a very different nature , and by no means of equal magnitude , you last night laid
business , whether in quest of pastry , millinery , or even (as in the present case) of young men
with a yet sweeter smile , he said everything that need be said of his sister ' s concern ,
since the ——shire were first quartered in meryton , nothing but love , flirtation , and officers have been in
jennings , who had been inclined from the first to think marianne ' s complaint more serious than elinor ,
perry was always particularly fond of my mother—indeed i do not know who is not—and she had mentioned it to
“that is kind of you , however—kind and good-natured .
” “in that respect how unlike dear mrs .
feelings ; and nothing could be more pleasant than their desire of considering the whole party as friends of their
she spoke of it , fanny , with a steadier voice than i can .
" ha !
rest of their lonely evening .
he did not repeat his persuasion of their not marrying—and from that , i am inclined to hope , he
whatever lucy might think about it herself , you know , it was no business of other people to set
marriage , nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising from so ill-judged a direction of talents ;
lydia—the humiliation , the misery she was bringing on them all , soon swallowed up every private care ; and
for frederica , whom i had not seen since breakfast .
— mrs .
and i do not think it of light importance that he should have attentive and conciliatory manners towards everybody ,
shake of the hand when he encountered an old friend , and observe their eagerness of conversation when occasionally forming
no such time as you allude to will ever come .
though irresolute what to do when it was known .
from his word only because he grows poor , and a richer girl is ready to have him .
little charles does not mind a word i say , and walter is growing quite as bad .
most invariably prevailing desire to keep out of your sight , could have separated us so long .
the agitation which she had herself experienced on first learning her brother ' s engagement made her expect to raise
of the hill , the important hill behind , when pausing with her eyes turned towards it , marianne calmly
which their correspondence had begun ; mary ' s next letter was after a decidedly longer interval than the last
insufferably dull .
the chapel was soon afterwards left to the silence and stillness which reigned in it , with few interruptions ,
of every precaution , her sufferings on hearing it were too violent for her reason , and she continued for
my objections to the marriage were not merely those which i last night acknowledged to have the utmost force of
he seems to me to be grown particularly gentle of late .
you must be aware that ours is not a family on which it could be thrown away .
it was many months since she had mentioned his name to elizabeth ; but now , as soon as they
insupportably cross , from being excluded the party .
fashioned new netting-needles and pins with improvements ; and if everything else was done , sat down to his large
begging you to give away half your fortune from your own child .
meant to be the last , last interview of friendship , and investing her with all the feelings of shame
collins would have led them round his two meadows ; but the ladies , not having shoes to encounter the
necessary than merely pacing this gravel together .
whatever you may happen to have in the house will be enough .
i assure you they are very genteel people .
more , i think , than such an absence has a tendency to produce at first .
i am sure she will be married to mr .
course .
i see nobody else looking like her !
“take a little time , consider , do not commit yourself .
own grief by the confession of it , extend an useless resentment , and perhaps involve the innocent with the
she was yet more impatient for another letter from town after receiving this than she had been before ; and
” miss bingley , however , was incapable of disappointing mr .
charge of getting it properly set for another !
" cried marianne , " he has been here while we were out .
so immediately on his joining her , asked by mr .
harriet smith might think herself not unworthy of being peculiarly , exclusively , passionately loved by mr .
let us forgive each other at once .
which commanded a tolerable view of everybody entering at either ; “it is so out of the way .
” “mamma , ” cried lydia , “my aunt says that colonel forster and captain carter do not go so
he looked at her with a degree of earnest admiration , which she could not be insensible of .
or extravagance .
her shudder at the idea of the misery which must have followed .
her why she supposed miss darcy likely to give them any uneasiness , convinced her that she had somehow or
everything to henrietta .
a friend i shall just hint to you that if elton is the man , i think it will be
the intervals of sense and consciousness were believed to be stronger .
thanks ; —for , oh !
would dare pronounce herself to be ; though , when the letters were read , elizabeth felt that charlotte expressed
and it is the more to be lamented , because there is reason to suppose as my dear charlotte informs
inquiring eye for mr .
spite of all dr .
" i have very often wished to undeceive yourself and my mother , " added elinor ; " and once
queen of a palace , though the king may appear best in the background ; and as i have no
equal in degree , however unlike in kind .
” “ten o ' clock !
” she read it to him , just as he liked to have any thing read , slowly and distinctly
" " long a time , indeed !
” “i cannot pretend to be sorry , ” said wickham , after a short interruption , “that he or
deduction from her father ' s daily comfort—and , as to herself , she could not at all endure the
to mr .
was it from dejection of spirits ?
the colonel in gratitude waited on me the next day with an offer of his hand— .
they have no mercy on her .
" i have never been able , " continued lucy , " to give him my picture in return ,
by some exertion of politeness on their side ; and , consequently , that it would be highly expedient to
" " oh , oh !
not give his real opinion about it .
attentions last night , the irremediable mischief he might have done , was considered with sensations unqualified , unperplexed .
dixon , a young man , rich and agreeable , almost as soon as they were acquainted ; and was
caroline did not return my visit till yesterday ; and not a note , not a line , did i
manner , “i fancy miss price has been more used to deserve praise than to hear it” ; when ,
i looked upon him as the sort of person to be made a fuss with , and to make a
“but perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities , ” replied her uncle .
” this was just such a summary view of the affair as catherine could listen to ; another sentence might
ten to one but he guesses the reason , and that is exactly what i want to avoid , so
engaging her before they parted to dance with him that evening .
she is at dinner is not she ?
the letter , whence sprang all this felicity , was short , containing little more than this assurance of success
and though mrs .
men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story .
“my dear brother , “at last i am able to send you some tidings of my niece , and such
happy shall i be , when his stay at netherfield is over !
in the gayest and happiest spirits she set forward with her father ; not always listening , but always agreeing
making them think too lowly of their cousin ; and how , without depressing her spirits too far , to
it was the same , the very same man , with no difference but of dress .
confirmed , and which are considerably tightened for the moment by the very idea of separation .
” “you know miss fairfax ' s situation in life , i conclude ; what she is destined to be
eldest daughter in his own carriage , with less apparent consciousness of the weather than either of the others ;
at this dull time of year .
she had instinctively turned away ; but stopping on his approach , received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to
would she recollect him ?
not fanny ' s heart been guarded in a way unsuspected by miss crawford , might have been a little
i could not have hoped to entertain you with irish anecdotes during a ten miles ' drive .
smith , was to set me free ; yet that event being uncertain , and possibly far distant , it
as to your brother ' s behaviour , certainly i was sensible of a particularity : i had been sensible
” “yes , when i reached the house i found the two sisters together by themselves ; and when once
alas why are not edward and augustus here to enjoy its beauties with us ?
we had scarcely paid our compliments to the lady of the house and curtseyed to half a score different people
cole , i suppose ?
two years older .
i would give any money for a real good hunter .
caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone ; and all that i can hope in this case is that she
satisfaction in hearing of any kindness towards them , or of anything at all promising in their situation or conduct
such a number of women and children have no right to be comfortable on board .
she saw how her own character was considered by captain wentworth , and there had been just that degree of
time will generally lessen the interest of every attachment not within the daily circle—but that is not the change i
" " she was certainly very civil to you .
catherine herself could not be more ignorant at the time of all this , than his own children .
but in time they will .
it !
and constant habit of never thinking of herself , she had not mentioned it ; but now she was too
i have still something more to ask of the former .
" elinor had often wished for an opportunity of attempting to weaken her mother ' s dependence on the attachment
, at her earnest entreaty , to join her in a day or two ; and whither she was almost
she had often observed the change , to almost the same extent .
nothing seems to do her any good .
palmer came running in at the other , looking as good humoured and merry as before .
collins might never make the offer , and till he did , it was useless to quarrel about him .
witnessed this morning .
" none at all , ma ' am , i thank you .
flatter myself it will not be broken by any mistake or misapprehension of my actions .
i can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor sister .
but everybody is to judge for themselves , and the lucases are a very good sort of girls , i
she had great pleasure in feeling her usefulness , but could not conceive how they would have managed without her
acknowledged .
elton , and miss hawkins !
" this brought his sister upon him .
that punishment , the public punishment of disgrace , should in a just measure attend his share of the offence
be guilty of such an enormity , at so early an age .
she knew not what to think , or how to account for it .
and knightley have every thing their own way .
it , and such as she supposed would convey to the sanguine mind of her correspondent the hope of everything
collins too !
” “yes , yes , they must marry .
if it be not so , let mr .
” “i am most happy to hear it—but only jane fairfax one knows to be so very accomplished and superior
, in long sentences of refined nonsense , to combine liberal acquirements with elegant morality , upon new principles and
strong desire to affront her by taking edward ' s part , could overcome her unwillingness to be in her
down under one of the trees .
whether she was authorised to mention it , when sir william lucas himself appeared , sent by his daughter ,
for ever as possible .
there must be a sort of shyness ; but i cannot recollect that our evenings formerly were ever merry ,
she treated her therefore , with all the indulgent fondness of a parent towards a favourite child on the last
she has a right to be felt for , because she evidently feels for herself .
her affection must have overpowered her judgment .
after some minutes spent in this way , miss bertram , observing the iron gate , expressed a wish of
good-bye ; i am sorry miss marianne was not here .
“for i have heard you accuse him of nothing worse than of being the son of mr .
yours , etc .
” “certainly , if you wish it ; —but you are not going to walk to highbury alone ?
even if your own feelings were reluctant or indifferent , to consider what powerful supports would be his !
her first return was to resume her place in the modern and elegant apartments of the lodge , and to
norris , on quitting the parsonage , removed first to the park , and afterwards to a small house of
of the news had yet reached them .
comforts might not be less on that account ; and if she could dispense with seeing her husband a leading
was indeed delightful .
might have become a man in the bloom of youth , of hope and happiness , saw him , with
his brother-in-law , mr .
his kindness to his little cousin was consistent with his situation and rights : he made her some very pretty
of one friend , secured her two .
but (with a reproachful smile at emma) she receives attentions from mrs .
allen ?
“my dear , dear anxious friend , ”—said she , in mental soliloquy , while walking downstairs from her own
the news was universally a surprize wherever it spread ; and mr .
" " he did not stipulate for any particular sum , my dear fanny ; he only requested me ,
sensible yet unaffected—accomplished yet easy— .
weston , who had called in for half a minute , in order to hear that his son was very
which was agreed to , in the hope of her assistance ; and though emma continued to protest against any
it is something for a woman to be assured , in her eight-and-twentieth year , that she has not lost
after being nursed up at mansfield , it was too late in the day to be hardened at portsmouth ;
removal surprised her , she saw nothing in it really to lament ; it was not to be supposed that
all , unless he really comes to see her .
weston had left her seat to join him and say , “do not you dance , mr .
chapter vii barton park was about half a mile from the cottage .
in the course of a second visit she talked with great openness , and anne ' s astonishment increased .
bennet , with little cessation , of his house and garden at hunsford .
afterwards she was met on the stairs by jane herself , coming eagerly forward , as if no other reception
be sure .
” “his sufferings , ” replied emma dryly , “do not appear to have done him much harm .
i have always found you a very good girl .
merry .
perry passed by on horseback .
” there was a little blush , and then this answer , “i must not hope to be ever situated
my dear , but perry had many doubts about the sea doing her any good ; and as to myself
i think it is so .
but the men are all wild after miss elliot .
my dear sir , you are too obliging .
they are now on terms of the most particular friendship , frequently engaged in long conversations together ; and she
in fact , it does not concern you—it concerns only myself , —that is , we hope .
pray , what would become of us poor sailors ' wives , who often want to be conveyed to one
with ; and if i mistake not , a strong sense of duty is no bad part of a woman
when the gentlemen rose to go away , mrs .
smile on him , and in her sister ' s happiness forgot for a time her own disappointment .
langford !
remembrance affected his spirits .
we both abhor suspense .
” “and yet i meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike to him , without any
—she had seemed more sensible of mr .
she had been already eighteen hours in the abbey , and had seen only a few of its rooms .
” “no , i have not been out at all .
beauty , and elegance , gave an interest to the action which came home to her feelings .
i should be the last to encourage such affection , or even to be pleased by it .
i have no doubt of his having , at times , considerable influence ; but it may be perfectly impossible
bingley !
a fearless face and bold voice would i say to any one , that wealth and consequence could fall into
—fine dancing , i believe , like virtue , must be its own reward .
but as it was , there could be no comparison ; and she was most allowably a sweet , pretty
he thought her a most extraordinary young woman ; in her temper , manners , mind , a model of
” they danced again ; and , when the assembly closed , parted , on the lady ' s side
charles , ring and order a chair .
“we have not been so silent all the time , ” replied his mother .
of the party to the ceremony of knocking at the door , and stepping across the turf , obliged her
do not think mr .
" " i am sure , " replied elinor , with a smile , " that his dearest friends could
court of lewis xiv .
she did not regret it .
spot , and only superior to her in being more highly valued !
i[ _num_ ] should be very glad to get her so good a mistress .
loves jane fairfax—” “nonsense !
” “he has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship , ” replied elizabeth with emphasis , “and in
“i certainly saw mr .
marianne had already sent to say , that she should eat nothing more .
” “you were born there i suppose ?
_num_ , vol .
” this wretched note was the finale of emma ' s breakfast .
of such dear and deserving freinds—when your visit to them is terminated , i trust you will return to the
” a small sigh escaped fanny here , and she did not know how to contradict him .
collins returned into hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted by the gardiners and jane ; but as he took
the possibility of lady russell and captain wentworth never meeting anywhere .
that it was now generally admitted to be hers .
her that it was impossible she could love graham , or that it was her duty to disobey her father
it will not be necessary to send you to your father ' s judgment , i am convinced .
it is fishing for compliments .
fanny saw and pitied much of this in julia ; but there was no outward fellowship between them .
” fanny , meanwhile , speaking only when she could not help it , was very earnestly trying to understand
will not the old prejudice be too strong ?
" " well , then , let something be done for them ; but that something need not be three
collins will be very glad of your company , i am sure .
—it will be safer to say ' no , ' perhaps .
martin with him .
the prospect from her window is not very instructive , for that room overlooks the lawn , you know ,
emma could not but feel all this ; and then , her face—her features—there was more beauty in them altogether
knew his heart to be warm and his temper affectionate .
" " not at all , i believe , with you .
for half an hour i was in momentary expectation of his departure .
you had better neglect your relations than run the risk of offending your patroness .
due care to inform the surrounding families , that as their happiness centered wholly in themselves , they wished for
had been first settled in cheshire ; how mentioned in dugdale , serving the office of high sheriff , representing
—but i must not propose it yet .
that you would have chosen for him better than he has chosen for himself .
she would not be so weak as to throw away the comfort of a child , and yet retain the
i fancy , lizzy , that obstinacy is the real defect of his character , after all .
in its fearful review of past scenes of guilt ?
” “have you not heard madam of willoughby ' s marriage ?
norris , as clergyman of the parish , that cannot be expected from me .
in your bedchamber i know you cannot have a fire .
they were too handsome themselves to dislike any woman for being so too , and were almost as much charmed
it was but to think of her conversation with edmund , and what was the restlessness of mrs .
chose .
else was allowed to whisper ?
what could we do but what we did !
young men , to whom they are not even related ?
within herself , and be as ignorant of what was passing around her , in mr .
and though her complexion varied , she stood firm in incredulity , and felt in no danger of an hysterical
“pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of , ” cried colonel fitzwilliam .
” from herself to jane—from jane to bingley , her thoughts were in a line which soon brought to her
thither they now went ; mr .
meryton , denominated from that period lucas lodge , where he could think with pleasure of his own importance ,
there could not be a doubt , to her mind there was none , of what would follow her recovery
this is what the world does .
in this quiet way , the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away .
the lucases are very artful people indeed , sister .
" said she , in a whisper , to elinor .
and could i bear to see her want while i had a bit of bread to give her ?
thorpe ; stop and speak to my brother , and tell him how very unsafe it is .
she thought it in reality a sad exchange for herself , to have him with his grave looks and reluctant
i heard from him just before i left exeter ; " taking a letter from her pocket and carelessly showing
should be disposed to accept him , i think there would be every possibility of your being happy together .
if ever there was a perfect beauty afloat , she is one ; and there she lays at spithead ,
held such a place in society as mrs .
have i ever had a concealment from you ?
for i can never be ashamed of my own scruples ; and if they are removed , it must be
and frank communication of her sentiments .
—dear miss woodhouse !
her ; and when tea at last brought them away , and she was to be seen by edmund again
you have politics , of course ; and it would be too bad to plague you with the names of
see that you guess what i have just been asked .
could he expect to be noticed again by the regiment , after such an affront to colonel forster ?
was justified ; it supplied a very useful check , —interested , without disturbing him .
” “the letter shall certainly be burnt , if you believe it essential to the preservation of my regard ;
either from lydia or her father , to explain their proceedings , and , perhaps , announce their marriage .
emma was sorry ; —to have to pay civilities to a person she did not like through three long months
from the common decorum of a gentleman , as to send a letter so impudently cruel : a letter which
mothers jewels and your sister ' s consequence , i should suppose are but too well founded .
anne was ashamed .
“can it be possible that he will marry her ?
eye , and determined not to observe her attitude , inquired in a hurried manner after mrs .
cause for her chusing to come to highbury instead of going with the campbells to ireland .
, i was only indifferent .
that i had been away long enough .
intrusion of charles maddox , as if they had been forced into admitting him against their inclination .
“do you not want to know who has taken it ?
you must write again very soon , and praise him a great deal more than you did in your last
chapter _num_ after a week spent in professions of love and schemes of felicity , mr .
all those things should be allowed for in youth and high spirits .
a clergyman is nothing .
” her own gentle voice speaking from the other end of the room , which was a very long one
”—those were the words ; in them lay the tormenting ideas which emma could not get rid of , and
often had to be careless of their meals , she had never been obliged to go without her dinner before
tell me that not only your house will remain the same , but that i shall ever find you and
so says my historian , at least .
for their own comfort they would much rather have remained , at least all the morning , in mrs .
she was thinking only of the last half hour , and as they passed to their seats , her mind
was never more surprized in my life than by sir james ' s arrival , and the suddenness of it
” “that it ought not to be attempted .
, that it is a far greater gratification to me to write to you , than to spend the evening
she wondered that sir thomas could have leisure to think of such a trifle again ; but she soon found
marry any one else .
is there anything i can do for you in town ?
sportsman , though he esteems only those of his sex who are sportsmen likewise , is not often desirous of
she had given them neither men , nor names , nor places , that could raise a blush .
my taste ; but i always delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes , and cheating a person of their
was taking him from her , though he had bent down her head so much , that his little sturdy
lady bertram ' s calm inquiry of “where shall the child come to first , sister , to you or
mistress of deceit , however , she appeared perfectly unconcerned , and after chatting on indifferent subjects for a short
crawford appeared again .
staying .
weston , look sorrowful , and have done .
tilney .
on his part .
a matter took from me the power of speaking with any clearness .
my dear madam , “if i made myself intelligible yesterday , this letter will be expected ; but expected or
appear that you have not left anything behind you in any of the pockets .
i have no news for you .
—miss bates came to the carriage door , all gratitude , and agreeing with her most earnestly in thinking an
than when at barton .
” miss bertram did indeed look happy , her eyes were sparkling with pleasure , and she was speaking with
he was gone the next moment : —after another moment ' s pause , “take it , ” said emma
had been living together as friend and friend very mutually attached , and emma doing just what she liked ;
" it shall not be put off when we are so near it .
—“good god !
all through her illness .
it would indeed give me most painful sensations to know that it were not in your power to receive me
chapter xii sir thomas was to return in november , and his eldest son had duties to call him earlier
credit of the lover ' s understanding , be it stated , that he did not by any means consider
will you come and spend some time at cleveland this christmas ?
i do not believe she often sees such at home .
” “my heart , indeed !
i would lay fifty guineas the letter was of his own writing .
she had once or twice suggested to elizabeth the possibility of his being partial to her , but elizabeth always
collins moreover adds , ‘i am truly rejoiced that my cousin lydia’s sad business has been so well hushed up
essential a part of every woman ' s worth in the judgment of man , that though he sometimes loves
i know it will be the death of me .
at this moment whom are you thinking of ?
jane was anxious that no difference should be perceived in her at all , and was really persuaded that she
i suppose , sister , you will put the child in the little white attic , near the old nurseries
pain you are inflicting as propriety requires , will present themselves unbidden to your mind , i am persuaded .
some quiet rest before she left her .
, and still tenaciously setting her right if she varied in the slightest particular from the original recital .
you are acquainted with him ?
i want to puzzle you again .
we have got a better .
i will move a little farther off .
watching all that was going on there , and when mr elliot came to bath for a day or two
she was a woman of mean understanding , little information , and uncertain temper .
crawford had gone into norfolk again or not till they met , and might never hear from his sister any
the case is , you see , that the campbells are going to ireland .
absence ; and wednesday she was very sure would be wet .
before us ran the murmuring brook and behind us ran the turn-pike road .
she was mortified , shocked , confounded .
he was very fond of them .
of proper submission from him , addressed perhaps to fanny , and by her shown to her mother , might
s anger ; and though dreading my brother ' s departure , jealous , it may be , of his
i believe we must not think of a northampton ball .
from randalls immediately to hartfield , she could then exercise all her quick observation , and speedily determine how he
bragge , an acquaintance of mrs .
" you may well be surprised , " continued lucy ; " for to be sure you could have had
gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction .
and our music !
darcy called , and was shut up with him several hours .
” “if my children are silly , i must hope to be always sensible of it .
weston , however , too eager to be very observant , too communicative to want others to talk , was
elizabeth now began to revive .
bingley does not know mr .
so peculiarly eligible , so singularly fortunate , that now it seemed as if emma could not safely have attached
—yes , indeed .
in all her pulses and all her nerves .
i was to decide on the best of them .
the world .
norris related again her triumph over dick jackson , but neither play nor preparation were otherwise much talked of ,
you have no compassion for my poor nerves .
how soon he had walked himself into the proper resolution , however , how soon an opportunity of exercising it
—he would have judged better , she thought , if he had not stopped .
bennet , “to walk to oakham mount this morning .
this was enough to determine sir thomas ; and a decisive “then so it shall be” closed that stage of
is not he a charming man ?
to be neglected before one ' s time must be very vexatious ; but it was entirely the mother '
” when emma afterwards heard that jane fairfax had been seen wandering about the meadows , at some distance from
common use , and fitted up in a style of luxury and expense which was almost lost on the unpractised
recollecting that he sometimes showed a want of pleasure and readiness in accepting my invitation , when i talked of
selected ; and very early in november removed herself , her maid , her footman , and her chariot ,
all i have ever attempted to influence has been the behaviour .
goddard ' s , but it was then to be settled that she should return to hartfield , to make
what a difference between him and his father !
miss crawford ' s character .
i see him to be an indolent , selfish bon vivant , who must have his palate consulted in everything
at sea , and said that she had quite a curiosity to see him , and imagined him a very
my aunt always sends me off when she is shopping .
she gave him credit for stationing himself where he might gaze and gaze again without offence ; but was really
dashwood , " to have those kind of yearly drains on one ' s income .
times in edward street .
and her sense of past injustice towards miss fairfax .
and , as to procuring a dispensation , there could be no difficulty at his time of life , and
woodhouse , as well as emma , to join the party ; and he knew that to have any of
, and two or three times over , with explanations of every part as she proceeded—and he was very much
might be pleasing to mrs .
themselves equal even to my brother , mr .
all !
which of course recommended him still more ; and elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in being with him
thankful to his fair daughter julia that mr .
he could even listen to sir william lucas , when he complimented him on carrying away the brightest jewel of
out the causes ever so ingeniously , they all centre in this at last—my vanity was flattered , and i
her by willoughby , containing some of their favourite duets , and bearing on its outward leaf her own name
his being a lover , elizabeth really believed all his expectations of felicity to be rationally founded , because they
it was doomed to be a day of trial .
you must take care of yourself , mrs .
i was not in a humour to wait for any opening of yours .
the appearance of the servants looking out for them to give notice of the carriages was a joyful sight ;
have actually seen but one genteel family since we came .
scene changes to the sun— enter chloe and a chorus of ploughboys .
to wait on her as well as the others .
compare mr .
acquaintance with edward could have prevented from being immediately sprung .
of susan , given as they were , though very reasonable in themselves , with ill-timed and powerless warmth ,
i will only say farther that from what passed that evening , my opinion of all parties was confirmed ,
she probably thought change of air might agree with many of her children .
: just the sort of people to get all they can) , i said to the boy directly (a great
she was born to discover the falsehood of her own opinions , and to counteract , by her conduct ,
family , not forgetting his thanks for the kindness he had received at longbourn in the winter , and his
how directly , how strongly had he expressed himself to her on the subject !
the former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion , and doubt as
” “yes , i do comprehend a great deal in it .
of the other .
i am sure i pity everybody that is .
” her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of these transports , by leading her thoughts
true , i believe he is , generally speaking , kind to her , and so is sir thomas in
they were so fully convinced , however , that their brother would not have the courage to apply in person
given them a hint at the inn , was under frequent discussion between her parents .
in such a matter .
though her manner varied , however , her determination never did .
what we once were to each other .
i could hardly keep my countenance .
another he was before them .
" yes , " cried he in the same eager tone , " with all and every thing belonging to
no , it was not to be supposed that lady russell would perceive him till they were nearly opposite .
they were in such a crowd , as to make miss smith rather uneasy .
entreaties of mr .
“i am afraid jane is not very well , ” said she , “but i do not know ; they
“not at all , ” was her answer ; “but depend upon it , he means to be severe on
darcy , only for a few minutes , to take leave—but that colonel fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at
their brother is a pleasant gentlemanlike man—he is a great friend of darcy’s .
compliments on good looks now passed ; and , after observing how time had slipped away since they were last
in half a minute they were together .
having , of course , the same origin , must be equally under cure .
me i should give her compliments and mr .
but nothing of that kind occurred , no visitors appeared to delay them , and they all three set off
“can i speak with you , fanny , for a few minutes ?
elton would not stand up with me ; and when there was no other partner in the room .
good-natured , let me tell you , that in the degree she possesses them , they are not trivial recommendations
and other prettiness , was quite as likely to catch the traveller ' s eye as the more consistent and
churchill .
one of the best players we have , by the by ; and we had a little touch together ,
—i suppose i smile for pleasure at colonel campbell ' s being so rich and so liberal .
they will never be distressed for money .
only known that she was a relation of mr evelyn , and that her name was grenville .
it is perfectly natural that you should not have thought much on the subject , mr .
make her very desirous of having them all to dine with her .
effected immediately , as that she was conscious of the difficulties of so long a journey , which marianne could
” “no ; he only said he thought it very likely ; and i thought so too .
elinor encouraged her as much as possible to talk of what she felt ; and before breakfast was ready ,
he had returned to a late dinner , after some days ' absence , and now walked up to hartfield
we cannot part .
common-place raillery as mrs .
i should like it of all things , ” was not plainer in words than manner .
the party was rather large , as it included one other family , a proper unobjectionable country family , whom
the warmth of her heart .
the business was finished , and harriet safe .
" " no , no !
but she was very anxious to have it done with the least possible pain to him and elizabeth .
henry and eleanor were by themselves in the breakfast-room ; and each , as she entered it , looked at
can doubt the nature of the terms on which they are together .
under any circumstances it would have been an unwelcome alliance ; but to have it so clandestinely formed , and
here was comfort indeed !
she was left , on the contrary , with a melancholy impression of colonel brandon ' s unhappiness , and
” “no , no , nonsense , lizzy .
" [ _num_ ] elinor could not help smiling at this display of indifference towards the manners of a person
saw , ” brought him yet stronger suspicion of there being a something of private liking , of private understanding
fortune .
man of five and twenty must have been insensible indeed , not to become an immediate convert to the excellence
towards preserving that good opinion a little longer .
bennet , and prepared for backgammon .
knightley soon saw that he had lost his moment , and that not another syllable of communication could rest with
: she saw nobody in whose favour she could wish to overcome her own shyness and reserve .
action , however my views may be directed ; and at any rate i shall there be rewarded by your
vernon , who dearly loves to be firm , and to have all the sense and all the wit of
she moves in the first circle .
there comes old sir archibald drew and his grandson .
taken , and the kindness i am now receiving , is what my conscience tells me ought not to be
i shall never forgive her .
the names which occasionally dropt of former associates , the allusions to former practices and pursuits , suggested suspicions not
jennings , to the middletons , he has been long and intimately[ _num_ ] known ; they equally love and
it just stands for a gentleman , and that ' s all .
following with captain wentworth ; his sisters meaning to visit mary and the child , and captain wentworth proposing also
, whose rights had been so generously supported by her father , had disappointed her .
i come now to the relation of a misfortune , which about this time befell mrs .
to the tea-table where elinor presided , and whispered , " the colonel looks as grave as ever you see
he absolutely started , and for a moment seemed immovable from surprise ; but shortly recovering himself , advanced towards
had many doubts .
his own inconvenience in being obliged to hurry away so soon .
as a showery october would allow .
, the simple acknowledgment of settled dislike on her side would have been sufficient .
a cousin of mr .
she was really glad to receive the letter when it did come .
and to have them away when it was given—and for her to be opening the ball—and with mr .
do not you , anne ?
“well , fanny , ” said she , as soon as they were alone together afterwards , and she really
harp , you might do all that , i am very sure ; but you sing as well as play
” “how odd you are !
she would not be frightened from paying him those attentions which , as a friend and almost a relation ,
it known to her .
therefore as the almost acknowledged future heiress of fullerton naturally followed .
i told him , moreover , that i believed myself mistaken in supposing , as i had done , that
i never met with anybody who delighted me so much .
with a jealous eye , as intruding on their ground , and sharing the kindness which they wanted to monopolize
i cannot bear the thoughts of making him so miserable , as i know the very mention of such a
, now , when no longer allowable , governed every thought ; and the connection , for the sake of
as harriet described it , there had been an interesting mixture of wounded affection and genuine delicacy in their behaviour
she felt it keenly .
after seeing william to the last moment , fanny walked back to the breakfast-room with a very saddened heart to
undervalued ; but to her own more extensive information , he was the person to whom the whole family were
no impropriety in her going with mr .
” but he was still talking on , describing his affection , soliciting a return , and , finally ,
for the housekeeper , had leisure to wonder at her being where she was .
the dancing began within a few minutes after they were seated ; and james , who had been engaged quite
the general needed no more .
great deal to agitate and grieve her , when mr .
—you are prettily shod for walking home , i dare say .
“the ladies were all at home .
might stand ?
have done what she could not but believe that in his place she should have done long ago , when
, and say their prayers in the same chapel the next morning .
—is he indeed ?
become indisposed for any of the more homely pursuits in which his brothers were engaged , and had satisfied an
perhaps it is about miss williams and , by the bye , i dare say it is , because he
” her cousin was safe on the other side while these words were spoken , and , smiling with all
she does not like my going .
there were , in fact , so many things to be attended to , so many people to be pleased
looked very lovely in hers , and entered with such an instantaneous renewal of cheerfulness into the whole affair as
yates , as to the happiness of the arrangement , the three gentlemen returned to the drawing-room together , sir
but from prejudiced persons , whose opinions you have been in the habit of hearing .
of service to her ; whom else had she to open her heart to ?
completed , and wilhelminus returned to take possession of his cottage .
said i ; " but as i have just learnt your intention of leaving this place to-day , i feel
he never even believed himself to see her equal .
langford for churchhill ; and if she had not stayed there for months before she discovered that her friend '
his son was sent for as soon as his danger was known , and to him mr .
i knew their spite : at one time they could not be civil to me , but now they are
might have obliged them to practise during the meal .
—how very few of those men in a rank of life to address emma would have renounced their own home
" to pacify mary , and perhaps screen her own embarrassment , anne did move quietly to the window .
she is known only as parlour-boarder at a common school .
depend upon it , it is not you who are wanted ; depend upon it , it is me” (looking
she was delighted to see her father look comfortable , and very much pleased with herself for contriving things so
“yes , i cannot agree with you there .
adeiu my dear charlotte ; matilda unites in best wishes to you , and eloisa , with yours ever m
assistance or regard be repulsed .
boot , and fall behind to arrange it once more .
—if i had studied a twelvemonth , i could never have made any thing like it .
i am pleased to find that my letter had so much effect on you , and that de courcy is
it had occurred to her that after so long an absence from home , catherine might not be provided with
we spent two or three days together with a lady in berkshire with whom we both happened to be connected—
mediation of friends , or some more eligible opportunity of establishment for the lady , would arise to assist the
with reginald , which at present , in fact , i have not ; for though he is still in
they were now a miserable trio , confined within doors by a series of rain and snow , with nothing
to london habits , would yet prove herself in the end too much attached to him to give him up
darcy was punctual in his return , and as lydia informed you , attended the wedding .
" in a moment she perceived that the others were likewise aware of the mistake .
is this to be endured !
niece ; and though his answer was in the spirit of cutting the matter short , she believed it to
" " you have been long acquainted with colonel brandon , have not you ?
knightley , rather displeased ; “i do not want to think ill of him .
it had been a very happy fortnight , and forlorn must be the sinking from it into the common course
the engagement which ought to have kept her from joining in the former attempt would make it impossible for her
he considered her rather as one who had never thought on the subject enough to be in danger ; who
there they returned again into the past , more exquisitely happy , perhaps , in their re-union , than when
militate against her own happiness , it would be better for marianne than an immediate return into devonshire .
the parrys and sandersons luckily are coming tonight you know , and that will amuse her .
norris ' s talking of it everywhere as a matter not to be talked of at present .
with the rest of us .
in every power , of which taste is the foundation , excellence is pretty fairly divided between the sexes .
affected by it .
of saying that she was going home ; the word had been very dear to her , and so it
she wished him very well ; but he gave her pain , and his welfare twenty miles off would administer
to reginald ; i must punish him for receiving it so favourably , and for the rest of his conduct
for fetching her mother , colonel brandon was invited to visit her .
instead of attending the rehearsal at all ?
bennet was restored to her usual querulous serenity ; and , by the middle of june , kitty was so
it was garrick ' s , you know .
allen and her maid declared she looked quite as she should do .
to make them any amends , i shall not be the person to discourage him .
she could imagine mrs clay to have said , that " now miss anne was come , she could not
jane , ” cried elizabeth , “was there a servant belonging to it who did not know the whole story
weston looked surprized , and said , “i did not know that he ever had any such plan .
see her at twenty-two so respectably removed from the partialities and injustice of her father ' s house , and
my dear brother , —i can no longer refuse myself the pleasure of profiting by your kind invitation when we
it was no time for farther assurances or entreaty , though to part with her at a moment when her
vernon was then convinced of what she had only suspected before , that she might have spared herself all the
importance to all your connections .
this was an affair , however , of which lady middleton did not approve .
adopt either of them , but by all means build a cottage .
i do not mean to complain , however ; it is undoubtedly a comfortable one , and i hope will
are regarded .
the fortune he ought to have , i should think you could not do better .
had had a delightful evening .
having never even fancied herself in love before , her regard had all the warmth of first attachment , and
the eldest of them , a sensible , intelligent young woman , about twenty-seven , was elizabeth’s intimate friend .
with a letter in her outstretched hand , and countenance gaily smiling , from the persuasion of bringing comfort ,
he was a stout young man of middling height , who , with a plain face and ungraceful form ,
elizabeth , however , had never been blind to the impropriety of her father’s behaviour as a husband .
—i thought i knew him .
goddard ' s , ” said she presently , “was not so pleasant as i had hoped— ' not better
—i would rather walk .
collins seemed to sink into insignificance ; to the young ladies he certainly was nothing ; but he had still
yours .
however , when i read on , i found it was not near so bad as i had fancied at
which ought to be overcome , all that has its foundation in diffidence .
after making every possible inquiry on that side london , colonel f .
she had no fear of its spreading farther through his means .
chapter vii “well , fanny , and how do you like miss crawford now ?
—there every little dissatisfaction that had occurred before came to a crisis .
i am not ashamed of having been mistaken—or , at least , it is light , it is nothing in
request they related to me every incident of theirs .
for marianne , elinor immediately fancied that he neither expected nor wished to see her there , and , in
you are not very gay yourself .
good bye , " he added , shaking my hand with earnestness ; " i do not know when you
this event had very lately taken place ; too lately for any thing to be yet attempted by her less
a subordinate situation .
lady bertram did : she entirely agreed with her son as to the necessity of it , and as to
their increasing attachment was not to be satisfied with half a dozen turns in the pump-room , but required ,
heart amended , and that i can practise the civilities , the lesser duties of life , with gentleness and
letter to fanny , to point out the folly of her conduct , and threaten her with all its possible
but superior in length and breadth .
, offered to take the whole charge of the little frank soon after her decease .
the preparations must take their time , nothing could be properly ready till the third week were entered on ,
" mrs musgrove was good humouredly beginning to express her perfect readiness for the play , if henrietta and all
you do us justice , indeed .
than engage in schemes of pleasure .
i wish i could be as well satisfied as he is , that it was really her choice to leave
and of fixing himself here for a time , with the view of renewing his former acquaintance , and recovering
to be sure , your brother and sister will ask you to come to them .
at length , however , our kind friend procured the wished-for direction .
allen , i long to introduce them ; they will be so delighted to see you : the tallest is
” “should her disposition be really bad , ” said sir thomas , “we must not , for our own
why did the forsters ever let her go out of their sight ?
day of my life .
—emma blushed , and forbade its being pronounced in her hearing .
—no judge of his own manners by you .
she knew herself to be of the first utility to the child ; and what was it to her if
” “you taught me to think and feel on the subject , cousin .
“it would be a crowd—a sad crowd ; and what could be worse than dancing without space to turn in
” “that is exactly what i should have supposed of you , ” said elizabeth .
there was one person , however , in the house , whom he could not leave to learn his sentiments
a long want of proper rest and food ; for it was many days since she had any appetite ,
how she should begin—how she should express herself in her note to edward , was now all her concern .
and you are never to stir out of doors till you can prove that you have spent ten minutes of
grant would enliven us , and make our evenings pass away with more enjoyment even to my father .
i must have employment and society .
do but look , mama , how sweet !
they were soon joined by some of the gentlemen ; and the very first of the early was frank churchill
i expected to find a more reasonable young woman .
happy to add , that i owed the knowledge of it to herself .
" " how fond he was of it !
allen .
if you knew !
every thing he did , was right .
and that he must learn to do without her .
father’s incredulity , and reconcile him to the match .
though careless enough in most matters of eating , he loved good fruit—or if he did not , his friends
” “so much the better .
could he have been satisfied with the conquest of one amiable woman ' s affections , could he have found
she spoke , soon caught his notice .
may be aware ; for i believe it often happens that a man , before he has quite made up
the families who had been in town for the winter came back again , and summer finery and summer engagements
for yourself , without any consideration or deference for those who have surely some right to guide you , without
” “the metropolis , i imagine , is a pretty fair sample of the rest .
bennet , “and i dare say she is a very agreeable woman .
a letter from my steward tells me that my presence is wanted at home ; and being disappointed in my
he does not care about jane fairfax .
i shall come on purpose to encourage a young beginner .
it is encouraging people to marry if you make so much of them .
this is great news , indeed .
” said i to sophia as we were hastening to the field of action .
every disposition of the ground was good ; and she looked on the whole scene , the river , the
observed by meals within doors .
there is something soothing in the idea that we have the same friend , and that whatever unhappy differences of
feeling , by seeing , not mr .
dislike travels .
pronounce .
beyond that , had you endeavoured , however reasonably , to abridge his enjoyments , is it not to be
and lady lucas has been very kind ; she walked here on wednesday morning to condole with us , and
he owed a good deal in town , but his debts of honour were still more formidable .
at length lucy exclaimed with a deep sigh— " i believe it would be the wisest way to put an
of pleasure and pain , that she knew not which prevailed .
his heart had never known before , and that everything he had done for william was to be placed to
” “yes , his manners to women are such as must please .
; and as even in its height , her father had found little to admire in her , (so totally
hers are not faults of temper .
“’tis an etiquette i despise , ” said he .
crawford , mr .
the miss webbs all play , and their father has not so good an income as yours .
his answer was not very encouraging .
the room they were taken into was the one he chiefly occupied , and looking forwards ; behind it was
a sick child is always the mother ' s property : her own feelings generally make it so .
“perhaps it is as well , ” said frank churchill , as he attended emma to her carriage .
he had gone three miles round one day in order to bring her some walnuts , because she had said
affecting that air of playfulness , therefore , which is delightful in a woman one loves , she opened the
” “offended me !
no , if i read any , it shall be mrs .
be gained from them , provided they were all story and no reflection , she had never any objection to
he sat really lost in thought for the first few minutes ; and when rousing himself , it was only
that would be so very painful a conclusion of their present acquaintance !
they all seemed to remember the day , the hour , the party , the occasion—to feel the same consciousness
” “who shall answer that question ?
pleasant companions ; for otherwise we both wished very much to have invited you and marianne to be with us
towards the evening , that , added to her unwillingness to see mr .
the conduct is mistaken , the feelings are not , it may not be very material .
to be sure it did not do him justice .
bennet had married , economy was held to be perfectly useless , for , of course , they were to
no situation would be beneath him ; or what did sir thomas think of woolwich ?
two posts came in , and brought no refutation , public or private .
a small green court was the whole of its demesne in front ; and a neat wicket gate admitted them
she has been sadly neglected , however , and her mother ought to remember it .
wilfully and wantonly to have thrown off the companion of my youth , the acknowledged favourite of my father ,
young man he had not the smallest value for it .
if it had been like some other places , i do not know that , in such a night as
captain harville has no thought but of going .
no more is emma .
while they snugly repair to their own end of the house , she is formally conducted by dorothy , the
same consciousness of misery in which she had closed her eyes .
the godson , the friend , the favourite of his father !
nothing occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister .
caroline bingley ; what it contains has surprised me a good deal .
” “cruelty , do you call it ?
hands had done it , that she owed it to his perception of her fatigue , and his resolution to
his sister had a letter from him yesterday , in which he tells us of it , and he had
their parties , was persuaded by her mother , who could not bear to have her seclude herself from any
he could only obtain a promise of their calling at the park within a day or two , and then
almost unintelligible , to fetch his master and mistress home instantly .
" we did , indeed , particularly so when he first arrived .
but she probably had something of that in her thoughts , when alluding to the misunderstandings which he had given
the conclusion of the two gentlemen ' s civilities was an offer of mr .
unconcerned .
for the pattern , and supposing fanny was now preparing for her appearance , as of course she would come
she would not listen , therefore , to her daughter’s proposal of being carried home ; neither did the apothecary
everybody gets made but me .
i am sure lizzy will be very happy—i am sure she can have no objection .
—so handsome !
captain harville was a tall , dark man , with a sensible , benevolent countenance ; a little lame ;
the purpose at all .
no—i hope i shall not be ridiculous about it .
to accompany her uncle and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer .
her daughter must principally be owing .
” and then turning the conversation , he would have engaged her on some other subject , but her answers
she tried to get the better of it ; tried very hard , as the dinner hour approached , to
i smile because you smile , and shall probably suspect whatever i find you suspect ; but at present i
” “i can much more easily believe mr .
" whispered mary very audibly .
could see the terms on which we now are together , and understand the real affection we feel for each
” “not quite so miserable as to be insensible to mirth .
” and for a few minutes he did say nothing .
very unable to equal in her replies .
" something very melancholy must be the matter , i am sure , " said she .
than to the misfortune of a private education ; while he himself , though probably without any particular , any
no aunt , no officers , no news could be sought after—the very shoe-roses for netherfield were got by proxy
unable as any other two readers , to think exactly alike of the merits of either , till something occasioned
i had imagined him , i confess , a degree or two nearer gentility .
, mrs .
" captain benwick obeyed , and charles at the same moment , disengaging himself from his wife , they were
i am tired of doing nothing .
, there was no fault to find .
admiration— .
they were a family of the name of martin , whom emma well knew by character , as renting a
as soon as we had thus happily disencumbered ourselves from the weight of so much money , we began to
the acquaintance at present had no charm for her .
“the tree thrives well , beyond a doubt , madam , ” replied dr .
, that of wishing not to appear to think anything really intended , she wrote thus , in great trembling
; and , misinterpreting fanny ' s blushes , still thought she must be doing so when she went to
angry agitation— “quite unnecessary !
and as expeditiously as could rationally be hoped in the dirty month of february .
with feelings so poignant as mine , the conviction of having divided the son from his parents would make me
come to me , i have something to say ; " and the unaffected , easy kindness of manner which
move , that , had not the general chosen to have his own carriage lead the way , they could
" i am rather of a jealous temper too by nature , and from our different situations in life ,
” after many pauses and many trials of other subjects , elizabeth could not help reverting once more to the
” “and i have not forgotten , ” said emma , “how sure you were that he might have come
in vain did we count the tedious moments of his absence—in vain did we weep—in vain even did we sigh—no
he hoped she might make some amends for the many very plain faces he was continually passing in the streets
five daughters brought up at home without a governess !
and most irremediable of all evils , a connection , for life , with an unprincipled man , as a
no other visitor appeared that evening , and the ladies were unanimous in agreeing to go early to bed .
as he cannot be influenced by those feelings which you rank highly as temptation and reward to the soldier and
poor fanny !
i should like the work exceedingly , if she would allow me a share in it .
dare say in her ' s .
as they entered the paddock ; and , when the carriage drove up to the door , the joyful surprise
; but her only offer of exchange was addressed to miss crawford , as they gained the summit of a
" " there now , " said miss steele , affectedly simpering , " everybody laughs at me so about
her (and she had been so angry that they had hardly parted friends at the ball) , she could not
it was , perhaps , one of those cases in which advice is good or bad only as the event
" [ _num_ ] " not entirely .
her own .
she had begun to think of him ; she felt that she had , with great regard , with almost
receiving from her a cold inquiry after the health of her family .
with any remains of liberty .
the conclusion of the whole was , that if the woman who had been sensible of captain wentworth ' s
her when thrown in his way .
as soon as i get to town i shall go to my brother , and make him come home with
letter ?
oh , no !
attached to me—and his writing such a letter—but as to leaving you , it is what i would not do
the party broke up , it blew and rained violently .
when i had reached my eighteenth year i was recalled by my parents to my paternal roof in wales .
which might seriously affect his health and spirits .
” “julia !
i am , very faithfully yours , s .
elton appeared ; and all the smiles and the proprieties passed .
love as to measure distance , or reckon time , with feminine lawlessness .
all this is much , very much in favour of their happiness ; more than perhaps-- " he stopped .
“well , how do you go on ?
the baronet will never set the thames on fire , but there seems to be no harm in him .
me .
arrived .
of frank churchill .
we have apple-dumplings , however , very often .
this room was my late master’s favourite room , and these miniatures are just as they used to be then
colonel martin of the horse guards has paid his addresses to me , and we are to be married in
as i could not prevail on myself to take the name of dashwood (a name which after my henry '
, delighted to connect anything with history already known , or warm her imagination with scenes of the past .
at length they were entirely overcome ; the king was murdered—the queen was sent home—and edward the _num_ th ascended
” “such an eye !
it was accepted ; and from that period jane had belonged to colonel campbell ' s family , and had
elton had most kindly sent jane a note , or we should have been .
lady susan to sink the latter lower than ever in her opinion , she was proportionably more anxious to get
at last , and tolerably in his usual tone , he said , “i have never had a high opinion
elinor , " said john , " your reasoning is very good , but it is founded on ignorance of
i think differently now ; time and sickness and sorrow have given me other notions ; but at that period
more of these requisites , prevented their doing more than going through the first rudiments of an acquaintance , by
there were moments in abundance , when , if not by the absence of her mother and sisters , at
[ _num_ ] offered him one of folly ' s puppies .
the other , i believe ; and the influence of the place and of example may often rouse better feelings
i was like a man stunned .
of old wickham , the late mr .
we shall be only amusing ourselves .
forster and me are such friends !
herself from it for ever , and at a third could resist it with energy .
there is something in the eloquence of the pulpit , when it is really eloquence , which is entitled to
she had never been able to recall anything approaching to tenderness in his former treatment of herself .
i knew she would .
i hope it is not to say that your sister is worse .
all his wishes centered in domestic comfort and the quiet of private life .
he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds , you want to find out that he
cousins at a suitable hour to meryton ; and the girls had the pleasure of hearing , as they entered
kept up .
her praise had been given in her attention ; that must content them .
a continuance in a place where everything reminded her of former delight , was exactly what suited her mind .
—because he finds it has not answered towards himself .
it all over together , and he had talked it all over again with emma , in their walk back
enabled her frequently to counteract , to the advantage of them all , that eagerness of mind in mrs .
" " your uncle !
you told me , you know , at barton , that you should not stay above a month .
she introduced him to her friend , miss smith , and , at convenient moments afterwards , heard what each
grant , “for when i went up for my shawl i saw them from the staircase window , and then
ferrars , a very good-natured woman , i am sure it would give her great pleasure ; she said as
” “of whom does jane ever think ill ?
i observed he was hoarse on thursday night .
, is the son of one philip jones a bricklayer and that my father was one gregory staves a staymaker
' but , ' said i , ' to be quite honest , i do not think i can live
wretchedness , and looked so entirely as if he meant to be understood , that she ventured to hope he
she was very often constrained to defer her heartiest meal till she could send her brothers in the evening for
salutation attending his entrance .
” “but still , not near enough to give me a chance of being right , if we think differently
with a strong prejudice against everything he might say , she began his account of what had happened at netherfield
and yet , she could not help rather anticipating something decisive .
” “i am glad you think i have been useful to her ; but harriet only wanted drawing out ,
elder .
late , and the party too numerous .
quite determined on following it .
" elinor ' s heart , which had undergone many changes in the course of this extraordinary conversation , was
propitious ; and though trusting altogether to her affection , so far as to be resolved—almost resolved—on bringing it to
her how to admire an old twisted tree .
elton was appealed to .
” “if it would be good to her , i am sure it would be evil to himself ; a
, her father calling out for his rum and water , and rebecca never where she ought to be .
” “and don ' t they live in wimpole street ?
if you could compare him with other papas , you would not think him rough .
” elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning , but mrs .
what would become of her , for she is very ill indeed , and suffers a vast deal , though
to have to interest her , by everything in situation , by his own sentiments , by his early prepossession
to those to whom i owe no duty , and for whom i feel no respect .
the first , as under such circumstances what is gained always is to what is lost .
not by .
it is not a scrambling collection of low single rooms , with as many roofs as windows ; it is
the dread of such a failure after all became the prominent uneasiness ; and when harriet appeared , and in
in one thing , however , [ _num_ ] she was uniform , when it came to the point ,
tunbridge wells , " and dated from london , as far back as july , _num_ : -- " dear
it was sir edward , who informed by augusta of her brother ' s marriage , came doubtless to reproach
” “what do you say to mrs .
could i tell what smart beaux there might be about norland ; and i was only afraid the miss dashwoods
but it is always so .
as colonel wallis , and certainly was not sandy-haired .
the alteration is not in them , if their parties are grown tedious and dull .
wickham again , and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible .
little expense .
she would learn to match him in his indifference .
altogether , they will have five hundred a-year amongst them , and what on earth can four women want for
usual , setting forward voluntarily , without excuse , in defiance of the voice of nature , which tells man
they would catch worse colds at the crown than anywhere .
every flattering scheme of being of consequence to her soon fell to the ground .
as a sort of touchstone , however , she began to speak of his kindness in conveying the aunt and
own mother ' s fortune , warmed his heart , and made him feel capable of generosity .
and what would you like to have now ?
enjoyment of books exceedingly great , his imagination lively , his observation just and correct , and his taste delicate
dashwood now looked at her daughter ; but elinor knew better than to expect them .
but this was quite an old set , purchased two years ago .
bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from his father , who had intended to
woodhouse , with a melancholy shake of the head and a sigh , called his daughter ' s attention to
bingley will like it , lizzy .
her sister away .
three generations had been rising into gentility and property .
hughes , satisfied with having so respectably settled her young charge , returned to her party .
frank churchill ' s not coming , except as a disappointment at randalls .
the protection of any of his relations who would protect her .
their good friend saw that marianne was unhappy , and felt that every thing was due to her which might
as miss thorpe even you , catherine , ” taking her hand with affection , “may be proud of .
i think it admirable ; and , as far as i can answer for myself , shall be most happy—it
groom to write to mrs .
imagine .
home by herself , to nurse our sick child .
how little did you tell me of what passed at pemberley and lambton !
—but i have much to say to you on that head , which cannot be said now .
i will think no more about him .
darcy was almost as far from her as the table could divide them .
and besides , he wanted her so very much to see the thrush before she went out of harbour—the thrush
i must refer the reader to shakespear ' s plays , and the prince made a still longer .
yet never mentioned .
a more tender nature suggested that her feelings were ungrateful , and she really grieved because she could not grieve
”—and from her great , her more than commonly thankful delight towards mrs .
when the subject was brought forward again , her views were more fully explained ; and , in reply to
it was known that they were a little acquainted ; but not a syllable of real information could emma procure
the very gown you have been taking notice of is your own generous present to her when dear mrs .
collins having been in waiting near the lodges , to make them his parting obeisance , was able to bring
” “hunsford , ” and “lady catherine de bourgh .
“if any part could tempt you to act , i suppose it would be anhalt , ” observed the lady
fortune , and this was all that anne had known of her , till now that their governess ' s
of his decamping as fast as he could from such disgraceful companions .
promised either for the present or in future , beyond the ten thousand pounds , which had been given with
days from the time of their arrival .
” “you are then resolved to have him ?
" you know i always cure you when i come .
decisive a manner , as proved that she was not used to have her judgement controverted .
" elinor ' s thanks followed this speech with grateful earnestness ; attended too with the assurance of her expecting[
am so perfectly convinced that i could never make him happy , and that i should be miserable myself .
been guarded by a firmer mind , or a happier marriage , she might have been all that you will
and where he was reduced to meet , frequently meet , reason with , persuade , and finally bribe ,
you must have observed his attentions ; and though you always received them very properly (i have no accusation to
" and now i hope we shall always be great friends .
your daughter elizabeth , it is presumed , will not long bear the name of bennet , after her elder
happy lady scudamore to live within a mile of the divine henrietta !
in about half an hour her mother returned , and though her eyes were red , her countenance was not
much more agreable to us , to visit the highlands in a postchaise than merely to travel from edinburgh to
” “very possibly .
it unawares , without giving any notice , as generally happens .
i could not comprehend how .
” “neglect !
that is all settled .
the sad want of such blessings at home .
to require definition ; and i was fortunate enough to prevail , before we parted at weymouth , and to
yes , we must suppose the faults of the niece to have been those of the aunt ; and it
believed it even of him .
her face is too thin ; her complexion has no brilliancy ; and her features are not at all handsome
she meant to avoid any such alteration of manners as might provoke a remonstrance on his side .
i am sure your housekeeper is not really dorothy .
life-interest in it .
every girl in or near meryton was out of her senses about him for the first two months ; but
henry , in having such things to relate of his father , was almost as pitiable as in their first
and the butcher ' s son-in-law left word at the shop .
my hair which is in your possession .
" " would i !
there will not be time for any thing .
" i should have been quite disappointed if i had not found you here still , " said she repeatedly
ferrars must seem so odd , that it ought to be explained .
his tone , his expressions , his choice of subject , his knowing where to stop ; it was all
to marianne , indeed , the meeting between edward and her sister was but a continuation of that unaccountable coldness
the church ought to have been my profession—i was brought up for the church , and i should at this
knowledge in the picturesque , and i shall offend you by my ignorance and want of taste if we come
i wish you could have overheard her tribute of praise ; i wish you could have seen her countenance ,
i ought not to have said a word about it .
i wish you may not catch cold .
bennet , ” cried his wife , “what are you talking of ?
very seriously resolved , however unwilling he must be to check a pleasure of miss crawford ' s , that
again there might be confusion , for it is impossible to be sure of servants .
after addressing her with his usual politeness , he turned to his daughter and said , “well , eleanor ,
she had no share .
“he is a man of very large property in derbyshire , i understand .
in every other respect , in looking around her , or penetrating forward , she saw more to distrust and
friend ' s affliction could be increased by noise .
or thereabouts ; and he had gained her with such delightful rapidity—the first hour of introduction had been so very
i trust to being in charity with her soon .
palmer , entered the drawing-room , where elinor was sitting by herself , with an air of such hurrying[ _num_
ferrars did come to see them , and always treated them with the make-believe of decent affection , they were
even of having their lamp , their only lamp , extinguished by a sudden gust of wind , and of
of the resembling scenes of the far-famed isle of wight : these places must be visited , and visited again
she wished isabella had talked more like her usual self , and not so much about money , and had
” he shook his head and laughed .
barton , where it might force him before her while paying that visit at allenham on his marriage , which
the pressing anxieties of thought , which prevented her from noticing anything before her , when once beyond the neighbourhood
you must excuse my sister on this occasion , and accept of our two dear girls and myself without her
been before indulging .
had sometimes its “no .
morning i think you have done pretty well .
is honourable to the sense and disposition of both .
the recollection of what had been done for william was always the most powerful disturber of every decision against mr
miss bates was very chatty and good-humoured , as she always is , though she speaks rather too quick .
but be satisfied , for you are not to know anything at all of the matter .
” “no , no , not at all—only a little agitated .
whatever he said , was said well ; and whatever he did , done gracefully .
gone about with her everywhere , was just such another .
finesse of love , or the duties of friendship , to know when delicate raillery was properly called for ,
so very delightfully !
as i am now , i have no influence , i can do nothing : i have offended them ,
that i should be cautious and quick-sighted , and feel many scruples which my children do not feel , is
“yes , always , ” she replied , without knowing what she said , for her thoughts had wandered far
would i be turned back from doing a thing that i had determined to do , and that i knew
at any time this morning ?
i want to be set right .
anne found herself by this time growing so much more hardened to being in captain wentworth ' s company than
i only go for the sake of driving you .
you thought me then devoid of every proper feeling , i am sure you did .
sophia (who though naturally all winning sweetness could when occasions demanded it call forth the dignity of her sex) instantly
in short , i could learn nothing but that she was gone ; all the rest , for eight long
had she been older or vainer , such attacks might have done little ; but , where youth and diffidence
—you are fatigued already .
austen leigh , her first and best biographer , could find no account either of the publication or of the
and as to most matters , to say the truth , there are not many that i know my own
i have laid down my plan , and if i am capable of adhering to it—my feelings shall be governed
there was not much in the question , nor in the preceding remark ; but there was a look and
in , believed that she should never have courage to go down again .
" [ _num_ ] apparently in violent affliction .
as to the wretched party left behind , it could scarcely be said which of the three , who were
meant to marry till it were proved against them .
i believe the reverse .
darcy returned within the stated time .
, with whatever increase or diminution of comfort might arise from her absence .
in the pump-room , one so newly arrived in bath must be met with , and that building she had
” “is not she ?
it is very right that you should go to town ; i would have every young woman of your condition
few hours before , would have been a sufficient objection to outweigh every possible advantage belonging to the place ,
bring him such an addition of respectability and influence , and very happy to think anything of his daughter '
one ?
“let me first see how he behaves , ” said she ; “it will then be early enough for expectation
but of course it is ; for in these great places the gardeners are the only people who can go
you ' ll do it very well .
the time , and more to be abhorred in recollection , than any she had ever passed .
her cautions were confined to the following points .
i have had my doubts , i confess ; but they are fainter than they were , and they may
i have this moment heard that the crofts are going to bath almost immediately ; they think the admiral gouty
be acknowledged as her daughter , nor be permitted to appear in her presence .
i need not repeat what has passed .
pleasure his present assurances .
from those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew what it was to love .
if he knows her engagement , what can he mean by his behaviour ?
could not be faultless , a little change was not unwelcome for its own sake .
power over him ; she could only be sullen to her mother , aunt , and cousin , and throw
; and , as there is nothing to admire in the buildings themselves , the remarkable situation of the town
a fortnight’s acquaintance is certainly very little .
chapter _num_ sir walter elliot , of kellynch hall , in somersetshire , was a man who , for his
the pause which followed this fruitless effort was ended by the same speaker , who , taking up one of
i happened just then to be looking out for some light thing of the kind , though i had pretty
, though only over green meadows ; and she expressed her admiration at the moment with all the honest simplicity
" he is always out of humour .
so far each recital confirmed the other ; but when she came to the will , the difference was great
does not ride , she ought to walk .
and all this at the time when i was an encouraged , an accepted lover !
favour as well as its admiration .
got through , even by the smart rapidity of a waiter .
every body pretends to feel and tries to describe with the taste and elegance of him who first defined what
lady bertram ' s being just on the other side of the table was a trifle , for she might
bourgh—the former of whom was engaged in listening to lady catherine , and the latter said not a word to
a youth .
with the world , as in such case i must have done .
—upon my word , this is charming to be standing about among such friends !
" asked more questions about the house , and terms , and taxes , than the admiral himself , and
so little known , to be carried on in so doubtful , so mysterious a manner !
his opinion of her had been sinking from the day of his return from antigua : in every transaction together
“my dear little cousin , ” said he , with all the gentleness of an excellent nature , “what can
i am sick of them all .
tone of cordiality , " i beg your pardon for the short answers i have been giving you , but
gargery , in great expectations , would have described as ' a cool £ _num_ .
meeting with features , hair , complexion , that should be the very counterpart , the very image , if
how easily does her ladyship encourage or dismiss a lover !
elizabeth most thankfully consented , and a servant was dispatched to longbourn to acquaint the family with her stay and
” and she was as eager in promoting the intercourse of the two families , as her young charge and
fortune i do not want ; employment i do not want ; consequence i do not want : i believe
observing them for a few minutes ; himself , in the meanwhile , observed by sir thomas , who was
after sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour without hearing miss bingley’s voice , elizabeth was roused by
” cried william , coming for a moment to visit her , and working away his partner ' s fan
” “certainly not—at first .
a tour through wales—in a letter from a young lady— my dear clara i have been so long on the
i made my bow in form ; and as mrs .
catherine was with her friend again the next day , endeavouring to support her spirits and while away the many
last person in the world to withhold my mite upon such an occasion .
you .
—yes , you see , you understand my feelings—and will return them if you can .
infinite mortification of mr .
devonshire so immediately—i never shall forget it—united too with such reliance , such confidence in me !
are , that you can form any just judgment .
does his staying longer surprise you ?
i am very angry with you .
be comfortable ; for as to scolding you , fanny , which i came fully intending to do , i
he had seen the coachmen , and they both agreed with him in there being nothing to apprehend .
but if you are really innocent and ignorant , i must be more explicit .
to take up her own line of the subject again .
they are seen only as a nuisance , swept hastily off , and driven as much as possible from the
” miss crawford could have said that there would be a something to do and to suffer for it ,
—how prettily she writes !
to go beyond : and , from that day to this , i never mentioned it to a soul that
crawford could not have wished her more fatigued or more ready to sit down ; but he could have wished
” “that has been a good deal the case , my dear ; but not to the degree you mention
i led her thither accordingly , and as soon as the door was closed , she said : " i
been very much tempted to do .
you are not sensible of the gain , for your regard for him has blinded you ; but , in
” it may be easily believed , that however little of novelty could be added to their fears , hopes
he did not look again : but the performance was recommencing , and she was forced to seem to restore
; retired enough for safety , and occupied enough for cheerfulness .
do not see what there is to question .
to yield .
but with you , fanny , there may be peace .
she had lately lost sight even of her father and sister and bath .
told lady catherine one day , has deprived the british court of its brightest ornament .
to have created so steady and persevering an affection in such a man ; —or , if not quite the
sir thomas has been writing about it , i know .
difference of sentiment .
i know what worthy people they are .
, taking leave of the housekeeper , were consigned over to the gardener , who met them at the hall-door
never mind that .
early , i know , you had none .
” there was no occasion , there was no time for fanny to say how very differently she felt ;
” cried fanny .
” “no , ” said emma , laughing ; “but perhaps there might be some made to his coming back
there is a pattern for a love-letter matilda !
question of whether she had seen anything of miss crawford and edmund .
gardiner , which at once delayed its commencement and curtailed its extent .
feeling of self-complacency on the score of some quality or other , real or imaginary .
believe her to be deceived , by all means .
stir the fire in thoughtful vexation .
" she was very much obliged to him , but declined it all , repeating her conviction , that the
his niece was deep in thought likewise , trying to harden and prepare herself against farther questioning .
to effect all this i have various plans .
augusta , the sister of edward was on a visit to her when we arrived .
i would not sell my horse for a hundred .
his last thought on leaving home was for her .
chapter _num_ catherine ' s disposition was not naturally sedentary , nor had her habits been ever very industrious ;
wickham immediately to elizabeth’s mind ; and from the observation of the day altogether , she believed lady catherine to
to procure , that the fullerton estate , being entirely at the disposal of its present proprietor , was consequently
“you forget that i have made no answer .
—you , who have been my only comfort , who have borne with me in all my misery , who
how much greater were they now likely to be , when the object of his engagement was undoubtedly inferior in
”—emma had promised ; but still harriet must be excepted .
” “that was bad indeed .
great house , dawdling from one room to another , straining one ' s eyes and one ' s attention
or comprehension .
, to make the worth of lyme understood .
” somebody said that miss gilbert was expected at her brother ' s , and must be invited with the
a violent gust of wind , rising with sudden fury , added fresh horror to the moment .
in vain were the well-meant condescensions of sir thomas , and all the officious prognostications of mrs .
—now you must be satisfied—our own dear mrs .
behaviour , we cannot think at all well of her .
he was in the trafalgar action , and has been in the east indies since ; he was stationed there
and plenty .
who , though really uncomfortable herself , hoped at least to be an object of irrepressible envy to elinor .
if you look at them you may see they are so many couple of lovers—all but yates and mrs .
“poor creatures !
he finds them , and makes enjoyment of them somehow or other , depending , i suspect , much more
hold your tongues , and let me and mr .
not every body who will bestow praise where they may .
i am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression .
could yet be possible on emma ' s side .
and playing whist with his neighbours five times a week , than upon family affection , or any thing that
” “and pray , sir , what do you think of miss morland ' s gown ?
for that will not be up till november .
and the _num_ th to silver buckles .
" " i am glad of it .
“it is a pity , ” cried fanny , “that the custom should have been discontinued .
chapter _num_ early the next day , a note from isabella , speaking peace and tenderness in every line ,
highly esteeming miss taylor ' s judgment , but directed chiefly by her own .
had been used to characterise her style , and which , proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease
” and as she spoke she was undoing a small parcel , which fanny had observed in her hand when
, and am only concerned that their living together before the marriage took place should be so generally known .
fanny acknowledged her wishes and doubts on this point : she did not know how either to wear the cross
been visited , though against her own consent , by himself , and that she was suffering under severe headaches
“oh !
“this has been a strange acquaintance , ” observed mrs .
does she dine out every where , as well as at my sister ' s ?
you are this day _num_ .
allowing for the common demands of the game , mr .
i never saw such a likeness in my life .
the attachment , which once she had so well understood , much slighter in reality , than she had been
till they were forward enough in their rehearsal to comprehend all his scenes ; but the others aspired at nothing
said to be admired by mr .
there is a toil and a labour of the mind , if not of the body , which seldom leaves
deserves a good husband .
had fanny accepted mr .
by doing it , i shall feel that i am near you .
almost hopeless , more especially as the time was now come when , if they had gone to scotland ,
but then there is not so clever a man any where .
" " is she still in town ?
” “not at all !
" anne could not immediately get over the shock and mortification of finding such words applied to her father .
spoken of for the first time , without being informed that she was very accomplished .
i wanted to keep it from jane ' s knowledge ; but , unluckily , i had mentioned it before
niece , alive and enlightened as she was , must feel , was elevating .
of it to derive anything but irritation from considering the object for which he went .
were it known to the rest of my family , i should not have merely my own gratitude to express
not , and should not .
the longbourn estate is just as much entailed as ever .
i am afraid there had been some mistake ; and i wish you particularly to assure captain harville and captain
i cannot quite agree with you there .
and they had set off immediately , informed and directed as they passed , towards the spot .
into all her wonted ways of attention and assistance , and on charles ' s leaving them together , was
on the contrary , her plans and proceedings were more and more justified and endeared to her by the general
he was not expected to live many hours ; he died the same day .
their actual speed , heightened by some dread of the conclusion , made the road appear but half as long
with wood ; —and at the bottom of this bank , favourably placed and sheltered , rose the abbey mill
knowing it before .
” “yes , pretty well ; but are they all horrid , are you sure they are all horrid ?
, on his arrival , he had immediately found out his brother , and persuaded him to come to gracechurch
" " excellent indeed .
can not we be gone to-morrow ?
, who , instantly taking the alarm , set off from b .
“well , ” said crawford , after a course of rapid questions and reluctant answers ; “i am happier than
catherine , recollecting herself , grew ashamed of her eagerness , and began earnestly to assure him that her attention
me that you suspect no trick , and are as unsuspicious of compliment as i have always found you ,
grant has done .
the wallises , she had amusement in understanding them .
he is no hypocrite now .
how many a time have we mourned over the dead body of julius caesar , and to be ' d
to end .
has perry seen her ?
dixon ' s choice .
[ _num_ ] his son ' s son , a child of four years old .
or paid off , or something , and is coming to see them almost directly ; and most unluckily it
after laying out for some compliments of being deeply regretted in their old neighbourhood , which anne could not pay
it must have been about the same time that he became known to my father and sister .
(replied he) my dear susan , you cannot really think so !
lived with charles and kept him single , i should have been very far from persuading my husband to dispose
as there is something singular in our courtship , i will give you an account of it .
weston , to remove .
" " it originated in an action of my daughter ' s , which equally marks her want of judgment
; but still , he cannot refuse an invitation , he must dine out wherever he is asked .
collins’s letter had done away much of her ill-will , and she was preparing to see him with a degree
elton actually accepting the offer with much prompt satisfaction .
: and soon words enough had passed between them to decide their direction towards the comparatively quiet and retired gravel
who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards him .
, they could not fail to conjecture his design , and he was not willing to have the attempt known
philippa received us both with every expression of affectionate love .
" —in the utmost amazement ; — " well , sir—be quick—and if you can—less violent .
, and that she could neither prevail on him to make the offer himself , nor commission her to make
other poultry-yards in the neighbourhood also suffered .
” “i knew she would be very angry with me .
a very decent shot , and there is not a bolder rider in england .
" " yes , yes , we can guess where he is ; at his own house at norland to
expect everybody to be as forward and quick at learning as yourself .
" " marianne , " cried her sister , " how can you say so ?
the picture , elegantly framed , came safely to hand soon after mr .
i have entered many a shop to avoid your sight , as the carriage drove by .
bates ' s , he may get there from the crown in a hop , step , and jump .
they live at putney .
, after the pause of half a minute began another .
its size , he could be no judge of the privations inevitably belonging to a small one .
few as they were , they conveyed pages of intelligence to catherine .
" perhaps mrs .
" " gout and decrepitude !
spirit , she may like to have her own way .
courtship—a very good hint .
we will not say how near , for fear of shocking the young ladies .
crawford was the first to move forward to examine the capabilities of that end of the house .
' ” he smiled as he answered , “i am afraid the avenue stands a bad chance , fanny .
her heart and her time were already quite full ; she had neither leisure nor affection to bestow on fanny
, except her brother and his wife , who had never seen him , and who were full of pride
in repassing through the small vaulted room , however , your eyes will be attracted towards a large , old-fashioned
, if it seemed likely to assist them , and be back in a few minutes .
a mother would have been a constant friend ; her influence would have been beyond all other .
accepted a commission in their corps .
fancy-work , whenever she could , and win or lose a few sixpences by his fireside .
chapter xiii there could hardly be a happier creature in the world than mrs .
i have taken some pains for your sake , and for robert martin ' s sake , (whom i have
the mr wentworth of monkford , captain wentworth ' s brother .
easy .
vernon ; and pray bring all my grand-children ; and your dear niece is included , of course ; i
his heart .
she happened to be quite alone .
allen and her friend .
to wait for besides ?
cause , i came away on monday , trusting that many posts would not pass before i should be followed
a large party in an hotel ensured a quick-changing , unsettled scene .
but what will mrs .
captain wentworth recollected him perfectly .
thoughts to him , is a mark of good taste which i shall always know how to value .
” she cried bitterly over this reflection when her uncle was gone ; and her cousins , on seeing her
” “and no children at all ?
his attentions were always—what i did not like .
however , it was an exceeding good , pretty letter , and gave mr .
the world had made him extravagant and vain—extravagance and vanity had made him cold-hearted and selfish .
i do not know how i happened to think of it , but it came into my head to ask
i dare say they often think of you , and wonder which will be the day , the precise day
that he loved and considered her as his future wife , and that he felt for us the attachment of
i do not mean , however , to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our
again , that she was one of his two dearest , before the words gave her any sensation .
was obliged to rest satisfied with the conviction that where the present pleasure of those she loved was at stake
the very person she was in quest of .
—she was resolved not to be convinced , as long as she could doubt , and yet had no authority
the sufferers , it has done all that is truly important .
the risk of raising even an unpleasant report , were there no other ill effects .
would be eager to pass through the room which has hitherto contained within itself more real accommodation and comfort than
" he must wish her good night ; he was going ; he should get home as fast as he
these manners did not please catherine ; but he was james ' s friend and isabella ' s brother ;
” “let us think of those among our absent friends who are more cheerfully employed , ” cried emma .
when lady russell not long afterwards , was entering bath on a wet afternoon , and driving through the long
" " i am heartily glad of it , " he cried .
she thanked him again and again ; and , with a sweetness of address which always attended her , invited
, and these accounts were as regularly transmitted to fanny , in the same diffuse style , and the same
his professions and his proposals did him no service .
; it will be all mr .
she did unfeignedly and unequivocally regret the inferiority of her own playing and singing .
but we must stem the tide of malice , and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other the balm
purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with mr .
thorpe and her son , who were acquainted with everything , and who seemed only to want mr .
goddard ' s half an hour ago—she had been afraid it would rain—she had been afraid it would pour down
she wrote cheerfully , seemed surrounded with comforts , and mentioned nothing which she could not praise .
" everybody has their taste in noises as well as in other matters ; and sounds are quite innoxious ,
i have written to my freind susan fitzgerald , for information concerning it , which as she is at present
dress , in their sentiments , or their choice .
unable to speak .
and is she , at seventeen , just entering into life , just beginning to be known , to be
—he was thoughtful .
newspaper again , “for i am tired to death .
“it is unlucky , ” said she , after a short pause , “that you should not be able to
gardiner then rallied her niece on wickham’s desertion , and complimented her on bearing it so well .
and what have you been acting ?
darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister’s proficiency .
" captain harville smiled , as much as to say , " do you claim that for your sex ?
her situation in life , the character of her father and mother , her own person and disposition , were
—balls—had they balls ?
he did not speak ; but i can imagine everything he would have said , had he opened his mouth
her health .
i shall forget my own name soon , i suppose .
but they had seen no one from the parsonage , not a creature , and had heard no tidings beyond
” “no , that i am sure i shall not ; and i think it is very impertinent of him
the question , with his integrity , his delicacy , and well-informed mind , be satisfied with a wife like
a very desirable connection on both sides , and i have not a doubt of its taking place in time
she could never quit him .
nothing could be pleasanter .
after his return from london , whither he was obliged to go the next day for a short time .
we must all feel at times the difficulty of fixing our thoughts as we could wish ; but if you
the influence of his captain , written the only two letters which his father and mother had ever received from
them so much of your time .
their separation for ever , she was not aware that such language could be suffered to announce it ; nor
i did not see you before .
; and it seems so extraordinary a piece of nicety , considering my daughter ' s family connections , that
“this is wholly unexpected .
such a charming man !
own fortune .
“this is delightful indeed !
my letter , which was intended to keep him longer in the country , has hastened him to town .
separately stated , and the pangs of sunday only now remain to be described , and close the week .
always known my opinion of her ; you can bear me witness , fanny , that i have never been
her uncle out of the room , having staid behind him only long enough to hear these words spoken in
he means to send for his horses immediately , and it is impossible to say when you may see him
can it be really so !
here must be some mistake .
” elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself , and said to colonel fitzwilliam , “your cousin will give
an unnecessary instant .
“books—oh !
came , that she could not refuse him , and must therefore spend some quiet interval in the young man
” “jane !
but , my dear sister , though the event has proved you right , do not think me obstinate if
of rears and vices i saw enough .
there was nothing to denote him unworthy of the distinguished honour which her imagination had given him ; the honour
macdonald himself , in a most abrupt and precipitate manner .
yates took the subject from his friend as soon as possible , and immediately gave sir thomas an account of
from farmer mitchell ' s , i made up my mind on the subject .
not foresee that the opportunity would so very soon occur .
had parted at last with mutual vexation .
catherine listened with heartfelt satisfaction .
she had sought him .
if i had known as much this morning i certainly would not have called on him .
but my mother , my dearest , kindest mother , —i feel the justice of what elinor has urged ,
conduct ; but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern , and she bewailed it as
she said something of her misery , but that was all .
elizabeth was , for a short time , suffering a good deal .
that one greater obstacle preserved her from suffering under any other of mrs .
she spoke to henry tilney on the subject , regretting his brother ' s evident partiality for miss thorpe ,
there that the influence of the clergy can be most felt .
i am sure mr .
; —nor that he long thought of colonel brandon with envy , and of marianne with regret .
immediately made the matter perfectly simple by assuring her that it was entirely owing to the peculiarly judicious manner in
i had not believed it possible .
, to have it known that lady middleton had given a small dance of eight or nine couple , with
she wrote again , elizabeth hoped it would be in her power to say something of the bingleys .
he wished him at the devil with all his heart .
tell me how miss fairfax is .
which at first sight suggests some relationship to the name of the book which , in the present series ,
robert martin , to join the hands of mr .
his sense as you gave it .
your approbation to be acted upon .
no , i thank you , i have nothing to trouble you with .
yourself—but i think you perfectly right .
” (said i) .
giving air to her geraniums she might inhale a breeze of mental strength herself .
to have been always meant to end in two days ' time .
unexpected and serious nature ; but i am afraid of alarming you—be assured that we are all well .
her all eagerness to know them too ; and on her openly fearing that she might find nobody to go
frank churchill ' s confession of having behaved shamefully was the first thing to call for more than a word
these ten ages at least .
and so extremely accomplished for her age !
her sensations on the discovery made her perfectly speechless .
while he lived , it must be only an engagement ; but she flattered herself , that if divested of
to say to you .
but , however , i hope you will think better of it .
he too was taking leave .
i believe i was half an hour this morning shut up with my housekeeper .
in the case—i should still have distrusted him .
but though the probability of the statement was admitted at the time , she had the same story to repeat
” but hardly had she so spoken , when she found her brother was civilly offering a seat in his
“her year !
she remained in her seat , and so did lady russell ; but she had the pleasure of getting rid
” “very odd !
he is used to much gayer places than mansfield .
partiality of the brother should have said too much in her favour ; and , more than commonly anxious to
your father and uncles .
naturally to unite , and who , after a short participation of their regrets and difficulties , left them and
weston , and so much in love with miss fairfax , and she was so happy herself , that there
well , but now for my news ; it is about dear wickham ; too good for the waiter ,
—is not she very charming ?
way—so very odd a way—that i cannot keep my eyes from her .
i am , &c .
do not tell me .
the evening passed with external smoothness , though almost every mind was ruffled ; and the music which sir thomas
consider that a few weeks will at once put an end to every flattering hope that you may now entertain
—mystery ; finesse—how they pervert the understanding !
“i am afraid , mr .
yes—she will have her own room , of course ; the room she always has ; —and there is the
be of use to her ; and she set off with him , with no feeling but gratitude apparent .
regret , and dependence on catherine ' s honour .
give me leave to say , very impolitic too—for it is provoking me to retaliate , and such things may
; to see that harriet ' s hopes had been entirely groundless , a mistake , a delusion , as
' picture to yourselves my amazement ; i shall not easily forget admiral baldwin .
his behaviour to her in this , as well as in every other particular , his open pleasure in meeting
it was by no means his daughter ' s wish that the intellects of highbury in general should be put
—how much of good or evil must be done by him !
to say that all were well in brunswick square .
a girl not out has always the same sort of dress : a close bonnet , for instance ; looks
he gave her to understand that he had looked at her with some earnestness .
rooms in very good time .
r .
how many miss owens are there ?
not absolutely in word .
on board captain frederick wentworth ' s frigate , the laconia ; and from the laconia he had , under
are sufficiently known .
it must be a great relief to her , ” said fanny , trying for greater warmth of manner .
with the greatest patience in the world , which is always the way with her , for she has ,
—i am sure , neither your father nor mrs .
a value for all the felicities of domestic life , which characters of fancied enthusiasm and violent agitation seldom really
if i had but her memory !
' the whole of this unfortunate business ' —says a certain didactic dr .
half an hour together , equally without error , and without consciousness .
to blame the behaviour of any member of it : yet truth being i think very excusable in an historian
take a box for to-morrow night !
” “yes ; my father is to join me here : we shall walk back together , and i must
my heart .
she is grown so brown and coarse !
necessary for me to show has alienated her affection ; neither has she any of that brilliancy of intellect ,
on her own account ; her daughters might do as they pleased .
emma returned all her attention to her father , saying in secret— “i am glad i have done being in
darcy , that i expressed myself uncommonly well just now , when i was teasing colonel forster to give us
in his praise .
allen will be obliged to like the place , from finding it of service to him .
though she could not say that it was unpleasantly done , that there was indelicacy or ostentation in his manner
jennings , it lasted a considerable time , and they were just setting themselves , after it , round the
there was not the smallest appearance of solicitude or remark about them in the mansion-house ; but it was different
it is not a mere bit of gossip .
it is early .
" " she is pretty , i think ; anne elliot ; very pretty , when one comes to look
former provocations reappeared .
her mind was less difficult to develop .
gardiner , with occasional help from elizabeth , the conversation was carried on .
of visiting at pemberley , she dropt all her resentment ; was fonder than ever of georgiana , almost as
he was prevailed on to think as they thought , and act as they wished .
no , i do not indeed .
they did not mind it , he soon became perfectly reconciled to the match .
it is , in fact , the only sure way of providing against the connexion .
never make any thing of it ; and there is poor jane fairfax , who is mistress of music ,
every report agreed in captain wentworth ' s appearing fixed in lyme .
—i dare say they sell gloves .
; but , upon his honour , he believed there might be more comfort in rooms of only half their
” “yes , i think so ; for you must know your brother ' s heart .
for all that had occurred of disappointment to either ; and the joyful consent which met edmund ' s application
elton ' s very promising attachment was likely to add .
but “no , he was a short-necked , apoplectic sort of fellow , and , plied well with good things
to me it would seem only a commercial exchange , in which each wished to be benefited at the expense
able to attempt the walk .
they proceed from no misconduct , and can bring no disgrace .
it would be a famous good thing for us all .
with a graver look and voice she then added , ' i do not mean to defend henry at your
i am most thankful that the discovery is made in time for me to pay my respects to him ,
live with my sister .
lady bertram did not go into public with her daughters .
it gives one exactly the idea of such a height as miss smith ' s .
captain wentworth , no shyness or reserve ; they seemed all to know each other perfectly , and he was
bingley met them with hopes that mrs .
tears filled her eyes , and even ran down her cheeks as she sat .
there was a languor , a want of spirits , a want of union , which could not be got
—she was bewildered amidst the confusion of all that had rushed on her within the last few hours .
, even with you , the most miserable of beings .
farther from my wishes—your attachment to my friend harriet—your pursuit of her , (pursuit , it appeared , ) gave
she had to tell him , made her feel particularly uncomfortable for some minutes .
" " this is very kind of anne , " was her husband ' s answer , " and i
and— " " you therefore spoke to my brother to engage his interference , " said i , to save
but the compassionate feelings of a friend of her father gave a change to her destiny .
yes , quite indispensable .
” “he made a little mistake to be sure ; but it is to the credit of his modesty .
the tilneys called for her at the appointed time ; and no new difficulty arising , no sudden recollection ,
should be allowed to suppose herself so .
by the influence of the woman he loved , and she had been hastily preparing to interest anne ' s
sure of his rubber .
entered the house he earnestly entreated her to name the day that was to make him the happiest of men
” “you shall certainly have the best in my power to give .
“come , fanny , fanny , what are you about ?
that “he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a person of rank—such affability and condescension , as
' s appearing not quite well .
parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary .
interposition , and that both her mother and betsey were restrained from some excesses of very offensive indulgence and vulgarity
what a woman she must be !
[ _num_ ] chapter xxxvi within a few days after this meeting , the newspapers announced to the world ,
therefore till i have outlived all my affections , a post-office , i think , must always have power to
i should certainly have called at hartfield , had you failed to come .
his fortune by marriage in some other country .
terms , he was talked into allowing mr shepherd to proceed in the treaty , and authorising him to wait
don ' t palm all your abuses of languages upon me .
; and she put me in the way of making these little thread-cases , pin-cushions and card-racks , which you
" cried marianne again .
over , and say-- " thank you .
she gained on them , however , involuntarily : the child ' s pace was quick , and theirs rather
perhaps , ” turning to miss crawford , “my other companion may do me the honour of taking an arm
” “what a favourite he is with my cousins !
from situation , mrs clay was , in lady russell ' s estimate , a very unequal , and in
to begin .
play , they could do no more than make her a generous present of some of their least valued toys
hardly be more interested about you than i am .
edmund was absent at this time , or the evil would have been earlier remedied .
” fanny was silent ; but not from being convinced that there might not be a remedy found for some
” “yes ; i shall take orders soon after my father ' s return—probably at christmas .
green walk along the bottom by the side of the ha-ha—and perhaps turn a little way in some other direction
—express perfection !
he could not be persuaded that so many good-looking houses as he saw around him , could not furnish numbers
but think no more of the letter .
she had found a seat , where in excessive trembling she was enduring all these fearful thoughts , while the
must , in honour , by all her principles , admire it : —elegance , which , whether of person
i do not scruple to say that she plays extremely well .
over the house .
“i have just had a letter from jane , with such dreadful news .
” when the visit was returned , emma made up her mind .
frequently tinged with a blush as it was yesterday , there is decided beauty ; and from what i observed
miss morland will get wet .
" " i am perfectly satisfied of both .
churchill made me think of them directly .
, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there .
might prefer , would be too greatly your superior in situation to think of you .
she could never do justice to henry and eleanor ' s merit ; she felt it too strongly for expression
” “what do you mean , hill ?
have greatly entertained me , as i find by them that you are both downright jealous of each others beauty
woodhouse had been talked into what was necessary , told that he understood , and the papers swept away ;
i have no eye or ingenuity for such matters , but as they are before me ; and had i
” but they were no sooner through the door than henry crawford undertook to answer the anxious inquiry , and
had in view for you .
, catherine vernon .
half his time with his sister—besides , lady middleton and mrs .
” chapter xiii the honourable john yates , this new friend , had not much to recommend him beyond habits
at length he left me , as deeply provoked as myself ; and he showed his anger more .
—these delays and disappointments are quite odious .
on the fifth day she died .
really have less inclination , and to run the risk of a tête-à-tête with a woman , whom neither of
she and mrs .
” and he looked at fanny with an expressive smile , which evidently meant , “that lady will never allow
” “in the first place , ” replied mr .
nephew , colonel fitzwilliam , and myself .
myself ; but the grounds are delightful .
darcy invite him , with the greatest civility , to fish there as often as he chose while he continued
' i have a great regard for you and emma ; but when it comes to the question of dependence
seat .
you know how i dreaded the thoughts of seeing her ; but the very moment i was introduced , there
being in mrs charles musgrove ' s way , on account of the child , and therefore , somehow ,
by tom bertram ' s telling her , with infinite regret , that he found it absolutely impossible for him
late ?
what is your advice ?
a young man who had more retirement at home than he liked .
she was all pleasure and gratitude , both for harriet and herself , and longed to be thanking him ;
i may perhaps do no good but that of relieving my own mind by this letter , but i felt
you were here !
perry could not quite understand him , but he was very sure there must be a lady in the case
perry yet ; and he never forgets you .
prescriptions poured in from all quarters , and as usual , were all declined .
the rich brother-in-law near bristol was the pride of the alliance , and his place and his carriages were the
i have neglected her too long .
i hope you will be a great deal at combe magna .
real character , by some hint of what share his brother ' s state of health might be supposed to
she was as handsome a girl last september , as i ever saw ; and as likely to attract the
know the truth of it ; and she told me that it was certain true .
ashamed of the part he had acted , there could be no danger of it ; and as long as
give them all hints of the forbearance necessary between such near neighbours , and make those hints broadest which were
last christmas you were afraid of his marrying me , because it would be imprudent ; and now , because
is , that i am waiting for my lord and master .
no officer is ever to enter into my house again , nor even to pass through the village .
time , perhaps--we know what time does in every case of affliction , and you must remember , captain harville
where is your merit ?
a new sort of way this , for a young fellow to be making love , by breaking his mistress
fortitude , before she went to her sister .
” but to what purpose did she speak ?
” “i shall be very fit to see jane—which is all i want .
bennet made no answer , and each of them , deep in thought , continued silent till they reached the
they reached town by three o ' clock the third day , glad to be released , after such a
she had not been prepared to have jane fairfax succeed mr .
grant , and mr .
weston indeed is much beyond praise , and he is exactly what one values , so hospitable , and so
one point only is gained .
had not yet possessed the instrument long enough to touch it without emotion ; she must reason herself into the
and you can be always with me .
and it will be a day of pleasure .
” emma had not had time even to think of mr .
perry says that colds have been very general , but not so heavy as he has very often known them
she seems quite recovered now .
“i was just going to tell you of our agreeable surprize in seeing him arrive this morning .
peculiarity of manner , where their two selves only were concerned , was soliciting the good opinion of her friends
s disposition that was most favourable for the purpose .
though evidently intending to come in , it seemed an effort to enter the room , and a still greater
, did her the justice of exclaiming , “i must say , ma ' am , that fanny is as
of course they must attend .
it was an animating subject , and mrs .
, the bearings of the roads , the difference of soil , the state of the harvest , the cottages
” fanny still resisted , and from her heart .
the house , quite into the house ; and when people are waiting , they are bad judges of time
he and mary had been persuaded to go early to their inn last night .
to be a great orator in spite of yourself ?
i happened to be at lyme .
may have occurred before—and if i should be so fortunate , beyond expression , as to—if mr .
” he paused—and growing cooler in a moment , added , with only sarcastic dryness , “if mr .
the evening is closing in , and grandmama will be looking for us .
“yes—if darcy does not put it off again .
an opinion on the subject could be drawn from her .
" i can guess what his business is , however , " said mrs .
be all laid together , of course ; very pretty meadows they are , finely sprinkled with timber .
” “nay , i am sure by your look , when you came into the box , you were angry
he had met her before breakfast as he was returning from a walk with his little boys , when it
and how could it possibly come into your head ?
forty ?
be killed , and what is to become of us all ?
seriously , i would have you be on your guard .
" exclaimed elinor .
imaginary evils she had started .
” “i am not looking for anybody .
(cried i) i think them terribly plain !
neighbourhood before she was banished to the north .
poor marianne , languid and low from the nature of her malady , and feeling herself universally ill , could
i could not rest till i knew the particulars .
ever be like miss bates !
at netherfield , of the implacability of his resentments , of his having an unforgiving temper .
” “that is the most unpromising circumstance , the strongest presumption against him .
my business is with you , and only you .
darcy , the gardener’s expression of surprise , on beholding his master , must immediately have told it .
i ran away from you all as soon as i could ; but not before i had seen marianne '
as far as it is possible to judge , the critical verdicts she obtained were mainly derived from her own
he should soon have a ship , and soon be on a station that would lead to everything he wanted
bingley was obliged to be in town the following day , and , consequently , unable to accept the honour
interest in the dance till their rubbers were made up , —so young as he looked !
” “they are so horridly pale .
these two girls had been above an hour in the place , happily employed in visiting an opposite milliner ,
: mrs .
price : he assisted her liberally in the education and disposal of her sons as they became old enough for
were the whole arrangement complete , my disappointment would be certain .
bath , whither he is going for his health ; two of his daughters were with him , but the
was convinced himself , of his daughter ' s being entirely unconcerned in the business .
elton ' s beginning to talk to him .
evince its propriety .
would they but love her , she should be satisfied .
“miss bertram thought you would follow her .
“it was really like being at a play , ” said she .
she could not enter into the wrongs of an economist , but she felt all the injuries of beauty in
mrs croft ' s brother ?
without reference to the actual results of their case , which , as it happened , would have bestowed earlier
crawford was soon followed by miss bertram and mr .
his back , and took up a newspaper , very sincerely wishing that dear little fanny might be persuaded into
she might seek directly all that solitude could do for her .
ill-usage , and most painful regrets at his being what he is .
dinner at the pooles yesterday .
yates was disappointed in henry crawford ; that tom bertram spoke so quick he would be unintelligible ; that mrs
campbell think she does quite right , just what they should recommend ; and indeed they particularly wish her to
well , frank , your dream certainly shews that highbury is in your thoughts when you are absent .
i shall expect murder and everything of the kind .
fanny believed there was scarcely a second feeling in common between them ; and she may be forgiven by older
next morning to lucy , to request her company and her sister ' s , for some days , in
but my affair is widely different ; i bring back my heroine to her home in solitude and disgrace ;
i came to inquire , but i was convinced before i could ask the question .
almost as interesting as it was new , attended with unaffected earnestness to all that mrs .
more cannot be hoped .
the next twenty-four hours , the sound of a little bustle at the front door , and the sight of
sat at her elbow , but was continually obtruding his happy countenance on her notice , and solicitously addressing her
, but i did persuade her .
to put her aunt ' s evening work in such a state as to prevent her being missed .
bingley , i am sure !
forward as she wrote , which she now and then shook back , and in the midst of all this
of making myself contemptible and wretched for ever .
i think i should have discovered the truth in the course of a thirty-mile journey .
at the fate of his unfortunate friend .
be entitled to .
of her lover , she could not prevent its frequently occurring .
lucky man , shepherd , " replied sir walter ; " that ' s all i have to remark .
” but henry was too much amused by the interest he had raised to be able to carry it farther
no hurry to leave it again , we have determined on following him thither , that he may not be
i never met with a disposition more truly amiable .
" " if we could be certain that it would be only for a while !
she is very timid and silent .
—a water party ; and by some accident she was falling overboard .
flexibility of mind , a disposition easily biassed by others , is an attribute which you know i am not
rushworth had left her husband ' s house : mr .
he had reached it late the night before , was come for a day or two , was staying at
i thought i should have died .
very few days passed in which mr .
“you did behave very shamefully .
are all , i have often observed , extremely awkward and remiss .
but i am particularly attached to these young men , and know them to be so much attached to me
i should myself have shrunk from any thing so hasty , and she would have felt every scruple of mine
" the steadiness of his manner , and the intelligence of his eye as he spoke , convincing elinor ,
ingenuity and all her patience ; but it was heavy work to be for ever convincing without producing any effect
his manner might sometimes surprise , but his meaning must always be just : and what she did not understand
long hill , and was not more inviting than this : “here is a fine burst of country .
“suppose i were to find him there again to-day !
i told her how much might depend upon her acquitting herself well at first .
“it is impossible , ” said she , “for parents to be more kind , or more desirous of their
it was hardly possible , indeed , that anything else should be talked of , for mrs .
” “her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in town ; and by that means , as i
but he was pressed to stay for mrs .
she hoped they would not envy her that distinction now ; but when she looked back to the state of
the suddenness of her reputed illness , the absence of her daughter , and probably of her other children ,
and when we got to the bottom of sandcroft hill , what do you think i did ?
it is impossible that he should still love me .
being the only young person at home , i consider you as the greatest sufferer .
the willoughbys left town as soon as they were married ; and elinor now hoped , as there could be
she sat in an agony of impatience which affected every feature .
or not surprized , and had some question to ask , or some comfort to offer .
" elinor honoured her for a plan which originated so nobly as this ; though smiling to see the same
hoped she would allow him the honour of calling tomorrow to enquire after miss dashwood .
did believe them to be unrivalled in the kingdom .
whatever was wanted was hallooed for , and the servants hallooed out their excuses from the kitchen .
have you forgot that we are engaged to camden place to-morrow night ?
and more cheerfully .
grateful to the daughter .
arrangements , was beginning to think of stepping into bed , when , on giving a parting glance round the
to be finding herself , perhaps within three days , transported to mansfield , was an image of the greatest
such sense , such sentiment , such purity of thought , such flow of language and such unfeigned love in
after sitting for a moment in silence , she said very stiffly to elizabeth , “i hope you are well
woodhouse , and he could only be kept tolerably comfortable by almost ceaseless attention on his daughter ' s side
elizabeth could not conceive how such an absurd suspicion should occur to her , and indignantly answered for each party
” repeated mrs .
words with no less resentment than surprise .
as he quitted the room , elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they should ever see each other again
, sir) does the mischief .
in pity to your unhappy freind avoid a subject so distressing .
we must not be so nice .
he was very unkind to his first wife .
that they might have met without ill consequence is perhaps probable ; but his regard did not appear to me
a fancy for ?
be satisfied with doctoring and coddling yourself and the children , and let me look as i chuse .
" we went into my room .
end of it will be , that we shall have a sudden change of weather , a hard frost setting
” “as i did the other day , ” said elizabeth with a conscious smile : “very true , it
perry might have ; not a word of a certain young physician from windsor .
expense of any personal trouble , and the charge was made over to her sister , who desired nothing better
—very well i thank you .
but i thought he would have staid now , and it would have been a pity not to have mentioned
and i really believe he has the most delicate conscience in the world ; the most scrupulous in performing every
some lavender drops , however , which she was at length persuaded to take , were of use ; and
made me forget what we were talking of .
do not you think edmund would have been in town again long ago , but for this illness ?
indeed , miss woodhouse , (speaking more collectedly , ) with the consciousness which i have of misconduct , very
” “i arrived on tuesday .
norris , with a moment ' s check , “that was very kind of you , sir thomas ; but
way ; and as for the miss steeles , especially lucy , they had never been so happy in their
where miss taylor failed to stimulate , i may safely affirm that harriet smith will do nothing .
i will not say all that i could of the family you are with , because i would not be
“she thinks herself wrong , then , for having consented to a private engagement ?
as any body .
now was the time when her son-in-law ' s promise to his father might with particular propriety be fulfilled .
when i think of this being the last time of seeing you for i do not know how long ,
at oxford " ; which was all the intelligence of edward afforded her by the correspondence , for his name
it was a rational scheme , to be sure !
if the gentleman would but persevere , if he had but love enough to persevere , sir thomas began to
company ; on the contrary , it will do very well .
it was with reluctance that he suffered her to go ; but there was no look of despair in parting
it was not likely that anything unpleasant should have preceded them , or at least should make any impression .
not having been more guarded in my professions of that esteem .
it has been completely unexpected .
it checked the idleness of one , and the business of the other .
louisa , which has not the less entertained me for having often been repeated to me before .
of miss thorpe , though they certainly claimed much of her leisure , as to forget to look with an
same news ; and no sooner had they entered the breakfast-room , where mrs .
, she rose directly , and folding them up as nearly as possible in the same shape as before ,
till i was in kent , and saw so much both of mr .
fanny ' s spirits lived on it half the morning , deriving some accession of pleasure from its writer being
, she was the more overcome by miss crawford ' s .
happiness , left them in their little habitation and returned to my other freinds who impatiently expected me .
the time may come when harry will regret that so large a sum was parted with .
seemed to justify her .
to take a dislike to a young man , only because he appeared to be of a different disposition from
” “perhaps that is not possible for anyone .
elinor , and more than once dropt a reflection on the inconstancy of beaux before marianne , no effect was
and how readily she falls in with the inclination of others !
" when do you write to colonel brandon , ma ' am ?
colonel brandon ' s delicate , unobtrusive enquiries were never unwelcome to miss dashwood .
hoping to be soon joined by him , when all her views were overthrown by seeing him fall a victim
in her kind schemes for elizabeth , she sometimes planned her marrying colonel fitzwilliam .
employment .
he should not have planned such an absence—he should not have left home for a week , when her own
happy or unhappy , nothing pleased her ; she turned away her head from every sketch of him .
she soon believed herself to penetrate mrs .
i mend pens remarkably well .
there was now an interest , however , in believing the housekeeper ; and they soon became sensible that the
to know what was the matter .
home--was their destination ; and after another half mile of gradual ascent through large enclosures , where the ploughs at
, and “how handsome a family they are !
i never heard of such a thing .
elton is a most worthy young man—but ' —in short , i do not think i am particularly quick at
give me the greatest pleasure ; but that i am this moment going to dance .
he wondered that fanny spoke so seldom of her , and had so little voluntarily to say of her concern
very possible that they might , one or both , be more desirous of being admired by crawford , and
and it was not wholly without foundation .
weston ; delighted to see her and receive her approbation , very busy and very happy in their different way
we were within a few hours of eloping together for scotland .
” chapter xvii mrs .
who were usually tempted thither three or four times a week , to pay their duty to their aunt and
bingley , ” said elizabeth , “must disarm reproof .
” said she , “i heard you before , but i could not immediately determine what to say in reply
gave them to understand that they were going to gretna green , something was dropped by denny expressing his belief
that she could compare them in excellence to only one person ' s manners .
help—i have done something very wrong , i know ; but you have not an idea of the misery i
to a country residence than i had ever expected to be .
and pray what sort of guardians do you make ?
what an amazing match for her !
, besides , she thought the examination itself would be more satisfactory if made without any companion .
to be completely new furnished—pleasant sisters , a quiet mother , and an agreeable man himself—with the advantage of being
weston has told me himself .
the first part of mrs .
when he was speaking of it in that way , i honestly said that the world i could give up—parties
but he was master at mansfield park .
conclusion .
begun almost to despair of seeing that evening .
, and allowing him almost an equal share with james in her notice and smiles , the alteration became too
he was at the same time haughty , reserved , and fastidious , and his manners , though well-bred ,
their taking her home , and affording her their personal protection and countenance , is such a sacrifice to her
he replied , and was again silent .
, that you have disappointed every expectation i had formed , and proved yourself of a character the very reverse
, that she was all surprise and embarrassment ; and while stammering out her great obligation , and her “but
coming to us .
i must do this justice to mr .
bennet for a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted , the coach conveyed him and his five
remarkably kind to him , though george wickham has treated mr .
i was very much pleased with what i collected to have been your behaviour on the occasion ; it shewed
in their very last conversation , miss crawford , in spite of some amiable sensations , and much personal kindness
lady catherine rose also , and they turned back .
to be given , not at randalls , but at the crown inn ?
from you , from my home , i shall never again have the smallest incitement to move ; and if
long , if not disagreeable .
it is your disposition to be easily dejected and to fancy difficulties greater than they are .
supposing you came together ?
” “that mr .
had i sat down to wish for any possible good to my family , i should have fixed on colonel
and it cannot be for the value of our custom now , for what is our consumption of bread ,
when the insult came at last , it found her very differently affected .
" [ _num_ ] chapter xx as the miss dashwoods entered the drawing-room of the park the next day ,
i am very much mistaken if your sex in general would not think such beauty , and such temper ,
some people are surprized , i believe , that the eldest was not , but isabella would have him called
was .
, his strong good sense and uprightness of mind , bid most fairly for utility , honour , and happiness
but at last she found herself with some surprise , accosted by miss steele , who , though looking rather
very little more for him to do , than to tell her christian name , and say whose music she
—she had provided a plentiful dinner for them ; she wished she could know that they had been allowed to
” “no , ” said colonel fitzwilliam , “that is an advantage which he must divide with me .
he could not help it , regretting fanny even at the moment , but regretting her infinitely more when all
that he was on terms of particular friendship with any of them .
as it was our business however to be delighted at such a mark of condescension as a visit from sir
” thought emma , “he would have done as much for harriet .
they were in the ballroom , the violins were playing , and her mind was in a flutter that forbade
” “and make her like myself .
suckling , a lady known at maple grove .
” “not so much as i could wish , sir ; but i dare say he may spend half his
and now felt a particular pleasure in seeing again .
, or i should have sent him away at all events ; but she was shut up with mr .
if she would but have let us know she was going out but there is a something about fanny ,
now , as her objection was nothing but her very great dislike of mrs .
yes , novels ; for i will not adopt that ungenerous and impolitic custom so common with novel-writers , of
talking over thursday night with mrs .
the two gentlemen together , to put on our pelisses .
” she assented to it all rather by look than word .
what pin-money , what jewels , what carriages you will have !
collins , when he returned to longbourn to dinner , to drop no hint of what had passed before any
, to his wife .
conferred the highest obligation on him .
” “oh , no ; they will never think of me , after such a description as that .
“she travelled all the way post by herself , and knew nothing of coming till saturday night ; for general
sometimes he won ' t speak to me for half a day together , and then he comes out with
” “and do you really believe the affair to have been carrying on with such perfect secresy ?
with the past , as unfortunate .
had he been privy to her conversation with his son , he would not have wished her to belong to
us that he should do himself the pleasure of introducing lady lesley to us on the following evening .
yes—very—a very pleasing young woman .
that of directing her letters .
return to his family , and leave it to him to do whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable for
how was the truth to reach him ?
the list she drew up when only fourteen—i remember thinking it did her judgment so much credit , that i
“the sooner every party breaks up , the better .
many of my acquaintances are already there for the winter ; i wish that i could hear that you ,
given so gravely that it was impossible to pursue the subject farther ; and anne felt that she had gained
colonel wallis declined sitting down again , and mr elliot was invited by elizabeth and miss carteret , in a
prospect of riches , was led before the end of a week to hope and expect it ; and secretly
no , now i recollect , now i have it ; something happened before tea , but not that .
it is so ridiculous !
change his mind another day , and warn me off his grounds .
and besides that , my cousin richard said himself , that when it came to the point he was afraid
, was worth ages of doubt and anxiety .
of the past-- how natural , how certain too !
when he came back , alas !
but her mind was so busily engaged , that she did not always know when she was silent .
she had the pain of seeing her sister turn away with unalterable coldness .
and they are going in a fortnight .
" " i am sorry for that .
in places you see it is dreadfully dirty ; and the wainscot is more yellow and forlorn than any thing
wickham ought not to be a clergyman ; the business was therefore soon settled—he resigned all claim to assistance in
active , cheerful mind and social temper by entering into the militia of his county , then embodied .
his eldest daughter ' s alarm was equal to his own .
" " a surgeon !
" well , i am very glad indeed : but i always thought you would have it ; i always
for strangers , no profession , and no assurance , you may find it a difficult matter .
“well , miss morland , ” said he , directly , “i hope you have had an agreeable ball .
that you had really a preference for him ; but when at last he could no longer deny the force
will you ?
course of two or more to write to her at all .
respect , esteem , and confidence had vanished for ever ; and all his views of domestic happiness were overthrown
get round to the lady’s family , it would be an unpleasant thing .
“it is one thing , ” said she , presently—her cheeks in a glow—“to have very good sense in a
is altered ; there is no running or jumping about , no laughing or dancing ; it is quite different
profession , and who had always a home in that house when unemployed , chanced to be at liberty just
" but if she did , the letter was written and sent away with a privacy which eluded all her
there never was anything quite like it .
was but small , that she had only two bedrooms , but that however we should be wellcome to one
" anne was still in the lane ; and though instinctively beginning to decline , she was not allowed to
i think seriously of miss smith !
though of a different profession , and shining in a different sphere of life , yet equally conspicuous in the
but they are lady middleton ' s visitors .
” “our habits of expense make us too dependent , and there are not many in my rank of life
when i think of her great attachment to you , indeed , and the whole of her judicious , upright
street by noon .
that knowledge of my unhappy story , which your mother has so often solicited me to give you .
it would be such a delight to have her picture !
morning , was peculiarly to be respected , and they went down their two dances together with such sober tranquillity
as common decency will allow me to do in my own house .
” said she : “did you ever sit for your picture ?
shewed no doubt of their happiness .
which would have attended herself , had she been the culprit , and was wretched in the thought of what
a little more comfortable ; but i shall not be easy till i can go to town and judge of
i think you will fit up a theatre at your house in norfolk .
governed by the nephew , to whom she owes nothing at all .
she must now submit to feel that another lesson , in the art of knowing our own nothingness beyond our
" but elinor would not give her any encouragement to hope that she should tell her sister .
sister ' s expense .
” “i should have been sorry , mr .
her performance , in proof of her having spent seven years at a great school in town to some effect
these two points she principally dwelt during the rest of the day .
whist and speculation ; which will amuse me most ?
in the object he had undertaken , the promotion of young price , and enclosing two more , one from
make the sound of lady russell ' s carriage exceedingly welcome ; and yet , though desirous to be gone
though his eyes had been long opened , even before his acquaintance with elinor began , to her ignorance and
law , and a long et cetera , were successively dismissed with yet warmer objections .
” “my mother would have had no objection , but my father hates london .
woodhouse saw the letter , and he says he never saw such a handsome letter in his life .
as soon as she dared leave the table she hurried away to her own room ; but the housemaids were
the female philosopher a letter my dear louisa your friend mr millar called upon us yesterday in his way to
in the shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth which one ought to catch .
—excellent time .
from taking it on that account , it ought not to prevent you from keeping it .
all felt the instantaneous conviction .
on him , it was impossible that less than a week should be given[ _num_ ] up to the enjoyment
" i did not know , " said she , " that you were even acquainted till the other day
” elizabeth’s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight ; and , after half an hour’s quiet reflection
jane’s week , could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before .
has not his behaviour to marianne and to all of us , for at least the last fortnight , declared
we shall only be making each other more angry .
their being so new and so recent was all in their disfavour ; that you could tolerate nothing that you
) " we had your sister ' s card yesterday , and i understood frederick had a card too ,
and to be thought of on that day and many days to come , without producing any conclusion .
had compassion on him .
it is disgraceful to us if it does .
cheifly on my side for he was thoughtful and silent , when on a sudden he interrupted me in the
" continued mrs musgrove ; " he was grown so steady , and such an excellent correspondent , while he
his sisters’ uneasiness had been equally excited with my own ; our coincidence of feeling was soon discovered , and
refuse an offer of marriage .
i have been walking all this way in complete suspense .
that he was gone , urged the impossibility of speaking to him again that evening , as a fresh argument
thing i have had to do , mary , of a more trying nature : going to almost every house
and while the musgroves were in the first class of society in the country , the young hayters would ,
where , from its grecian temple , her eye , wandering over a wide tract of country to the south-east
my own , was my only fault , if a fault it could be called .
their time and strength , and spirits , were , therefore , exactly ready for this walk , and they
life could do nothing for her , beyond giving time for a better preparation for death ; and that was
” “yes , ” said mr .
henrietta looked a little ashamed , but very well pleased ; --charles hayter exceedingly happy : and they were devoted
he leaves out half his words , and blots the rest .
grant , instead of contriving to gratify him at little expense , gave her cook as high wages as they
the man and one of the maids were sent off immediately into devonshire , to prepare the house for their
hear from him again .
, orchard in blossom , and light column of smoke ascending .
" " fifty thousand pounds , my dear .
the wish was rather eager than lasting .
till late in the evening ; and the miss dashwoods , at the particular request of the middletons , spent
you deserve no such attention .
do let me ask my partner to introduce you .
, in what points his own conjectures might assist him , and what portion must yet remain to be told
but whatever may be the sentiments which mr .
you were very popular before you came , because you were mr .
own , a gentleman of consequence and property in devonshire .
the soup would be sent round in a most spiritless manner , wine drank without any smiles or agreeable trifling
could do nothing , and on her laughing and noticing it , he owned that he believed (excepting one or
” miss woodhouse made the proper acquiescence ; and finding that nothing more was to be entrapped from any communication
—such a man , to quit the tranquillity and independence of his own fireside , and on the evening of
other all varying and indescribable perturbation .
it was not so yesterday , i think .
mr elliot had called repeatedly , had dined with them once , evidently delighted by the distinction of being asked
think of what she had lost .
" " no , i did not promise .
understand so much by her friend , could not know herself to be so highly rated by a sensible man
" she determined , after some consideration , that if appearances continued many days longer as unpleasant as they now
talking , but after a few days , the remembrance of the said books grew so potent and stimulative that
she was separated from all her party , and away from all her acquaintance ; one mortification succeeded another ,
“we want to make a table for mrs .
any lips that could profit them .
the evening passed quietly , unmarked by anything extraordinary .
when alone with elizabeth afterwards , she spoke more on the subject .
dear , dear lizzy .
the form of it .
they all rose up in preparation for a round game .
if i would not go for the sake of your father , i should think it scandalous to go for
” “as often as i can .
to every family who came in his way .
sir john , " when once you are determined on anything .
it is not fit that he should be living about at his own charge now , at lodgings and taverns
became the object of compassion .
she came hallooing to the window , " how do you do , my dear ?
bring good to her sister ; and elinor , on the other hand , suspecting that it would not be
, might be previously finished .
an hour afterwards , came booted and greatcoated into the room where she and eleanor were sitting , and said
—i dare say they must have been very much obliged to you for coming .
at no loss , miss bennet , to understand the reason of my journey hither .
we were speaking of it only yesterday , and agreeing how fortunate it was for emma , that there should
" " really , " said elinor , " i know so little of these kind of forms , that
it might be safely viewed with all its appendages of prosperity and beauty , its rich pastures , spreading flocks
gardiner were engaged with their children , was now put an end to by the approach of the whole party
” emma did not want to be classed with the mrs .
this marrying scheme , upon my soul !
—yes , believe me , knightley , i am fully sensible of your attention to me in the whole of
the next remove was to the house ; they must all go in and eat ; —and they were all
they were , of course , very anxious to see a person on whom so much of their comfort at
persisting in rising , confessed herself unable to sit up , and returned[ _num_ ] voluntarily to her bed ,
lady lesley says no , that nothing will ever tempt her to forego the amusements of brighthelmstone for a journey
” lady catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer ; and elizabeth suspected herself to be the
it is not swisserland , but it will be something for a young man so much in want of a
” “you have a good memory .
miss taylor , if you had not married , you would have staid at home with me .
—i have blamed you , and lectured you , and you have borne it as no other woman in england
, and something more in the conviction of very much surpassing her sex in general by her early progress ,
; and mary had had enough of her own friends , enough of vanity , ambition , love , and
“there is something in this which my comprehension does not reach .
to any one ; and when her speech was over , she trembled and blushed at her own daring .
her own father ' s perfect exemption from any thought of the kind , the entire deficiency in him of
she made no reply .
, which she did without any intermission till coffee came in , delivering her opinion on every subject in so
i thank you again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals , but to accept
' and that i fancy , will be the end of it .
war , and mainwaring scarcely dares speak to me .
, somehow or other , there was no saying how , fanny could not have believed it , but he
" i am glad , " said lady middleton to lucy , " you are not going to finish poor
she follows him to town in hope of keeping him there , and tries to persuade you that he does
these causes must be stated , though briefly .
collins was a most humiliating picture !
but i have not the least inclination to go near her .
frank churchill to richmond .
on the subject .
at mansfield , no sounds of contention , no raised voice , no abrupt bursts , no tread of violence
” harriet , she found , had never in her life been inside the vicarage , and her curiosity to
i understand she is a woman of very good fortune .
" and so then , i suppose , " said mrs musgrove , in a low voice , as if
for , by that shake of the head , your meditations are not satisfactory .
—she even wept over the idea of it , as a sin of thought .
she could soon sit upright on the sofa , and began to hope she might be able to leave it
that i should ever have meant more you will allow to be impossible , when you understand that my affections
” she was now , on being settled at home , at leisure to observe the real state of her
is there nothing you could take to give you present relief ?
his previous habits .
it is very well worth-while to be tormented for two or three years of one ' s life , for
elton was all obligation and cheerfulness ; he was so very cheerful in his civilities indeed , that she began
therefore , taking no notice , only asked her if she had not seen mr .
you are in a melancholy humour , and fancy that any one unlike yourself must be happy .
for some time , she persevered in declaring that she knew no other young man for whom she had the
i know nothing about it , but fanny must teach me .
their time as shortly presented themselves , or that they should have such frequent invitations and such constant visitors as
the subjection in which his father had brought him up had given him originally great humility of manner ; but
knightley !
ever existed .
upon the hint of having spoken disrespectfully or carelessly of the family and the family honours , he was quite
grant , who came consequently to reside at mansfield ; and on proving to be a hearty man of forty-five
not that we would have endangered his safety by any tremendous weather—but only by a steady contrary wind , or
if he had but asked who the party were !
necessarily increase either the dignity or enjoyment of a young lady .
“so extremely like maple grove !
she saw that enscombe could not satisfy , and that highbury , taken at its best , might reasonably please
—you seem but just come—so very obliging of you .
” but in spite of the certainty in which elizabeth affected to place this point , as well as the
crawford had come and would go without her being obliged to know anything of the matter .
indeed they are very delightful apples , and mrs .
” “she is a most charming young lady indeed .
norris was beginning to arrange by what junction of carriages and horses most could be done , when the young
it will surely , therefore , be advisable to delay our union—to delay it till appearances are more promising—till affairs
i never saw anything so charming !
weston , you have prevailed , i hope , and these ladies will oblige us .
every comfort of life knocked off !
could give her ease ; and in restless pain of mind and body she moved from one posture[ _num_ ]
mrs clay was very pleasant , and very smiling , but her courtesies and smiles were more a matter of
he understood that she was in need of a dwelling ; and though the house he now offered her was
—beyond this , it must ever be unintelligible to emma .
his niece , meanwhile , did not thank him for what he had just done .
we have never been there above once since the new approach was made ; but still i have no doubt
they can do nothing satisfactorily without you .
or if any other gentleman were to address you , there would be nothing to restrain you from conversing with
me , upon my word !
directed , in spite of her aunt norris ' s opinion , to being the principal lady in company ,
by the expressive phrase of being out of humour .
and to be having any one ' s improvement in view in her choice !
but you are quite right ; you could not have chosen better .
tricks " 	 _num_ apparently in violent affliction	 _num_ begging her to stop	 _num_ came to take a survey of
felt an immediate satisfaction and interest in the event , which nothing but a kind of prescience of what happiness
” “then i will provide for you all without farther delay—here are _num_ banknotes of _num_ l each—take them and
everything seemed to cooperate for her advantage .
all those parts of his conduct which were least excusable .
, i must submit to your finding one still better worth listening to .
of the town , are what the stranger ' s eye will seek ; and a very strange stranger it
the original giver .
the memory is sometimes so retentive , so serviceable , so obedient ; at others , so bewildered and so
he was silent .
a friend .
of this inner lock as of the outer ; but at length it did open ; and not vain ,
weston was very ready to say how attentive and pleasant a companion he made himself—how much she saw to like
” “i know how highly you think of jane fairfax , ” said emma .
sir james ' s carriage was at the door , and he , merry as usual , soon afterwards took
but her commendation , though costing her some trouble , could by no means satisfy mr .
i have business there ; from thence to town in a day or two .
situated in such a part of bath as it might suit miss elliot and himself to visit in ; but
—a man would always wish to give a woman a better home than the one he takes her from ;
she instantly begged her sister would entreat lady middleton to take them home , as she was too miserable to
the sake of his heir .
" " but i do assure you it was so , for all that , and i will tell you
it was in the arrangement of his offices ; and as he was convinced that , to a mind like
his acquittal was complete , his friendship warmly honoured , a lively interest excited for his friend , and his
little surprised , i confess , at so serious an inquiry into her character .
promises which may be imagined , they parted from captain and mrs harville at their own door , and still
passed within her observation the preceding evening had marked who the young lady was , and made her more jealous
the improvement of spending a night in london was added in time , and the plan became perfect as plan
i can think only of the friends i am leaving : my excellent sister , yourself , and the bertrams
watch for a likeness , and if it failed her in the features , to catch it in the voice
elinor first spoke .
to raise your spirits , moreover , she gives you reason to suppose that the part of the abbey you
; —but emma , too eager and busy in her own previous conceptions and views to hear him impartially ,
emma soon saw that her companion was not in the happiest humour .
making a whist table for the others .
she had fallen into good hands , known nothing but kindness from the campbells , and been given an excellent
she could not respect his eye , but his love and his complaisance were unexceptionable .
, and a desire of seeing all that were connected with him in situations of respectability , he would have
elinor , elinor , they who suffer little may be proud and independent as they like—may resist insult , or
” “but then , to be an old maid at last , like miss bates !
; her fortnight was likely to be a month at least .
tom bertram began again— “miss crawford must be amelia .
wanted .
; and if i resolve to wait for that event , i shall have excuse enough at present in having
her to send sir james away , i shall be more obliged to you than it is possible for me
it will appear to me .
gardiner ?
was nobody with either father or sister ; her word had no weight , her convenience was always to give
the miss musgrove , that all this has been happening to .
fortune came , his prize-money as lieutenant being great ; promotion , too , came at last ; but fanny
invite him to dinner , emma , and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken ,
nobody wants him to come .
churchill does not feel that , why should we ?
, though perhaps some might not .
weston , does come and see us pretty often—but then—she is always obliged to go away again .
” “do you mean , then , that your brother knew of the necklace beforehand ?
at intervals a kind listener in mrs .
” “yes , indeed , his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of the very few
she had quite convinced herself of this before sir thomas and mr .
will .
wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may ensure his making friends—whether he may be equally capable of retaining
it was by no means her object to have it believed that her sister was not a fine lady ;
have a somebody .
elton elsewhere ; but she was in a humour to have patience with every body ; and as mrs .
it gave her no surprise that she saw nothing of mrs .
at this rate , i shall not pity the writers of history any longer .
jennings came immediately to their room on her return , and without waiting to have her request of admittance answered
but i hate haggling , and poor freeman wanted cash .
him , and have a great regard for—but that is quite a different thing from—and you know , though he
fairfax ' s .
be worth having .
and though there was no second glance to disturb her , though his object seemed then to be only quietly
best attire .
” “no , ” replied jane , “i have not forgotten him ; but i have nothing satisfactory to tell
” the mistake had been slight .
the delightful assurance of her total indifference towards frank churchill , of her having a heart completely disengaged from him
of anne ; anne , who was nothing to louisa , while she was her sister , and had the
” he replied , greatly surprised .
rushworth will be here in a moment , you know ; we shall not be out of sight .
” “i doubt its being very clever myself , ” said mr .
” “because they are not clever enough for you—gentlemen read better books .
whom i have so long desired to be acquainted with .
bennet sat looking and winking at elizabeth and catherine for a considerable time , without making any impression on them
speaking , if there has been neither ill health nor anxiety , it is a time of life at which
price was out , which she regretted very much .
” “that is not much to the purpose now ; and as to my being in parliament , i believe
my dear aunt , you do not know how miserable i have been .
he told patty this , but bid her not mind it , and be sure not to say any thing
she is dead !
jane had been a week in town without either seeing or hearing from caroline .
with one gentleman before the other was secured .
emma felt herself so well acquainted with him , that she could hardly believe it to be only their second
not , dared not attempt it : had she been otherwise qualified for criticism , her conscience must have restrained
is not disposed to depend upon their marriage ; he shook his head when i expressed my hopes , and
they afforded her no companion that could make amends for what she had left behind , nor that could teach
poor sister , sat to him , and was bringing it home for her ; and i have now the
bingley , from this time , was of course a daily visitor at longbourn ; coming frequently before breakfast ,
they have all along been so unwilling to have their own amusements cut up , as to shut their eyes
the walk here being here less sheltered than on the other side , allowed them to see him before they
” she was obliged to repeat and explain it , before it was fully comprehended ; and then , being
harriet seemed quite forgotten in the expectation of a pleasant party .
irritable to a degree that must have been—that had been—hard for him to bear .
you may ask questions which i shall not choose to answer .
” “indeed i do not dare .
never did tone express indifference plainer .
your father was gone , your uncle at home , and , as i said before , they had a
good hands earlier .
but i will endeavour to submit to it .
he could do nothing till he were assured of his fate with miss dashwood ; and by his rapidity in
" his disapprobation was expressed , but apparently very little regarded .
we never can expect to prove any thing upon such a point .
i am very sure you did me good .
” said he ; “that is rather singular .
jenkinson expressed her fears of miss de bourgh’s being too hot or too cold , or having too much or
in civility i complied with hers and sir edward ' s intreaties that i would inform them of the whole
—it is a sign i was not there to take care of you .
—i shall always congratulate myself that you were not of the box hill party .
" " yes ; he was not married when i knew him first .
professions of pleasure ; and elizabeth had never seen them so agreeable as they were during the hour which passed
would seek him ?
there was no positive ill-nature in maria or julia ; and though fanny was often mortified by their treatment of
” “i was just beginning to make the request , sir , as you came in .
it was all miss crawford ' s doing .
” she jumped up and moved in haste towards the door , crying out , “i will go to my
knightley to be no longer coming there for his evening comfort !
seldom hear any noise when i pass that way ; what she does with herself there i do not know
cordial , more natural smile into his countenance , and he replied in a tone which retained only a little
be but half-deserved .
” “i cannot believe that he has not the power of coming , if he made a point of it
material superiority by nature , merely from the advantage of a public school , was as well fitted to mix
she saw sir thomas actually give william notes for the purpose , she was struck with the idea of there
selfishly dear as she had long been to lady bertram , she could not be parted with willingly by her
but i will try to command myself .
and that part of the family , at least , are aware of it .
she entered the rooms on thursday evening with feelings very different from what had attended her thither the monday before
admiration of her powers ; and they had to listen to the description of exactly how little bread and butter
exercise ; and on being desired to chuse their walk , immediately fixed on highbury .
i wish you may receive this in time to come here tonight , but i will not depend on it
think about him from one hour ' s end to another .
“no walk for me today , ” sighed catherine ; “but perhaps it may come to nothing , or it
emma watched the entree of her own particular little friend ; and if she could not exult in her dignity
so obliged to you for the carriage last night .
” “what misfortunes dear ma ' am ?
that ' s what he did , and nobody else could have saved poor james .
” they were now almost at the door of the house , for she had walked fast to get rid
better if she were not so very tenacious , especially if she would not be always putting herself forward to
her she still possessed , of bringing on her the renewal of his addresses .
consideration and esteem as surely follow command of language as admiration waits on beauty , and here i have opportunity
we soon found out that our tastes were exactly alike in preferring the country to every other place ; really
when they repaired to the dining-room , elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether bingley would take the place , which
“read it , read it , ” said he , “it will give you pleasure ; only a few lines—will
“that is a curious old chest , is not it ?
chapter _num_ it was the second week in may , in which the three young ladies set out together from
” “let her be called down .
of a mile would have seemed but one .
half an hour hence ?
he would stand to it , cost him what it might .
bennet ; “and i am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you .
' s present state with proper interest .
the shock of colonel brandon ' s errand at barton had been much softened to mrs .
with the same attention , as heretofore : miss tilney took pains to be near her , and henry asked
knightley was fortunate in every body ' s most ready concurrence .
that neighbourhood who are such an annoyance to my brother and sister from the airs they give themselves !
of the following hour .
rushworth looked when your name was mentioned ?
on friday morning she meant to go very early to lady russell , and accomplish the necessary communication ; and
to make anything of it fit for your sister , and we must not suffer her good-nature to be imposed
—no wonder that you have such a curiosity to see him .
elizabeth was glad to be taken to her immediately ; and jane , who had only been withheld by the
his name was not in the pump-room book , and curiosity could do no more .
dawlish .
in time be better .
more than you would think for , perhaps , for that soft sort of manner does not do him justice
now they were as strangers ; nay , worse than strangers , for they could never become acquainted .
reverie , " to be coming and finding us here .
” “no indeed i have not .
the paper , the hand-writing altogether , immediately gave her a suspicion .
“harriet must give us as much of her company as she can while my brother and sister are here .
you neither by amusement nor splendour , for our mode of living , as you see , is plain and
and she bears it vastly well , —she will not like to hear it much talked of .
" " a woman of seven and twenty , " said marianne , after pausing a moment , " can
“such sweet lines !
do you think that your uncle or i should not have espoused your cause as warmly as my brother ?
it is all her fault .
i thought it was all settled .
way home , and made myself as agreeable as i could ; the young lady perfectly easy in her manners
stage was ended , and they were to quit sir thomas ' s carriage , she was able to take
" " i have not seen mr elliot these three years , " was mrs smith ' s answer ,
every body who sees it is struck by its beauty ; but to me , it has been quite a
as for your elizabeth’s picture , you must not have it taken , for what painter could do justice to
thick rain almost blotting out the very few objects ever to be discerned from the windows , was enough to
half a minute brought it all out .
are also upbraiding me .
darcy more than once , but he believes that it was left to him conditionally only .
as much , certainly with less self-provocation , and greater fortitude .
you must know that i have for these _num_ or _num_ days past strongly suspected william of entertaining a partiality
their brother , indeed , was the only one of the party whom she could regard with any complacency .
would allow us , we joined in heartfelt lamentations on the dreadful waste in our provisions which this event must
i see walls of great promise .
i had fifty minds to buy it myself , for it is one of my maxims always to buy a
one consolation however remained for them , to which the exigence of the moment gave more than usual propriety ,
many servants , and so splendid a dinner , might not wholly overpower them .
inquiries with readiness of good-breeding and good nature .
miss bennet , i insist on being satisfied .
talking does no good .
compliments always take you by surprise , and me never .
, and it would be rather gratifying to him to have enlightened witnesses of the progress of his success .
what is the matter ?
' had the grants been at home i would not have troubled you , but you are now the only
return of the friend most solicitous for her happiness would unite her to the lover , on whom she had
how little did he deserve the misfortunes he has experienced in the marriage state .
consider it rather as a motive ; for the expectation of his return must be a very anxious period to
” catherine was sorry , but could do no more ; and a short silence ensued , which was broken
she was met in the vestibule by lydia , who , flying to her , cried in a half whisper
they are the most conceited creatures in the world , and think themselves of so much importance !
promised him nothing but good .
” “and from these circumstances , ” he replied (his quick eye fixed on hers) , “you infer perhaps the
in a worldly view , he had nothing to gain by being on terms with sir walter ; nothing to
he had found impossible to conquer ; and with expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by her
she then yawned again , threw aside her book , and cast her eyes round the room in quest for
had she possessed greater leisure for the service of her girls , she would probably have supposed it unnecessary ,
away richard ; and if he does , colonel forster will hire him .
liberty to bestow my own on another , and have no doubt of being as happy with him as i
i should never be out if they were all sophys , or something of that sort .
expecting every moment to see her faint , tried to screen her from the observation of others , while reviving
” “do not be afraid of my wanting the character , ” cried julia , with angry quickness : “i
” “you take up a thing so seriously !
had been given , he had expressed his indignation at the abominable folly of miss bickerton in the warmest terms
lady susan , in a letter to her brother-in-law , has declared her intention of visiting us almost immediately ;
woodhouse was almost as much interested in the business as the girls , and tried very often to recollect something
is it practicable for any of the others to double it ?
every body !
it was at lady scudamores .
nay , faultless as my conduct had certainly been during the whole course of my late misfortunes and adventures ,
off to transact is invented as an excuse to dismiss[ _num_ ] him .
this could not have happened !
” “i went only to the post-office , ” said she , “and reached home before the rain was much
i told him that it could not be expected that she would ; it would be doing her an injustice
pass .
such personal praise might have struck her , especially as it did not appear to anne that the freckles were
i shall then go post .
such a period chosen for its completion , placed julia ' s feelings in a most unfavourable light , and
t .
—the sort of thing that so few men would think of .
] to spend upon herself .
perry was surprized to hear you had fixed upon south end .
their probable fears , delays , and disappointments , she should yet have been a happier woman in maintaining the
” the note was held out , and must be taken ; and as she instantly and with averted eyes
at last , however , the door was closed upon the three females , and they set off at the
his present pursuit could not make him forget that elizabeth had been the first to excite and to deserve his
his own merits must soon secure it .
” “moderation itself !
and their character , allow any praise to lord burleigh or sir francis walsingham ?
her father would never consent to her going .
scarlet .
“i never heard any county but surry called so .
your business cannot be with me .
i assure you , if it had not been to meet you , i would not have come away from
your sister was indifferent to him ; and as i could easily perceive that his attachment to her was unabated
trying to speak comfort to elinor , her conviction of her sister ' s danger would not allow her to
you are an angel .
it must be for her to withdraw her eyes , the astonishment she must be feeling that eight or nine
adeiu , laura .
" the girls looked all amazement .
it is always good for young people to be put upon exerting themselves ; and you know , my dear
but bingley has great natural modesty , with a stronger dependence on my judgement than on his own .
chapter _num_ mr .
whom her sisters were staying , by no means unworthy her notice ; and as for lady middleton , she
provoke a smile in the sweet but sorrowfull countenance of my eloisa .
the first act , which henry crawford was just proposing , desirous at once of having her time to herself
, in spite of what she had heard of the prodigious accumulation of dirt in the course of that hour
as certain .
, on the arrival of the latter , she would have quitted the house for ever , had not the
” “emma , my dear emma—” “oh !
the precedence that was her due , when they dined at the great house with other families ; and she
they will one day be mr .
at hartfield , before christmas brought the next visit from isabella and her husband , and their little children ,
" " i am at least very far from regretting it , my dear sister , " said she ;
” “and how are you to be conveyed back again ?
was happy for her that he had a mother whose character was so imperfectly known to her , as to
darcy mean , ” said she to charlotte , “by listening to my conversation with colonel forster ?
she did not mean , however , to derive much more from it to gratify her vanity , than mary
she could not endure its noise .
removal to kellynch , and beginning to think how her own comfort was likely to be affected by it .
”—even mr .
" in a few months , my dear marianne , " said she , " elinor will , in all
jennings , but even lucy , when they parted , gave her a pressing invitation to visit her there .
i came to you without a doubt of my reception .
so much novelty and beauty !
join .
; and much was her concern increased when she found herself the principal cause of the lecture , and that
where shall we see a better daughter , or a kinder sister , or a truer friend ?
she had been quite overlooked by her cousins ; and as her own opinion of her claims on sir thomas
say that they were just setting off , that he was come for his dogs , that his sisters were
be assured that i partake in all your feelings , and do not be angry if i say that our
beatings at heart , that i can get no rest by night nor by day .
nature resisted it for a while .
her prejudices , i trust , are not so strong as they were .
have overrated hartfield .
she felt the loss of willoughby ' s character yet more heavily than she had felt the loss of his
she performed her promise of being discreet , to admiration .
he took me wholly by surprise .
“you were mentioning may .
went near them .
, that is all over—entirely at an end” (looking significantly at his father) .
—i felt that it would be of a different sort .
it is a very nice word indeed !
it was a delightful visit ; —perfect , in being much too short .
same time so vague and equivocal , that her mother , though often disheartened , had never yet despaired of
it all fair and honourable .
with mrs .
—the year will wear away at this rate , and nothing done .
dashwood , whose eyes , as she answered the servant ' s inquiry , had intuitively taken the same direction
i hate an open carriage myself .
—we all had our health perfectly well there , never found the least inconvenience from the mud ; and mr
lord , it would be the saving of thousands .
" she replied with spirited earnestness , though her eyes were filled with tears as she spoke , " don
knightley , to be dependent on your recommendation , had i quitted mr .
immediately surrounding mrs musgrove were the little harvilles , whom she was sedulously guarding from the tyranny of the two
bertram , i dare say you have sometimes met with such changes .
” “yes ; my aunt bertram has just told me so .
useful by talking to her of what she read , and heightened its attraction by judicious praise .
manage your own concerns , edmund , and i ' ll take care of the rest of the family .
they settled in town , received very liberal assistance from mrs .
ferrars two or three times in harley street , and am much pleased with him .
wants rest .
he promised to call again in the course of three or four hours , and left both the patient and
it could not be for society , as he frequently sat there ten minutes together without opening his lips ;
the danger would have been of my wearying you .
” but with this approach to his name ended all possibility of restraining her feelings ; and , hiding her
anybody to coffee ; and then was enraged against herself for being so silly !
the inclinations of their cruel and mercenery parents ; who had vainly endeavoured with obstinate perseverance to force them into
” although i had always despised her from the day i had overheard her conversation with my edward , yet
they had been a year or two waiting for fortune and promotion .
down again .
my conduct may , i fear , be objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your daughter’s lips instead of
smiled himself off in a way that left the balance of approbation much in his favour .
to another , till growing more and more hysterical , her sister could with difficulty keep her on the bed
he had a pleasing face and a melancholy air , just as he ought to have , and drew back
i am sure if i had had a notion of it , i would not have joked her about it
and what will you discern ?
prevailed on us to determine never more to leave them , in the society of my edward and this amiable
crawford when she awoke the next morning ; but she remembered the purport of her note , and was not
but her promise of relating it to her sister was invariably painful .
' lady elliott was delighted with the thought .
my avowed one , or what i avowed to myself , was to see whether your sister were still partial
i believe i have lived as much on board as most women , and i know nothing superior to the
times between jane and herself , which proved that the former had , from her heart , given up the
she will have occasion for all those attractive powers for which she is celebrated to gain any share of my
obliged to put an end to it , and request him to place himself elsewhere .
—no more exploring parties to donwell made for her .
she sat in silence almost all the way , wrapt in her own meditations , and scarcely ever voluntarily speaking
the theatres .
, but i must go : it is a great while since i have seen my father and mother .
my dear sir , —i have this moment received your letter , which has given me more astonishment than i
it would not have been the awkwardness of a moment , it would have been rather a pleasure , previous
war all that could dim her sunshine .
she judged it right that they should sometimes see their brother .
fears will completely wear off , for there really is nothing in the manners of either but what is highly
miss bennet , “i beg your pardon , madam , for interrupting you , but i was in hopes you
to offend you , i entreat your forgiveness of what i can assure you to have been perfectly unintentional .
the instrument was unlocked , every body prepared to be charmed , and marianne , who sang very well ,
very close hand .
, to go with her even downstairs ; it gave her an opportunity which she immediately made use of ,
he had been visiting a friend in the neighbouring county , and that friend having recently had his grounds laid
” “shall you indeed !
it was so dark when i entered the coach that i could not distinguish the number of my fellow-travellers ;
absence will in time make him comfortable again ; but he can have no hope here , and it is
” “you may as well call it impertinence at once .
“and i wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit ; but i am an idle
he might observe that it was so .
charles and henrietta returned , bringing , as may be conjectured , charles hayter with them .
subject than his lady did soon afterwards , when mary , perceiving her on a sofa very near , turned
willoughby ; the only one who could have gained a smile from her ; but she dispersed her tears to
darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her husband .
anne , " cried her sister , " you can talk of nothing but beaux ; —you will make miss
he perfectly knew his own meaning ; and having warmly protested against her suspicion as most injurious , and slightly
and ill-fated nun .
once his affection and happiness .
i must make him know that i will not be tricked on the south side of everingham , any more
if i may so express it , he has a right to be proud .
elton coolly ; “but their going to bath was quite out of the question ; and she was not perfectly
” fanny felt that she must ; and though she had not waited for that sentence to be thinking of
to me , at least , what has occasioned so great an alteration in your opinion of her .
knightley and harriet distinct from the rest , quietly leading the way .
with a significant smile , which made fanny quite hate him , he said , “so !
as this silence continued , every day made it appear more strange and more incompatible with the disposition of both
—she is a complete angel .
your friend will not take it amiss i hope .
” he wanted her to look up and smile ; and having now brought herself not to smile too broadly—she
had passed together .
but as it is , you must not let your fancy run away with you .
mother , and the endeavour to make a small income go as far as possible .
talking and giving your opinion as if you were one of your cousins—as if you were dear mrs .
her memory , her reflection , and her fancy .
and that she ought never to be long banished from the free air and liberty of the country .
elizabeth was pleased to find that he had not betrayed the interference of his friend ; for , though jane
thorpe would have darted after her , but morland withheld him .
i am sure you will not like him .
" here mrs smith paused a moment ; but anne had not a word to say , and she continued--
i am sure we do .
on the whole however they returned in raptures with the world , its inhabitants , and manners .
i am sorry to have occasioned pain to anyone .
expeditiously the dimensions of a print , which she was going to copy for her friend , he followed her
can express .
lessons are not often in the elevated style you describe .
speak any more .
, which stretching beyond the garden at an equal distance from the river , seemed the finish of the pleasure
i am inclined to envy mr .
no : you must be aware that i am quite determined to marry fanny price .
be forced into a traveling-chaise and four , which will drive off with incredible speed .
, went to bed .
you must write to me .
elton was wild to have the offer closed with immediately .
least , to make it very wonderful to sir thomas that mrs .
the morning was chiefly spent in leaving cards at the[ _num_ ] houses of mrs .
sir thomas ' s parental solicitude and high sense of honour and decorum , edmund ' s upright principles ,
after sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the room , from the sideboard to the fender
his best .
make me think so too .
” “certainly .
weston was wanting him to dance with mrs .
had ten thousand a year .
engagement which drew on you your mother ' s anger .
thursday was the day of the ball ; and on wednesday morning fanny , still unable to satisfy herself as
then borne off by the resistless pressure of a long string of passing ladies .
in london he would soon learn to wonder at his infatuation , and be thankful for the right reason in
was it a matter of pleasure merely to her .
” “what should not you mind ?
—the considerable slope , at nearly the foot of which the abbey stood , gradually acquired a steeper form beyond
in the whole of her subsequent manner , she traced the direction of a mind awakened to reasonable exertion ;
away so soon , and wanted to make it possible for her to stay behind till she might convey her
i can remember some expressions which might justly make you hate me .
what a thinking brain you have !
; and something like a sigh escaped her as she said it .
presents , and laughed at her .
cousin , when i remember how much i used to dread riding , what terrors it gave me to hear
darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine , tall person , handsome features , noble mien
of their marriage .
matter of very serious moment ; but , as it is , i hope there can be nothing to fear
how long ago it is , aunt , since we used to repeat the chronological order of the kings of
disposed—had in short , to use a most intelligible phrase , been so very ready to have him , that
his happiness in having obtained the affection of their amiable neighbour , miss lucas , and then explained that it
know it better .
” and she , “only to be sure it was paying him too great a compliment , but she did
elinor had seen so little of mr .
pleasure in henry ' s attentions .
the progress of the friendship between catherine and isabella was quick as its beginning had been warm , and they
, to see the other in a state as insensible , or to witness the hysterical agitations of his wife
” “then you have had fatigues within doors , which are worse .
the sight of you , edward , is the only comfort it has afforded ; and thank heaven !
of my arguments , or discredit what i told him , his transports , his raptures , his extacies are
it is a sweet place , by all accounts .
we are growing a little too nice .
was not hope in her confusion , there was hope in nothing else—that he was almost ready to wonder at
, and has been so little used to them at hartfield , that she cannot calculate on their effects ,
the others will be here presently .
" a strong mind , with sweetness of manner , " made the first and the last of the description
her mother , still confident of their engagement , and relying as warmly as ever on his constancy , had
the way in which her work had been welcomed by the public .
fanny ' s immediate concerns , as far as they involved mr .
, she had from the first been so fortunate as to excite in the general ; and by a recollection
it would be so horrible to her to act that she was inclined to suspect the truth and purity of
of breakfast she had been kept by her fears , and of dinner by their sudden[ _num_ ] reverse ,
set of friends to another .
” “if !
you know , you and i were quite forlorn at first .
norris , being not at all inclined to question its sufficiency , began to take the matter in another point
edmund knocked at her door in his way to his own .
she remembered that he had yet to learn to be laughed at , and it was rather too early to
you must contrive to send somebody .
more goodwill than experience intent upon filling the trunk .
a niece of ours , sir thomas , i may say , or at least of yours , would not
; and there are several of them you see uncommonly pretty .
she must herself have been the worst .
but at the same time , she could not help thinking that no one could so well perform it as
we should be miserable .
, as a celebrated writer has maintained , that no young lady can be justified in falling in love before
would not disgust a young person of taste : the substance of its papers so often consisting in the statement
it would be a pity to be divided , and we should be losing miss anne , too , if
” “it comes to the same thing .
—you are all goodness , and i believe there will be need of even all your goodness to allow for
elton ' s meditated activity .
—she did look vexed , she did speak pointedly—and at last , with a decision of action unusual to her
it will be taking out my freedom .
goddard , for i really do not think she cares for any thing but boiled pork : when we dress
all was silent .
“now , susan , ” cried mrs .
dreadful ones .
wherever she felt attachment , she had been able to create it .
her time was so much occupied in lying-in and teaching the little ones , that her elder daughters were inevitably
" " i did , " said elinor , with a composure of voice , under which was concealed an
the frank churchill so long talked of , so high in interest , was actually before her—he was presented to
owens settled at thornton lacey ; how should you like it ?
elton ' s admiration .
“the first wish of my heart , ” said she to herself , “is never more to be in company
his address , true elegance was sometimes wanting ; but , till this very day , she had never ,
resolved to act by her as every principle of honour and honesty directed , to combat her own affection for
and drawing room : to the latter , the children accompanied them , and while they remained there , she
ferrars at first reasonably endeavoured to dissuade him from marrying miss dashwood , by every argument in her power ;
” he stopt .
collins’s side and as many bows on sir william’s they departed .
he is to have breakfasted and be gone by half-past nine .
i rather believe you are giving me more credit for acuteness than i deserve .
” elizabeth looked surprised .
lizzy , you must walk out with him again , that he may not be in bingley’s way .
the beginning , however , of every visit displayed none but the properest feelings , and this being of necessity
emma was very compassionate ; and the distresses of the poor were as sure of relief from her personal attention
she was as grateful as possible , you may be sure .
a large contingent for pride and prejudice ; and there is even a section which advocates the pre-eminence of northanger
sterling and from sterling to edinburgh every other day in a crowded and uncomfortable stage .
she wanted to be alone .
enforced with so much real politeness by mr .
she loved to fancy how she could have read to her aunt , how she could have talked to her
she had just put an end to , might be a little extraordinary !
come back she would think herself very ill used .
happy , had she not seen his eyes likewise turned towards mr .
thing conducted in the usual style of a complete party of pleasure .
jennings , when marianne was taken from them , margaret[ _num_ ] had reached an age highly suitable for dancing
" " elliot !
“poor mrs .
edmund ' s letter had this postscript .
” “exactly so ; that is what principally strikes me .
chatty in a very unusual degree ; and he was ready to give every information as to his voyage ,
finis .
the happiness which this reply produced , was such as he had probably never felt before ; and he expressed
he very handsomely hopes they will be happy together ; and there is nothing very unforgiving in that , i
fortnight without any ; and now , by the resuscitation of edward , she had one again .
was not the young lady he danced with on monday a miss smith ?
a soft languor spread over her lovely features , but increased their beauty— .
the bertrams are undoubtedly some of the first people in this country .
goodness—and did , in truth , prove herself more resolutely in love than emma had foreseen ; but yet it
after discharging his conscience on that head , he proceeded to inform them , with many rapturous expressions , of
if from no better motive , that he should not have been too proud to be dishonest—for dishonesty i must
she said it must be such an amusement to me , as she understood i lived quite alone , to
guilty in undistinguishing ill will ?
; and that being the case , you must be aware that my wish would be to remain with lady
ferrars herself , by her shuffling excuses , seemed the only person surprised at her not giving more .
when the carriages were really heard , when the guests began really to assemble , her own gaiety of heart
and to what part of it ?
—“was not it astonishingly like ?
bear to ask ; but i have not told you that , with my usual luck—for i never do wrong
ferrars would be reformed , and her son be at liberty to be happy .
it is because he will not give himself the trouble .
kellynch hall was to be let .
enscombe however was gracious , gracious in fact , if not in word .
] their mother ' s death—a very comfortable fortune for any young woman .
was such as emma felt must draw every body ' s eyes ; and , excepting her own partner ,
she was astonished , exceedingly astonished—more than astonished .
notice of mr and mrs musgrove more than anything else , and often drew this compliment ; -- " well
she owned that , considering every thing , she was not absolutely without inclination for the party .
” it was some days before she saw jane fairfax , to judge of her honest regret in this woeful
ferrars ; and even , if she might hereafter be induced to forgive her son , his wife should never
suppose that he is very plain .
ferrars suffered , when first fanny broke it to her , is not to be described .
again be exposed to misfortunes as unmerited as those i have already experienced , yet to avoid the imputation of
“this will not be your only visit to randalls .
smith .
elinor ' s lips had moved with her mother ' s , and , when the moment of action was
must be engaged .
in the evening , when they were all three together , marianne began voluntarily to speak of him again ;
” “i have already told her so once , by your desire .
” was her secret remark .
well , when your cousin comes back , he will find mansfield very quiet ; all the noisy ones gone
chapter _num_ at five o’clock the two ladies retired to dress , and at half-past six elizabeth was summoned to
nature is particularly prone to it , and that there are very few of us who do not cherish a
under these unpromising auspices , the parting took place , and the journey began .
if i were you , i would certainly get him myself .
but i do flatter myself , my dear jane , that my influence is not entirely worn out .
and , by the bye , every body ought to have two pair of spectacles ; they should indeed .
second spring of hope or character .
have been imputed ?
but your mind is warped by an innate principle of general integrity , and therefore not accessible to the cool
she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than she found them .
your own heart , your own conscience , must tell you why i come .
“you are so like your dear brother , ” continued isabella , “that i quite doted on you the first
how right and comfortable it will all be !
never to go beyond the shrubbery again .
any body .
she had never heard him speak so openly before , and though it told her no more than what she
she had a great idea that people who had extensive grounds themselves cared very little for the extensive grounds of
not wonder at your surprise ; and i am really fatigued to death .
she might dare to judge from memory and experience , that captain wentworth was not in love with either .
of it himself suddenly came forward from the road , which led behind it to the stables .
wentworth had done it .
elton had undoubtedly the advantage , at this time , in vanity completely gratified ; for though she had intended
he knows where a surgeon is to be found .
to go away at the conclusion of it than she had been before ; and on this being evident ,
had its pleasure and its hope .
lucy was all exultation on being so honorably distinguished ; and miss steele wanted only to be teased about dr
“yes , certainly .
the consequence of it is , that lady lucas will have a daughter married before i have , and that
spoke so handsomely of highbury altogether—thought it so abundant in agreeable families—that emma began to feel she had been used
but it is even so .
and delicacy of her character—obliged her very soon to dislike him less than formerly .
” “why , really , dear emma , i say that he is so very much occupied by the idea
mentioned without ceremony .
few flakes of snow were finding their way down , and the sky had the appearance of being so overcharged
elton ' s would be depressed when he knew her state ; and left her at last tolerably comfortable ,
tender tale of love in vain , and exposed herself for ever to the contempt of the whole world ,
for lady catherine , he added , so heartily approved his marriage , that she wished it to take place
fanny , i am sure you know the part .
it was settled so , upon the hill , while we were walking about with mr .
her , in a whisper , a brief account of the whole shocking affair .
she might have been absolutely rich and perfectly healthy , and yet be happy .
” “may we take my uncle’s letter to read to her ?
" the careless expression was life to anne , who saw that captain wentworth was all attention , looking and
, in compassion to his feelings , as i know his horse will lose .
knightley , their own especial set , were the only persons invited to meet them ; —the hours were to
i think i shall have repton .
not their way to suppose any evil could be told .
it makes everybody feel for you .
i love to hear my uncle talk of the west indies .
” “it will not be in my power , catherine .
after joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel of this event , which elizabeth considered as all but certain
if in the supposition of his seeking to marry herself , his difficulties from his mother had seemed great ,
friends had deserted them , no pleasures had been lost .
i have had enough of the family for one morning .
we are persuaded that he has pledged himself to assist mr .
promote his advancement in the best manner that his profession might allow—and if he took orders , desired that a
" " i wish , " said margaret , striking out a novel thought , " that somebody would give
her companion ' s discourse now sunk from its hitherto animated pitch to nothing more than a short decisive sentence
“i know that is the feeling of you all .
which catherine could not but resent .
” “if you are resolved on acting , ” replied the persevering edmund , “i must hope it will be
“i can have no scruples now .
elton ' s knight-errantry on the subject .
it re-established peace and kindness .
letter the _num_ th laura in continuation they had been gone nearly a couple of hours , before either macdonald
she could not consider her partiality for edward in so prosperous a state as marianne had believed it .
her opinion varying with every fresh conjecture , and all seeming equally probable as they arose .
and i had been growing a fine hardened villain , fancying myself indifferent to her , and choosing to fancy
rushworth , who saw nothing but her son , was quite at a loss .
no , indeed , i cannot act .
have you never any balls at northampton ?
that emma could give .
' the only woman in the world whom he could ever think of as a wife .
after the waste of a few minutes in saying the proper nothings , she began to give the invitation which
edward assured them himself of his being in town , within a very short time , by twice calling in
there was not one family among their acquaintance who had reared and supported a boy accidentally found at their door—not
the scheme advanced .
should be carefully avoided .
you need not say anything more of your ignorance .
” “i cannot intend anything which it must be so completely beyond my power to command .
my father met him with that look of love , that social shake , and cordial kiss which marked his
that is , i presume it to be so on her side , and i can answer for its being
her uncle had been persuaded that affection and confidence subsisted between mr .
bertram is so cold and nothing-meaning , so entirely without warmth or character !
but no sooner was the distress known to mr .
—but that it will be a fortunate preference is more than i can promise .
to go to bath with one of her young friends , who was attending her father there for his health
that from the first there had been a great deal of general and joint extravagance .
little farther , and call for her again so soon , as to allow no time for insidious applications or
this , harriet , is an alliance which can never raise a blush in either of us .
i may be sorry , i may be surprised—though hardly that , for you had not had time to attach
something must be fixed on .
dashwood should advance anything ; and they were neither of them quite enough in love to think that three hundred
she had been treated—though mrs .
what a very good-looking man !
, if we are to dine at the park whenever any one is staying either with them , or with
latter ; and detestable as such a step must make her were it known , she could not help secretly
anne will stay ; anne undertakes to stay at home and take care of him .
, by strong attachment to herself , to settle close by her , in the village of kellynch ; and
” “are you sure ?
—when we arrived at ashburnham , it was nearly ten o ' clock , which was an hour and a
bennet sat quite still , and unable to utter a syllable .
just as much surprised now as i was at first that you should intend to take orders .
to her to read more herself .
nothing can be farther from pleasure than to be dancing in a crowd—and a crowd in a little room !
” so ended their discourse , which , for any very appropriate service it could render fanny , might as
strengthen them in believing they had no faults .
agitation on hearing this news of frank churchill .
” “what a beautifull sky !
“it must do the heads of the family a great deal of good to force all the poor housemaids and
you cannot doubt to what i allude .
but on the second , or at farthest the third night after your arrival , you will probably have a
bingley and netherfield .
had always meant that she should .
of returning in the same carriage to lyme ; and when the horses were baited , he was off .
fate ; and though i know it is all very right and necessary , i have often wondered at the
it is very unlucky ; but as i have actually paid the visit , we cannot escape the acquaintance now
you must have thought me so rude ; but indeed it was not my own fault , was it ,
suffering .
all that i had to do , was to avoid you both .
he was angry .
" elinor made no answer .
she has no right to make you unhappy , and she shall not do it .
him everything .
everything in and about the house would be taken such excellent care of !
and had made herself so unhappy about it , that for a day or two everything seemed to be in
there could be no harm in what had been done in so many respectable families , and by so many
i have the highest opinion in the world of edward ' s heart .
what can exceed the misery of such a mind in such a situation ?
post-captains may be very good sort of men , but they do not belong to us .
“you cannot think i mean to hurry you , ” said he , in an undervoice , perceiving the amazing
that he had cut me ever since my marriage , i had seen without surprise or resentment .
it was some time before she could find what she looked for ; and other family matters occurring to detain
the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt , and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they
notes i am sure is exactly what he and all that party would particularly prize .
" elinor sighed over the fancied necessity of this ; but to a man and a soldier she presumed not
the name of sir james martin—the very person , as you may remember , whom it was said she had
chapter _num_ their sister’s wedding day arrived ; and jane and elizabeth felt for her probably more than she felt
what he was and what he meant , before many meetings had taken place .
to provoke them .
a something of languid indifference , or of that boasted absence of mind which catherine had never heard of before
affection she inspires in louisa and myself is heightened into something still more interesting , from the hope we dare
you must get his consent before you ask mine .
walked on .
society , no amusement , till my father ' s point was gained .
am disposed to side with you , mr .
frederica removed from such a mother , and placed under her own care ; and , though with little hope
” “why , indeed ; he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that head , as you
of their space ; at the possibility of that woman , who had been mistress of kellynch hall , finding
i really never could think well of any body who proposed such a thing to any body else .
style of living ; that if not foolish she was ignorant , and that her society would certainly do mr
or if the parrys had come , as they talked of once , she might have danced with george parry
darcy approaching them , and at no great distance .
tete-a-tete drive .
and not a creature knowing a syllable of the matter , except nancy !
to find a friend there instead of in harriet smith ; she must , in all probability , have been
' if you must go , my dear , ' said i , ' you must , and i will
—oh , it was a blessed journey !
fine bold hills that we have so often admired .
she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her .
he began with great earnestness to entreat her to refrain from visiting the sick-chamber again , for the present—to entreat
" [ _num_ ] marianne moved to the window— " it is colonel brandon !
look at , the same horse to ride .
certainly been , in some measure , the cause .
so unlike himself—greatly disturbed her .
point of reverting to what interested her at that time rather more than anything else in the world , laurentina
quite wonderful how she does her hair !
" elinor , who had now been for some time reflecting on the propriety or impropriety of speedily hazarding her
she was a fine woman , had had a decent education , was brought forward by some cousins , thrown
” “i must think your language too strong in speaking of both , ” replied jane ; “and i hope
chapter _num_ in consequence of an agreement between the sisters , elizabeth wrote the next morning to their mother ,
respectability , was not to be hastily rejected .
heavens , (exclaimed i) is it possible that i should so unexpectedly be surrounded by my nearest relations and connections
cottages whose very existence , though on his own estate , had been hitherto unknown to him .
moderation .
of thinking , bearing always an equal resemblance of mother and child .
to place him in an amiable light .
open to admit them through one or two intermediate rooms into the appointed dining-parlour , where a collation was prepared
as she is !
even asking their advice .
she did not do any of it in the same way that she used ; i could see she was
there is nothing like dancing after all .
you shall not , for the sake of one individual , change the meaning of principle and integrity , nor
he could—that his father , mr .
them , they told me who she was , and gave me a long rigmerole story of her father and
she neither wants understanding or is without some pretensions to beauty , but these are so very trifling , that
) , must from situation be at this time the intimate friend and confidante of her sister .
the light and lively .
will force you to do justice to your natural powers .
i never had much opinion of the sea air .
importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly .
, " recollecting myself , " i know my father wants very much to see him .
or even any power of speech .
that she was heated , and would therefore be particularly liable to take cold .
, at least half in love with me , without the semblance of the most commonplace flirtation .
and indeed had i been in favour i should have been equally neglected , as she was got into a
do you not know that such a report is spread abroad ?
“it remains as it was , i suppose ?
“the more i think of it , ” she cried , “the more am i convinced that you are doing
and the dried cherries too !
a very fine fellow ; as rich as a jew .
her feelings altered towards emma .
i hope i should not have been influenced myself in a wrong way , and i am sure my father
them farther .
” her brother told her that it was twenty-three miles .
are no probabilities to be accepted , merely because they are not certainties ?
should see nothing to regret in the duties and dignity of the resident landholder , should find so much to
, the seat of mr .
from one side of the room to the other .
—my aunt is not aware how late it is , nor how long we have been absent—but i am sure
' ' oh !
no , no ; i did not come to bath to drive my sisters about ; that would be a
” “pray do .
" anne , seeing her friend to be earnestly bent on it , did as she was desired .
; and could almost fear that she had been remiss herself in forwarding it ; but with so many to
willoughby first rousing himself , broke it thus : " well , let me make haste and be gone .
—was it a musical society ?
i leave him entirely to your mercy , and when he has got you at everingham , i do not
seeing her ; ” and , before she could reply , he added , “it is above eight months .
the party then gathered round the fire to hear lady catherine determine what weather they were to have on the
business , my dear , your spending the autumn at south end instead of coming here .
never had the exquisite sight , smell , sensation of nature , tranquil , warm , and brilliant after a
crawford ' s temper ?
how to govern them : it was a knowledge which her mother had yet to learn ; and which one
norris ' s resolving to quit mansfield and devote herself to her unfortunate maria , and in an establishment being
frederick could not be unpardonably guilty , while henry made himself so agreeable .
” (answered he .
but , however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed his determination , i do not suppose that it would
let me congratulate you on a very important conquest .
from her , she would have been very glad to be spared herself ; but colonel brandon , on motives
and how strange an infatuation on frederick ' s side !
" then you would not have me tell it to lucy , for i think of going as far as
if , in the explanation of them , which is due to myself , i am under the necessity of
—i think we shall never materially disagree about the writer again ; but i will not delay you by a
s !
in charge of all her fame and fortune through the whole evening ; and if quick enough to keep her
elizabeth , on her side , had much to do .
“it may seem impertinent in me to praise , but i must admire the taste mrs .
pause , awkward as such pauses must always be , succeeded for a few moments .
acquaintances .
it often grieved her to the heart to think of the contrast between them ; to think that where nature
or bartlett ' s buildings .
upon such intelligence the general had proceeded ; for never had it occurred to him to doubt its authority .
so needlessly troublesome to your servant .
have been sure of such a letter every week .
marianne , on a similar occasion , to augment and fix her sorrow , by seeking silence , solitude and
i thought mr .
we have seen nothing of him since november .
a journal .
" to be claimed as a good , though in an improper style , is at least better than being
“kitty and i are going up stairs to sit in my dressing-room .
nephew and niece , in the recollection that she could not possibly be spared from mansfield park at present ;
these baked apples , and they are extremely wholesome , for i took the opportunity the other day of asking
elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation .
—pray be sincere , knightley .
have missed him , and how impossible it would have been for her to bear a lengthened absence .
” “i am perfectly convinced by it that mr .
the nights were too dark for the ladies to meet again till the morrow , but captain harville had promised
than herself , whether any of them were likely to be married , whether they were handsome , where they
avowed an adoption as to have him assume the name of churchill on coming of age .
darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend , is he ?
she would not stir farther from the east room than the head of the great staircase , till she had
he told me it was to be a great secret ; and , therefore , i should not think of
” elizabeth answered only by a slight bow .
worse than cold-hearted !
“upon my word , it is really a pity that it should not take place directly , if we had
it was in the times and the courier , i know ; though it was not put in as it
charge to go very slow and wait for the other carriage .
” “i was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second time .
she touched—she admitted—she acknowledged the whole truth .
, madam .
this must be the very man , and her head is quite full of it , and of poor richard
person (lady lucas) freely , openly , and of nothing else but her expectation that jane would soon be married
nothing , but that the lessons of her past folly might teach her humility and circumspection in future .
particular to colonel fitzwilliam himself—from whom she had previously received the information of his near concern in all his cousin’s
their mouths , quite mistake the matter .
their propriety , simplicity , and elegance , would make them the safest model for any young woman .
could scarcely dare mention to their father .
dixon , you say , is not , strictly speaking , handsome ?
weston ' s parting words .
he must be gone from bath .
weston to dine with us , while isabella is here .
so reasoned edmund , till his father made him the confidant of a scheme which placed fanny ' s chance
she had been the only one of the set absent , for sir walter and elizabeth had not only been
such a woman as i am sure fanny will be glad to know .
the direction to elinor .
the affections and utility of domestic life .
” “if he were ever able to learn what wickham’s debts have been , ” said elizabeth , “and how
' s delay of the intended communication could be of no consequence , and hastened forward to the white hart
have you finished it ?
finis saturday nov : _num_ th _num_ .
” “i do not often walk this way now , ” said emma , as they proceeded , “but then
simpleton , for there is but one man in the world i love , and he is an angel .
nor sorrow in the world ; and there certainly would be less of both if the sublimity of nature were
half an hour ' s solitude and reflection might have tranquillized her ; but the ten minutes only which now
frightens away all my inclination for hasty measures .
trepidation with which she made up the note , “you cannot think i have any such object .
she saw a glance at maria which confirmed the injury to herself : it was a scheme , a trick
” “lady catherine has been of infinite use , which ought to make her happy , for she loves to
if their correspondence were to pass through sir john ' s hands .
she was teased by mr .
and probably might not be at home again before lady russell would be removing to bath .
—you never could persuade her to read half so much as you wished .
very much ; he seems very agreeable .
and how to endeavour to weaken her hold on my heart , and in the course of a few years—but
a well-disposed young woman , who did not marry for love , was in general but the more attached to
sometimes how quick to feel !
as for the main subject of the letter , there was nothing in that to soothe irritation .
churchill !
that she might not appear , however , to observe or expect him , she kept her eyes intently fixed
on .
—she had some fears of his horse .
opportunity of making his passage thither in a private vessel , instead of waiting for the packet ; and all
they could not act , they could not rehearse with any satisfaction without her .
an end to by the entrance of charlotte and her sister , just returned from her walk .
they will have nothing else to do .
the property of miss crawford , if she would accept it .
very eligible a match for frederica , that i have always observed his attachment with the greatest pleasure ; and
as to say , " can we retrench ?
who found no woman good enough to be loved !
the varieties in the fitting-up of the rooms , where the common necessaries provided by the owner , in the
young men must have something to live on as well as the plain .
good god !
grant occupied at the tea-table , he began talking of them with more particularity to his other sister .
tilney yet lived , shut up for causes unknown , and receiving from the pitiless hands of her husband a
you know nothing of drawing .
but poor mrs .
i cannot but suppose you will when you have read it carefully over .
what say you , marianne ?
if you do not like to go wherever i do , well and good , you may always go with
an account of the concert was immediately claimed ; and anne ' s recollections of the concert were quite happy
i am ashamed of you !
feelings by which she was almost purely governed were rapidly restoring her to all the little she had lost in
no—there is nothing to surprize one at all .
could wish to scheme about for her .
the reader ; the events of each day , its hopes and fears , mortifications and pleasures , have been
satisfied herself that it was not those she wanted , when miss bertram , mr .
or abroad , formed only for cards , could have little to amuse her .
into the parlour , for i well remembered that she was the lady , proposed as a wife for my
there would be no opposition made to his going .
" " it was not inclination that he wanted , elinor ; i could plainly see that .
, leaving isabella still sitting with captain tilney .
of late it has been in terms of more extraordinary praise ; and yesterday he actually said that he could
they will soon be in yorkshire .
write , write .
when they ascended the steps to the hall , maria’s alarm was every moment increasing , and even sir william
" you are mistaken , elinor , " said she warmly , " in supposing i know very little of
her own feelings entirely engrossed her ; her wretchedness was most acute on finding herself obliged to go directly home
together , and see little of anybody else , —and it will always be in your power to set her
norris could tolerate its being for fanny ' s use ; and had lady bertram ever thought about her own
“i must acknowledge myself infinitely obliged to any creature who gives me such an opportunity of seeing you alone :
nor extort a confession of their preferring salmon to cod , or boiled fowls to veal cutlets .
gardiner , though seldom able to indulge the taste , was very fond of fishing , and was so much
in their hearts .
has not miss crawford a gown something the same ?
” “no , ma ' am !
if his rents were but equal to his rants !
which led farther from the turnpike-road .
weston would be at ease .
ago , and sir walter might be excused , therefore , in forgetting her age , or , at least
almost one .
such was catherine morland at ten .
”—repeated mr .
she then proceeded to say a good deal more than she felt , of the advantage of such an addition
can it be woman ?
, and had a constant dread of meeting them , chose rather to stay at home , than venture into
he may live twenty years longer .
sir thomas had been amusing himself with shaping a very complete outline of the business ; and as soon as
" " well , you will soon be better now , " replied anne , cheerfully .
“as to any attentions on his side , i do declare , upon my honour , i never was sensible
" [ _num_ ] " was it from avignon ?
norris , when fanny had left the room .
the young ladies were introduced to each other , miss tilney expressing a proper sense of such goodness , miss
written so well as usual .
brought by the eltons .
but while she smiled at a graciousness so misapplied , she could not reflect on the mean-spirited folly from which
she knew the ways of uppercross as well as those of kellynch .
woodhouse , so as to make such an arrangement desirable !
i admire all that quaint , old-fashioned politeness ; it is much more to my taste than modern ease ;
” said miss crawford ; “what , are you to be a clergyman ?
he must content himself with being only generally agreeable , and letting susan have her share of entertainment , with
” “not in the least .
while we were together , you know , there was nothing to be feared .
spring up of themselves ; they did not occur to relieve my[ _num_ ] spirits at first .
plagued lately with nervous head-aches , which make her unfit for company or conversation .
so much that the boy was shipped off at last , with more than half his linen ready .
a man does not imagine any such thing .
, and , after briefly surveying them and their apartments , took up a newspaper from the table , and
she was to remove to london , meant something that she could not bear .
in the effect of time and distance on her friend ' s disposition was already justified , for already did
it is true that edmund was very far from happy himself .
grant , advised by edmund , and warmly urged by the two sisters , was soon in possession of his
i have been to the theatre , and secured a box for to-morrow night .
mistresses and misses of highbury , and their card-parties .
but if he did , it is no longer discoverable .
walter ' s retrenching , and who was perfectly persuaded that nothing would be done without a change of abode
all the authoritative urgency that tom and maria were capable of , and edmund perhaps away , what should she
but what availed his expressions or his air ?
could stand many minutes against the earnest pressing of both the others .
she would not stir a step , nor drop a hint .
passing through a few of less importance , looking into the court , which , with occasional passages , not
i cannot recall all her words .
harmony ; but the evening did not close without a little return of agitation .
he little deserved the name—for though he told us that he was much concerned at our misfortunes , yet by
do promise me .
elton meant to be considered .
i have never seen either mr .
her being his patroness , she is an arrogant , conceited woman .
come on and see you , but they was in a great hurry to go forwards , for they was
” cried catherine : “you have guessed it , i declare !
a musical society i am got into .
” “i hope he does , ” replied mr .
—and what was there more to be seen ?
” “my own disappointment and loss in her is very great ; but , as for poor james , i
with from the others .
superior to strong esteem and lively friendship , voluntarily to give her hand to another !
” “your brother is certainly very much to be pitied at present ; but we must not , in our
you will express yourself very properly , i am sure .
in the meanwhile she was in the carriage .
but was declared over again the next morning more openly , for at her particular desire , lady middleton set
no , no ; i feel he may defy us there .
do you draw ?
but as she wanted to be drawing , the declaration must wait a little longer .
enquired into ; and harriet had done nothing to forfeit the regard and interest which had been so voluntarily formed
chapter _num_ soon after this , the general found himself obliged to go to london for a week ; and
first .
" " opened a window-shutter .
deliverance the most real , a blessing the most important .
but really , and upon my honour , i will try to do what i think to be the wisest
” “how sorry you must be for that !
before his father or he might have experienced the evils which befell his unfortunate brother .
how could you suppose so ?
fanny ' s disposition was such that she could never even think of her aunt norris in the meagreness and
, was carefully assisted by him into the carriage , of which he seemed anxious that she should engross at
known how much she has always disliked me for marrying mr .
" that is the woman i want , " said he .
handled .
well , so much the better for him .
, or even wounded , by a circumstance of this sort .
jennings , when they met at breakfast the following morning , " sir john will not like leaving barton next
” emma only nodded , and smiled .
iii mrs .
knightley , that we are by no means so sure of seeing mr .
your peace will not be shipwrecked as mine has been .
i only stood at the door , and heard what i could .
he called for a few moments , just to leave a piece of paper on the table containing , as
where the heart is really attached , i know very well how little one can be pleased with the attention
as if for life , “how soon she is knocked up !
nothing in my opinion has ever passed to justify doubt ; no secrecy has been attempted ; all has been
in this more placid state of things william reentered , followed not far behind by his mother and betsey .
young , pretty , and gentle , however , she had no awkwardnesses that were not as good as graces
think miss thorpe has by no means chosen ill in fixing on the present hour .
steps and a beating heart to pay her visit , explain her conduct , and be forgiven ; tripping lightly
“if not in our dispositions , ” she presently added , with a look of true sensibility , “there is
was staying with them .
” “if i write , i will say whatever you wish me ; but i do not , at present
—he could not bear to think of her doing no better , and so he begged , if she had
be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man .
towards them .
her astonishment at his coming—at his coming to netherfield , to longbourn , and voluntarily seeking her again , was
weston , who had been a widower so long , and who seemed so perfectly comfortable without a wife ,
” “oh dear , yes !
is not there a something wanted , miss price , in our language—a something between compliments and—and love—to suit the
slow ; and she was the more concerned at it , from their being evidently in a conversation which interested
collins first came to hunsford .
good heavens !
elton ' s oddities , or of any thing else unpleasant , and enjoy all that was enjoyable to the
she would have given a great deal , or endured a great deal , to have had the martins in
“i am very sure that i never said any thing of either to the other , which both might not
—caution for him and for herself would be necessary .
then , if one scheme of happiness fails , human nature turns to another ; if the first calculation is
" " but was not she a very low woman ?
to whom i might speak with less reserve than to any other person) independant of my sister would never be
entered on the subject in a manner to prove , that he now only wanted time and persuasion to think
induced miss fairfax to join her in an airing , was now returned with much more to say , and
they both set off , and the conjectures of the remaining three continued , though with little satisfaction , till
very little , nothing that i regard .
” “nobody ' s , that i know of .
darcy ; or at least , by the predominance of virtue , atone for those casual errors under which she
his dismissal long enough to justify the pleasing belief of his being then at least as far off as northampton
very far from it , indeed .
if he could anyhow discover at what house the coachman had before set down his fare , he determined to
the secretary of the first lord to a friend , whom the admiral had set to work in the business
a foot ' s pace ; then , at her apparent suggestion , they rose into a canter ; and
the rest of the evening passed with the appearance , on his side , of usual cheerfulness , but with
it was easy to decide that she was still too young ; and jane remained with them , sharing ,
norris was too much vexed to submit with a very good grace , and would only say , “very well
no , i would not be the means of giving them any pain .
one of her most alarming adventures .
study , as afterwards in her more calm and sober judgment she had determined on , —she found herself at
i should not think colonel brandon ' s being thirty-five any objection to his marrying her .
john knightley , ashamed of his ill-humour , was now all kindness and attention ; and so particularly solicitous for
if i could but have kept longer away !
cruel henrietta to persist in such a resolution !
have the house to themselves .
in spite of the answer , therefore , she ordered the carriage , and drove to mrs .
” catherine was complimented out of further bitterness .
martin is now awkward and abrupt ; what will he be at mr .
price ' s attachment had no other source .
allow me to congratulate you on having so respectable and well-judging a friend , and to join in his wish
end to all real affection for her .
the house is by no means bad , and when the yard is removed , there may be a very
to make the present .
" [ _num_ ] " oh , no ; but if mama had not objected to it , i dare
ready for the morrow .
never was there a better young man !
' s passion for a month .
but such were his habits that he could do nothing without a mixture of evil .
i did not see that ; i should not know one from the other .
” we returned a suitable answer to this affectionate note and after thanking her for her kind invitation assured her
my dear , ' says i , ' it is nothing in the world , but the red gum— '
” “do you not ?
but accepted the offer most thankfully , assuring them of her daughter ' s being a very well-disposed , good-humoured
' s assistance .
the anxiety and alarm it would occasion : but she soon felt that concealment must be impossible .
why does he make it any business of his , to wonder at what i do ?
she had never discarded him ; and , therefore every circumstance that may accelerate that dreadful event , must be
to hold it , and that it was given to another man ; and no less certain is it ,
i did not know before , that i had two daughters on the brink of matrimony .
and chance .
cannot wonder at your husband .
(said edward) .
colonel brandon ' s eyes , as they were fixed on marianne , declared that he noticed only what was
so great a regard for you , that in all probability when she dies you will not be forgotten .
by their own accounts they had been all walking after each other , and the junction which had taken place
keep a servant to ride it , and after all , build a stable to receive them , she had
formed , and everybody grew comfortable .
his circumstances are now unembarrassed—he suffers from no evil of that kind ; and he thinks only that he has
' says i , ' is mrs .
encouragement from her should be long wanting .
the entrance of the grants and crawfords was a favourable epoch .
they are a very respectable family , mr .
hence .
on each side there was much to attract , and their acquaintance soon promised as early an intimacy as good
thorpe talked to his horse , and she meditated , by turns , on broken promises and broken arches ,
he is thinking of november .
” fanny thought she discerned in his standing there an indication of relenting , which encouraged her to another attempt
their manner of living , even when the restoration of peace dismissed them to a home , was unsettled in
she gave him a short account of her party and business at lyme .
gentle reprimand on the subject five or six times every day .
wont to believe , or than it was now proved to be .
" " perhaps i ought to have reasoned thus , " he replied , " but i could not .
" " well , " said anne , " i certainly am proud , too proud to enjoy a welcome
was not known at hartfield ; for mrs .
few women could think more of their personal appearance than he did , nor could the valet of any new
all expectation from the brother was now absolutely over .
with such a reward for her tears , the child was too wise to cease crying .
felt equal to everything which she believed right to be done .
to resign it to him , and to retire for the rest of his life to pomfret castle , where
in his way towards the room they were in .
able to get it out again .
man to be generally liked , his agreeableness was of the kind to be oftener found agreeable than some endowments
my own folly had endangered me , my preservation i owe to the kindness , the integrity of another ;
milsom street , she was not certain of the house , and mrs .
and newspapers to engage them , and the females were fully occupied in all the other common subjects of housekeeping
the colour from her cheeks ; but instantly rising , she was preparing to obey , when mrs .
could you have a motive for the trust , that was not honourable and flattering to me ?
think , then , what i must have endured in hearing it bandied between the eltons with all the vulgarity
it struck her with dreadful force , and she was ready to give it every bad name in the world
offspring , have been got over , had he not done worse ; but he had , as by the
at her .
to me !
" anne was caught .
raving a little about the seeming incongruity of gentle manners and a conceited head , emma was obliged in common
”— “mr .
how should i have lived in your remembrance !
bennet treasured up the hint , and trusted that she might soon have two daughters married ; and the man
" elinor tenderly invited her to be open .
the autumn .
to her , to be fettered to a man for whom she had not the smallest regard , and who
but the gloom of lydia’s prospect was shortly cleared away ; for she received an invitation from mrs .
new grate for the spare bed-chamber , she observed that there was no immediate hurry for it , as it
enter strephon and postilion .
we see more of lady l .
now she hoped for some beneficial change ; and , after a period of nothing-saying amongst the party , some
failure of that , than the immediate contraction of another .
equally the persuasion and delight of each observing friend .
” “if i understand your brother , he only means so far as your having some thoughts of marrying .
their eventful lives .
” “the new dress that my uncle was so good as to give me on my cousin ' s marriage
he had just compunction enough for having done nothing for his sisters himself , to be exceedingly anxious that everybody
" no , indeed , it is not .
maria ' s intelligence concluded with a tender effusion of pity for her sister anne , whom she represented as
since the first joy from mr .
she has known him only a fortnight .
but in trade , or any thing to recommend him to notice but his situation and his civility .
she could easily conceive that marriage might not be immediately in their power ; for though willoughby was independent ,
mind , nor (she began pretty soon to suspect) to prevent his thinking of a second choice .
performers .
" well , marianne , " said elinor , as soon as he had left them , " for one
" " very well—and for the next presentation to a living of that value—supposing the late incumbent to have been
any such alliance for him , as most unequal and degrading .
that one soon forgot he was plain ; and after a third interview , after dining in company with him
but ah !
that he seemed very fortunate in his patroness .
really thought my behaviour in asking so many questions about mrs .
goddard will want to see it .
—how could he be so taken in ?
elton ' s only objection , and mr .
miss fairfax , you must not run such risks .
he liked very much to have his friends come and see him ; and from various united causes , from
and affectionate son , f .
prognostics of a bad day .
” “there is no sacrifice in the case , ” replied edmund , with a serious smile , and glancing
of his marriage .
not astonished to hear .
“while i can have my mornings to myself , ” said she , “it is enough—i think it is no
darcy , ” she cried ; “i never in my life saw anyone so much altered as she is since
behind , while her sister , panting for breath , came up with him , and eagerly cried out :
woodhouse , not thinking the asparagus quite boiled enough , sent it all out again .
" " that is a good thing .
its effects in one quarter , that it became a matter of course the next morning , still to defer
” the rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would return mr .
; and the good luck which attended his early examination of ship news the next morning seemed the reward of
she was very much affected by the view of his disposition towards her , which all these things made apparent
bed , assistance , cordials , restoratives were supplied by her husband to all who needed them .
“being my friend ' s , i have no right to expose it in any degree to the public eye
be the only chance she would have of not being starved , and who flattered himself that with such an
the needful was comprised in mr .
, i believe , possessing an amiable heart .
took no notice of him .
him to marry harriet .
of hospitality so uncommon , so unlike the usual style of give-and-take invitations , and dinners of formality and display
or miss bates ?
you a very pretty notion of me , and teach you not to believe a word i say .
of patience .
” these days of confinement would have been , but for her private perplexities , remarkably comfortable , as such
, the change was so great , and struck so forcibly on her mind , that she could hardly restrain
leaving dr .
what a delightful hand you have got !
” cried harriet , warmly .
home , where she might be sure of being as silent as she chose .
i am as confident of seeing frank here before the middle of january , as i am of being here
that lucy had certainly meant to deceive , to go off with a flourish of malice against him in her
not but that i shall be down again by the end of a fortnight , and a devilish long fortnight
“but perhaps you would like to read it .
no—none in the least .
is to be imputed to his wish of forwarding the match with miss de bourgh , which i am certain
she looked on with some amusement .
i had scarcely concluded my last , when wilson brought me word of it .
but how could you possibly suppose me against you ?
a woman in love with one man cannot flirt with another .
instead of handsome faces , a girl , with such loveliness as harriet , has a certainty of being admired
churchill were not in health and spirits for going ; that they made a point of visiting no fresh person
hours above the horizon , and it would be only her retiring to dress half an hour earlier than usual
delightful , charming , superior , first circles , spheres , lines , ranks , every thing—and mrs .
a civil servant she had withstood ; but when dr .
nicholls has made white soup enough , i shall send round my cards .
them well-grown and forward of their age , which produced as striking a difference between the cousins in person ,
severe remarks upon , in her absence ; but she was young , and certainly altogether well-looking , and possessed
her aunt was no very methodical narrator , but with the help of some letters to and from sir thomas
“i do not know which it ought to be called .
same place together .
yet returned ; and julia is with the cousins who live near bedford square , but i forget their name
best pleased of your visitors .
in a house so furnished , and so guarded , she could have nothing to explore or to suffer ,
we might meet in london , were my father disposed to carry me there , and were your mother to
a young party is always provided with a shady lane .
miss darcy , he is in the smallest degree less sensible of your merit than when he took leave of
” he was silent .
in endeavouring to bring her to hear it talked of by others , without betraying that she[ _num_ ] felt
—the magistrates , and overseers , and churchwardens , are always wanting his opinion .
unfortunately , the road she now travelled was the same which only ten days ago she had so happily passed
i mean in person—tall , and with that sort of look—and not very talkative .
for half an hour mr .
i am afraid his circumstances may be bad .
she has been talking a great deal about it to me .
for an instant , suspected it to mean any thing but grateful respect to her as harriet ' s friend
" " i am convinced , " said edward , " that you really feel all the delight in a
it was some days , however , before they received any invitation thither—for while there were visitors in the house
she did not want to see or understand .
—what a dear creature he is ; —i assure you i like him excessively .
that luck which so often defies anticipation in matrimonial affairs , giving attraction to what is moderate rather than to
her affectionate heart .
the older a person grows , harriet , the more important it is that their manners should not be bad
the poor .
the place , where old gibson used to live .
s side as she made some laughing answer , was sorrowfull food for fanny ' s observation ; and finding
catherine and lydia had information for them of a different sort .
nothing of this would have happened had she been properly considered ; but she had been left four days together
weston , it would not have struck her .
for the pleasure of mischief—at least so it was conjectured from her always preferring those which she was forbidden to
but do not be unhappy , eleanor .
heard her express her disappointment to him in a low voice , on being obliged to forego the acceptance of
" " i cannot afford to lose one hour .
i am going to gretna green , and if you cannot guess with who , i shall think you a
, and beyond the bowling-green a long terrace walk , backed by iron palisades , and commanding a view over
yates was gone likewise .
” the boy protested that she should not ; she continued to declare that she would , and the argument
the place of all places , the envied seat , the post of honour , was unappropriated .
world , must make hunsford extremely dull to a young lady like yourself ; but i hope you will believe
some such very real gentlemen , that you must yourself be struck with the difference in mr .
as soon as ever he can .
allen had only one small hot-house , which mrs .
elton , very well indeed .
grant and a new intimate friend of mr .
lay me open to reprehension , excepting on one point .
" now , this must be very bad for you , " said he , suddenly rousing from a little
presence of so many strangers .
there is always a look of consciousness or bustle when people come in a way which they know to be
the income which ought to be his .
” it was not mr .
songs and proverbs , all talk of woman ' s fickleness .
by his description , a good deal like the second size double-barrel of mine , which you shot with one
dare say ; he is not gouty for nothing .
but to be sure , in general they are so spoilt !
allen when the dance was over .
—she could fancy such a man .
disappointment ; but they were now safely lodged in perfect bliss ; and with spirits elated to rapture , with
an hour stolen afterwards to go over the same ground again with him , literally and figuratively , was quite
wickham himself ?
jennings , however , with a kindness of heart which made elinor really love her , declared her resolution of
received his orders and taken his measurements , had suggested and removed at least two sets of difficulties , and
margaret returned , and the family were again all restored to each other , again quietly settled at the cottage
their own heroine , who , if she accidentally take up a novel , is sure to turn over its
listening and wondering were all suspended for a time , for mr .
chapter _num_ had elizabeth’s opinion been all drawn from her own family , she could not have formed a very
—the whole party were assembled , excepting frank churchill , who was expected every moment from richmond ; and mrs
soothing and melancholy pleasure it must afford you , i cannot prevail on myself to deny you so great an
” “never mind , harriet , i shall not be a poor old maid ; and it is poverty only
weston was musing .
the idea of her being indebted to mrs .
said only these two words— " colonel brandon !
then a letter which she had been previously preparing for fanny was finished in a different style , in the
usual gaiety , she could not be dissatisfied with the cause , and would hardly allow herself to distrust the
opinion may exist between us , we are united in our love of you .
“it is frank and miss fairfax , ” said mrs .
weston , tell me at once .
but i cannot—i have never desired your good opinion , and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly .
in the parent ' s feelings .
" " i suspect , " said elinor , " that to avoid one kind of affectation , edward here
my dear lydia , ” she cried , “when shall we meet again ?
“did you ever have your likeness taken , harriet ?
cease to be silly if they are done by sensible people in an impudent way .
charles , in his real concern and good nature , would go home with her ; there was no preventing
he was particularly grave the whole morning .
go home ; and it was as much as his three companions could do , to entertain away his notice
on his side the inclination was stronger , on hers less equivocal .
and she gave charlotte credit for the arrangement .
no suspicious flourishes now of apology or concern ; it was the language of real feeling towards mrs .
—there was a tooth amiss .
to be the arrangement of providence , that you should not be introduced to your cousin .
wrong , we make a second better : we find comfort somewhere—and those evil-minded observers , dearest mary , who
comprehending .
” fanny read to herself that “it was with infinite concern the newspaper had to announce to the world a
indeed he has no improper pride .
, and of the beautiful oaks and spanish chestnuts which were scattered over the intermediate lawn .
" he rose up , and walked across the room .
sir thomas heard and was not offended .
to put off , from day to day , the moment of doing it , from an unwillingness to enter
i had my doubts at the time about her being right , for he has not even the air of
whom she believed her partial , to make her betray a sensibility which might injure her in darcy’s opinion ,
bertram in town , she knew that objection could no more be made to his person than to his situation
" " yes , very .
the neighbourhood of brunswick square is very different from almost all the rest .
” “yes , we walked along the crescent together for half an hour .
my temper would perhaps be called resentful .
i was breakfasting at the ellisons , —and her letter , with some others , was brought to me there
his account—she cannot be interested in any thing that befalls him .
—an old story , probably—a common case—and no more than has happened to hundreds of my sex before ; and
perfect happiness , even in memory , is not common ; and there were two points on which she was
, exceedingly attached to you , and seeking your hand in the most handsome and disinterested way ; and let
it must be very clever , or he would not have brought it .
had been last together ; much less could her feelings acquit her of having done and said and thought everything
” “yes ; to the last .
woodhouse had reached her with his request to be allowed to hand her into the dining-parlour , was saying— “must
woodhouse ' s spirits , which , i understand , are sometimes much depressed .
the anxieties of common life began soon to succeed to the alarms of romance .
” “no , he is not , ” said catherine warmly , “for i am sure he could not afford
you alone , be it only for five minutes ; a request too natural , a claim too just to
we must bring her forward .
" you know , " said she , " i cannot think him at all a fit match for henrietta
“pray take care , mrs .
” in meryton they parted ; the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one of the officers’ wives ,
affronting lady middleton , for they spend every day with her ; otherwise i should be exceedingly glad to do
" " not before he was married , i suppose ?
—harriet smith has some first-rate qualities , which mrs .
fine sounds than to my feelings .
world , the most unaccountable and absurd !
lost .
" [ _num_ ] [missing illustration : " i was formally dismissed .
any of the musgrove family ; she had only time , however , for a general answer , and a
the part of mrs .
so few .
as she joined him , captain harville ' s countenance re-assumed the serious , thoughtful expression which seemed its natural
” “your first position is false .
knightley ' s ; for mr .
that scheme which had doubtless long possessed your imagination ?
this is just the time of day for it to clear up , and i do think it looks a
on reaching the house , they were shown through the hall into the saloon , whose northern aspect rendered it
' i wish , with all my heart , ' says poor fanny in her affectionate way , ' that
barton valley .
a promise of secrecy was of course very dutifully given , but it could not be kept without difficulty ;
weston gives me a decided prejudice in his favour .
at length however she was empowered to disengage herself from her friend , by the avowed necessity of speaking to
however , your coming just at this time is the greatest of comforts , and i am very glad to
which i was pleased to see not unmixed with jealousy ; but unluckily it was impossible for me really to
you will wish to hear my opinion of maria ' s degree of comfort as a wife .
her up with you , it is not at all necessary that she should be as accomplished as you are
“how do you know that mr .
sees anything like it—but beyond what one fancies might be .
sensibility .
town any more .
a more everyday tone , but still with feeling .
might have better success .
there he had not always the patience that could have been wished .
” “you saw her answer !
were not your attraction to hartfield , i should certainly have thought you judged ill in making your visits so
you ought to have had it a week ago , but there has been a delay from my brother '
with all my heart .
” “no , no , that ' s to-morrow ; and i particularly wanted to see knightley to-day on that
she had a rule to apply to , which settled everything .
i will read you the passage which particularly hurts me .
he had promised it in so pleasant a manner , as if he felt all the motive of their attention
” “i am sure she ought to be very much obliged to you , ” added julia , hastily leaving
” “and what is fifty miles of good road ?
she had been too quick in suspecting them to indicate a character of dangerous impetuosity ; and that because mr
could she believe miss crawford to deserve him , it would be—oh , how different would it be—how far more
they have not the same force or rapidity , and do not produce the same expression .
like themselves , (harriet , as emma must suspect , as ready as the best of them to be cordial
’ mr .
miss elliot , do you remember our walking together at lyme , and grieving for him ?
other house , elinor felt secure of its announcing willoughby ' s approach , and marianne , starting up ,
, tried to be all that was conciliating : but he had to work against a most untoward gravity of
could not allow him to feel quite assured of himself till after another night .
thought you sure .
longer !
harriet had not been at home ; but a note had been prepared and left for her , written in
my brother admires her greatly already ; he will have frequent opportunity now of seeing her on the most intimate
with the greatest respect , and the warmest friendship , do i mention miss woodhouse ; my father perhaps will
weston , but on your account .
are a superior performer .
their being fixed , so absolutely fixed , in the same place , was bad for each , for all
” the unblushing macdonald , without even endeavouring to exculpate himself from the crime he was charged with , meanly
this house in less than half an hour .
, and wondered whether mr .
his sisters should consider me as well as him .
the party separated .
never , never , never !
” she paused , and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him
detested village in which she died , and near which had expired my husband and augustus .
attending the club .
while waiting and wishing , looking now at the dancers and now at the door , this dialogue between the
from derbyshire in quest of her sister had been formed before he quitted the inn , and that his gravity
the village of barton was chiefly on one of these hills , and formed a pleasant view from the cottage
could there have been any unpleasant glances ?
the throne .
my life , as when it all burst forth .
completely decided i have no hesitation in approving .
i do not reckon the hayters as anybody .
weston do really prevent our missing her by any means to the extent we ourselves anticipated—which is the exact truth
but , ” she continued , recollecting herself , “as we know none of the particulars , it is not
exquisite , quite exquisite !
) " he fancied that if he went with us , he should find you close by : he fancied
chapter _num_ anne and henrietta , finding themselves the earliest of the party the next morning , agreed to stroll
" cried sir walter .
” “whenever the time may come , it must be unwelcome to her and all her friends—but i hope her
as she had heard no carriage , she thought it not unlikely to be lady catherine , and under that
she always watched them as long as she could , delighted to fancy she understood what they might be talking
, and could very sincerely wish him happy .
you would have told us that we seemed born for each other , or some nonsense of that kind ,
bath , sir walter and elizabeth were induced to believe that they should lose neither consequence nor enjoyment by settling
in whose proceedings we have any interest .
" —said she in a voice of great compassion to marianne , who turned away her face without attempting to
even this conquest would appear valuable in her eyes .
after this period every appearance of acquaintance was dropped .
the first solid consolation which fanny received for the evils of home , the first which her judgment could entirely
you may perhaps have been somewhat surprised my dearest marianne , that in the distress i then endured , destitute
the circumstance was precisely as this lady has represented it .
that something more than gratitude already dawned .
she had no doubt of what mr .
forced herself into the acknowledged comprehension of one half of his meaning , and encouraged him to say something more
friendship is certainly the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love .
neither the dissipations of the past--and she had lived very much in the world--nor the restrictions of the present ,
their first subject was the diminution of the rosings party .
her brother and sister came back delighted with their new acquaintance , and their visit in general .
believe me , i have no pleasure in the world superior to that of contributing to yours .
whom they had at times been honoured , turned with a smiling countenance to catherine , and ventured to hope
norris , who was presiding there .
perry is extremely concerned when any of us are ill .
could anne have foreseen such a junction , she would have staid at home ; but , from some feelings
toad-eater .
i often tell young ladies that no excellence in music is to be acquired without constant practice .
” the old coachman , who had been waiting about with his own horse , now joining them , fanny
” “true ; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room .
he studies too much for words of four syllables .
" " my objection is this ; though i think very well of mrs .
” emma doubted the truth of this sentiment .
might have the best informed mind .
he promises fairly ; and i hope among different people , where they may each have a character to preserve
that his repentance of misconduct , which thus brought its own punishment , was sincere , need not be doubted
” “no ; it was intended for the drawing-room ; but my father was dissatisfied with the painting , and
wilhelminus alighted , and after knocking for some time without receiving any answer or hearing any one stir within ,
" what can you have to do in town at this time of year ?
' ” emma was most sincerely interested .
” emma could say no more .
respect which a harmless old lady , under such untoward circumstances , can excite .
weston (poor miss taylor that was) would suffer it .
each other , their mutual attachment became very strong .
their powers of conversation were considerable .
had meant nothing .
the next morning , however , made an alteration ; for in a quarter of an hour’s tête-à-tête with mrs
knightley to all the world ; let donwell and hartfield lose none of their precious intercourse of friendship and confidence
” “did she tell you what part of gloucestershire they come from ?
heart , no hope of advantage from separation , her mind became cool enough to seek all the comfort that
with a very good opinion of himself , of his authority as a clergyman , and his right as a
truth , and something , in which miss thorpe ' s name was included , passed his lips .
a few moments of feverish enjoyment were followed by hours of acute suffering .
they could describe an entertainment with accuracy , relate an anecdote with humour , and laugh at their acquaintance with
price should be relieved from the charge and expense of one child entirely out of her great number .
distrust their meaning .
bingley , whose blind partiality provoked her .
because they brought her aunt bertram ' s before her , and there were her two sisters : susan ,
” “scold them !
calculations , till at once released from louisa by the astonishing and felicitous intelligence of her engagement with benwick .
mary had had her evils ; but upon the whole , as was evident by her staying so long ,
rushworth could relate of the family in former times , its rise and grandeur , regal visits and loyal efforts
, she was almost as ready to admire , as what she did .
it must be so .
it had better have happened to you , lizzy ; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner .
to sir thomas ' s conscience , he could not but feel it to be an act of injustice ,
but here she hoped too much ; miss crawford was not the slave of opportunity .
such delicacy !
this long meadow bordered a lane , which their footpath , at the end of it was to cross ,
” but the idea of any thing to be done in a moment , was increasing , not lessening ,
but while so many were devoting him to emma , and emma herself making him over to harriet , mr
” “yes , very well .
this ball , what do you think he did ?
and he wrote as if he really loved her very much—but she did not know—and so , she was come
“haye park might do , ” said she , “if the gouldings could quit it—or the great house at stoke
being otherwise .
he soon quitted bath ; and on mrs clay ' s quitting it soon afterwards , and being next heard
such is the humiliating situation in which i am forced to appear while riding in her ladyship ' s coach—i
as for elizabeth herself , this invitation was so far from exciting in her the same feelings as in her
whom he , on the rumour of considerable illness , had been going to inquire , that he might carry
i won ' t disturb her any longer , for she had better have her cry out at once and
i shall not attempt calling on mrs .
" [ _num_ ] " marianne has not shyness to excuse any inattention of hers , " said elinor .
miss bennet accepted her aunt’s invitation with pleasure ; and the bingleys were no otherwise in her thoughts at the
his emotion on entering the room , in seeing her altered looks , and in receiving the pale hand which
i was very young , and associated only with the young , and we were a thoughtless , gay set
was to marshal themselves , and proceed into the concert room ; and be of all the consequence in their
she saw it only as folly , and that folly stamped only by exposure .
the house since the blow first fell , to go out again by degrees as she had done before .
she spoke of you with high praise and warm affection ; yet , even here , there was alloy ,
, and she gladly gave him all her attention as long as attention was possible .
to bid you good-bye .
they have not seen two such drawing rooms before .
norris continued , “it is quite delightful , ma ' am , to see young people so properly happy ,
“no—mrs .
ferrars is married " 	 _num_ it was edward	 _num_ " everything in such respectable condition " 	 _num_ [
were speaking to me , you were saying something at the very moment of this burst of my amor patriae
" but , if i know myself , " said he , " this is from no want of gallantry
“it is so , indeed , ” continued mr .
" " oh that they would !
this manner , and forcing yourself upon my notice , requires a very particular excuse .
two months is an ample allowance ; i should think six weeks quite enough .
without suffering any romantic alarm , in the consideration of their daughter ' s long and lonely journey , mr
when it was proved , however , to have done william no harm , she could allow it to be
letter _num_ th laura to marianne our neighbourhood was small , for it consisted only of your mother .
when he had really resolved on any measure , he could always carry it through ; and now by dint
' — ' oh !
" how surprised you will be , willoughby , on receiving this ; and i think you will feel something
of no importance in the world , and wholly unallied to the family !
oh , lizzy !
idea .
she has made me miserable forever !
her brother so unhappy , and her loss in isabella so great ; and eleanor ' s spirits always affected
now , had the same young lady been engaged with a volume of the spectator , instead of such a
sir thomas was preparing to act upon this letter , without communicating its contents to any creature at mansfield ,
if it was not for the entail , i should not mind it .
i must learn to brook being happier than i deserve .
woodhouse ' s fears .
pray be so good as to mention to the other gentlemen that we hope to see your whole party this
” “there is but one thing to be done , fanny .
” “my dear papa , i sent the whole hind-quarter .
striking an object from almost every opening in bath .
it will be much the best place for her , so near miss lee , and not far from the
man only can be aware of the insensibility of man towards a new gown .
collins from the guilt of inheriting longbourn .
he was a heavy young man , with not more than common sense ; but as there was nothing disagreeable
to me—i believe it will be better that he should not .
this sort of mysteriousness , which is always so becoming in a hero , threw a fresh grace in catherine
with the hodges , for a frolic , at half price : they teased me into it ; and i
she was not rendered formidable by silence ; but whatever she said was spoken in so authoritative a tone ,
regard for us all was insincere , that your behaviour to me was intended only to deceive , let it
“it is not at all what i like , ” he continued .
a speedy cure must not be hoped , but everything was going on as well as the nature of the
by him , that nothing but the continued appearance of the most perfect good-will between themselves could have made it
myself imperiously obliged to place it .
—she did not , could not , feel equal to lead the way to any such subject .
” “lord help you !
found themselves on the sea-shore ; and lingering only , as all must linger and gaze on a first return
is absolutely on the catch for a husband , and no one therefore can pity her for losing , by
, she could never see mr .
circumstances of his quitting that place , with the uneasiness and suspicions they had caused to mrs .
" said sir walter , in the height of his good humour .
“dear sir , “i must trouble you once more for congratulations .
, that he advanced but little .
, and look like a fool .
the gardiners stayed only one night at longbourn , and set off the next morning with elizabeth in pursuit of
, ” said she , in a voice of forced calmness , “i can imagine nothing with any confidence .
that is an amazing horrid book , is it not ?
to this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying .
this was the conclusion of the first series of reflection .
she had no scruple with regard to him .
to quit it , could not , when it came to the point , bid adieu to the house in
the only wonder was , what they could be waiting for , till the business at lyme came ; then
long , long would it be ere miss crawford ' s name passed his lips again , or she could
, with the result of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied , since the refusal which
to the left is barton park , amongst those woods and plantations .
tilney in a familiar whisper .
say what you would , fanny , it should be that ; for i never knew such exquisite happiness in
in seasons of cheerfulness , no temper could be more cheerful than hers , or possess , in a greater
of a more modern date than the fifteenth century .
, overcoming every scruple , by secretly saying now and then , ' i shall be heartily glad to hear
“you are very kind , i am sure ; and i wish with all my heart it may prove so
” “perhaps he must , if he sees enough of her .
vulnerable side , she presently answered— “my dear aunt , you cannot wish me to do differently from what i
if i am a fool , i shall be a fool indeed , for i have thought on the subject
lessened , it were likely to lessen more , or to recover itself , were subjects for endless conjecture ,
jane heard them with horror .
, however , he is a very fine young man , mrs .
she had been graciously pleased to approve of both of the discourses which he had already had the honour of
how can you be so teasing ; only conceive , my dear catherine , what your brother wants me to
presently mr .
” “very true , ” said henry , “and this is a very nice day , and we are taking
her looks and words had nothing to restrain them .
: a set of gentlemen and ladies , who have all the disadvantages of education and decorum to struggle through
margaret ' s sagacity was not always displayed in a way so satisfactory to her sister .
what shall we do to rouse them ?
but she soon saw how likely it was that lucy , in her self-provident care , in her haste to
cannot be true ; it must mean some other people .
its effect upon her appears in the immediate resolution it produced : as soon as she found i was really
” “i am afraid you do not like your pen .
lodge , every danger would be avoided ; and it was in fact , a change which must do both
" " well , and whose fault is that ?
am i never to be acquainted with him ?
weston proposed having no regular supper ; merely sandwiches , &c .
there was no delay , no waste of time .
such a moment .
fried , without the smallest grease , and not roast it , for no stomach can bear roast pork—i think
—he was not fond of dining out .
enjoy in it—and so did frank and harriet .
an old married man—quite good for nothing .
morland is a fool for not keeping a horse and gig of his own .
him , in spite of every previous determination against it .
elinor needed little observation to perceive that her reserve[ _num_ ] was a mere calmness of manner with which sense
there been no young woman in question , had there been no young person of either sex belonging to him
" elinor blushed in spite of herself .
four following chapters ; in which the worthlessness of lords and attorneys might be set forth , and conversations ,
" " it is certainly an unpleasant thing , " replied mr .
“it is to be lovers ' vows ; and i am to be count cassel , and am to come
that is—no , not much , but what she did say was very interesting .
began as he entered—“such a horribly vile billiard-table as ours is not to be met with , i believe ,
they were only concerned that the house could accommodate no more ; and yet perhaps , by " putting the
, that will rather surprize you .
, and every turning expected to bring it in view .
— since her last conversation with mrs .
will belong to us almost as much as ever .
this was her history ; and particularly interesting it was to mr .
could no longer supply his aunt with a pretence for absenting herself ; and this was but the beginning of
bingley were at piquet , and mrs .
emma was sadly fearful that this second disappointment would be more severe than the first .
been soon followed by the death of their common parent , which left them to the care of a brother
for fanny , somewhat more was related than the accidental agreeableness of the parties he had been in .
jane recollected herself soon , and putting the letter away , tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the
some of the objects of his curiosity spoke very amiable feelings .
elton at the same moment came congratulating me upon it !
for his truth ; and to these were added the absolute facts of the allens being wealthy and childless ,
glow of such sweet animation to her face , as made her look handsomer than ever .
since you went away , i have had no pleasure in it—the dust is beyond anything ; and everybody one
i could not believe it .
” “yes ; but we must not rest our claims on that distinction .
" " yes , as long as i could bear their noise ; but they are so unmanageable that they
i like him on the whole very well ; he is clever and has a good deal to say ,
i do not mean to say that i am particularly observant or quick-sighted in general , but in such a
intimacy at barton appeared to me to justify .
how the delicacy , the discretion of his favourite could have been so lain asleep !
would , at times , have given anything to be privileged to tell him that his kindness was neither unknown
we were all alive .
it is the most devilish little rickety business i ever beheld !
she had understood it was to be delayed till colonel campbell ' s return .
she was well paid for her impudence .
these are something like grievances , and make me think the weather most unseasonably close .
the general ' s evident desire of preventing such an examination was an additional stimulant .
” “you know nothing of the matter .
her disappointment in her mother was greater : there she had hoped much , and found almost nothing .
alone ; and tomorrow you must absolutely dine with us , for we shall be a large party .
" " that is what i like ; that is what a young man ought to be .
her brother ' s gift makes no difference ; for as she was not prevented from offering , nor you
he had always a home with us whenever he chose it ; he was always welcome ; he was like
he had never been so kind , so very kind to her in his life .
her room .
it was not lucy ' s business to put herself forward , and the appearance of secrecy must still be
but lizzy !
quite unlike his usual self , he scarcely said anything .
of her unhappiness in marriage , she felt persuaded .
the crawfords laughed at the idea ; and having soon agreed on the propriety of their walking quietly home and
” but when elizabeth told of his silence , it did not seem very likely , even to charlotte’s wishes
but some people ' s feelings are incomprehensible .
elton ' s marrying harriet , it would have been very kind to open my eyes ; but at present
just and less gentle sensations of the past , obliged her to admit that jane might very naturally resolve on
those who carry it on ; but as to the greater misery of the victims , i do not know
” “nay , if you are serious about it , i shall consider the matter is absolutely settled .
but why so ?
james could take the note .
take it .
taste in it .
afterwards he got worse , and became quite my shadow .
” and not another word was said ; but fanny felt herself again in danger , and her indifference to
by the sympathetic alacrity with which they both advised mrs .
” “nothing is more deceitful , ” said darcy , “than the appearance of humility .
there is to be no form or parade—a sort of gipsy party .
, on that easiness of temper , that want of proper resolution , which now made him the slave of
much as any body can .
good , good news to my sister philips .
direct to me at lord longtown ' s , and , i must ask it , under cover to alice
the mind may be told to consider it , and certainty itself .
fairfax ' s ill-health , would appear a case of humanity to him ; —and for an act of unostentatious
” “and till colonel forster came himself , not one of you entertained a doubt , i suppose , of
i knew him to be a very good sort of man , and i thought well of his daughter—better than
she promised him again and again to come—much oftener than he doubted—and was extremely gratified by such a proof of
what is the play about , fanny ?
” “you speak with astonishing composure !
; and though i am quite at a loss to discover in what point i could be so unfortunate as
anne had a great deal to hear of mr elliot .
“i think her all you describe .
i am , indeed , provoked at the artifice of this unprincipled woman ; what stronger proof of her dangerous
wild manner that you are suffered to do at home .
" the colonel , though disclaiming all pretensions to connoisseurship , warmly admired the screens , as he would have
” “you may depend upon it , madam , ” said miss bingley , with cold civility , “that miss
i have a notion you danced with him , but am not quite sure .
i have not time for writing much , but it would be out of place if i had , for
one set might recommend their all removing to donwell , and leaving hartfield for the john knightleys ; and another
own character ; and after this explanation i trust i am in no danger of sinking in your opinion .
it was a very fine november day , and the miss musgroves came through the little grounds , and stopped
she might assist his resolution , or reconcile him to it ; she might give just praise to harriet ,
pressed them so cordially to dine at barton park every day till they were better settled at home , that
“i dare say she thought i was speaking of her son .
" " now i have done , " cried captain wentworth .
every thing was to take its natural course , however , neither impelled nor assisted .
certainly a very different person from the one he had equipped seven years ago , but a young man of
convinced as you must be from what i have already told you concerning augustus and sophia , that there never
it only added a dangerous character to himself .
" " there !
he was only wrong in accepting the attentions (for accepting must be the word) of two young women at once
thorpe to mrs .
you must not disappoint your father .
our coachman and horses are so extremely expeditious !
jennings ' s style of living , and set of acquaintance , than with her behaviour to themselves , which
and when mrs .
feelings , and less simply engrossed by her own , that her brother thought her friend quite as pretty as
sir thomas resolved to speak seriously to her .
of interest by john , as his cooler manners rendered possible ; and if his willing brother ever left him
opening it , found himself on the stage of a theatre , and opposed to a ranting young man ,
scene , when a tap at the door brought a pause , and the entrance of edmund , the next
must necessarily add .
crawford replied , “i know mansfield , i know its way , i know its faults towards you .
” he answered her in the same style , and the subject dropped .
moment i saw you .
but when there is plenty of money on one side , and next to none on the other , lord
“i cannot attempt to thank you , ” she continued , in a very agitated manner ; “thanks are out
, not supposed to be connected with it .
for a visit , nobody at home seemed to want her ; but william determining , soon after her removal
it was an arrangement , however , justified in its effects , if not in its cause ; for nothing
of what he has particularly accused me i am ignorant ; but of the truth of what i shall relate
crawford was a most pleasant , gentleman-like man ; his sister a sweet , pretty , elegant , lively girl
his power , and the only preparation for the ball which he could enter into , in spite of all
elinor , i am miserable , indeed , " before her voice was entirely lost in sobs .
there the other day , we had just been forming a new acquaintance .
snow , that if it were to any other place or with any other party , i should really try
—upon my word , if this is what i am to expect , we married women must begin to exert
dashwood , who did not choose to dine with them oftener than they dined at the cottage , absolutely refused
know me well enough to be sensible , will of itself be a sufficient inducement (if one is necessary) to
" though we have seen him once or twice at my uncle ' s , it is rather too much
when she rose to take leave , elizabeth , ashamed of her mother’s ungracious and reluctant good wishes , and
weston made his appearance among them .
intimates and confidantes , was not the very first distinction in the scale of vanity .
this could not be pardoned .
one that his cousin might ride ; he knew where such a one was to be met with ; and
of my personal instructions , by addressing to you on paper my opinions and admonitions on the conduct of young
by admirers , must be difficult in her choice : but yet , as far as mrs .
a mrs smith .
elton quitted them , and she could not but do him the justice of feeling that there was a great
all the right of being principal talker , which a day spent anywhere from home confers , was making himself
, from which he did not recover till after eleanor had obtained his forgiveness of henry , and his permission
sisters .
over in private , to wish success to her friend , and yet in wishing it , to feel a
” “we cannot prove to the contrary , to be sure ; but i wish you a better fate ,
[ _num_ ] " i entreat you to stay .
the one preferred—and acknowledge herself grossly mistaken and mis-judging in all her ideas on one subject , all her observations
compliments , charades , and horrible blunders ; and it was not to be supposed that poor harriet should not
we at length agreed to acquaint him with it by an anonymous letter which sophia drew up in the following
" " i do not understand what you mean by interrupting them , " said elinor ; " you were
" [ _num_ ] " why should you think so !
nothing but buffoonery from beginning to end .
thank you , we do indeed .
if i wished to think slightingly of anybody’s children , it should not be of my own , however .
i had quite determined to go away again .
it was to be a whole-length in water-colours , like mr .
could be in love with more than three men in one year .
“ignoble grand-sire !
acknowledged that it was by no means an ill-sized room , and further confessed that , though as careless on
with sofas , and chit-chat , and quarterly reviews , till the return of the others , and the arrival
the general ' s early walk , ill-timed as it was in every other view , was favourable here ;
my dear harriet , what are you thinking of ?
the younger girls formed hopes of coming out a year or two sooner than they might otherwise have done ;
” “i had almost forgot (it was edmund ' s fault : he gets into my head more than does
” “you will not find either , between donwell and highbury .
anne kept her appointment ; the others kept theirs , and of course she heard the next morning that they
in the first place , i was so afraid it would rain this morning , just as i wanted to
the strength , resolution , and presence of mind of the mr .
” “i was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us .
on your hospitality till the saturday se’ennight following , which i can do without any inconvenience , as lady catherine
, and was in every respect so altered a creature , that when she went away i was perfectly resolved
george and mr .
the pain he is giving my brother .
dixon !
" he found too late , in short , that he had entangled himself ; and that precisely as he
was not a[ _num_ ] person at liberty to tend to their orders ; and they were obliged to wait
to the animal ' s boasted knowledge of its owner , she sat peaceably down , and saw thorpe sit
” “and i am quite serious too , i assure you , ” replied mrs .
she was so little equal to rebecca ' s puddings and rebecca ' s hashes , brought to table ,
at times much stronger , ) that harriet might have deceived herself , and be overrating his regard for her
—i should as soon call her mother a wit .
emma was very willing now to acquit her of having seduced mr .
picture or play malbrook (which is the only tune i ever really liked) not to say so much as “thank
certainly will not be taken .
” now i say , my dear , in our case , for lady , read——mum !
it seemed at first an accidental division , but it never materially varied .
' —bad enough as it is , for i absolutely neglect them both to an unpardonable degree .
we must consider what miss fairfax quits , before we condemn her taste for what she goes to .
indeed , in sense and sensibility the sense of elinor , and the sensibility (or rather sensiblerie) of marianne ,
but be it sweetness or be it stupidity in her—quickness of friendship , or dulness of feeling—there was one person
happy had it been for her , if her regard for edward had depended less on his own merit ,
when he was present she had no eyes for any one else .
and beginning to be rich , just as his friend ought to have found himself to be poor , seemed
but this had occurred on the first day of its being settled , within the first hour of the burst
on the contrary , if i have felt any anxiety at all on the subject , it has been in
as she passed , except in the air and look and manner of the privileged relation and friend .
than on the merit of his nearest relations !
marianne had retreated as much as possible out of sight , to conceal her distress ; and margaret , understanding
no , he would sooner quit kellynch hall at once , than remain in it on such disgraceful terms .
collins was called from his amiable charlotte by the arrival of saturday .
how wellcome your letter was to me i cannot give a greater proof of the pleasure i received from it
" " if you would but let us know what your business is , " said mrs .
" i am not one of those who neglect the reigning power to bow to the rising sun .
thorpe , i declare !
it was dirty , indeed , but what did that signify ?
sir thomas was at that moment looking round him , and saying , “but where is fanny ?
at hartfield , you have had very good specimens of well educated , well bred men .
i was resolved to lose no time in clearing up those mistakes as far as i could .
she said no more , and they went down the other dance and parted in silence ; and on each
an egg boiled very soft is not unwholesome .
resented his giving him the living of delaford— " which , at present , " said he , " after
there is no hurry at all .
you have been here only to be useful .
—young ladies are delicate plants .
” “not to my feelings .
” “i do not think you ever will , ” said she , with an arch smile ; “i am
” “i hope mrs .
" she wished very much to have the subject continued , though she did not choose to join in it
you will supply the rest ; and a most fortunate man he is to attach himself to such a creature—to
her ; “but i really cannot act .
” there was no bearing such an “always ; ” and to break through her dreadful gratitude , emma made
collins , who , when i am dead , may turn you all out of this house as soon as
they were supported by their mother’s indulgence , what chance could there be of improvement ?
sitting up stairs with kitty .
doing justice to .
“but , ” said eleanor , after a short pause , “would it be to promote his happiness , to
daughters are never of so much consequence to a father .
” “why , you know , sir thomas ' s means will be rather straitened if the antigua estate is
which made him peculiarly desirable as a tenant .
” “if that is the case replied i , i have nothing more to say against him , and if
be the happiest of women , and that even when you ceased to love , she would yet find in
he still loves me , and we are engaged .
him approach and speak to her .
it is only that he is blessed with greater sweetness of address , and a stronger desire of generally pleasing
why else should he have shown such unwillingness to accept your invitation here ?
to learn his part—in trying to give him a brain which nature had denied—to mix up an understanding for him
along , and made no stop anywhere till they reached newbury , where a comfortable meal , uniting dinner and
will not that do , mrs .
i dare say i was not reasonable in carrying with me hopes of an intercourse at all like that of
sound of those words , spoken with such emphasis , “no , i hope i know better than to think
whenever james goes over to see his daughter , you know , she will be hearing of us .
” “that is artful and deep , to be sure ; but i had rather be told at once that
on the present occasion , for the better entertainment of their visitor , towards whose amusement he felt himself bound
would she have been not to be obliged to listen , for it was while all the other young people
there was consciousness of some sort or other .
” “yes , a great deal .
the affair which has given us so much anxiety is drawing to a happy conclusion .
quitted barton together .
he had been remarkably handsome in his youth ; and , at fifty-four , was still a very fine man
our instrument is a capital one , probably superior to——you shall try it some day .
this tendency to excuse her conduct or to forget it , in the warmth of admiration , vexes me ;
and to conquer the diffidence which prevented their being more apparent ; giving her advice , consolation , and encouragement
” fanny supposed she must have been mistaken , and meant to think differently in future ; but with all
too honorable to listen , and had even changed her seat , on purpose that she might not hear ,
her ladyship was highly incensed .
door .
that he was a sensible man , an agreeable man , that he talked well , professed good opinions ,
i am extremely happy .
brother and sister , and one thing and another , and i said to him , ' so , colonel
” “i do not know .
at first they seemed rather confused at my appearance dreading no doubt that i might call them to account for
“you do quite right , ” said she ; —“we will make your apologies to mr .
grant ' s manners are just what they ought to be .
" " infirmity !
she would not allow the presence of lucy , nor the consciousness of some injustice towards herself , to deter
i shall be able to manage the sir-loin myself , my mother will eat the soup , and you and
a spy , and an intruder , and an indigent niece , and everything most odious .
' ll take the boards to your father , dick , so get you home again as fast as you
he is a pleasant fellow , and would jilt you creditably .
knightley by her side .
be paid some day or other , and therefore may as well be paid now .
and though dr .
" well , my dear , " she cried , " i sent you up the young man .
in her own room , she was able to join the others with tolerable composure .
[ _num_ ] " you had better leave me , " was all the notice that her sister received from
” “yes , ” said he , smiling .
' why , to be sure , ma ' am , ' said she , ' it would not prevent
if you think your daughter at all attached to reginald , her objecting to sir james could not less deserve
“yet it is hard , ” she sometimes thought , “that this poor man cannot come to a house which
his wife , by persisting that he would go to the play to-morrow if nobody else would .
isabella seemed an altered creature .
” with more than equal civility the offer was declined ; she did not wish to dance .
maria was wrong , crawford was wrong , we were all wrong together ; but none so wrong as myself
“here is april come !
” “my uncle is to send a servant for us .
crawford bowed his acquiescence .
more necessary than ever , that , as i tell you , he could stay with us but a quarter
could it be mr elliot ?
believe me the single word of langford is not of such potent intelligence as to supersede the necessity of more
her character depends upon those she is with ; but in good hands she will turn out a valuable woman
my dear , we cannot begin too early ; you are not aware of the difficulty of procuring exactly the
edmund is no more than mr .
she was gone again to the street-door , to welcome william .
week ; ' tis a sad thing for sportsmen to lose a day ' s pleasure .
the flaring lamps of a carriage were immediately in view .
not strong .
he has been running after them , too , long enough , one would think , to make up his
but never did she go without mr .
” he began—stopping , however , almost directly to say , “had i been offered the sight of one of
darings of heedlessness and the resolution of a collected mind .
jennings with blunt sincerity , no longer able to be silent , " he has acted like an honest man
of worldly prosperity .
miss morland , he is treating you exactly as he does his sister .
knightley , with smiling but determined decision , “and been accepted .
about working for sam immediately ; and by working early and late , with perseverance and great despatch , did
in hertfordshire , than as she had seen him at pemberley .
, to discover it by accident .
supported by the conviction of having done nothing to merit her present unhappiness , and consoled by the belief that
am i right ?
by the time he had given all this information , it was not unreasonable to suppose that fanny might be
” “come , come , ” cried emma , feeling this to be an unsafe subject , “i must beg
chapter iv harriet smith ' s intimacy at hartfield was soon a settled thing .
rushworth left it off .
” “both !
we know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode .
smith , who , by stating his marriage with a woman of character , as the source of her clemency
colonel brandon has given the living of delaford to edward .
you will have as free a command of the park and gardens as ever .
of the two men , she felt , that pleased as she had been to see frank churchill , and
affection , that he even feels himself obliged to her for her elopement , as he thinks it very good
a boyish scheme , indeed !
he had had no previous suspicion of—and there was every appearance of his having been feeling a great deal .
knew , the least to blame .
the commendation bestowed on him by mrs .
fear for her health , and the prospect of her northern tour was a constant source of delight .
the value she sets on her personal charms , and the adoration she expects them to be offered are at
so irrational as fanny considered him , in the professions of persevering , assiduous , and not desponding attachment which
the happiest state of confidence and curiosity , to edgar ' s buildings .
as fast as you could ; but still it is some distance , you know , from this spot to
at first sight , his address is certainly not striking ; and his person can hardly be called handsome ,
; and at last , on a hint from miss bertram , mr .
the house fronts the east , i perceive .
" " she taxed me with the offence at once , and my confusion may be guessed .
blights , in dawdling through the green-house , where the loss of her favourite plants , unwarily exposed , and
its sense by the absence of jane and elizabeth .
say , how to class , or how to regard it .
rushworth talked of the west front .
but really , ma’am , i think it would be very hard upon younger sisters , that they should not
chapter i about thirty years ago miss maria ward , of huntingdon , with only seven thousand pounds , had
norris was at intervals urging something different ; and in the most interesting moment of his passage to england ,
i warrant you she is a fine size by this time .
i need not go till just before you do , you know .
such a footing in the family as might give him the means of ascertaining the degree of his danger ,
the bell for some working candles ?
a simpering air , “have you been long in bath , madam ?
—and what is to become of him ?
—the impression of it is strong on my memory .
yes , indeed , there is every thing in the world that can make her happy in it .
it was the charectarestic of her mind— .
maria ' s situation , or any endeavour at rational tranquillity for herself .
to me , or a call at putney when next in town , might set all to rights .
you do not consider how much we have wound about .
you know who i mean .
crawford was shewn in .
he said as little as he had ever been in the habit of saying ; made no mention of the
at hounslow .
who is it ?
he was invited again to camden place the very evening of his return ; but from thursday to saturday evening
the good proportion of the room , its aspect and its furniture , he addressed himself particularly to her ,
before he was twenty , had gone through such bodily hardships and given such proofs of mind .
his expensiveness is acknowledged even by himself , and his whole conduct declares that self-denial is a word hardly understood
this , as we know , was her first published book ; and whatever may be the connection between the
believe me , they are not only natural , they are philanthropic and virtuous .
“you must settle near fullerton .
her sister ' s earnest , though gentle persuasion , however , soon softened her to compliance , and elinor
she mentioned this to her friend miss lucas .
” “but why all this secrecy ?
” said maria , half-pleased that sotherton should be so complimented .
” she cried as if she had loved miss crawford more than she possibly could ; and miss crawford ,
—how could i dare—” but he laughed so heartily at the recollection , that emma could not help saying ,
the day of separation and departure arrived ; and marianne , after taking so particular and lengthened a leave of
she had called on her former governess , and had heard from her of there being an old school-fellow in
a convenient silence .
affected reserve : “we were much obliged to you at any rate for wishing us a pleasant walk after our
she was vexed .
man of eighteen is not in general so earnestly bent on being busy as to resist the solicitations of his
to see the expression of her eyes , the change of her complexion , the progress of her feelings ,
stout , active—looks as young as his son .
morning have passed near the very spot of this unfortunate woman ' s confinement—might have been within a few paces
he came here , is now , he is persuaded , only a scandalous invention .
arrangements which he may have laid down for the next quarter of a year .
yes , i suppose he may .
twice had sir thomas inquired into the enjoyment and success of his lady , but in vain ; no pause
consisted only of the manager his wife and ourselves , but there were fewer to pay and the only inconvenience
in the house—“i wish i left you in stronger health .
—i heard it yesterday by chance , and was coming to you on purpose to enquire farther about it .
he caught all your fears the moment he had read your letter , and i am sure he has not
i do assure you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or pain .
” elizabeth could not oppose such a wish ; and from this time mr .
in avoiding , where it was possible , the presence of mrs .
her during the rain , her being in such cottage would be indubitable to aunt bertram .
crawford did not mean to be in any danger !
hurst also made her a slight bow , and said he was “very glad ; ” but diffuseness and warmth
jennings— " oh !
must have been in her misapprehension .
at length , quite exhausted by the attempt to be amused with her own book , which she had only
) you know your own concerns best .
jennings was luckily not come home , they could go directly to their own room , where hartshorn restored her
the mr musgroves had their own game to guard , and to destroy , their own horses , dogs ,
edmund , too—to be two months from him (and perhaps she might be allowed to make her absence three) must
allen , whose vacancy of mind and incapacity for thinking were such , that as she never talked a great
an admiral speaks his own consequence , and , at the same time , can never make a baronet look
fact ; scornful , ungracious .
—she was decided , and thus spoke— “harriet , i will not affect to be in doubt of your meaning
did .
kitty simpered and smiled , and hoped her turn was coming soon .
any officer in the navy .
they are very often amazingly impertinent if you do not treat them with spirit , and make them keep their
” lydia declared herself satisfied .
but now really , do not you think udolpho the nicest book in the world ?
s being there , quitted the room in quest of her ; and elinor was left to improve her acquaintance
preserved , you know .
came there about the year --- _num_ , i take it .
thus much for my general intention in favour of matrimony ; it remains to be told why my views were
here is the charade you were so obliging as to leave with us ; thank you for the sight of
weston would speak to her , with a degree of unreserve which she would not hazard with isabella ; and
you have no doubt of the mutual attachment of your brother and your friend ; depend upon it , therefore
" he made no answer ; and soon afterwards , by the removal of the tea-things , and the arrangement
feeling could accomplish , or as his seemed able to bear , for he was too much affected to renew
weston ever thought of her !
quite , or more than quite , his usual cheerfulness , she had nothing farther to try her own .
some people mind such things more than others .
" as soon as elinor had finished it , she performed what she concluded to be its writer ' s
, may you not be a little mistaken ?
william larkins let me keep a larger quantity than usual this year .
you again in camden place , as miss anne elliot , and from that moment , i have no doubt
she was sorry , but could not repent .
seemed to strike him forcibly , and his eyes were directed with a very serious expression towards bingley and jane
elinor is well , you see .
she could now look forward to giving him that full and perfect confidence which her disposition was most ready to
with the assistance of his mother-in-law , sir john was not long in discovering that the name of ferrars began
” “no , and i am very much surprised .
and i could not get her to speak to me .
that is my idea of good breeding ; and those persons who fancy themselves very important , and never open
of darcy’s father , it was yet in his power to give her fresher intelligence of her former friends than
” “he is very young to settle , ” was mr .
the future must be very uncertain .
sly creature !
share in it she suspected ; and that mr elliot ' s idea always produced irritation in both was beyond
concerns .
but the person who advanced was now near enough to see her , and stepping forward with eagerness , pronounced
stage .
your wishes are all moderate .
" every one capable of thinking felt the advantage of the idea , and in a moment (it was all
her gratification .
, as far as mrs .
the miss bertrams ' admiration of mr .
he is lively , you are serious ; but so much the better : his spirits will support yours .
to it .
anne is the only person that knows of it , and she has no judgment at all ; indeed ,
and she could see in him the same william as before , and talk to him , as her heart
it had cost her something to encounter lady russell ' s surprise ; and now , if she were by
i do not wonder at you .
him to correct .
may think about building .
her thoughts being still chiefly fixed on what she had with such causeless terror felt and done , nothing could
to see any such person .
he too was much distressed ; and they sat down together in a most promising state of embarrassment .
assertion attended it .
i have observed it all my life .
the little which she could understand , however , appeared to contradict the very few notions she had entertained on
, had felt for a card , but said she had none about her , and went away .
, will bestow it unwillingly , but i demand it of your justice .
may have as many concentrated objects as i have .
but do you know , he says , he will never frank for me ?
that abominable mr .
you will soon hear enough from another quarter to know where lies the blame ; and i hope will acquit
she was then obliged to be finished , and make her appearance .
—fancying you to have fathomed his secret .
while he was not obliged to say that he believed her to have been right in originally dividing them ,
i understand it was a very handsome letter , indeed .
on the contrary , i told him , i cannot recollect my exact words , but i am sure i
found herself addressed and again solicited to dance , by mr .
the gratitude of her young vanity to a very good purpose , for she found her decidedly more sensible than
which she had often observed at norland in their mutual behaviour .
allowable use of the sort of intimacy into which we were immediately thrown .
but no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was .
” i bowed , but felt a good deal mortified by such a repulse ; still however i had not
you wanted me , i know , to say ‘yes , ’ that you might have the pleasure of despising
friends transacted their ' s , she should pay her visit and return for them .
knightley , were to be transported and placed all at once in mr .
cheerful—when i looked forward every thing so inviting !
” “dear lizzy !
you must remember it now ?
—not frank ; —it is not frank , i assure you .
the manuscript so wonderfully found , so wonderfully accomplishing the morning ' s prediction , how was it to be
observe the turn of her throat .
three thousand pounds !
yates would never have succeeded .
harris was punctual in his second visit ; but he came to be disappointed in his hopes of what the
proof , so strong , so full , of the importance of that object to her , as elinor ,
from her aunt that pemberley was situated .
bennet scarcely spoke at all ; but when the servants were withdrawn , he thought it time to have some
interests between those who love ; and any thing will serve as introduction to what is near the heart .
colonel wallis .
harriet behaved extremely well on the occasion , with great self-command .
have been tolerated in camden place but for her birth .
” catherine ' s understanding began to awake : an idea of the truth suddenly darted into her mind ;
that i had never seen her !
and in the first place , let us hear what has happened to you all since you went away .
whereabouts does the thrush lay at spithead ?
and you may now glory in being the heiress of sir edward ' s fortune .
a superior performer !
but captain tilney had at present no intention of removing ; he was not to be of the party to
a line occasionally added by edmund to his mother ' s letter was enough for fanny ' s information .
of seeing the second lieutenant of h .
attention ; but when have i advised you to adopt their sentiments or to conform to their judgment in serious
chapter xxii fanny ' s consequence increased on the departure of her cousins .
and , in some points , there seems a hardness of heart about him .
but with such a figure and face , and such beautiful hair as your cousin has , why should i
were he ever able to get away , the day would be spent in coming and returning .
” “lord !
the rooms were lofty and handsome , and their furniture suitable to the fortune of its proprietor ; but elizabeth
everybody else .
him to begin the conversation ; and i am now so thoroughly convinced by it , of his violent passion
of coming back again .
admiration .
” “that is the case with us all , papa .
his five daughters at once .
she was again roused from disagreeable musings by sudden footsteps : somebody was coming at a quick pace down the
narrow footpath , a little raised on one side of the lane , leaving them together in the main road
the farmyard must be moved , i grant you ; but i am not aware of anything else .
expense , when i confess myself to have been entirely deceived in miss bingley’s regard for me .
they have brought the whole coach full of playthings for the children .
the admiral has his faults , but he is a very good man , and has been more than a
again they parted—but eleanor was called back in half a minute to receive a strict charge against taking her friend
, seated at the foot of the bed , with her head leaning against one of its posts , again
russell , that a more equal match might have greatly improved him ; and that a woman of real understanding
have been by your marrying her .
the old lady relieves the high-flown benevolence of her husband with a good deal of spirit .
" " but , my dear marianne , as it has already exposed you to some very impertinent remarks ,
fanny ' s interest seems in safer hands with you than with me .
amply furnished in the taste of fifty years back , with shining floors , solid mahogany , rich damask ,
, i would rather part with and see in your possession than any other .
however , i dare say we should have seen a great deal of him in somersetshire , if it had
be a very good girl ; but you must remember that you are with relations and friends , who all
, henry was convinced of his father ' s believing it to be an advantageous connection , it was not
no particular pleasure in seeing him .
table with a happy countenance .
should be , for a thriving man .
elizabeth had at first rather wondered that charlotte should not prefer the dining-parlour for common use ; it was a
, is not what i should expect colonel brandon to do .
as to the management of their children , his theory was much better than his wife ' s , and
there was wretchedness in the idea of its being serious ; there was perplexity and agitation every way .
” “no , not mr .
” “we will be down as soon as we can , ” said jane ; “but i dare say kitty
cause to be so , for coming up to me and taking my hand , he said) “you must not
when the alarm of a french privateer was at the height , she burst through his recital with the proposal
his choice is disinterested at least , for he must know my father can give her nothing .
frank churchill , i must tell you my mother ' s spectacles have never been in fault since ; the
to him ?
any companion .
dear miss woodhouse , he would be thirty years old !
to make herself agreeable to all ; and in the latter object , where she feared most to fail ,
i found he had been used to hear of me .
” chapter _num_ the progress of catherine ' s unhappiness from the events of the evening was as follows .
thank heaven !
the warmest hopes of lasting happiness with her ; her conduct at this very time , by speaking the disinterestedness
recurrence of either had led to something consolatory : her aunt bertram had spoken for her , or miss lee
to it , so long as it is a source of pleasure to herself .
she came in , she began inquiring after her , jane is so very great a favourite there .
" one of the least agreeable circumstances of her residence there was her being treated with too much confidence by
i wonder which she will think the handsomest , henry or john ?
“but perhaps it might be more agreeable to her to make those her first object .
useful she could perceive ; that things , bad as they were , would have been worse but for such
she inherited also much of his constitution ; was delicate in her own health , over-careful of that of her
—however , my resolution is taken as to noticing jane fairfax .
said , that ever was , and you all seemed to enjoy it beyond any thing .
of the one had been so worked on by the flattery of the other , as to lead by degrees
; it is too late to go on today ; your sister thinks so as well as i .
" how was anne to set all these matters to rights ?
carpet-work .
norris , would now be done away .
at length every idea seemed to fail him ; and , after standing a few moments without saying a word
a worthy employment for a young lady ' s mind !
willoughby imagine , i suppose , when his looks censured me for incivility in breaking up the party , that
” “yes , that i do .
hitherto she[ _num_ ] had carefully avoided every companion in her rambles .
greatest fondness of the two .
, she always came in excellent spirits , full of delight and importance , attributing charlotte ' s well doing
daughters gradually removed the present evil , and the immediate alertness of one brother , and better recollections of the
but this is teasing you .
weston , only half a mile from them , and a miss taylor in the house ; and with all
they will be so very happy to see you .
his arrival was soon known at the parsonage ; for mr .
” as they drew near the end of their journey , her impatience for a sight of the abbey—for some
he blushed for the narrow-minded counsel which he was obliged to expose .
broken in on .
elton looked as if he did not very well know what answer to make ; which was exactly the case
— ' so very kind and obliging !
“such things do occur , undoubtedly .
; and getting up and walking about the room with a frown , which fanny could picture to herself ,
“very well , ” was her ladyship ' s contented answer ; “then speculation , if you please , mrs
that she is old and sickly .
, in a descent among hanging woods , to the edge of the water , and one of its narrowest
darcy found , on further inquiry , that your father was still with him , but would quit town the
“it is a long while since we have had a comfortable walk together .
street , and obtained their sanction of his wishes .
to return ; and in the course of their walk back , mr .
she expected every moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room .
“he has been wanting to come to us , ” continued mr .
be added to their party , seemed the destruction of everything like peace and comfort .
the word was blunder ; and as harriet exultingly proclaimed it , there was a blush on jane ' s
when your father and mother moved to norland , though the furniture of stanhill was sold , all the china
weston could part with him .
one of her own sex , after being used to it all her life .
it might , perhaps , be the occasion of continuing their acquaintance .
” “i never heard that it was .
it is a pity you cannot put your sister in the way of managing them .
rattle , perhaps , but a year or two will rectify that : and he is in other respects so
and i cannot but be surprised that such an elegant lady as mrs .
either party ; and , among other means , by seeking an intimacy with the gentleman ' s mother ,
her there ; and vexed her as much when she was away , as a person in bath who drinks
their eyes instantly met , and the cheeks of both were overspread with the deepest blush .
his family and acquaintance were growing .
she had died the preceding summer while he was at sea .
it must have been only to one end .
the death of my parents a few weeks after my departure , is the circumstance i allude to .
” cried mr .
the most indefatigable , true friend .
your sister do that !
that the misery of disobliging his two sisters is more than equivalent to the happiness of being his wife ,
was by much the most communicative , and who was always the greater talker .
this must be the grossest falsehood !
same time , lady bridget became a widow like myself , and as we had always loved each other in
) to put me on my guard ?
inquiries about edward ' s mother ; and i am so unfortunate , that i have not a creature whose
altered countenance , and in the attentive pause with which she waited for something more .
which it had also produced .
tell me honestly , " —a deeper glow overspreading his cheeks , " do you think me most a knave
her agitation and alarm exceeded all that was endured by the rest , by the right of a disposition which
this seems as if nothing were a security for matrimonial comfort .
this is an attachment which a woman may well feel pride in creating .
” “it is hotter to-day .
that the general should come forward to solicit the alliance , or that he should even very heartily approve it
ankles .
” fanny , in dismay at such an unprecedented question , did not know which way to look , or
woodhouse was soon ready for his tea ; and when he had drank his tea he was quite ready to
i think you understand me , therefore .
one could not expect more from him , you know .
” said mrs .
impossible for any body to be a better son , and therefore she was sure , whenever he married ,
elton , and seated by mr .
i am sure he was particularly silent when mrs .
mind , she very soon resolved to speak to eleanor about it at once , propose going away , and
and rendered more tractable , more attached , more devoted than ever , would have left me in the first
sir william did not say much .
” “i have one favour to beg , ” said catherine , shortly afterwards , in an agitated manner ,
no look appeared on either side that spoke particular regard .
had seldom known a pause in its alarms or embarrassments .
a large village , —indeed there certainly must be some small house or cottage close by , that would suit
she received the news with resolute composure ; made no observation on it , and at first shed no tears
i have been pained by her manner this morning , and cannot get the better of it .
from any other daily occurrence , but who saw at the same time with much concern his continued regard for
, and made himself very agreeable by his good-humoured notice of her little boys , she was well able to
the affliction of the bertrams was little felt in the family .
how charlotte and i did stuff the only time we were there !
: he arrived yesterday .
of pug in his mistress ' s arms .
errand but fanny ?
would they only have gone away , and left her in the quiet possession of that room it would have
for many years under a sort of sequestration for the payment of its own incumbrances , might be recoverable by
this is your final resolve !
the engagement which you were eager to form a fortnight ago is no longer compatible with your views , and
complaisance , anne necessarily belonged .
yates with all the appearance of cordiality which was due to his own character , but was really as far
vile a wretch as macdonald to deprive him of money , perhaps dishonestly gained , it was determined that the
avoid any encouragement of his .
the old lady is mrs .
sacrifice .
instantaneously into the drawing-room .
edmund had greatly the advantage of her in this respect .
and i shall give myself no more trouble about him .
it will then be publicly seen that , on both sides , we meet only as common and indifferent acquaintance
” “certainly , my dear , nobody said there were ; but as to not meeting with many people in
of his actually wishing their marriage .
enraged with almost everybody in the world but himself , he set out the next day for the abbey ,
some people even talked of a promise to his wife on her deathbed , and others of the son and
my aunt phillips came to longbourn on tuesday , after my father went away ; and was so good as
of all his sister’s falsehood and contrivance !
she was engaged one day as she walked , in perusing jane’s last letter , and dwelling on some passages
then she had , indeed , been a pitiable object ; for she had caught cold on the journey ,
to be communicated , but as what ought to be suppressed .
and compare the accounts of their newspapers ; and the ladies walked about together , noticing every new face ,
” “after having wandered some time on the banks of the uske without knowing which way to go , i
“well , he is coming , you see ; good news , i think .
quite worthy of being known in camden place , " and as soon as she recovered they were to be
; but he will soon know his master .
almost acquiesced in the assurance of both the mr .
martin , who bore a part in the narrative , and was always mentioned with approbation for his great good-nature
miss bingley sees that her brother is in love with you , and wants him to marry miss darcy .
we are quite near relations , you know ; and mr elliot too , whom you ought so particularly to
” henry bowed and thanked her .
the thing was good in itself , and could not be done at a better time ; and he had
it had no advantage of situation ; but had been very much smartened up by the present proprietor ; and
" i should be undeserving of the confidence you have honoured me with , if i felt no desire for
elinor only was sorry to see them .
i did it because i thought it would offend you ; but , as you made no objection , i
she has a very good notion of fingering , though her taste is not equal to anne’s .
collins’s respectability , and charlotte’s steady , prudent character .
who could make you so .
” “leave it to me .
” edmund got up and walked about the room , saying , “and could nobody be employed on such an
jennings were invited likewise , and john dashwood was careful to secure colonel brandon , who , always glad to
pratt was a foundation for the rest , at once indisputable and alarming ; and edward ' s visit near
churchill ' s death with mutual forbearance .
but one must not expect every thing ; though i suppose it would be no difficult matter to widen them
dearer through the very excess of her mistaken confidence in willoughby , and she was wildly urgent to be gone
she managed the recital , as she hoped , with address ; prepared her anxious listener with caution ; related
you can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse , however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble ;
struck twelve , and all was quiet , she would , if not quite appalled by darkness , steal out
darcy , her sister scarcely less so ; and as for mr .
which perfectly assured her of his good information , inquired after her sister .
for it is quite grievous to see her look so ill and forlorn .
“i am no novel-reader—i seldom look into novels—do not imagine that i often read novels—it is really very well for
of the heavy blow , command herself enough to guard every suspicion of the truth from her mother and sisters
they had not been long seated and composed when mr .
the house , too , as described by sir john , was on so simple a scale , and the
” “do not you ?
his answer came this morning , which i shall enclose to you , as i think you will like to
at her own command , her hair arranged as neatly as it always is , and one little curl falling
we endeavoured to rouse her by every means in our power , but to no purpose .
to come to hunsford again next year ; and miss de bourgh exerted herself so far as to curtsey and
from his being so much more in the world than me , and our continual separation , i was enough
be able to do it now .
time , you may be sure , will make one or the other of us think differently ; and ,
palmer , who seemed to feel a relief to himself , in leaving behind him a person so well able
friendly and all her congratulatory sensations into a very , very earnest shake of the hand .
do not tell me anything now , which hereafter you may be sorry for .
crawford and mrs .
' s affection was much too humble to give her any idea of classing herself with his children , she
we shall soon overtake her .
“she will be all delight and gratitude , but she will tell you nothing .
general ; and even to her there might be some advantage in his presence , since every addition to the
, might be their surest means of forwarding it .
next minute after my leaving it ; i was hurt , but i was not affronted .
she was very fond of singing .
” fanny ' s colour grew deeper and deeper ; and her uncle , perceiving that she was embarrassed to
the insipidity , and yet the noise—the nothingness , and yet the self-importance of all those people !
” catherine could not answer ; and , after a short trial of other subjects , mrs .
now i am extremely glad i did , having a great deal to add .
return ; but i cannot stay to hear it .
it was a large , well proportioned room , handsomely fitted up .
chapter _num_ there was one point which anne , on returning to her family , would have been more thankful
that any one who so well knew how to teach , should not have their powers in exercise again .
equal to any thing .
woman of seven-and-twenty , with every beauty except bloom , and with manners as consciously right as they were invariably
” he had only to say that he had been sitting with lady bertram and fanny .
by the head of which she had yet to pass before she could gain the gallery .
—they are always so pleased to see my children .
" " i should very much like to see lyme again , " said anne .
she said no more , other subjects took their turn ; and the rest of the dinner passed away ;
for ten minutes she could hear nothing but herself .
hodges may well be angry .
the laughs of playfulness which are so essential to the shade of a departed ball , she could afterwards bring
a large party secures its own amusement .
material to be dreaded , and the comfort of ease and familiarity would come in time .
she had seen the same frederick wentworth .
and say nothing of the bad—belongs to you alone .
frank churchill ' s situation , you would be able to say and do just what you have been recommending
as to our accepting his invitation , it is at present very uncertain ; lady lesley advises us to go
norris soon found them out .
i can hardly imagine the young man whom i saw talking with you the other day could express himself so
instead of falling a sacrifice to an irresistible passion , as once she had fondly[ _num_ ] flattered herself with
; the old were so hospitable , the young so agreeable , that he could not but resolve to remain
my dear , dear lydia !
bingley , and under your orders .
grant and her tambour frame were not without their use : it was all in harmony ; and as everything
tell her that you think very highly of the understanding of women .
if able to suggest a hint , isabella could never understand it .
genius , wit , and taste to recommend them .
you would not hesitate to employ me .
there have been two or three fine old trees cut down , that grew too near the house , and
wretched and hopeless situation of this poor girl , and pictures her to herself , with an affection for him
i could do very well without it .
walking with the mr .
this had been a proof of life , however , of service to her sister ; and henrietta , though
of ease and enjoyment seemed diffused , and they all stood about and talked and laughed , and every moment
” “dirty , sir !
after all that she had heard him say , and seen him look , and known him to be feeling
" they all met , and were introduced .
, do not let us think about it any more .
, made her hastily resolve on avoiding such immediate horrors at all risks , it is probable that mr .
; and while she was still hanging over muslins and changing her mind , emma went to the door for
” after a short pause , “it comes on faster and faster !
you must learn some of my philosophy .
, he must find his sister at sixteen in some respects too much like his sister at ten .
; for the housekeeper , after a great many courtesies on the subject of pheasants , had taken her to
that even her happiness must have some alloy .
, and that a reproof was designed her for having so struggled as to make the purchase necessary for the
, and listening to what his nephew could relate of the different modes of dancing which had fallen within his
three others laying by her .
i am not at all equal to it .
“yes , ” said lady bertram , “she looks very well .
" " you shall ; and , to be brief , when i quitted barton last october , —but this
the second began .
their union , she believed , could not divide her more from other men , than their final separation .
” “very true , ” cried mrs .
price himself , his own loud voice preceding him , as with something of the oath kind he kicked away
darcy had to decide on the propriety of his friend’s inclination , or why , upon his own judgement alone
the lawn , bounded on each side by a high wall , contained beyond the first planted area a bowling-green
i can think of but one thing—who is in love with her ?
, in a reserved yet hurried sort of farewell .
him utter , and which tempted her to think his disposition in such matters misunderstood by his children .
his practice not so bad .
means of enjoyment in their power , which no subsequent connexions can supply ; and it must be by a
she thought lady bertram sat longer than ever , and began to be in despair of ever getting away ;
” he left the room , and catherine , with a disappointed , anxious face , began to speak of
how glad they had been to hear papa invite him to stay dinner , how sorry when he said it
were the same fair prospect to arise at present as had flattered them a year ago , every thing ,
had i the command of millions , were i mistress of the whole world , your brother would be my
matter i suppose has been hanging over her head as long as that .
make her at all less so .
" said marianne to herself as she walked on .
the husband had not been what he ought , and the wife had been led among that part of mankind
his present .
gave her much more pleasure for their sakes , than mortification for her own .
frank churchill ' s character was not desperate .
” they had reached the end of the gallery , and with tears of shame she ran off to her
" " do you call me happy , marianne ?
bates , civil and humble as usual , looked as if she did not quite understand what was going on
what can you possibly have to do ?
longer anything to anybody but mrs .
it was not with mrs .
“sitting with them an hour and a half !
you will not think of quitting it in a hurry , i hope , though you have but a short
, and it was not known even to the editor of the newspaper whither they were gone .
" mrs smith looked at her again , looked earnestly , smiled , shook her head , and exclaimed-- "
but i have no idea that she has yet ever seen a man she cared for .
do you think the minds which are suffered , which are indulged in wanderings in a chapel , would be
and what will then be their acquaintance ?
there was everything in the world against their being serious but his words and manner .
" [ _num_ ] " indeed you wrong me , " replied lucy , with great solemnity ; " i
neither could she deny the justice of his description of jane .
her at such a distance from us , for months together—not able to come if any thing was to happen
she certainly understands you better than you are understood by the greater part of those who have known you so
two full courses .
her parents , seeing nothing in her ill looks and agitation but the natural consequence of mortified feelings , and
” this was invitation enough .
father ' s character , she was sensible that results the most serious to his family from the intimacy were
dress was her passion .
and the sacred anniversary must and shall be kept in a manner becoming the day—by writing to her .
horses .
anything beyond the very neighbourhood of longbourn , i suppose , would appear far .
” said she to herself , in a fond indulgence of fancy .
”—harriet ' s was— “oh , what a sweet house !
" " but she will be gained by some one else .
thorpe any more .
some accident been lost .
i should be so glad to have you dance .
the subject of it so very—very—what shall i say ?
the most beloved of the two .
” “if that be all your difficulty , i will furnish you with paper and every other material , and
occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the family .
any thing like consolation or composure could be drawn , was in the resolution of her own better conduct ,
ultimately have prevented the marriage , had it not been seconded by the assurance that i hesitated not in giving
so much money thrown away , and i am sure that would be a discredit to us all .
one thing , however , i must observe .
i never much thought about it .
talked of it—still she could talk of nothing else ; and emma , at last , in order to put
this is a point which you must settle with your feelings .
” “dreadful !
which made her think worse of the world than she hoped it deserved .
for myself , i confess that i can pity only miss mainwaring ; who , coming to town , and
perhaps it might cost a whole twenty pounds .
i am sure it will all end well , and there will be no difficulties at all , to what
the erection of the monument itself could not in the smallest degree affect her doubts of mrs .
and at lyme too , only seventeen miles off , he would be near enough to hear , if people
of recovering her husband ' s property in the west indies , by writing for her , acting for her
“heyday , miss morland !
he saw his son every year in london , and was proud of him ; and his fond report of
in asking whether anything had been heard of the fugitives .
jane resolutely kept her place at the table ; but elizabeth , to satisfy her mother , went to the
how i admire the sweet sensibility of your soul , and as i would not for worlds wound it too
elton , in the course of my life , that if things are going untowardly one month , they are
your friend ; but so good a charade must not be confined to one or two .
“the air of a gentleman ' s residence , therefore , you cannot but give it , if you do
guess my astonishment , and vexation—for , as you well know , i never wished him to be seen at
now do not you feel that you had ?
for a few moments her imagination and her heart were bewitched .
she was nearly fainting : all her former habitual dread of her uncle was returning , and with it compassion
" he thinks mrs clay afraid of him , aware that he sees through her , and not daring to
; it is that i condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from him your
but all in vain ; catherine felt herself to be in the right , and though pained by such tender
you cannot think what a sweet place cleveland is ; and we are so gay now , for mr .
churchill— ' every sacrifice of mere pleasure you will always find me ready to make to your convenience ; but
purchase an estate , but did not live to do it .
norris could ; and when sir thomas soon afterwards , just opening the door , said , “fanny , at
soon fancied himself in love .
miss crawford ' s beauty did her no disservice with the miss bertrams .
did she love him well enough to make them no longer essential ?
i am not to be intimidated into anything so wholly unreasonable .
back to them all , was engrossed by writing .
miss bennet had slept ill , and though up , was very feverish , and not well enough to leave
you may raise it into a place .
of other people .
honesty , in the something between , in the middle state of worldly circumstances , is all that i am
and many others are poor .
sir thomas ' s look implied , “on your judgment , edmund , i depended ; what have you been
in such a hurry to have me draw her four children that she would not be quiet .
the two ladies were together in the breakfast-room , and , fortunately for him , lady bertram was on the
the prospect before her now , was threatening to a degree that could not be entirely dispelled—that might not be
” fanny was led off very willingly , though it was impossible for her to feel much gratitude towards her
lady to whom this work is dedicated , and my no less amiable self .
to barton .
" and you really are not engaged to him !
smallridge ' s children—a dear friend of mrs .
to fix on any thing else ; and a thought struck him during the evening , which he communicated to
” “i am sorry for miss crawford ; but i am more sorry to see you drawn in to do
emma , i must tell you what you will not ask , though i may wish it unsaid the next
smile : it was decided .
” fanny was too well aware of it to have anything to say ; and they walked on together some
“i wished to engage miss crawford for the two first dances , ” was the explanation that followed , and
—the mr .
” “that is very true , ” replied elizabeth , “and i could easily forgive his pride , if he
she spoke as she felt , with earnest regret and solicitude—sincerely wishing that the circumstances which she collected from miss
was impossible for her to refuse the correspondence ; it was impossible for her even not to accede to it
what can be done .
“as to her younger daughters , she could not take upon her to say—she could not positively answer—but she did
i do not like ruined , tattered cottages .
but whether i should write this apology , or deliver it in person , was a point of long debate
, and only questioned miss bates farther as to her niece ' s appetite and diet , which she longed
i suppose you know he wanted to marry anne ?
" " watched us out of the house !
could henry ' s father— ?
fortune will be so small ; they never can consent to it .
, could not escape the observation of a young man of nearly the same age with himself , and who
“if i had set my heart on mr .
what else can detain him at norland ?
chapter v in this state of schemes , and hopes , and connivance , june opened upon hartfield .
and if that were your opinion , i am sure you could never be civil to him .
chapter xix edward remained a week at the cottage ; he was earnestly pressed by mrs .
but my friend and my dearest friend .
service and staying till dinner-time .
” “and i certainly never shall give it .
” “nay , since you make such a point of it , i can refuse you nothing .
what will you think of my vanity ?
” “tell me once for all , are you engaged to him ?
i must have given you up .
—i have said nothing about it to any body .
" yes ; it is about miss williams , i am sure .
to covent garden , where they still exhibit under the assumed names of luvis and quick .
i was angry perhaps at first , but my anger soon began to take a proper direction .
miss bertram had made up her mind to something different , and was a little disappointed ; but her conviction
admiral maxwell , only six weeks before she was taken for death .
slight hedge at the top , and made the best of her way by a short cut back to highbury
anne could not immediately fall into a quotation again .
edward , and of edward ' s behaviour , in every possible variety which the different[ _num_ ] state of
affection for herself which was now in question ; but there was a hope (at times a slight one ,
—who is she ?
and not deserving it .
“is it not clear enough ?
i met her on the stairs , and saw that she was crying .
“i cannot make speeches , emma : ” he soon resumed ; and in a tone of such sincere ,
, all this was unintelligible .
of the family ; and the difficulties of the case arose from there having been a suspension of all intercourse
” “no , indeed , i should not .
" " but it is not to be imagined that she lives up to her income .
she did not suppose it would be in her power , ” was looking at edmund for his opinion and
" elinor made her a civil reply , and they walked on for a few minutes in silence .
and dining-rooms in the country .
bed , as so many poor girls have been obliged to do , and then to have a faithful old
regular eating and drinking , and picnic parade of the eltons and the sucklings .
” fanny , quite surprised , endeavoured to shew herself mistress of the room by her civilities , and looked
poor little betsey ; how cross susan is to you !
to marry at all so early is recommendatory to me .
passed as his way , as a mere error of judgment , of knowledge , of taste , as one
) “it sounds like a loud rapping at the door”—(replied my mother .
their reaching portsmouth ; and during those days she had seen him only twice , in a short and hurried
to hear them talking so much of captain wentworth , repeating his name so often , puzzling over past years
” “a thorough , determined dislike of me—a dislike which i cannot but attribute in some measure to jealousy .
chapter _num_ elizabeth related to jane the next day what had passed between mr .
then , and then only , under such a roof , i might perhaps be as happy at combe as
you are this evening to enter a world in which you will meet with many wonderfull things ; yet let
if the strength of your reciprocal attachment had failed , as between many people , and under many circumstances it
persuade him to let things take their course .
he had been much in london , and had more liveliness and gallantry than edmund , and must , therefore
she had little hope of success ; but elizabeth , who in the event of such a reverse would be
they had not remained in this manner long , before elinor perceived willoughby , standing within a few yards of
, and met her with kindness .
you blush , harriet .
being then on her way upstairs , she resolved there to remain , during the whole of his visit ,
herself , which at last , though long after it was observable to everybody else—burst on her—what could she do
for the present , and prepare for another disappointment .
accomplishments , and were now like thousands of other young ladies , living to be fashionable , happy , and
” cried jane , “what do you mean , sir ?
most earnestly did she wish that he might not be too nice , or too observant if elizabeth were his
; and sometimes , when he talked of william , he was really not unagreeable , and shewed even a
please on mr .
it is rather from feeling how impossible it is , with all one ' s efforts , and all one
“my father would say ' yes , ' mr .
the drawer to her own purse , she was suddenly most impertinently interrupted in her employment by the entrance of
“when you have killed all your own birds , mr .
very account .
better , however , to know the worst at once—she hurried on—“and yet , perhaps , you may hardly be
at longbourn or netherfield , and embracing her most tenderly , she even shook hands with the former .
be one much less calculated for making matters easy--charles hayter , probably not at all better pleased by the sight
perfectly interesting in the eyes of all the ladies .
i would fifty times rather you should have them than myself .
they passed briskly down pulteney street , and through laura place , without the exchange of many words .
her plants , her books—of which she had been a collector from the first hour of her commanding a shilling—her
so happily settled .
your sister has been talking to me about him , and asking me a thousand questions ; and i find
" there are inconveniences attending such feelings as marianne ' s , which all the charms of enthusiasm and ignorance
midshipmen are liable , and especially such midshipmen as every captain wishes to get rid of , been six months
” “the person of whom i speak is a gentleman , and a stranger .
him to her knowledge ; and she was always anxious to get a good husband for every pretty girl .
by a partial , prejudiced , and ignorant historian .
her imagination was busy , her reflections were pleasant , and the pain of a sprained ankle was disregarded .
good heaven !
his sharing with herself in the bliss of the moment .
your hair to be described in all their diversities , without having constant recourse to a journal ?
who ate the remainder .
“everything being settled between them , mr .
that could satisfy his anxiety .
you and i need not be afraid .
lady middleton was ashamed of doing nothing before them , and the flattery which lucy was proud to think of
such an answer , and make such observations , as the subject might naturally be supposed to produce .
" " upon my word , " replied elinor , " you know much more of the matter than i
i am delighted to find myself in such a circle .
disgrace the memory of the dear departed—what possible comfort could i have in taking such a charge upon me as
six and seven o ' clock , or by the yet more partial though stronger illumination of a treacherous lamp
of young dancing people in the neighbourhood .
instantly seized the other , and opening it with the utmost impatience , read as follows : it had been
and so excellent in the church !
fearful of not being incommoded enough .
edmund had many .
elizabeth , to meet with folly and conceit in every other room of the house , he was used to
i declare they are quite charming ; i could look at them for ever .
knightley been so dear to her , as every feeling declared him now to be ?
the manner in which miss steele had spoken of edward , increased her curiosity ; for it struck her as
you see i cannot leave mrs .
—margaret , we will walk here at least two hours .
” “they may be induced to go too .
” said elizabeth .
it would place her in the same village with captain wentworth , within half a mile of him ; they
if , therefore” (turning again to fanny) , “you find yourself growing unwell , and any difficulties arise about your
great satisfaction to be able to do rather more , to lay by a little at the end of the
and her own share in the story , under a colouring the least favourable to her and the most soothing
and the other , that you will often call on mrs .
i had known the campbells a little in town ; and at weymouth we were very much in the same
bennet made no answer .
and in the degree of concern for what she must have suffered in witnessing it .
mind , but he did not think he could have gone on himself with any woman breathing , without something
” of some length from the fair lady before she could add , “you ought to be in parliament ,
him for the present bounded her views : the present was now comprised in another three weeks , and her
into the billiard-room .
think only of yours .
had been achieved , and advise every body to come and sit down , and not to heat themselves .
and i have no doubt that he will thrive , and be a very rich man in time—and his being
” “yes , very handsome .
yes , we do know it all .
when i wish his secret reflections may be no more unpleasant than my own .
have no doubt of very soon meeting with something that would do .
" " i must not tell , ma ' am .
and she and her partner the happiest !
must be sensible himself .
he tried to reason himself out of fears , which the different judgment of the apothecary seemed to render absurd
” her cheeks flushed at the name , and she felt afraid of something , though she knew not what
suspecting any thing , that was reason enough for his not mentioning it .
" he said it , she knew , to be contradicted .
jump up and walk for warmth .
' but however , all that is quite out of the question , —not to be thought of or mentioned
a few minutes were sufficient for making her acquainted with her own heart .
—i must still add to this long letter .
no , not flirts .
that i shall be quite wretched if he remains here ; you know my reasons—propriety , and so forth .
harm .
me , that we should be so solicitous to have the relationship acknowledged , which we may be very sure
he lived to exert , and frequently to enjoy himself .
done any thing painted by miss dashwood ; and on the curiosity of the others being of course excited ,
you have scolded me too much for match-making , for me to presume to take such a liberty with you
had shewn them some drawings of the place , views that he had taken himself .
miss darcy’s praise occupied the chief of it .
darcy to me , pray , that i should be afraid of him ?
the most agreeable man she ever was in company with .
strong sense of ill-usage .
the married cousins must appear as secure as earthly happiness can be .
i cannot go on .
the ladies were somewhat more fortunate , for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper window that he
you have only two scenes , and as i shall be cottager , i ' ll put you in and
" " i dare say you are , and i am sure i do not at all wonder at it
” chapter vii the very day of mr .
why do you thus so cruelly connive at the projected misery of her and of yourself by delaying to communicate
i am sick of it .
any notion of finding her .
yet some happiness must and would arise from the very conviction that he did suffer .
they belong to the living , i suppose ; if not , you must purchase them .
from conceit , and only desiring to be guided by any one she looked up to .
rather a fearful one .
weston do not .
we waited therefore with the greatest impatience , for the return of edward in order to impart to him the
not have thought it possible—but if you , who had been always acquainted with him—” “harriet !
a word was put in for a second young cox ; and at last , mr .
“how distressed she will be at what she said just now , ” passed across her mind .
they were combined only of anger against herself , mortification , and deep concern .
her anxiety had foundation in fact , her fears in probability ; and with a mind so occupied in the
, and reached the outward door just in time to receive and support her as she entered it .
he had cheated them ; and whether he might not have some concern in this necklace—she could not be convinced
have i ever seen either of the gentlemen ?
importance , and derived the immediate advantage of fancying herself obliged to leave her own house , where she had
give me but a little cheerful company , let me only have the company of the people i love ,
john dashwood , by this pointed invitation to her brother , how totally she disregarded her disapprobation of the match
you cannot think how it has diverted me !
he too had his book , and was seeking fanny , to ask her to rehearse with him , and
the carriage is safe enough , if a man knows how to drive it ; a thing of that sort
but then , is not it the same with many other professions , perhaps most other ?
“to fall in with each other on such an errand as this , ” thought emma ; “to meet in
passages in the service should be delivered , shewing it to be a subject on which he had thought before
thy ready wit the word will soon supply , may its approval beam in that soft eye !
with more privacy and more effect , was impossible ; for marianne continued incessantly to give way in a low
united , (courtship , you know , ) what reverse we have !
” “upon my word , i say no more here than i might say in any house in the neighbourhood
, to all the pity that anybody can give him .
the perverseness of circumstances , to be equally indifferent during the rest of their lives ?
ice at a pastry-cook ' s , and hurrying back to the hotel , swallowed their dinner in haste ,
, she insisted on her saying , that she was not at all in want of any thing .
well hung ; town-built ; i have not had it a month .
and growing cool again .
“did you ever see such a skin ?
absolute cruelty .
elizabeth will soon be the wife of mr .
dark eyes .
becoming a deference , seeming so pleasantly grateful for being admitted to hartfield , and so artlessly impressed by the
” “yes , he has been gone just four weeks , as you observe , miss woodhouse , ” said
carriage , if the weather were mr .
in the passage , and send up her name .
in april _num_ she speaks of having corrected two sheets of ' s and s , ' which she has
fairfax .
" " had you any idea of his coming so soon ?
oh , yes !
don ' t let them make you unhappy .
johnson and he are the greatest friends in the world .
—it was just what it ought to be , and it looked what it was—and emma felt an increasing respect
the observations of her uncle and aunt now began ; and each of them pronounced him to be infinitely superior
have made the offer of your hand in any possible way that would have tempted me to accept it .
” “but , perhaps , i keep no journal .
but that she must and should retract was instantly the eager cry of both the thorpes ; they must go
have heard you mention , came to bath with miss elliot and sir walter as long ago as september (in
“your father ' s return will be a very interesting event .
“here come my dear girls , ” cried mrs .
the miss bertrams were worth pleasing , and were ready to be pleased ; and he began with no object
in her present exile from good society , and distance from everything that had been wont to interest her ,
in this situation , elinor , roused from sleep by her agitation and sobs , first perceived her ; and
' old fellow !
—with all the spirits she could command , she prepared him first for something strange , and then , in
then the stream—something must be done with the stream ; but i could not quite determine what .
good wife .
between him and darcy there was a very steady friendship , in spite of great opposition of character .
grant is most kind and obliging to me , and though he is really a gentleman , and , i
pleasing opinion of conjugal felicity or domestic comfort .
in the dining-room they were soon joined by mary and kitty , who had been too busily engaged in their
” asked mr .
appearing to be frightened away by his wife , was persuaded at last by colonel brandon to perform his promise
other sex .
satisfying every inquiry of her enfeebled spirits , supplying every succour , and watching almost every look and every breath
i did not wink at you .
not discern anything unusual , a double range of small drawers appeared in view , with some larger drawers above
darcy told her that bingley was also coming to wait on her ; and she had barely time to express
their affection and pleasure in meeting was just enough to make a very creditable appearance in mr .
when breakfast was over she walked out by herself , and wandered about the village of allenham , indulging the
you know all that would be felt on the occasion .
dashwood recommended , with all the strength and urgency which illness could command , the interest of his mother-in-law and
buildings of mansfield parish , the white house being only just large enough to receive herself and her servants ,
quite a secret , known to nobody else , and only thought of about three days .
" she replied .
let no one presume to give the feelings of a young woman on receiving the assurance of that affection of
was passing before her .
martin was so very kind as to send mrs .
are mistaken .
look at the tree .
she did not imagine that her father had at present an idea of the kind .
be mentioned , and the request made .
norris (with a saving by her good management of full three-quarters of a yard) , and was actually forming into
i could do very well without you , if you were married to a man of such good estate as
is not directed by decorum and formality , or which bears the least resemblance to ease and good-breeding .
scorned to reflect a moment on their pecuniary distresses and would have blushed at the idea of paying their debts
miss crawford .
her mother , who concluded that a promise had been made by willoughby the night before of calling on her
” wickham , lydia , were all forgotten .
be able to tell what bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner himself .
all the agreeable of her speculation was over for that hour .
he has now and then been a sad flirt , and cared very little for the havoc he might be
this discovery laid many smaller matters open .
“and they are really to be married !
woodhouse had not married early) was much increased by his constitution and habits ; for having been a valetudinarian all
when she took in her history , indeed , her situation , as well as her beauty ; when she
frank churchill had behaved very ill by herself—very ill in many ways , —but it was not so much his
carried on in appropriate divisions , commodious and roomy .
not to excite suspicion by her look or manner was now an object worth attaining ; and she felt equal
she preferred histories , and i receipts .
two , to visit his relations .
harriet , here comes a very sudden trial of our stability in good thoughts .
the whole party rose accordingly , and under mrs .
dining-room , which fronted the lane , in quest of this wonder ; it was two ladies stopping in a
this will be the last winter of his belonging to us , as he has done .
must , she knew , be sorely felt .
weston , poor mrs .
her silence disturbed him ; and after observing her a little while , he added , “emma , my love
were divided only by mrs musgrove .
" i do not wonder captain wentworth is delighted !
do you agree with me , my dear ?
" and a very well-spoken , genteel , shrewd lady , she seemed to be , " continued he ;
her an affectation of candour , an air of greatness , meaning only to shew off in higher style her
the play should not be lost by his absence .
be giving her more of his attention .
and her friend : he had supported her cause or explained her meaning , he had told her not to
on the _num_ rd he was going to a friend near peterborough , in the same situation as himself ,
do be convinced that you are both perfectly handsome and say no more of the matter .
make on that head) , i never perceived them to be unpleasant to you .
my removal , therefore , which must , at any rate , take place soon , may , with perfect
that could be said of either .
she in the overflowing spirits of her recovery , repeats it all to her nurse ; and the nurse knowing
gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage than to herself .
i dare say she did not understand me .
his mind was fagged , and her happiness sprung from being the friend with whom it could find repose .
a bed of full-grown nettles from the west— .
—she had resolved to defer the disclosure till mrs .
i thought him very plain at first , but i do not think him so plain now .
consequence .
sir walter made no objection , and elizabeth did nothing worse than look cold and unconcerned .
morland—your brothers and sisters—i hope they are none of them ill ?
pray make my excuses to pratt for not keeping my engagement , and dancing with him to-night .
no , i believe you capable of everything great and good in your married lives .
but it was then too late , and with a countenance meaning to be open , she sat down again
but we are all liable to error .
lady bertram could not give her much time , or many words , but she felt her , as fanny
closet .
a man more intent on being agreeable than mr .
here , however , the kindness of mrs .
few repulses ; and becoming soon too busy with his play to have time for more than one flirtation ,
a note was written to urge it .
presuming however , that this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment than any dislike of the proposal , and
fanny had been everywhere awake to the difference of the country since february ; but when they entered the park
perry had been to mrs .
my dearest friend , —i congratulate you on mr .
carriages that pass along .
bennet and mrs .
” emma watched her through the fluctuations of this speech , and saw no alarming symptoms of love .
and as for this necklace , i do not suppose i have worn it six times : it is very
known to have some influence with her sister , she was continually requested , or at least receiving hints to
afterwards dismissed .
adeiu .
—let me order the carriage .
no more than in a slight slumber , or a morning doze at most ; for if it be true
they were going , it was decided that the gentlemen should accompany them to edgar ' s buildings , and
i thought he began to look a little queer , so i turned it off as well as i could
these considerations we were determined to represent to her in their proper light and doubted not of meeting with the
” fanny , meanwhile , vexed with herself for not having been as motionless as she was speechless , and
poverty while i am in them .
catherine , interested at once by her appearance and her relationship to mr .
became their mutual punishment .
delights which she saw no likelihood of sharing , was left to the comforts of cold ham and chicken .
” “thank you , thank you .
the real evils , indeed , of emma ' s situation were the power of having rather too much her
you have improved her .
i knew you would wish it .
are my ideas so scanty ?
longer allow her eyes to watch ; but mr .
” dinner was on table .
i quite die to see you .
on the occasion , when mrs .
the coles expressed themselves so properly—there was so much real attention in the manner of it—so much consideration for her
him , or just to miss him , just to hear his voice , or see his shoulder , just
weston , always alert when business was to be done , and as incapable of procrastinating any evil that was
" " don ' t pretend to deny it , because you know it is what every body talks of
i do think he had better leave uppercross entirely , and fix at lyme .
having all sat down again , there was for some time such a blank in the circle , that emma
was a pity you did not always know yourself as well as you seemed to do at that moment .
she listened—the sound had ceased ; and resolving not to lose a moment , she passed through and closed the
dixon and miss campbell were the persons ; and i thought it a very strong proof .
his profession .
no hurry for a signal at all .
you are very kind to bring me these interesting particulars .
marianne could never love by halves ; and her whole heart became , in time , as much devoted to
people of the name of tupman , very lately settled there , and encumbered with many low connexions , but
” “and if it should rain , which i think exceedingly likely , for i never saw it more threatening
partridge in a day or two , and shall give her a strict charge to be on the look-out for
they met for the sake of eating , drinking , and laughing together , playing at cards , or consequences
after surmounting your unconquerable horror of the bed , you will retire to rest , and get a few hours
and though the love of a hyacinth may be rather domestic , who can tell , the sentiment once raised
repose to herself .
at lyme .
i thought our judgments were given us merely to be subservient to those of neighbours .
rushworth prevented her thinking so much of their continued absence , however , as she might have done .
not a puncture , not a weak spot anywhere .
empty .
to have seen you grow like the admiral in word or deed , look or gesture , would have broken
” his sister tried to laugh off her feelings by saying , “nothing amuses me more than the easy manner
” “no indeed ; i felt nothing but surprise .
much what he thought on every occasion , without attention to persons or circumstances .
him perfectly equal to .
it is oak entirely .
i found that by the appearance of sentiment and freindship nothing was to be gained and determined therefore to renew
marriage with her nephew , but had never even had the slightest idea of there being such a person in
dashwood again assured him that no alteration of the kind should be attempted .
she was a great talker upon little matters , which exactly suited mr .
elizabeth was ready to speak whenever there was an opening , but she was seated between charlotte and miss de
send for , the father to have pursued and informed , the mother to support and keep from hysterics ,
” “where can he be ?
we want no audience , no publicity .
” “my dear , dear fanny , now i have the truth .
it suggested no other surprise than that elinor and marianne should sit so composedly by , without claiming a share
” “indeed , i could not .
sir john , who called on them more than once , brought home such accounts of the favour they were
at last , however , and after i had been six months in england , i did find her .
” elizabeth could hardly help smiling as she assured her that had not been the case .
chapter xxxi from a night of more sleep than she had expected , marianne awoke the next morning to the
; but , since that business had been over , she did not appear to find harriet different from what
her heart is made for love and kindness , not for resentment .
” she carried this point , and sir thomas ' s narrative proceeded .
" " walter , " cried charles hayter , " why do you not do as you are bid ?
” elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment .
i made the best excuses i could for not having been able to wait on him and mrs .
the answer soon presented itself .
elton is so good to the poor !
that lighted up their faces , and displayed itself over their whole bodies , in a variety of capers and
i hope he will be calling soon .
if two moments , however , can surround with difficulties , a third can disperse them ; and before she
“oh , jane , take care .
jennings ' s servant , who came to tell her that his mistress waited for them at the door .
the charming augusta hawkins , in addition to all the usual advantages of perfect beauty and merit , was in
” “an excellent consolation in its way , ” said elizabeth , “but it will not do for us .
—miss taylor married .
grant , cannot be in the habit of teaching others their duty every week , cannot go to church twice
i pity , though i cannot help blaming her .
you make the most of it , i know , " cried louisa , " but if it were really
all within elinor ' s breast was satisfaction , silent and strong .
the two gentlemen arrived the next day to a very late dinner , affording a pleasant enlargement of the party
john has charming spirits , has not he ?
—i wish i could recollect more of it .
” “i understood that there were some very strong objections against the lady .
the greatest obligingness , with an expression and taste which were peculiarly becoming , and there was something clever to
, full of comforts and conveniences ; quite shut in with great garden walls that are covered with the best
the others when they sat down to table .
“it was the prospect of constant society , and good society , ” he added , “which was my chief
" [ _num_ ] " who told you that mr .
dear , no , never .
catherine was greatly obliged ; but it was quite out of her power .
at first , if you had not told me that more wonderful things had happened ; that there had been
who were her parents , where she came from , and what had befallen her , for it was then
—am i unequal to speaking his name at once before all these people ?
how fond he was of it !
” emma would not agree to this , and began a warm defence of miss fairfax ' s complexion .
subject .
collins , of pride and prejudice , is true ; but we confess to a kindness for vulgar matchmaking mrs
of such a blessing , when luckily recollecting that as they were to reach the castle the next evening ,
colonel fitzwilliam had made it clear that he had no intentions at all , and agreeable as he was ,
notions and behaviour ; not likely to make the smallest difficulty about terms , only wanted a comfortable home ,
—no relationship !
you and i , emma , will venture to take the part of the poor husband .
have been long engaged elsewhere , and it will not be many weeks , i believe , before this engagement
elton— “i have perhaps given her a little more decision of character , have taught her to think on points
tell me then dear belle why i still sigh when i think of the faithless edward , or why i
which she very much feared her involuntary agitation , in their morning discourse , must have left at least doubtful
elton took a great fancy to jane fairfax ; and from the first .
length of the set as it was forming , and to feel that she had so many hours of unusual
every sunday , and preach such very good sermons in so good a manner as he does , without being
" — elinor could have given her immediate relief by suggesting the possibility of its being miss morton ' s
three months ago had seen her all this ; and now , how altered a being did she return !
” without attending to this , henry crawford continued his supplication .
want of it .
she could now meet edward ' s mother without that strong anxiety which had once promised to attend such an
grieved to the heart to see edmund ' s arrangements , was trying by everything in the power of her
a much later hour than the present .
never intended to go there , or to marry lydia at all , which was repeated to colonel f .
such as society produced , within a very narrow compass .
in which she could have no share , without shedding many tears .
very faithful counsel , and trusting that you will some time or other do me greater justice than you can
after a few minutes they stopped entirely .
he told her of horses which he had bought for a trifle and sold for incredible sums ; of racing
if it were love , it might be simple , single , successless love on her side alone .
they felt and they deplored—but they could not resent it ; and they parted , endeavouring to hope that such
off through another door—and the moment she was gone , this was the spontaneous burst of emma ' s feelings
, with which that road did not hold the most intimate connection .
but she hoped it might not .
dashed into the sea at once , and actually was all but gone , if he had not , with
“excuse my interference—it was kindly meant .
comfortable hopes , however , were given that he would find mr .
but stranger things have happened ; and when we cease to care for each other as we do now ,
” “aye , so we do .
dashwood was denied ; but before the carriage could turn from the house , her husband accidentally came out .
” “my advice , ” said mrs .
my liveliness and your solidity would produce perfection .
miss tilney ' s manners and henry ' s smile soon did away some of her unpleasant feelings ; but
backward to credit what was for the advantage of her family , or that came in the shape of a
" " about eighteen hundred or two thousand a year ; not more than that .
—but he had gone to a wrong place .
when a woman does marry again , than when she does not ; but sir walter ' s continuing in
miss bates , let emma help you to a little bit of tart—a very little bit .
her appointment preparing for happiness which it had not afforded .
his habits were worse , and his manners coarser , than she had been prepared for .
of either , but in using the words so improperly .
” said edmund , in a low voice , as his brother approached the fire .
well , and respected her a great deal more than their mother , she had an object of interest ,
” and now i may dismiss my heroine to the sleepless couch , which is the true heroine ' s
the heat he was suffering , and the walk he had had for nothing .
i have little heart for extensive improvements till i know that it will ever have a mistress .
, without even half a smile .
still was , but it must be applied to mansfield .
she could not have called it either cold or friendly , or anything so certainly as embarrassed .
jenkinson are most delightfully situated through my means ; and it was but the other day that i recommended another
" most grateful did elinor feel to lady middleton for observing , at this moment , " that it rained
had been .
so here he is to go away and enjoy himself , and because i am the poor mother , i
but the case is this : we are not rich enough or grand enough for them ; and she is
and i am sure she would be glad to get to a place where she could have medical attendance at
i am so extremely partial to as maple grove .
associations contributed to form .
even lady middleton took the trouble of being delighted , which was putting herself rather out of[ _num_ ] her
without the means of seeing what clergymen are , being at this present time the guest of my own brother
it for the first time from the lawn .
dead body of her husband accidentally passing that way .
schoolmaster , " were bent on introducing themselves , and seeking his acquaintance , as soon as they could hear
well read in the art of concealing a treasure , the possibility of false linings to the drawers did not
they have injured the finest mind ; for sometimes , fanny , i own to you , it does appear
she must be attached to you , or she would not have married you .
sir thomas was as joyful as she could desire , and very kind and communicative ; and she had so
the house where the bateses lodged , emma recollected his intended visit the day before , and asked him if
i am fond of history—and am very well contented to take the false with the true .
smallridge , a most delightful woman !
of the former , she spoke aloud her admiration ; and the general , with a very gracious countenance ,
the habit of seeing much occupation at home , could not conceal his amazement on finding them always employed .
it was only to ask elinor to marry him ; —and considering that he was not altogether inexperienced in such
elton was in continual raptures , and defended it through every criticism .
chiefly anxious to bind by the strongest securities all that remained to him of domestic felicity , he had pondered
she might not wonder , but she must sigh that her father should feel no degradation in his change ,
, without showing the smallest propensity towards any unpleasant vivacity , and (considering its inevitable pace was ten miles an
it is not likely that i should now see or hear any thing to change them .
when unattended to by any of the rest , whether all her sisters were at longbourn .
“how delighted miss darcy will be to receive such a letter !
” “and we mean to treat you all , ” added lydia , “but you must lend us the money
; for he , too , had heard of the living , and was very inquisitive on the subject .
of wimpole street ; the beautiful mrs .
we were both warm , and of course both to blame .
marianne said not a word .
knoll not half a mile off , which would give them exactly the requisite command of the house .
he must be gone within a few hours , though without feeling any real alarm for his aunt , to
one has seen her hardly able to speak the year before .
and anybody in england would take her for an eight-and-twenty .
darcy , and mr .
" " well , then , he is lately dead , marianne , for i am sure there was such
this was exactly what sir thomas and edmund had been separately conniving at , as each proved to the other
other quarter .
i am almost ashamed to make the request , though its presumption would certainly appear greater to every creature in
" " thank you , willoughby .
his mistress under his own roof ; and to this mrs .
have suffered the punishment of an attachment , without enjoying its advantages .
my own mother ' s jewels too !
we never heard of such things at maple grove .
i was afraid they might not ; and we overtook william goulding in his curricle , so i was determined
but in spite of all this fine talking , my dear lizzy , you may rest perfectly assured that your
i had no right to expect much , and i did not expect much ; but i had no idea
she had no doubt of what would ensue .
elton ; and harriet ' s mind , she had been willing to hope , had been lately gaining strength
at this very moment he is wild to see you , and occupied only in contriving the means for doing
little more of it .
” emma liked the subject so well , that she began upon it , to mrs .
too idle and nonsensical an idea to remain long on my mind , i do not feel very eager for
his new mother on the occasion .
she knew that what marianne and her mother conjectured one moment , they believed the next—that with them , to
, and there were few persons present that were not disposed to praise her .
—jane , jane , you will be a miserable creature .
it was just possible that she might have been persuaded by lady russell !
" elinor tried to talk of something else ; but miss steele could not be kept beyond a couple of
" she does not deserve your compassion .
” fanny left the room with a very sorrowful heart ; she could not feel the difference to be so
" " have you ever seen the lady ?
she was obliged to call herself to think of it , and acknowledge it to be terrible and grievous ,
, that though he must go to london , it was very much against his inclination that he left home
” “the right of a lively mind , fanny , seizing whatever may contribute to its own amusement or that
” i never shall forget the very witty answer i made to this speech .
darcy about it , if you had rather not .
it is what everybody says .
see and welcome edward ferrars .
a display of resentment ; it was anger on fanny ' s account ; he must get the better of
she certainly had not been in the wrong , and he would never own that he had .
elton himself , evidently coming towards it , and as they walked on slowly together in conversation about the invalid—of
have felt it too certain a thing , to trust myself near him .
health and spirits good .
when he heard of your coming with mamma ?
how i catch myself out !
cole approaching to entreat miss woodhouse would do them the honour of trying it .
feel at all ?
walking up that hill again would do her more harm than any sitting down could do her good ; "
happy instance of circumspection and tenderness .
his feelings than by giving his housekeeper directions that every attention might be paid to the sick lady and her
—and how often had her eyes fallen on the same shrubs in the lawn , and observed the same beautiful
” and for a little while she hoped he would not talk of it , and that a silent rumination
i am come here to bespeak fanny a seal .
a year come into the neighbourhood .
darcy looked up .
you may remember what i told you on that point , when first we talked of it .
willoughby certainly does not deserve to be suspected .
she could not even thank him .
” and “what will you have ?
and i do not know that there would be any good in going to the assembly , for i might
looked up to him as a superior .
might be , they always contrived to learn some from their aunt .
the subject elevated him to more than usual solemnity of manner , and with a most important aspect he protested
the happiest delineation of its varieties , the liveliest effusions of wit and humour , are conveyed to the world
attention her continual change of posture , and heard the frequent but inarticulate sounds of complaint which passed her lips
knightley , how could you possibly have heard it ?
” “his manners are very different from his cousin’s .
and then what could i do ?
will prove a valuable acquaintance , especially if lady catherine should be so indulgent as to let him come to
he is nothing to us , you know , and i am sure i never want to see him again
seemed each of them everything that would not suit the other .
” “i do not catch your meaning , ” said sir thomas , sitting down again .
every day .
by scotch and irish airs , at the request of her younger sisters , who , with some of the
advantageous as would be the alliance , and long standing and public as was the engagement , her happiness must
can i go anywhere for you , or with you ?
fell on anne .
how much civility on that lady’s side the acquaintance would now be renewed .
had he never owned his affection to yourself ?
my greatest danger , perhaps , in housekeeping , may be quite the other way , in doing too much
whom she had any influence , cast him off likewise .
her mother , however , could not stay long enough to suspect anything .
to the former her raillery was probably , as far as it regarded only himself , perfectly indifferent ; but
” “indeed , harriet , it would have been a severe pang to lose you ; but it must have
it crossed my mind immediately that you would not regret your friend ' s leaving highbury , for the sake
elegancies of life .
i should have feared , too , for her health , and for everything but her principles—there i believe she
lock , she resolved at all hazards to satisfy herself at least as to its contents .
his spirits often oppress me ; but there is something in him which i object to still more .
" elinor would not speak .
yes—the handsomest young lady that ever was seen ; and so accomplished !
everybody is taken in at some period or other .
—a pretty fortune ; and she came in his way .
increasing from their cousin ' s total want of it , they were soon able to take a full survey
fortunately for those who pay their court through such foibles , a fond mother , though , in pursuit of
churchill , having no children of their own , nor any other young creature of equal kindred to care for
they went to the library , therefore , and asked their father whether he would not wish them to make
she is a standing lesson of how to be happy .
would distract him .
on tuesday there was a large party assembled at longbourn ; and the two who were most anxiously expected ,
we had a vast deal to say .
crawford sure of her , and been delighted with his own sagacity .
darcy , on the contrary , had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no
i arrived last night about five , had scarcely swallowed my dinner when mainwaring made his appearance .
of having another daughter married to mr .
bennet was glad to take his guest into the drawing-room again , and , when tea was over , glad
" " certainly , ma ' am , " replied elinor , not hearing much of what she said ,
and in one of the most comfortable rooms in the abbey , especially prepared for him by a fire all
he did not understand her : he felt that he did not ; and therefore applied to edmund to tell
what probability is there of my ever tasting the dissipations of london , the luxuries of bath , or the
i am sure she saw me , but she looked away directly , and took no notice ; and they
" " oh , " cried marianne , " with what transporting sensation have i formerly seen them fall !
from his garden , mr .
longer with the admiral .
may hold up before twelve .
” “and how impossible in others !
though not quite so chatty .
you can send for us , you know , at a moment ' s notice , if anything is the
palmer ' s information respecting willoughby was not very material ; but any testimony in his favour , however small
at the crown who would not be denied ; he should have the honour , however , of waiting on
” here fanny , who had looked up , looked down again .
knightley must never marry .
of having sat up to have her bed made ; and carefully administering the cordials prescribed , saw her ,
” “yes , i know he does ; i saw him .
i , who have valued myself on my abilities !
the[ _num_ ] high downs which invited them from almost every window of the cottage to seek the exquisite enjoyment
and to acknowledge that it was all done very well .
wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse .
yes , only ten days ago had he elated her by his pointed regard—had he even confused her by his
” “i am not at all surprised , ” said miss crawford , after a short pause , “at this
before , the present arrangement was almost more than she could understand herself .
norris , “which are both very important considerations ; and it will be just the same to miss lee whether
that nothing really unexceptionable may pass us .
day , as they formed their very reduced circle after dinner ; and in consideration of fanny ' s swimming
” “it is a rule with me , that a person who can write a long letter with ease ,
but now—in short , she made herself as miserable as possible for about half an hour , went down when
vernon set off for london as soon as she had determined what should be done .
elton ' s side , there was no avoiding a knowledge of their principal subjects : the post-office—catching cold—fetching letters—and
no other man would have thought of it .
it was enough to give her general favour .
they might be divided in future , her mind might be always supported .
” “it will be no use to us , if twenty such should come , since you will not visit
so suddenly to be gone !
i shall not enter into particulars—they would only pain you more .
object before him , the nearest road to barton , had had no leisure to form any scheme of conduct
—let me know it all .
i could wish my father were more sensible of their very great attention to my mother and sisters while he
you will not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone .
of otherwise strong felicity .
” “the effect of education , ” said fanny gently .
“a man , ” said he , “must have a very good opinion of himself when he asks people to
and write so beautifully yourself .
an annuity is a very serious business ; it comes over and over every year , and there is no
in pursuit of the officers .
” “in marriage especially .
he can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his while .
in the king ' s service , of course ?
is there a man on earth who could have done it ?
“yes , yes , pray pass me , ” added her husband , with a sort of sneering consciousness ;
these difficulties , [ _num_ ] indeed , with a heart so alienated from lucy , might not press very
make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties of her situation in life .
scarcely a syllable was uttered that did not relate to the game , except when mrs .
poor from the extravagance of his wife , would have been unable to give him a gentleman’s education .
" " he certainly means to have one or other of those two girls , sophy , " said the
with such an anhalt , however , miss crawford had courage enough ; and they had got through half the
” “my dear , you do not understand me .
john loves emma with a reasonable and therefore not a blind affection , and isabella always thinks as he does
how well i remember what i was thinking of as i came along , and my looking in and seeing
i had gone a few steps , fanny , when i heard the door open behind me .
” “there , my dear , do you hear what edmund says ?
” “that is not an unnatural surmise , ” said fitzwilliam , “but it is a lessening of the honour
the extreme .
my fanny , indeed , at this very time , i have the satisfaction of knowing , must have been
with sincere compassion of his approaching disappointment ; for , in spite of what she had believed herself to overhear
but , perhaps , mr .
—he must tell her ; and miss bates being present , it passed , of course , to mrs .
was all attention to everybody .
you only mean , that he intends it .
; opening the door , however , with a most aching heart , and feeling that she had a more
their love of society , and their new dining-room , prepared every body for their keeping dinner-company ; and a
but the matter does not end here .
after walking two or three times along that part of the lane , she was tempted , by the pleasantness
” “you seem determined to think ill of him .
no banners , cousin , to be ' blown by the night wind of heaven .
in mrs .
i am amused by one part of john ' s letter—did you notice it ?
you are trying not to smile .
—no—my marianne has not a heart to be made happy with such a man !
henry and eleanor , perceiving nothing in her situation likely to engage their father ' s particular respect , had
own .
she played a great deal better than either of the miss musgroves , but having no voice , no knowledge
” it was , indeed , so odd ; harriet ' s behaviour was so extremely odd , that emma
i purposely abstain from dates on this occasion , that every one may be at liberty to fix their own
—you sad girl , how could you do such a thing ?
” he replied by asking her to make room for him , and talking of the play .
that is a great thing .
buildings , holborn , presented themselves again before their more grand relations in conduit and berkeley streets ; and were
to rosings he then hastened , to console lady catherine and her daughter ; and on his return brought back
it soon flies over the present failure , and begins to hope again .
his behaviour to her sister was such , during dinner time , as showed an admiration of her , which
if miss woodhouse would not be displeased , she would rather stay at home .
here and there to the absent sir thomas , to have leisure for watching the behaviour , or guarding the
" interposed mrs .
he smiled , looked handsome , and said many pretty things .
best to accept the miss musgroves ' much more cordial invitation to herself to go likewise , as she might
“i certainly must , ” said she .
it drew from her , however , the exertion of speaking , which nothing else had so effectually done before
have arisen from some peculiar circumstances—feelings rather of a totally different nature—it is impossible exactly to explain : —there is
and now i can tolerably comprehend his behaviour .
she saw it all with a clearness which had never blessed her before .
if she did not need counsel , she must need the comfort of communication .
before , and now thought only too becoming , she turned away for a moment to recover herself .
“my dear , dear lizzy , i would—i do congratulate you—but are you certain ?
had already been known to him .
—she had been extremely surprized , never more so , than when emma first opened the affair to her ;
she was all attention , however , in placing a chair for him , and trying to appear honoured ;
i believe he is a very gentleman-like man .
the balance had certainly been much in favour of lyme .
—one thing only .
nothing else , though pretending to listen to the others ?
i was the injured person , injured by her coldness , and i went away determined that she should make
beware of fainting-fits .
she must have felt the improper and dangerous distinction .
—i shall certainly have her very often at my house , shall introduce her wherever i can , shall have
as the blow was given , emma felt that she could not now shew greater kindness than in listening ;
remained alone with marianne .
darcy himself ; but , whenever she did catch a glimpse , she saw an expression of general complaisance ,
“if a woman can ever be excused for thinking only of herself , it is in a situation like jane
he did not want them to die of love ; but with sense and temper which ought to have made
but it was not a merely selfish caution , under which she acted , in putting an end to it
” “but how may it rise ?
he promised me the sight of a capital gun he is just going to send off ; said he would
weston said no more ; and emma could imagine with what surprize and mortification she must be returning to her
it did torture me .
” “well , i declare i never knew anything like you .
had she never brought harriet forward !
” “but , in spite of all her friends ' urgency , and her own wish of seeing ireland ,
a word .
how do you all do ?
woodhouse little suspected what was plotting against him in the breast of that man whom he was so cordially welcoming
" mr elliot was not disappointed in the interest he hoped to raise .
john knightley too well—i am very sure he understands the value of friendship as well as any body .
i thought it coming on before our acquaintance ceased , but it is now a confirmed feeling .
get sober and cool , and the other recover his temper and happiness when this visit of hardship were over
emma learned to be rather glad that there had been such a meeting .
thorpe so earnestly to stop ; i called out to him as soon as ever i saw you ; now
flatter myself that she will not remain long enough at school to understand anything thoroughly .
think we could not chuse worse .
he had left the country in consequence .
how much i am obliged to you ; and when you have finished udolpho , we will read the italian
bingley is coming down , sister , ” (for mrs .
i depend on you for that .
when shall you be ready ?
his father , miss bennet , the late mr .
: but it must all be done without my care .
; and has the best intentions of doing nothing all the rest of his days but eat , drink ,
to stay " 	 _num_ " i was formally dismissed " 	 _num_ " i have entered many a shop
she had that to communicate which might again unsettle the mind of marianne , and ruin at least for a
as towards mr .
but i shall not scruple to assert , that the serenity of your sister’s countenance and air was such as
beauty that grows on one .
you will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that young lady , whose bright eyes
had she found jane in any apparent danger , mrs .
soon as the smallest opening was given for their exercise , reconciled mrs .
i am sure i almost broke my back by cutting it out .
how are your absent cousins to understand the tenour of your life in bath without one ?
certainly no right to concern yourself in mine .
strange that there should be no record of the effect produced , seeing that , as already stated , the
" " no , " replied elinor , " her opinions are all romantic .
when any two young people take it into their heads to marry , they are pretty sure by perseverance to
elizabeth found him extremely agreeable , and every plan in his favour was confirmed .
you will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty , or for resisting every repetition to it
“to me , the sound of mr .
—as for jane fairfax , she might at least relieve her feelings from any present solicitude on her account .
” “a man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant decorums which other people may observe .
your resolution , or rather your expectation of never marrying , results from an idea that the person whom you
—how should i ever have borne it !
out with voice and hand eager to shew a difference ; but it was just too late .
in and spirits dancing in private rapture .
what a strange thing love is !
” yes , good man !
elton had retreated into the card-room , looking (emma trusted) very foolish .
be an end .
“a man who has once been refused !
' tis nothing .
—oh , my dear lizzy !
reader ' s mind , from what other historians have written of her , i shall proceed to mention the
wore a blue coat , and rode a black horse .
" " i see mr .
they are coming for me perhaps—but i shall not go—i cannot go indeed , for you know miss tilney may
“i have , upon my soul .
mistaken youth !
i could not be cordial in my invitation , but if she chuses to come no want of cordiality on
i have been silent from surprize merely , excessive surprize .
the respect created by the conviction of his valuable qualities , though at first unwillingly admitted , had for some
her conversation was the last of his wants , produced such a confusion of varying , but very painful agitation
pleasant , good-humoured , unaffected girls .
lady susan ' s maternal fears were then too much awakened for her to think of anything but frederica '
you have only knowledge enough of the language to translate at sight these inverted , transposed , curtailed italian lines
be done for lydia , her uncle’s interference seemed of the utmost importance , and till he entered the room
, it became for a considerable stretch very retired ; and when the young ladies had advanced some way into
now rose to a pitch almost unpleasant .
” “as to your foolishness and awkwardness , my dear fanny , believe me , you never have a shadow
say , " had been anne ' s reply , in all the confusion that was natural ; and if
the estate near aberdeen which my brother possesses by the bounty of his great uncle independant of sir george ,
elinor found , when the evening was over , that disposition is not materially altered by a change of abode
" shall we see you tomorrow to dinner ?
without a companion in uneasiness ; quite as far from having no demand on her leisure as on her compassion
never certainly were there before so many detestable characters at one time in england as in this period of its
their journey was safely performed .
heard the last two minutes , “if i must speak on this subject , there is no denying that mr
to no creature had it been revealed , where secrecy was possible , except to elizabeth ; and from all
a pedantic air and conceited manner , which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than she had reached
leave me , and go to him .
” “among admirals , large enough ; but , ” with an air of grandeur , “we know very little
i wonder what will become of her !
goddard ' s school was in high repute—and very deservedly ; for highbury was reckoned a particularly healthy spot :
all conversation , and was too much engrossed by his thoughts to perceive that sir william lucas was his neighbour
from his house .
share in anything that brought cheerfulness to the young people in general , and that did so particularly promote the
he had not been at donwell for two years .
yet he knew to the contrary himself .
there seemed a general diffusion of cheerfulness on the occasion .
but as soon as i once found myself safely arrived in the inside of this tremendous building , i comforted
bennet , i am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally bad , or she could not
it is so with some men .
is not very probable there .
, she really believed , would scarcely try to conceal any thing relative to the churchills from her , excepting
it is a great change ; and though she is amazingly fortunate—such a situation , i suppose , as no
now you see it is all gone .
no , never .
cannot you guess what this parcel holds ?
she hoped no one could have said to her , “how could you be so unfeeling to your father ?
having stayed in derbyshire , so often , and in so hurried a way , as plainly spoke the distraction
let me plead for my--present friend i cannot call him , but for my former friend .
i need not tell you how much i miss him , how perpetually he is in my thoughts .
" " a dance !
there is something much more pleasing in his countenance .
we soon saw through his character .
—very wrong , very wrong indeed .
his aunt could not bear to have him leave her .
what i might say .
" " merely gowland , " he supposed .
charlotte who is just sixteen is shorter than her sister , and though her figure cannot boast the easy dignity
dislike of mr .
, i think , who must have felt it : miss fairfax herself .
you have my thoughts exactly as they arise , my dear fanny ; perhaps they are sometimes contradictory , but
, without attempting it through her .
were alienated from each other ; and julia was not superior to the hope of some distressing end to the
as soon as he got to town .
in return for such services she loved him better than anybody in the world except william : her heart was
” “do not you think , ” said fanny , after a little consideration , “that this impropriety is a
“then , my dear isabella , it is the most extraordinary sort of thing in the world , for in
; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption , she soon learnt that his resolution of following her
probability he was already in town .
there ' s the sting .
but marianne abhorred all concealment where no[ _num_ ] real disgrace could attend unreserve ; and to aim at the
it seems to join the billiard-room on purpose .
he might even have been made amiable himself ; for he was very young when he married , and very
allen , by whom he was very civilly acknowledged .
they must keep as much together as they could ; ” and james was talked to , and given a
his appearance however was not unpleasing , in spite of his being in the opinion of marianne and margaret an
but so they always are .
long letters from her , quickly succeeding each other , arrived to tell all that she suffered and thought ;
“we may as well leave them by themselves you know ; ” said her mother , as soon as she
perhaps other people have said so before , but not one with such justice .
dear , sweet louisa !
" at these words , marianne ' s eyes expressed the astonishment which her lips could not utter .
weston had received .
but it was a matter of great consolation to her , that what[ _num_ ] brought evil to herself would
where i go is of no consequence to anyone ; of very little to myself ; but you are of
the scenes in its neighbourhood , charmouth , with its high grounds and extensive sweeps of country , and still
you must have known , that while you were enjoying yourself in devonshire pursuing fresh schemes , always gay ,
—“you are silent , ” he cried , with great animation ; “absolutely silent !
my poor father !
” she found that she was to receive no other answer , and , after a short pause added :
everybody was growing weary of indecision , and the first idea with everybody was , that nothing had been proposed
, was much beyond her daily reach ; and many a long october and november evening must be struggled through
” “have not you mistaken the day ?
been edward ' s gift ; but a correspondence between them by letter , could subsist only under a positive
i perfectly understand your situation , however , miss woodhouse—(looking towards mr .
to be done to the basket , that it must be impossible i think for her labour singly , to
make much of a little , are more taken in and deceived than the parties themselves .
left the country .
" edward started .
beg to return my sincere acknowledgments .
crawford , though agreeing in nothing else , were united in affection for these children , or , at least
bennet himself , while his wife seriously commended mr .
the want of proper families in the place , and the conviction that none beyond the place and its immediate
, unfortunately , among the failures which the daughter had to instance , the most recent , and therefore most
“now he has got my letter , ” said she softly .
one of them .
for the purity of her intentions she could answer ; and she was willing to hope , secondly , that
we both wish very much to know whether lady lesley is handsome and what is your opinion of her ;
as to his ever making anything tolerable of them , nobody had the smallest idea of that except his mother
i will prove myself a man , no less by the generosity of my soul than the clearness of my
think i hear mary going to the door .
may as well make miss morland understand yourself—unless you mean to have her think you intolerably rude to your sister
; his expressions were those of an attached father , and a sensible man ; his loud tones did very
note ; it was then folded up , sealed , and directed with eager rapidity .
in the present case it took up ten minutes to determine whether the boy were most like his father or
of this she was perfectly unaware ; to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable nowhere ,
thomas hardy has termed ' life ' s little ironies ' in miss austen ' s disposal of the two
, almost as imprudent in her eyes as the first .
" she had wandered away to a subject on which elinor had nothing to say , and therefore soon judged
weston was giving some information about his son ; she heard the words “my son , ” and “frank ,
also the highest opinion of him , and hoping the church would be his profession , intended to provide for
— ' oh , ' said he , ' wait half a minute , till i have finished my job
i wonder what it can be !
ladies .
allen to accompany her husband to the pump-room ; he accordingly set off by himself , and catherine had barely
only look at her .
by a former marriage , mr .
now , here are my sister price ' s children ; take them all together , i dare say nobody
genuine satisfaction .
when they had gained their own room , jane , taking out the letter , said : “this is from
you , who have been hearing and seeing so much of late on these subjects , who must have been
” “take whatever you like , and get away .
upon this conviction , she would not be surprised if even in henry and eleanor tilney , some slight imperfection
for it shall be attended to .
even her wishes in the flattering measures by which their intimacy was to be continued .
with an agitated , hurried look , announcing something extraordinary to have happened which she was longing to tell .
catherine meanwhile—the anxious , agitated , happy , feverish catherine—said not a word ; but her glowing cheek and brightened
the same affection which once she had felt no doubt of inspiring ; but hitherto the continuance of his preference
this would be the way to fanny ' s heart .
” “never !
was to comprise all the remaining dues of the musgroves .
" here i concluded , and i hope you will be satisfied with my speech .
, as much to mrs .
again and again , and hoping to be so much the longer with fanny , was very gratefully disposed to
" " the colonel is a ninny , my dear ; because he has two thousand a-year himself , he
gilbert .
when they stopped at the door , mrs .
” her representation of her cousin ' s state at this time was exactly according to her own belief of
i hate the idea of one great fortune looking out for another .
norris , ” observed sir thomas , “as to the distinction proper to be made between the girls as they
complete a delusion as any of her own—that harriet was nothing ; that she was every thing herself ; that
to almost everything .
but i must tell you another thing of fanny , so odd and so stupid .
of his coming no more to netherfield the whole winter ; a report which highly incensed mrs .
did nothing , resolution must do all , soon found herself leading to the fact .
as to its acceptance , but elizabeth had turned away her head .
away without making her any reply !
more equal degree of strong interest .
scandals to their country and their sex as to allow and assist their queen in confining for the space of
—i shall do very well again after a little while—and then , it will be a good thing over ;
not speak to me ; i would not even look at him .
my mother ' s room you know .
to all the objections i have already urged , i have still another to add .
the four succeeding years—years , which if rationally spent , give such improvement to the understanding , must have opened
but i confess they would have no charms for me—i should infinitely prefer a book .
an introduction at all desirable .
support and advancement ; and accordingly the reply to her reply , fixing a very early day for his arrival
be glad to dispose of myself .
a pause of alarm followed his disappearance .
in general very plain , and catherine , for many years of her life , as plain as any .
his avoiding her was quite at an end .
no such thing .
wickham wrote to inform me that , having finally resolved against taking orders , he hoped i should not think
i am sure there is nobody ' s praise that could give us so much pleasure as miss woodhouse '
' ” “not for the world , ” said emma , smiling graciously , “would i advise you either way
she had also asked him twice to dine at rosings , and had sent for him only the saturday before
cole had many to agree with her ; every body who spoke on the subject was equally convinced that it
condescension , expressed what she felt on the occasion ; when it became apparent , that on the score of
—i beg you will not let your neighbours follow your example .
she had seen before ; and she would not allow herself to shew half the displeasure she felt , because
servant frightening one by coming in with a faggot !
in about a quarter of an hour her uncle returned ; she was almost ready to faint at the sight
daughter so well in all her hours of companionship , utility , and patient endurance as when he first hailed
” this was obliged to be repeated before it could be believed ; and mr .
better as the happier for the descent .
my dearest anne , it would give me more delight than is often felt at my time of life !
certainly , " was his daughter ' s ; but sir walter ' s remark was , soon afterwards-- "
let me congratulate you , my dearest mother !
they said he was sensible , well-informed , and agreable ; we did not pretend to judge of such trifles
to ease her mind , and ascertain by the opinion of an unprejudiced person what her own conduct had really
mind into submission as to be very tolerably cheerful again .
as we were deploring our unhappy fate , the door of the apartment opened and “macdonald” was announced .
jane desired me to do it , so i always do : and so i began to-day with my usual
her disposition and abilities were equally worthy of all that friendship could do ; and at eighteen or nineteen she
” and “my son , ” repeated several times over ; and , from a few other half-syllables very much
” were questions following each other rapidly .
” but here there was nothing to be shifted off in a wild speculation on the future .
” said john knightley .
—(harriet could not recall it without a blush .
” “don ' t class us together , harriet .
, she burst into tears and left the room .
mother ' s consent .
fifty thousand pounds !
you and all whom i love .
, he very far exceeds any thing .
you ; that he had a delightful walk with you to the dockyard last saturday , and one still more
superintending and directing the dinner , and therefore while i can get any of my acquaintance to marry for me
reasonable hope of her being ridiculous , and despised by every man who sees her .
on the table proved a novelty to them .
he behaved very genteelly , and paid ten or twelve shillings more than we did .
which he had then held the reins , and the singular discernment and dexterity with which he had directed his
they are young in the ways of the world , and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that handsome
—i feel that i should certainly have been impertinent .
her child to the housekeeper	 _num_ the gardener ' s lamentations	 _num_ opened a window-shutter	 _num_ " i entreat you
park family which was increasing in value to him every day .
and publishes in a volume some dozen lines of milton , pope , and prior , with a paper from
at him , would have been decisive .
the last day on which his existence could be continued without the possession of the toothpick-case , drew on his
circumstances were to happen again , i am sure i should be deceived again .
what was wrong in the other , she thought herself at liberty to attend to the interest of her own
crawford ' s character in that point .
would altogether be advisable for you to have them now frequently staying with you , for as colonel brandon seems
at present to any body else .
the party drove off in very good spirits ; sir walter prepared with condescending bows for all the afflicted tenantry
” “exactly—the very same .
she had not time to be miserable .
—to congratulate myself on the hope of relations , whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own ?
the cold , however , was severe ; and by the time the second carriage was in motion , a
the discovery of it laid him open to his mother ' s anger , had been a continual source of
the line of conduct he pursued .
i was a kinder friend than you deserved .
shade , you know .
as to that , when a man has once made up his mind to such a thing , somehow or
as with one , idleness was pronounced on the whole to be most advantageous and honourable , and a young
low phaeton at the garden gate .
must prove a far more worthy companion than himself ; and after a time the two officers seemed very well
, certainly very cold , ” and walked on , rejoicing in having extricated him from randalls , and secured
i will do my best with the greatest readiness ; but i must read the part , for i can
some portion of respect for herself , however , in spite of all these demerits—some concern for her own appearance
dashwood , " is my dear prudent elinor going to suggest ?
you think ?
by the end of eleven years , however , mrs .
” with silent indignation fanny repeated to herself , “never happier !
then they will have a child every year !
campbell could not oppose such a resolution , though their feelings did .
—we were all his friends , and lucy has been the longest known to him of any .
harris , who attended her every day , still talked boldly of a speedy recovery , and miss dashwood was
[ _num_ ] " everything in such respectable condition " " everything in such respectable condition " the whole of
on the subject , but that i am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate .
" " you would not have gone , however , " said elinor , recovering herself , and determined to
this , on his side , might merely proceed from her not being thought of ; but emma was rather
her mind was in too much confusion .
he laughed , and added , “come , shall i make you understand each other , or leave you to
eight .
whisper , — " i may assure you ; and i will do it , because i know it must
our part of london is very superior to most others !
with her .
the wind was despoiling , and the length of the day , which only made such cruel sights the longer
care for , how was it possible for even her activity to keep pace with her wishes ?
but by g— , you lost a fine sight by not being here in the morning to see the thrush
she really felt assured of his worth : and even that quietness of manner , which militated against all her
" " yes , why should i stay here ?
she goes into the warm bath to-morrow , and for the rest of the week , you know , we
” “to be sure !
pray send me some news of the latter—i am quite unhappy about him ; he seemed so uncomfortable when he
, unmanageable days often volunteer , for soon after breakfast a very friendly note was brought from mr .
and perfectly compatible with the profession of a clergyman .
" hum " —said mrs .
on which the pen of the contriver may well delight to dwell ; it gives credit to every conclusion ,
i am sure julia does not , or she would not have flirted as she did last night with mr
that he should never have been able to indulge so amiable a feeling before , passed suspiciously through emma '
i am convinced that it will add very greatly to my happiness ; and thirdly—which perhaps i ought to have
or put edmund bertram sufficiently out of her head .
say and know .
it is now half after one ; we drove out of the inn-yard at tetbury as the town clock struck
recently struck me , your kind impressions in her favour will , i am sure , be heightened .
absorbed attention , while her brother was describing any of the imminent hazards , or terrific scenes , which such
a chair .
” “what is it you mean ?
the sentiment was little other than her own breast had harboured and fancied liberal !
niece , to prepare her briefly for its being imparted to her aunts ; a measure which he would still
when they came to converse , she was soon sensible of some mental change .
able and willing to assist him in the army .
lydia , my love , though you are the youngest , i dare say mr .
weston ; but not all that either could say could prevent some renewal of alarm at the sight of the
her own emotions still kept her fixed .
, was ever heard ; all proceeded in a regular course of cheerful orderliness ; everybody had their due importance
fanny , fanny , i see you smile and look cunning , but , upon my honour , i never
of improbable circumstances , unnatural characters , and topics of conversation which no longer concern anyone living ; and their
miss bertram was the one .
keep our promise of spending our christmas with you ; and we are prevented that happiness by a circumstance which
” “what is the matter ?
forster .
knows a decline is apprehended ; he saw her this morning : she returns to wimpole street to-day ; the
, and desired to know by what he was impelled , and by whom commissioned , to reprimand me .
she seemed to take no pains to prevent that affection from ever diminushing .
” emma soon recollected , and understood him ; and while she joined in the laugh , it was evident
, it did not appear that she was at all harriet ' s superior .
snows a little i see .
you only go and sit up in an old yew arbour behind the house , you may see all the
the progress and close of their attachment , fancying interesting dialogues , and inventing elegant letters ; the conclusion of
” “but every thing of that kind , ” said emma , “will soon be in so regular a train—”
sort of people as ever lived , and who have been your neighbours these ten years .
and be happy without the miss bertrams , as if he had never known mansfield in any other state .
my house with some orders for nanny , ” said she , “which i have since , to my very
norris thought with greater satisfaction of their benevolent plan ; and it was pretty soon decided between them that ,
“my dearest creature , ” cried isabella , to whom the duty of friendship immediately called her before she could
crawford , we are infinitely obliged to you !
when the general had satisfied his own curiosity , in a close examination of every well-known ornament , they proceeded
do not think i ever shall .
it is a nice long walk , and mr .
to be open and sincere , and assured her that every inconvenience should be braved , and the connexion entirely
she had dressed with more than usual care , and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all
they were always perfectly agreed in the want of more money , and a strong inclination for a handsome present
norris will be as good for your mind as riding has been for your health , and as much for
palmer rose also , laid down the newspaper , stretched himself and looked at them all around .
then covering her face with her handkerchief , almost screamed with agony .
dashwood , as they were at breakfast the last morning , " you would be a happier man if you
now he had no fortune , and no nothing at all , it would be quite unkind to keep her
rushworth , not all mr .
more indisposed , colonel brandon was only astonished at her sister ' s composure , who , though attending and
which produced it .
longing and dreading to see how they would perform .
” “you are as bad as your brother , mary ; but we will cure you both .
knightley , instead of being immediately off likewise , sat down again , seemingly inclined for more chat .
it is no difficulty to see who you take after !
“well , ” said he , “if you really think i had better go : it would be foolish to
my father was not only fond of this young man’s society , whose manners were always engaging ; he had
london again within a month , and as that left too short a period for them to go so far
in every view , as one of the most extraordinary and unaccountable circumstances she had ever heard .
to make a degrading match , but he might be rendered unhappy .
school , pert and familiar ; that all her notions were drawn from one set of people , and one
it was really expected to be a good one , and captain wentworth was very fond of music .
her days were spent in a kind of slow bustle ; all was busy without getting on , always behindhand
with so much attention in the whole course of his life .
” another song , however , was soon begged for .
been ever since in my own dressing-room writing to you .
i never feel for those of an other .
, and throwing your dressing-gown around you , proceed to examine this mystery .
" you sent me such a good account of yourself on thursday !
the country round lyme is very fine .
; and she soon discovered in his melancholy eye and varying complexion as he looked at her sister , the
to her , with a smile ; a look ; a shake of the head ; a word or two
i should not have thought it possible you could forget what passed in this very room about court-plaister , one
he knew her to be clever , to have a quick apprehension as well as good sense , and a
in pursuit of the two young men .
elizabeth listened as little as she could , but there was no escaping the frequent mention of wickham’s name .
his terms are five guineas a day .
crawford allowed himself in gallantries which did mean nothing .
it may not be unnecessary before i entirely conclude my account of this ill-fated queen , to observe that she
she might talk on ; and if he wanted to say any thing himself , he would only talk louder
own sensibility .
employment to watch the proceedings of these alarming young men .
, you would have acknowledged it to lady catherine , frankly and openly .
outweighs every other .
” “where any one body of educated men , of whatever denomination , are condemned indiscriminately , there must be
i want to be told whether i ought , or ought not , to make our acquaintances in general understand
” “you are quite right .
chapter xviii elinor saw , with great uneasiness the low spirits of her friend .
to her she was most injudiciously indulgent .
at first it was downright dulness to emma .
though much might be fancy , he could not doubt , when he looked back , that she was in
he was on foot , and after looking very respectfully at her , looked with most unfeigned satisfaction at her
" " nay , mamma , if he is not to be animated by cowper !
be removed from society so little pleasing to either , to all the comfort and elegance of their family party
returning home .
a face once taken was taken for generations .
gardiner , “there is no absolute proof that they are not gone to scotland .
a whole evening of back-gammon with her father , was felicity to it .
you do not know how dry the path is to my house .
allen had the use of for her plants in winter , and there was a fire in it now and
anything like it , has been advanced .
ballroom , whispering to each other whenever a thought occurred , and supplying the place of many ideas by a
after what had passed to wound and alienate the two families , the continuance of the bertrams and grants in
she would henceforth admit his attentions without any idea beyond immediate amusement .
too small for anybody ' s comfort .
” “if i can come again , we are still to have our ball .
for , or if he had talked more of one lady than another , or seemed in any respect less
i will not stay to rob myself of all your compassionate good-will , by showing that where i have most
afraid it cannot take place very soon .
last monday se ' night matilda and i accompanied lady lesley to a rout at the honourable mrs kickabout '
when have you been prevented by want of money from going wherever you chose , or procuring anything you had
that it was nothing in the world but the red gum , and then charlotte was easy .
a very smart beau .
can have no objection to anything that you all think eligible .
captain benwick is very well , i believe , but he is a very odd young man .
her store-room , she thought , might have been good enough for mrs .
dashing young captains whom you disdain for his sake .
when in comparison with those before alledged in her favour .
there were great vexations , however , attending such a garden as his .
” “could colonel forster repeat the particulars of lydia’s note to his wife ?
not know that he has any serious encouragement .
nothing could now be clearer than the absurdity of her recent fancies .
fanny ' s gratitude , when she heard the plan , was , in fact , much greater than her
it was all read , however , steadily , attentively , and without the smallest remark ; and , excepting
talents , which , rightly used , might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters , even if
, and such timber !
rushworth must and would improve in good society ; and if maria could now speak so securely of her happiness
to be looked at ; and the pump-room to be attended , where they paraded up and down for an
of her ever getting him now .
it was there , it was on that day , that the general had made use of such expressions with
” “nobody can think better of mr .
i cannot help fancying that she is growing partial to my brother .
remains of a white frost , turned back ; and while sir william accompanied him , charlotte took her sister
rushworth liked the idea of his finery very well , though affecting to despise it ; and was too much
i know mr .
the earliest assurance of it , and after making his bow as the carriage turned into the park , hurried
it was certainly carried nearly as far as possible , for they met every morning , and hardly ever spent
i am returned to mansfield in a less assured state than when i left it .
remembrances behind her , there might have been danger of his learning almost to approve the evil which produced such
i should have had no confidence , no esteem .
she was not much deceived as to her own skill either as an artist or a musician , but she
entertained the highest opinion of him .
with a faint blush , she presently replied , “such attentions as mrs .
when you had the presence of mind to suggest that benwick would be the properest person to fetch a surgeon
frank churchill turned towards her to listen .
" here ceased the rapid flow of her self-reproving spirit ; and elinor , impatient to soothe , though too
for , mrs .
his setting off in such a hurry seems very like it .
he could allow his sister to be the best judge of her own happiness , but he was not pleased
allen , in a family of children ; and when she expatiated on the talents of her sons , and
she generally thought he would come , because she generally thought he ought ; but it was a case which
after i had sent off my letter to you , i went to mr .
the indecorum of which she must be as insensible as herself ; for she considered that isabella might otherwise perhaps
she felt how unprofitable contention would be .
, saw them preparing to go as she quitted the room herself to perform the dreadful duty of appearing before
recommend ; though he might constrain himself , while the ladies were comfortably clearing the nicer things , to say
for some weeks past she had been spending more than half her time there , and gradually getting to have
in silence .
the dining parlour will admit eighteen couple with ease ; card-tables may be placed in the drawing-room ; the library
i have formed my plan , and am determined to enter on a course of serious study .
—but it is a pleasure to me to admire him at a distance—and to think of his infinite superiority to
upon a week ' s previous inactivity .
—dear miss woodhouse , i would not give up the pleasure and honour of being intimate with you for any
" [ _num_ ] chapter x marianne ' s preserver , as margaret , with more elegance than precision ,
what formidable obstacle is she now to bring forward ?
i know we agreed never to name him—but considering how infinitely superior he is to every body else , i
but as to your other objection , i am afraid it will hardly hold good .
were together , and feeling it to be the most probable thing in the world to be wished for by
but these , i suppose , are precisely what you are without .
how can you say so ?
and she knew quite as well how to save her own as to spend that of her friends .
and happiness again , and promised their father another letter of thanks .
that infamous letter ?
no disguise .
“do not you think he would ?
the prospect of four thousand a-year , in addition to his present income , besides the remaining half of his
depend upon it , your aunt can do very well without you , or you would not be allowed to
the happiness anticipated by catherine and lydia depended less on any single event , or any particular person , for
elinor ' s side , the same impetuous feelings and varying opinions on marianne ' s , as before .
” “your list of the common extent of accomplishments , ” said darcy , “has too much truth .
emma had never been to box hill ; she wished to see what every body found so well worth seeing
what wickham had said of the living was fresh in her memory , and as she recalled his very words
word , especially to miss darcy , without calling her attention .
; but her pride is arrogance and insolence !
darcy then consider the rashness of your original intentions as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it ?
to her , as well in her hopes as her fear ; and after talking with her in this manner
as to the name of the man on who all my happiness depends .
” said jane , shaking her head ; “dear mrs .
, founded on margaret ' s instructions , extended .
two hours after she had first suffered the extinction of all her dearest hopes , no one would have supposed
small limits of the society around them .
i am not one of those who have witty things at every body ' s service .
—i never can call you any thing but ' mr .
he seems every thing the fondest parent could .
i can recall nothing worse .
, determined to see their brother and mr .
which you will make your own reflections .
woodhouse—“yes , certainly—i cannot deny that mrs .
as lady greville was extremely angry with me , she took no further notice of me all the evening ,
chapter ii jane fairfax was an orphan , the only child of mrs .
bennet said only , “nonsense , nonsense !
darcy professed a great curiosity to see the view from the mount , and elizabeth silently consented .
her looks say , ' i will not like you , i am determined not to like you ' ;
the wedding was very much like other weddings , where the parties have no taste for finery or parade ;
mrs clay has been using it at my recommendation , and you see what it has done for her .
“well , ” said she to herself , “this is most strange !
it is the greatest amusement in the world !
come into my head , for bringing matters to bear ; indeed i am bound to let you into the
she was looked at , however , and with some admiration ; for , in her own hearing , two
but the merit of the curricle did not all belong to the horses ; henry drove so well—so quietly—without making
darcy acknowledged , that the partridges were remarkably well done ; and i suppose he has two or three french
back her own mind to what she thought must interest .
" " i insist on you hearing the whole of it , " he replied , " my fortune was
mary , too , was growing calmer .
“there has been many a one , i fancy , overcome in the same way .
perplexities , and pleasures of her father and herself .
say he would have liked it of all things .
town , as he was careful to avoid the appearance of any attention to his mother-in-law , and therefore never
this was against her ; but on the other hand , he spent so much of his time at uppercross
idea of her anger distress you .
not married , and have no design of marrying , do not let us give the matter over as lost
their tendency is gross and illiberal ; and if their construction could ever be deemed clever , time has long
if their evenings at the park were concluded with cards , he cheated himself and all the rest of the
" he agreed that he might .
; but anne had never found an evening shorter .
you really have done your hair in a more heavenly style than ever ; you mischievous creature , do you
" " are you serious ?
the expectation of seeing her , however , was enough to make her interested in the engagement ; for though
she was married—married against her inclination to my brother .
she was received , however , very politely by them ; and in their brother’s manners there was something better
bennet , for anything about the entail .
i am sorry it is so , for what is this but deceit ?
sir thomas received mr .
what mr .
william was required to be at portsmouth on the _num_ th ; the _num_ nd would therefore be the last
such an openness and gentleness in his manner !
directly to miss bates , to assure her that the carriage would be at her service before it took us
i was almost afraid you would be hurrying home .
or more witty girls , than we are ; not an hour in the day hangs heavy on our hands
and kindness , her counsel and her patience , as from her purse .
it is a very fair match , as times go ; and i have liked charles hayter all my life
yet it did , and even a third .
darcy may perhaps have heard of such a place as gracechurch street , but he would hardly think a month’s
be ; talking only of himself and his own concerns—expecting to be congratulated—ready to be laughed at—and , with cordial
how altered now !
robert martin , of abbey-mill farm .
evening before i came home .
the regard i bear your own dear children , nor consider her , in any respect , so much my
in his hand-writing .
nothing could do away the knowledge of what the latter had suffered through his means , nor remove the guilt
dear , kingston—are you ?
i do mix in other society , it will be only to show that my spirit is humbled , my
—however , now i will destroy it all—and it is my particular wish to do it in your presence ,
umbrella .
in a low , cautious voice , he said : -- " i have been considering what we had best
it less amazing that the same soil and the same sun should nurture plants differing in the first rule and
all my difficulties .
she would have been too happy but for poor harriet ; but every blessing of her own seemed to involve
sir thomas bertram had interest , which , from principle as well as pride—from a general wish of doing right
had once closed the page and turned away exactly as he wanted help .
but the feelings which made such composure a disgrace , left her in no danger of incurring it .
' —that is unpardonable .
expecting the carriage to be sent for you .
had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her .
it is having too much of a good thing .
hatfield , but without any success—no such people had been seen to pass through .
—it must be the same party , you know , quite the same party , not one exception .
fanny has a great desire to see sotherton .
knightley for that purpose .
i am sure she would rather not come ; she cannot feel easy with us .
morland than i do , i am sure .
i do not think they were .
--she believed , in short , what anne did not believe .
i would assist any brother officer ' s wife that i could , and i would bring anything of harville
had she time to inform catherine of there being two open carriages at the door , in the first only
and miss crawford were mentioned in my last letters from mansfield .
of them for a moment—except just his asking me to dance the first day of his coming .
without that attraction , not all her money would have tempted elliot , and sir walter was , moreover ,
peals of thunder so loud as to seem to shake the edifice to its foundation will roll round the neighbouring
jennings , with a very intelligent " ah !
goddard ; and emma should write a line , and invite her .
catherine .
could not be far off , and here it is , only just under my huswife—and since you are so
all the commendation which they civilly bestowed on each other , as wickham and another officer walked back with them
ii lady susan vernon to mrs .
is my idea of him .
” “my dear madam , ” replied he , “let us be for ever silent on this point .
she determined to call upon them and seek safety in numbers .
the dignity of sophia was wounded ; “wretch (exclaimed she , hastily replacing the bank-note in the drawer) how darest
marianne stretched on the bed , almost choked by grief , one letter in her hand , and two or
sir thomas could not but observe with complacency , even before edmund had pointed it out to him .
thought she could so pack it as to ensure its safety without much incommoding him , while he seemed mostly
thorpe herself , of her past adventures and sufferings , which might otherwise be expected to occupy the three or
weston ?
conformity of judgment in all that[ _num_ ] related to either .
twelve years were gone since they had parted , and each presented a somewhat different person from what the other
he would mention no names now ; but such , he could assure her , had been the fact .
" no , " replied lucy , " not to mr .
next to your happiness , fanny , his has the first claim on me .
” “very true , sister , as you say .
thing uncommon—now we have killed a porker , and emma thinks of sending them a loin or a leg ;
lest she might die under the cure .
cruel persecutions of obstinate fathers , surely it must be at such a time of life .
norris , “and be sensible of her uncommon good fortune in having such friends .
” and not all that could be urged to detain her succeeded .
least tilney told me so at the time , and said every eye was upon me ; but he is
—how are they , sir ?
you know i have .
i wish you knew miss andrews , you would be delighted with her .
then ; and how welcome were the sounds !
the prudence of her eldest daughter , whose steadier judgment rejected several houses as too large for their income ,
the arrangement .
; and when she stoops to be disagreeable , it is equally to be recommended as a clearer of ill-fame
—from yorkshire , i think .
and it was but half an hour before he left bath that you gave him the most positive encouragement .
you desire to see .
apologising if he thought he won too many .
of ancient oaks , with the last beams of the sun playing in beautiful splendour on its high gothic windows
at least an equal claim with any other set of men , for all the comforts and all the privileges
of incurring , the reproach of being too amiable , edward was admitted to her presence , and pronounced to
urgent in requesting to hear the glee again .
” you will think this a good dash of mine my dear mary , but you know that i am
—depend upon it he will be here by three , ” was mr .
was so , by that which only could convince her , a better knowledge of mankind .
they passed some months in great happiness at dawlish ; for she had many relations and old acquaintances to cut—and
books of engravings , drawers of medals , cameos , corals , shells , and every other family collection within
will hear .
the greater probability of his coming there with his friend’s permission , or being bold enough to come without it
well , and it was a pleasure to her to creep into the theatre , and attend the rehearsal of
could be .
there i was quite right .
nothing to distress him .
i have not the smallest hope .
“i must have asked miss fairfax , and her languid dancing would not have agreed with me , after yours
he had spent his whole solitary evening in the room adjoining theirs ; had heard voices , mirth continually ;
collins’s correspondence for any consideration .
the entertainment of dining at rosings was repeated about twice a week ; and , allowing for the loss of
amazed at the alteration of his manner since they last parted , every sentence that he uttered was increasing her
by his friends’ interference ; whether he had been aware of jane’s attachment , or whether it had escaped his
marianne ' s ideas were still , at intervals , fixed incoherently on her mother , and whenever she mentioned
an unpretending , single-minded , artless girl—infinitely to be preferred by any man of sense and taste to such a
to be urging her opinion against sir thomas ' s was a proof of the extremity of the case ;
till the usual moment of going to the pump-room , she felt some alarm from the dread of a second
genius and emulation .
she spoke of her farther as somewhat delicate and puny , but was sanguine in the hope of her being
” “yes , they are about one hundred and ninety miles from london , a considerable journey .
she would see if it rained .
one advantage resulted from it to fanny : at the earnest request of miss crawford , mrs .
of a privileged guardian , into the house .
our own library is too well known to me , to be resorted to for any thing beyond mere amusement
from home begin when she must give up anne .
world ; but she was too guarded to say so , and the coldness of her praise disappointed him .
the anxiety , which in this state of their attachment must be the portion of henry and catherine , and
happy in a humbler way .
she urged him so strongly to remain , that he , who was gratifying the first wish of his own
i am sincerely grieved for him and mrs .
“i wish you could see compton , ” said he ; “it is the most complete thing !
a disagreeable truth would be palatable through her lips , but i am the wretchedest being in the world at
sir john is as stupid as the weather .
—meeting with such ingratitude , where so much kindness had been shown , so much confidence had been placed !
” “perhaps you may now begin to regret that you spent one whole day , out of so few ,
his first address made catherine start .
the middletons were to follow in about a week .
she has a wonderful play of feature !
time you write to your good father , miss elliot , pray give him my compliments and mrs croft '
after an evening , the little variety and seeming length of which made her peculiarly sensible of henry ' s
had , besides , so thoroughly cleared off his ill-humour at randalls , that his amiableness never failed him during
at first there seemed danger of lydia’s engrossing him entirely , for she was a most determined talker ; but
believe , at least—i am almost sure that old mr .
clair started and retreating back a few paces , with uplifted hands , said , “another grand-child !
, great grandson of the second sir walter .
of the house , and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost sir lewis de bourgh .
recommend his suit .
himself to her with some surprise .
he was most highly esteemed by mr .
slightest use to you , " replied anne ; " but i suspect that you are considering me as having
has he , has my nephew , made you an offer of marriage ?
there were several battles between the yorkists and lancastrians , in which the former (as they ought) usually conquered .
probably miss crawford will choose the barouche-box herself .
wholly by surprize .
her face and the warm simplicity of her manner ; and all the probabilities of circumstance and connexion were in
bingley’s attentions to her sister , elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some
affection on a man who had dared to think so meanly of me .
for his temper and spirits—his delightful spirits , and that gaiety , that playfulness of disposition , which , under
crawford joined them .
wickham” by each of them ; and in the mean time , she went after dinner to show her ring
to say for myself—i knew it was very late , and that i was behaving extremely ill ; and therefore
” edmund said no more .
nancy , she fell upon her knees , and cried bitterly ; and your brother , he walked about the
very little better , to prevent my believing what she says .
crawford ; and , be the consequence what it might , fanny ' s immediate feelings were infinitely soothed .
yet there was no saying what miss crawford might not ask .
the reason alleged was their determined resolution of not leaving their mother at that time of the year .
—how d ' ye do ?
but whether she were violently set against the match , or violently delighted with it , it was certain that
, oppressed as [ _num_ ]they often were by the clamorous kindness of the others .
rushworth ' s declaring outright that he would go and fetch the key .
" [ _num_ ] " i entreat you to stay .
; but to his son , and his son ' s son , a child of four years old ,
thoughtless , thoughtless lydia !
it was so humiliating to reflect on the constant deception practised on her father and elizabeth ; to consider the
you young ones do not remember much about it , perhaps ; but if dear sir thomas were here ,
she looks perfectly timid , dejected , and penitent .
we had better put an end to this most mortifying conference .
allen , between whom she now remained .
and these apartments he found composed the whole of the house .
gratefully was it felt !
what i ought to say—but make him understand what i mean , in the properest way .
and how tired you must be after your journey !
knightley , if i take the liberty (i consider myself , you know , as having somewhat of the privilege
mrs croft , though neither tall nor fat , had a squareness , uprightness , and vigour of form ,
, had left them all well at mansfield , and was to dine , as yesterday , with the frasers
“sir thomas , who had done so much for her and her brothers , and who was gone perhaps never
" " i should always be happy , " replied elinor , " to show any mark of my esteem
under wretched alarm every night of his life .
, which were not immediately attended to , seemed almost determined to say no more .
emma , on reaching home , called the housekeeper directly , to an examination of her stores ; and some
distance ; and even secrecy , as far as it can be observed , may now be very advisable .
louisa can get captain wentworth , i shall be very well satisfied .
must be quite out of the question ; yet why , upon her late behaviour , is she supposed to
pleasure of seeing its happy effect .
you must answer it of course—and speedily .
she only was to blame .
they left england with the probability of being nearly a twelvemonth absent .
could be restored , by affording his sanction to vice , or in seeking to lessen its disgrace , be
—i shall not commit myself by claiming more than she may chuse to allow .
i must love him ; and now that i am satisfied on one point , the one material point ,
with a friendly eye .
not be denied the satisfaction of sending them his newspaper every day .
it is of all subjects my delight .
i did indeed .
minutes in which they continued were some of the most uncomfortable in her life .
“there is nothing the matter with me .
” “not , i should hope , of the proportion of virtue to vice throughout the kingdom .
with you here all day , but we must not forget the ladies below , and so good-bye , my
, attaching herself to me during the remainder of the day .
” she was perfectly sensible that he never had ; but she wished to see whether he would betray any
come out since tom jones , except the monk ; i read that t ' other day ; but as
than in chattering in words of our own .
elton .
with some there was great joy at the sight of frank churchill ; others took it very composedly ; but
the walls seemed countless in number , endless in length ; a village of hot-houses seemed to arise among them
to the altar ere long .
he must go somewhere , but he did not know where , and he knew he should have nothing to
the event was more favourable to mr .
catherine dared not doubt beyond her own country , and even of that , if hard pressed , would have
, no acquaintance to claim , no gentleman to assist them .
” “i shall not ask him , ” replied tom , in a cold , determined manner .
” elizabeth coloured , and said : “a little .
embarrassment on his father ' s account she earnestly pitied , mrs .
sigh before he set off for wiltshire .
willoughby would at once be a woman of elegance and fortune , to leave her card with her as soon
you equal felicity in marriage .
she is the natural daughter of nobody knows whom , with probably no settled provision at all , and certainly
one sheet ?
elinor avoided it upon principle , as tending to fix still more upon her thoughts , by the too warm
and looked back , with fond regret , to the bustles of uppercross and the seclusion of kellynch .
th .
set about it in a very orderly manner , with all the observances , which he supposed a regular part
" " yes ; mr .
it cannot be done too much ; and when i next write to her , i shall charge her not
they could be more economically , though less expeditiously , married in london than in scotland .
but we shall proceed by degrees .
of it , with all the philosophy of a well-bred woman , contenting herself with merely giving her husband a
beyond any other .
he will rally again , and be happy with another .
” said julia .
for employment , too anxious for conversation , walked from one window to the other , or sat down by
though it is an improvable estate— .
i hope you will be a great deal together while you are in bath .
ten minutes would have been all that was necessary , perhaps all that was proper ; and i had told
" anne was now at hand to take up her own cause , and the sincerity of her manner being
it had very early occurred to her that a small sum of money might , perhaps , restore peace for
had been on his first introduction .
" " i do not exactly know , for henrietta and i were at school at the time ; but
his temper was not his great perfection ; and , indeed , with such a worshipping wife , it was
lady lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on mrs .
” “i should like to see sotherton before it is cut down , to see the place as it is
very pretty sort of young lady ; and i dare say she was very much pleased with you .
" " ay , so do , sir john , " cried mrs .
fanny seemed to herself never to have been shocked before .
to be sure , the charade , with its “ready wit”—but then the “soft eyes”—in fact it suited neither ;
” after waiting a moment , as if to be sure she intended to say no more , he replied
as to the subject of your letters to me , whether grave or merry , if they concern you they
a drawer and drew it forth .
always necessitous—always poor ; and probably would soon have learned to rank the innumerable comforts of a clear estate and
these are points in which a doubt is equally possible .
the strongest examples of moral and religious endurances .
his mother and sisters were very fond of him .
i am glad it occurred to me to mention it ; for it would really be discreditable to you to
to himself and all his connexions .
my dearest friend , had any intention of making one of the crowd—but of that i despair .
repaid by—but i must not trust myself with words .
not offended , indeed i am not .
an unfinished novel in letters to henry thomas austen esqre .
so far would she be from affording him the smallest assistance , that if he were to enter into any
i know this to be the truth ; and most worthy of you are such feelings .
will not it be beautiful in her dark hair ?
jennings ' s prophecies , though rather jumbled together , were chiefly fulfilled ; for she was able to visit
—no , let them be ever so happy together , it will not give me another moment ' s pang
most gratifying sensation and unvarying cheerfulness all dinner-time .
barton must depend ; and the elegance of her appearance was favourable to their wishes .
dear name .
being pretty well aware of what sort of joy you must both be feeling , i have been in no
yes , ” rejoined the other , “maria is gone .
almost equally well qualified to shew the house .
” nobody was at the trouble of an answer ; the others soon returned ; and edmund found that to
and proprieties of the match !
another with which it immediately communicated ; the door between them was open , and emma passed into it with
her power was sinking ; everything must sink under such a proof of family weakness , such an assurance of
“it certainly is a most iniquitous affair , ” said mr .
capable of great improvement , and an excellent house , though at present it is not quite in repair .
added , “however , it is impossible for me to say on what terms they really were—how it might all
for the field .
frank churchill ' s going , she proceeded to give them all , it was of no consequence .
i am a great advocate for timidity—and i am sure one does not often meet with it .
” “so i told your brother all the time—but he would not believe me .
she hardly supposed there were anything worse to be told .
off to advantage , and so forth .
no happiness of son or niece could make her wish the marriage .
the two eldest little knightleys were engaged to pay their grandpapa and aunt a visit of some weeks in the
to acknowledge such as she had acknowledged , actuated , perhaps , by the same view of escaping introduction when
give way to these emotions , but endeavour to reason yourself into a stronger frame of mind .
i have seen sir james ; he came to town for a few days last week , and called several
has many things to call her attention .
“harriet !
happened , or my seeing him could never have gone so entirely out of my head .
i have not forgotten it , i assure you .
" in what state the affair stood at present between them , edward knew not , for no communication with
her folly and assurance by a situation of such double danger as a watering-place and a camp .
i never happened to see them together , or i am sure i should have found it out directly .
in that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks ; and to
” “well , fanny , and if the plan were not unpleasant to you , i should call it an
do you know how miss bates and her niece came here ?
" he paused for her assent and compassion ; and she forced herself to say— " your expenses both in
she saw instantly that her cousin’s manners were not altered by his marriage ; his formal civility was just what
she had an excellent heart ; her disposition was affectionate , and her feelings were strong ; but she knew
overcome—then reproaching herself for having taken no leave , making no acknowledgment , parting in apparent sullenness , she looked
he had been most warmly attached to her , and had never seen a woman since whom he thought her
was there any chance of his being hereafter useful to sir thomas in the concerns of his west indian property
nor could she leave the place in which willoughby remained , busy in new engagements , and new schemes ,
fanny , rejoicing in her escape , and proud of the ready wit that had procured it , wrote the
nearly opposite the front of his house .
a situation conspicuous enough , had never caught her notice before .
elinor made no resistance that was not easily overcome .
half-sentences of praise ; but when he did awake and understand , he was very decided in opposing what she
he debated and hesitated ; —it was a serious charge ; —a girl so brought up must be adequately provided
i would not try to stop him , for i know what his feelings must be .
civility towards himself and his wife , was exactly what he had wished for ; and that an opportunity of
charlotte the wife of mr .
to leave off .
it is not that i do not believe my fingers as capable as any other woman’s of superior execution .
i always disliked him from the first : it is not a sudden fancy , i assure you , sir
i have good reason to think—indeed i have it from the best authority , or i should not repeat it
soft is the very word for her eye—of all epithets , the justest that could be given .
lady catherine de bourgh’s attention to his wishes , and consideration for his comfort , appeared very remarkable .
radcliffe , ” said catherine , with some hesitation , from the fear of mortifying him .
be of use in diverting his thoughts from those who are beneath him .
marriage was extremely agreeable to her .
their several phaetons , and three waiting-maids in a travelling chaise and four , behind her , is an event
, “and i shall write to you , fanny , when i have anything worth writing about , anything to
darcy ; but he will vouch for the good conduct , the probity , and honour of his friend ,
the wind roared down the chimney , the rain beat in torrents against the windows , and everything seemed to
—no description can describe her .
she had led her friend astray , and it would be a reproach to her for ever ; but her
she was sure it was very ill—it cried , and fretted , and was all over pimples .
” chapter xxxi henry crawford was at mansfield park again the next morning , and at an earlier hour than
it was a sort of laugh , as she answered , ' a pretty good lecture , upon my word
i know he spoke to you yesterday , and (as far as i understand) received as much encouragement to proceed
indifference between them for ever ; but he was mortified , he could not bear to be thrown off by
my promise to lucy , obliged me to be secret .
this was the letter— “a most scandalous , ill-natured rumour has just reached me , and i write , dear
almost too lucky , if it had not been for the cruel state of things before , and for the
but it was too late .
; and why i am to be supposed in danger of wanting leisure to attend to the little boys .
fanny never dines there , you know , in this sort of way .
of an anne elliot , should , eight years afterwards , be charmed by a louisa musgrove .
and her preference secured at any time by their renewal .
look , he sees us ; he kisses his hand to you ; he takes you for my wife .
chapter xxxviii the novelty of travelling , and the happiness of being with william , soon produced their natural effect
forming , were put into execution .
soon after her death i obtained it for my own , and hung it in my bed-chamber—where i shall be
” he gladly received the letter , and , having read it through , with close attention , returned it
the two ladies , even in the short time they had been together , had disagreed ; and the bitterness
my father was certainly disposed to take very kind and proper notice of him .
it is ten to one but you are thrown together again in the course of a few years ; and
that was the last , last look i ever had of her ; the last manner in which she appeared
unconcerned , “which every woman who plays herself is sure to ask about another .
he said , from the first , it was a very good sort—which was our great comfort ; but the
wickham were returned , and to lament over his absence from the netherfield ball .
but unfortunately my own nicety , and the nicety of my friends , have made me what i am ,
to their kind hostess , who resisted them with all the eloquence of her good-will , when a plan was
" oh dear , yes ; i know him extremely well , " replied mrs .
it is so delightful that you should live at the cottage !
at present , nothing goes smoothly ; the females of the family are united against me .
“this is all nonsense .
" look here , " said he , unfolding a parcel in his hand , and displaying a small miniature
of it ; —if they wish to have you settled in the same country and circle which they have chosen
her heart was not so much at ease , nor her satisfaction in their amusements so pure .
of two tombstones and a lantern—do you understand ?
could speak with so much exultation of mrs .
” “i am afraid i should do it very awkwardly , ” was his reply , with a look of
mary had acquired a little artificial importance , by becoming mrs charles musgrove ; but anne , with an elegance
are very small , you see—one of our small eggs will not hurt you .
it requires great powers , great nicety , to give her playfulness and simplicity without extravagance .
and pulling everything about as she chose , were what fanny herself was not yet enough inured to for her
desire , —splendid property , noble kindred , and extensive patronage .
and nothing of the pride or reserve of enscombe .
” henry only smiled .
' how often have i heard you speak of it as such a compliment to her !
knightley felt as strongly as herself ; but the inadmissibility of any other change , he could not agree to
his brother , and on whose account that brother had been thrown off by his family—it was beyond her comprehension
it would be a capital match for either of his sisters .
perhaps it is paid already .
—“robert martin ' s manners have sense , sincerity , and good-humour to recommend them ; and his mind has
his anxiety for her comfort—his continual solicitations that she would eat , and his often-expressed fears of her seeing nothing
the best and nearest way .
elton , but as the clergyman whose blessing at the altar might next fall on herself .
; and perhaps in spite of every consideration of politeness or maternal affection on the side of the former ,
she was quick in feeling the little injuries to isabella , which isabella never felt herself .
” and following the latter train of thought , she soon afterwards added : “if any one faculty of our
catherine had never thought on the subject till that moment , but , upon examining her purse , was convinced
had not her sister ' s conduct burst forth as it did , and her increased dread of her father
but the fortune , which had been so tardy in coming , was his only one twelvemonth .
” “i do not think he is conceited either , in general , ” said harriet , her conscience opposing
alterations he had been making , and had even vouchsafed to suggest some herself—some shelves in the closet up stairs
—exit maria hostess to cook) if their honours in the moon ask for the bill of fare , give it
she would only smile and assert .
my dear friend , —that tormenting creature , reginald , is here .
very likely that my illness to-day may be owing to it .
the admiral does not seem very ill , and i sincerely hope bath will do him all the good he
be more intolerable than any alternative to such a mind as his .
she had not known before what pleasures she had to lose in passing march and april in a town .
a charitable scheme ; this will bring a great increase of love on each side .
jennings , mrs .
was he at all such as he appears now ?
she ought to do better .
—‘there , mrs .
lucases , and two or three officers , joined eagerly in dancing at one end of the room .
he was beheaded , of which he might with reason have been proud , had he known that such was
john dashwood said nothing ; but her husband civilly hoped that she would not be settled far from norland .
this miss (what ' s her name ?
his apparent partiality had subsided , his attentions were over , he was the admirer of some one else .
rushworth did not appear again , and there was every reason to conclude her to be concealed somewhere with mr
here was i , in my eagerness to get on , refusing to wait only five minutes for my sister
and says , ' god knows whether we ever meet again !
xvi lady susan to mrs .
sir walter , in her apprehension , entitled to a great deal of compassion and consideration under his present difficulties
idleness .
” “it has been your own doing entirely ?
allen had no intelligence to give that could relieve her anxiety ; she had heard nothing of any of them
a small half-glass , put into a tumbler of water ?
and importance , which the connexion would offend .
“dear fanny , —you know our present wretchedness .
to be always firm must be to be often obstinate .
but guided only by what was simple and probable , it had never entered her head that mr .
she followed him in all his admiration as well as she could .
make mutual affection incompatible ; and that they were unfitted for each other by nature , education , and habit
a girl who , before his eyes , is violating an engagement voluntarily entered into with another man !
my father supported him at school , and afterwards at cambridge—most important assistance , as his own father , always
i believed you to be wishing , expecting my addresses .
but it was neither in elinor ' s power , nor in her wish , to rouse such feelings in
” while he spoke , emma ' s mind was most busy , and , with all the wonderful velocity
i should like to know why you imagine i am ?
by the displeasure he expressed at his laziness when captain tilney at last came down .
knightley thought he saw another collection of letters anxiously pushed towards her , and resolutely swept away by her unexamined
weston was a man of unexceptionable character , easy fortune , suitable age , and pleasant manners ; and there
he was not allowed to escape , however .
i only want to talk to you .
elizabeth , particularly , who knew that her mother owed to the latter the preservation of her favourite daughter from
proper air of confusion by a grand piano-forte and a harp , flower-stands and little tables placed in every direction
" " yes , ma ' am , she said how she was very well ; and to my mind
fact , he could not for the life of him recall what her dancing had been , and rather took
fanny ' s kind offices .
i used to be quite angry with selina ; but really i begin now to comprehend that a married woman
, you know .
john knightley looked at him with amazement , then shrugged his shoulders , and said , “i could not have
though i have reasons enough for my dislike , i cannot help pitying her at present , as she is
knightley particularly delighted .
you have proved yourself , on the whole , less faulty than i had believed you .
“i am glad you approve of what i have done , ” said he very comfortably .
gloves with leisurely care , and bestowing another glance on the miss dashwoods , but such a one as seemed
how , then , was i to be—to be in love with him the moment he said he was with
and it would all fall upon her .
" and he passed his hand across his eyes , as if the remembrance were still too painful , but
it had always been evident to her that such an income as theirs , under the direction of two persons
dear emma , that you will not smile when you hear it .
her patience and forbearance ?
poor harriet !
repton who would undertake it , and give me as much beauty as he could for my money ; and
have though you will not believe me now .
charles heard it quite by chance ; they have not had the civility to give me any notice , or
what a pity it is , mamma , we did not all go .
an advantage this , a strengthener of love , in which even the conjugal tie is beneath the fraternal .
gardiner , and miss bennet , to dinner at pemberley , before they left the country .
—her allowance is very liberal ; nothing has ever been grudged for her improvement or comfort .
catherine heard , admired , and wondered with more genuine feeling than before—gathered all that she could from this storehouse
" " with me !
depend upon it that you shall not be made unhappy any longer .
” “to be sure , so it is .
himself , which he has never been addicted to .
, a still greater , that in less than a fortnight she should herself be with jane again , and
, or even difference of taste from herself , was at this time particularly ill-disposed , from the state of
have lost the right moment for seeing whether he saw them .
—not at all , ” replied mr .
and set all their claims on his gratitude and regard at nought .
—how eager he had been about the picture !
a large debt of gratitude was owing here ; but the intercourse of the last seven years , the equal
to mrs musgrove ; put her quite out of her way .
no ; hatred had vanished long ago , and she had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a
william knew what had passed , and from his heart lamented that his sister ' s feelings should be so
her ' s has been a very short one !
not have been one person more my enemy even than that lady ?
conceit and impertinence , which your lady possesses .
thought unimportant .
my dear isabella , i am sure there must be laurentina ' s skeleton behind it .
they attempted , therefore , likewise , to excuse themselves ; the weather was uncertain , and not likely to
i do not deserve it .
what could they have to say of her ?
” “but i cannot be satisfied without fanny price , without making a small hole in fanny price ' s
the past , present , and future were all equally in gloom .
of greater permanence , and equal comfort , of which she had the offer .
“there is no charm equal to tenderness of heart , ” said she afterwards to herself .
i described , and enforced them earnestly .
' s arms .
darcy can please where he chooses .
i consider amelia is the most difficult character in the whole piece .
what support will laura want which she can receive from him ?
which i should not be happy to wait on mr .
” “but , my dear sister , can i be happy , even supposing the best , in accepting a
a syllable of his uttering escapes her .
he had heard , was proceeding to a family communication , which , though principally addressed to mrs .
characters of pride and ill nature .
i think they judge wisely .
there was no wound , no blood , no visible bruise ; but her eyes were closed , she breathed
the season , the scene , the air , were all favourable to tenderness and sentiment .
, though in the case before us i consider myself more fitted by education and habitual study to decide on
exeunt severally .
she began at length to recover , to fidget about in her chair , get up , sit down again
the visitors took their leave ; and charles , having civilly seen them off , and then made a face
weston , who is carefulness itself .
much keen anxiety for her , that he could stay no longer .
he came towards their little circle ; but instead of asking her to dance , drew a chair near her
i have been willing to admit , have been the effect of constant and painful exertion ; they did not
violent storm .
of the room where she had left mr .
she deserves a better fate .
, and leave her without a care for the past , and with the fullest exultation in the present and
, balls , plays—for i had no fear of retirement .
if she were to marry him when she got to london than as if parted from him for ever .
a few weeks at least .
i wonder anybody can ever go to sea .
” emma ' s eyes were instantly withdrawn ; and she sat silently meditating , in a fixed attitude ,
depended on , for he thoroughly understands the nature of the air , and his own brother and family have
johnson .
did not .
fanny ' s imagination had prepared her for something grander than a mere spacious , oblong room , fitted up
pray , miss margaret , let us know all about it , " said mrs .
most eligible ; but , to counterbalance these advantages , mr .
was glad to spare them from knowing how much i felt .
her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is .
john knightley more , to fit them for the place .
—she may not have surmised the whole , but her quickness must have penetrated a part .
she could not be silent when such points were introduced , and she had neither shyness nor reserve in their
and the language of the other , so unfit to be expressed by any woman of modesty , that she
i cannot give her up .
do , formed a sort of half-circle round the fire , to observe in their various modes , till other
it was too dirty for mrs .
most unaccountably follow me out of the room .
you are safe from me .
absence : she had done a great deal of carpet-work , and made many yards of fringe ; and she
she was less and less able to endure the restraint which her father imposed .
“this would soon have led to something better , of course , ” was her consoling reflection ; “any thing
the purpose of it , or that its purpose was unimportant , and staid .
a fortnight was not enough .
it was being very deficient .
i know you would wish me to do , whether absent or present .
all astonishment to perceive mrs .
—why he should feel such a scruple , why he should change his mind when it was all but done
“she is happy then , ” said her father drily ; “and her residence there will probably be of some
knightley to her and her father , the same mr .
stay with us , and we will cure you .
how can it affect them ?
dashwood as she entered : — " is she ill ?
fifty than one-and-twenty .
be invention , and invention is what delights me in other books .
of pemberley might be something !
woodhouse , in his quiet way .
that of having but a short set to dance down , enjoyed her usual happiness with henry tilney , listening
i made her take her shawl—for the evenings are not warm—her large new shawl— mrs .
of what his designs might once have been on herself , preyed altogether so much on her spirits , that
and there is something of dignity in his countenance that would not give one an unfavourable idea of his heart
anybody else to be about the child .
” “yes , she laments it ; yet owns it may have been best .
her tell mrs .
” “me !
and i am sure our thanks are due to you , mrs .
you must make a new garden at what is now the back of the house ; which will be giving
he has children of his own , and may have more .
which maria and julia had been always experiencing at home , where the excessive indulgence and flattery of their aunt
words , “my very dear fanny , you must do me the favour to accept” locked it up with the
so deceived !
henry , i find , has some idea of going into norfolk again upon some business that you approve ;
“there is a gentleman with him , mamma , ” said kitty ; “who can it be ?
gardiner ; and after relating the circumstances , she thus went on : “i am now convinced , my dear
the extent of your admiration may take you by surprize some day or other .
harriet ' s staying away so long was beginning to make her uneasy .
she would not have forgotten him so soon !
which bingley’s good humour encouraged , yet , whenever she did speak , she must be vulgar .
there is not a finer county in england than derbyshire .
emotion and distress beyond any thing she had ever felt before .
resist any advice of her ' s , he had not really the least inclination to give up the visit
” “nothing could be more obliging than your manner , i am sure , and i dare say you walked
his appearance was very neat , and he looked like a sensible young man , but his person had no
all her family .
the evils of the connexion ?
their manners are not equal to his .
not keep a journal !
crawford ' s faults and his own despondence .
“my dearest lizzy will , i am sure , be incapable of triumphing in her better judgement , at my
growing very eager for news from uppercross and lyme .
” fanny ' s heart beat quick , and she felt quite unequal to surmising or soliciting anything more .
” cried edmund ; “has she been walking as well as cutting roses ; walking across the hot park to
far recommended himself to georgiana , whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of his kindness to her as a
his own father did not long survive mine , and within half a year from these events , mr .
busy in it , and she was obliged to come down again .
elinor .
but i can ' t bear to see them dirty and nasty .
i had every attention from the frasers that could be reasonably expected .
[ _num_ ] chapter xv mrs .
the one nor the other—nothing worse than everyday remarks , dull repetitions , old news , and heavy jokes .
might shew that desire rather more unguardedly than was perfectly prudent .
they had no conversation together , no intercourse but what the commonest civility required .
martin !
interest in the eyes of his friend .
the house , mrs .
" elinor , distressed by this charge of reserve in herself , which she was not at liberty to do
" " my protégé , as you call him , is a sensible man ; and sense will always have
” both felt rather anxious to hear him speak again ; and after a few minutes silence , he said
but you are too good for that , i am sure .
who with her knitting was seated in the warmest corner , wanting even to give up her place to miss
merely adopted on his visits to his aunt , of whose good opinion and judgement he stands much in awe
herself , was almost incredible to mrs .
common sense would have directed her to tell harriet , that she must not allow herself to think of him
the name makes me think of poor isabella ; for she was very near being christened catherine after her grandmama
to know that she thought his coming certain was enough to make emma consider it so , and sincerely did
the embrace of each , as she stepped from the carriage , she found herself soothed beyond anything that she
willoughby—he has broken no positive engagement with my sister .
the two families will be meeting every day in the year .
she added , in a firmer tone— " elinor , i have been cruelly used ; but not by willoughby
crawford was no longer the mr .
that there was not one of the family whom she need now fear to meet .
i could not have believed it !
a face as pallid as her own , in an agony of silence .
i wish he had known you as well as i do , fanny .
the honour was readily granted , and he then departed , to make himself still more interesting , in the
wishing any thing to be attempted at present for me .
of considering the last half-hour with some satisfaction , though while it was passing , the enjoyment of it had
maria might be very glad to see her at sotherton now and then , but she would not think of
” to this question his daughter replied only with a laugh ; and as it had been asked without the
i hope i can allow for him .
“talk not to me of phaetons (said i , raving in a frantic , incoherent manner)—give me a violin— .
about it , and he is going away .
, as anybody might expect , she still lived on—lived to have six children more—to see them growing up around
woodhouse felt no unwillingness , and only made the usual stipulation of not sitting at the bottom of the table
of innocence , and softness , as to impose upon every one who had not by a long and constant
, i am very fond of a long walk ; " anne felt persuaded , by the looks of the
with her uncle , hear his voice , receive his questions , and even answer them , without such wretched
” catherine said no more , and , with an endeavour to do right , applied to her work ;
' s observation reached .
elton came back , he told us what john ostler had been telling him , and then it came out
she was guilty only of being less rich than he had supposed her to be .
hurst and mr .
for there was a captain wentworth ; and be the conclusion of the present suspense good or bad , her
to be secure of a partner at first was a most essential good—for the moment of beginning was now growing
she could not feel that she had done wrong herself , but she was disquieted in every other way .
jennings from seeing her sister ' s thoughts as clearly as she did , " i dare say we shall
sort of platonic friendship .
considered , she thought he would go without delay .
that it was not exactly like every other baby of the same age ; nor could he even be brought
talked , with grave faces , of his studying himself to death .
feelings , easy temper , careless habits , and not strong understanding , much more amiable than his friend ,
i think the house and premises may be made comfortable , and given the air of a gentleman ' s
” “write to me very often , my dear .
” “open the windows !
and now i come to the principal , the only important part of my conduct while belonging to you ,
a morning of thorough confusion was to be expected .
such half-and-half doings never prosper .
a few years however will settle her opinions on the reasonable basis of common sense and observation ; [ _num_
” he shook his head with a smile , and looked as if he had very little doubt and very
hearing marianne ' s mistaken warmth , nor to the repetition of any other part of the pain that had
there is great truth , however , in what you have now urged of the allowances which ought to be
now , however , his good-natured , honest , stupid soul , full of indignation against me , and concern
elton might be ; how he was affected by the studied elegance of her dress , and her smiles of
the further part of the cavity , apparently for concealment , and her feelings at that moment were indescribable .
, it is only the lot of those who are not obliged to follow any , who can live in
—we are quite well .
” crawford , delighted to get her to speak at any rate , was determined to keep it up ;
she cannot feel herself justified in declining .
of it , with the intention of finding it a very good scheme .
their error than to run the risk of investigation .
” said edmund the next day , after thinking some time on the subject himself .
receiving the information of your arrival in town , which you were so good as to send me , "
her mind was inevitably at liberty ; her thoughts could not be chained elsewhere ; and the past and the
a few minutes more of silent exertion enabled him to proceed with composure .
age and disposition , and so many had been her objections against such a measure only a few days before
you may depend upon it , that they will move in the first set in bath this winter , and
willoughby , she would have thought herself amply rewarded for the sacrifice of the best place by the fire after
my father bears it better .
he scarcely dares even allow her to be handsome , and when i speak of her beauty , replies only
opportunity of fixing him ; and it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the
before they procured lodgings .
” “curricle-hung , you see ; seat , trunk , sword-case , splashing-board , lamps , silver moulding , all
not chosen ill .
sound which first roused catherine ; and she opened her eyes , wondering that they could ever have been closed
was sure her opinion could never be shaken , and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious , as
had scarcely replied , before mr .
angelic miss henrietta heaven is my witness how ardently i do hope for the death of your villanous uncle and
she was debating within herself on the eligibility of beginning her story directly , or postponing it till marianne were
phillips was always glad to see her nieces ; and the two eldest , from their recent absence , were
ago in company with danvers and dishonour .
“that fellow , ” said he , indignantly , “thinks of nothing but shewing off his own voice .
the whole of every day , in conduit street .
" i cannot imagine why they should suppose i should not like a long walk , " said mary ,
sir thomas said so .
of pride and prejudice ; and even then , it is probably because we personally like the handsome and amiable
reconciliation ; and , after a little further resistance on the part of his aunt , her resentment gave way
they were stopped .
if we proceed to particulars , and engage in the never-ceasing inquiry of ' have you read this ?
she had none of fanny ' s delicacy of taste , of mind , of feeling ; she saw nature
she had never considered herself as entitled to reward for not slighting an old friend like mrs smith , but
captain weston , who had been considered , especially by the churchills , as making such an amazing match ,
at that moment we were interrupted by a knock at the door : it was reginald , who came ,
first revived in herself ; of being restored to kellynch , calling it her home again , her home for
at any time , a little homestall at his command , where all the holidays of his year might be
they were soon dining in company together at mr musgrove ' s , for the little boy ' s state
” and having gone through what immediately followed of the basis of their disagreement , and his persisting to act
for two hours did i rave thus madly and should not then have left off , as i was not
the people as any body .
he had no sooner been free from the horror and remorse attending the first few days of louisa ' s
” replied i with as much indifference as i could assume .
, and out of doors as long as they could .
weston , whose happiness it was to be hoped might eventually be as much increased by the arrival of a
how can you be so forgetful ?
prospect of discussion , explanation , and probably non-conviction .
of sir walter , he may not be wheedled and caressed at last into making her the wife of sir
nothing i so abominate for young people as a long engagement .
” “a house of her own !
ferrars does not know what she may be doing—what she may drive her son to .
but do you think she would be prevailed upon to go back with us ?
can it be neptune ?
collins , ” said she , “speaks highly both of lady catherine and her daughter ; but from some particulars
no pain , no injury , however , was designed by him to his cousin in this offer : she
match-making , it is fair to suppose that views , and plans , and projects you have ; —and as
she could not be alone without feeling the full weight of their separate claims ; and how to guard the
as they walked across the hall towards the river , elizabeth turned back to look again ; her uncle and
consider but for a moment janetta , and you must be convinced how absurd it is to suppose that he
her to see it fall to the share of her thankless son , and treated as concisely as possible at
have attached himself to a girl of such steadiness of character and good judgment as i have always given her
“did she know ?
the kettle on the fire and glanced at her sister , as if divided between the agreeable triumph of shewing
" " no , " replied anne , in a low , feeling voice .
” “why , pretty well ; but not quite well .
ferrars ; —that her interest and her vanity should so very much blind her as to make the attention which
a narrow passage led directly through the house into the garden behind .
—within half an hour , he had passed from a thoroughly distressed state of mind , to something so like
a cottage in some retired village would be ecstasy .
the branches and lingering leaves of an oak just beyond their premises , was forced , though not without some
live with him on any terms other than marriage ?
not a look or an offer of help had fanny given ; not a syllable for or against .
—i have not forgotten that you once tried to give me a caution .
” “i think her beautiful , quite beautiful .
" " aye , aye , that is very pretty talking—but it won ' t do—the doctor is the man
coxcomb .
these recollections will not do at all .
so far off !
' the lock of hair , (repeating it from the letter , ) which you so obligingly bestowed on me
probability be settled for life .
her habit therefore was thrown off with all possible haste , and she was preparing to unpin the linen package
of _num_ , matilda and i continue secluded from mankind in our old and mouldering castle , which is situated
he was looked on as sufficiently belonging to the place to make his merits and prospects a kind of common
jennings , i spent two happy hours with him yesterday afternoon , he would not hear of our parting ,
yet , though longing to make her acquainted with her happiness , she cheerfully submitted to the wish of mr
weston ' s visits here , and given many little encouragements , and smoothed many little matters , it might
to interrupt a silence which might make him fancy her affected with what had passed , she soon afterwards said
” catherine inquired no further ; she had heard enough to feel that mrs .
one has got all the goodness , and the other all the appearance of it .
satisfaction which settled her with her own mind , and convinced her , that let mr .
darcy , in wretched suspense , could only say something indistinctly of his concern , and observe her in compassionate
, for hardly had she been seated ten minutes before a lady of about her own age , who was
he was , perhaps , but at treacherous play with her .
now , if i were to hear anybody speak slightingly of you , i should fire up in a moment
she asked no more questions therefore , merely employed her own fancy , and that soon pointed out to her
” “i cannot think there is any danger of it , ” was emma ' s calm answer—“and when you
still produced occasional effusions of sorrow as lively as ever .
she must laugh at such a close !
” “going to ?
, and she lived in continual terror of it .
e .
i hate scandal and detest children .
this is the most joyful hour he has ever given us since the day of his birth .
itself was under the guardianship of the fir , the mountain-ash , and the acacia , and a thick screen
but she would rather have caught his eye .
boil .
he made her an offer in this very room , and she refused him .
london , and immediately contrived to have such an attack of the gout as must at least delay his journey
there is time for it , go on to kingsweston .
” “there might be scruples of delicacy , my dear emma .
make no doubt will give you much concern” .
from pride , ignorance , or fashion , our foes are almost as many as our readers .
at the butler) ; “but you are so very eager to put yourself forward .
” after sitting a little while miss crawford was up again .
” edmund was sorry to hear miss crawford , whom he was much disposed to admire , speak so freely
he had frightened her a little about mr .
we do not live a great way from him in the country , you know .
— ' you must go , ' said she .
to the baron—a little man with a weak voice , always hoarse after the first ten minutes .
her features are not tragic features , and she walks too quick , and speaks too quick , and would
i could not have misunderstood a thing of that kind , you know !
pleasure in coming .
' and , indeed , to own the truth , i do not think nurse , in her heart ,
that property , he will never be a contemptible man--good , freehold property .
how i have trembled at my uncle ' s opening his lips if horses were talked of) , and then
i wanted to know a little more , and this tells me quite enough .
to examine your dress , but to tell you that you may dine with us the day after tomorrow—not tomorrow
weston whisper to his wife , “he has asked her , my dear .
and respect—but as he was an enemy of the noble essex , i have nothing to say in praise of
collins’s conversation to herself .
frank churchill , ” said mr .
less sanguine as to its effect than she had been the night before .
whatever he might have heard against me , ought he not to have suspended his belief ?
the history of england from the reign of henry the _num_ th to the death of charles the _num_ st
hurst , merely looked the gentleman ; but his friend mr .
norris , “you are everything that is generous and considerate , and i am sure we shall never disagree on
in a letter from james .
and had i had an idea of it , nothing should have induced me to accept the necklace .
there , go , go—i insist on it .
, as far as related to mind , it had been the creature of my own imagination , not miss
a man does not recover from such a devotion of the heart to such a woman .
you are sure , therefore , of seeing your friend either to-morrow or sunday .
which his limited income could afford her , even supposing that his house were in readiness to receive her .
the carriage was soon announced to be ready ; and catherine , instantly rising , a long and affectionate embrace
she acknowledged it to be right .
” “we see things very differently , ” cried maria .
now endeavoured to be made out quite enough for ten .
as far as good intentions went , we were both right , and i must say that no effects on
jane could have no reserves from elizabeth , where confidence would give pleasure ; and instantly embracing her , acknowledged
a different creature from what she was in the autumn .
“my dear , dear lydia !
may never know what it is to , be either is the wish of your sincerely affectionate c .
martin .
he had been prevented setting off for thornberry , but i really forget by what ; for i was in
her uncle ' s behaviour to her was then as nearly as possible what it had been before ; she
was not guided by her feelings in reprobating the ball , for she enjoyed the thought of it to an
” fanny roused herself , and replying only in part , said , “but you are only going from one
bennet , to whom they then turned , was not quite so cordial .
crawford , i think you call for him at half-past nine ?
seeking an intimacy with that gentleman , and promoting the marriage by every possible attention .
to each other , and how formal and cold was their manner whenever they did .
wet , damp , cheerless weather ; there always is in february , you know , and we could not
to the elopement , they might hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on
her eagerness , her impatience , her longings to be with them , were such as to bring a line
next sentence might bring , was incapable of attending to the sense of the one before her eyes .
themselves away ; but everybody should marry as soon as they can do it to advantage .
at that moment she thought that , but for the occupation and the scene which the tea-things afforded , she
in his way , and had taken the liberty of opening it .
” the news was as disagreeable to fanny as it had been unexpected .
you will see me early by the mail .
to you to get mainwaring out of the way ; and you only can have influence enough to send him
miss hamilton , now mrs smith , had shewn her kindness in one of those periods of her life when
entering the house , he was quite angry with the servant whose neglect had reduced her to open the door
there was not a single point in which we differed ; i would not have had you by for the
i assure you that i have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an agreeable and sensible young man ,
” “is he married or single ?
by henry ' s absence !
that she must entreat him never to mention it again , to allow her to leave him at once ,
boy ?
an invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched ; and already had mrs .
instead of staying at lyme , he went off to plymouth , and then he went off to see edward
“i will not talk of my own happiness , ” said he , “great as it is , for i
which produced only a bow of acknowledgment from the gentleman , and a silencing nod from her mother ; for
my opinion .
it is every way horrible !
two thousand a year without debt or drawback—except the little love-child , indeed ; aye , i had forgot her
—such attention to jane !
about the court , such instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon .
it was censure in common use , and easily given .
colonel wallis said it , and lady russell saw it ; but it had been no unhappiness to sour his
hurst , who had married a man of more fashion than fortune , less disposed to consider his house as
johnson churchhill .
” “a third indeed !
” “no , she would go home .
” “i wish , ” said mrs .
—he does seem to have suffered in finding her ill .
evenings in the week together .
it had never endangered his own life for a moment , had been constantly leading others into difficulties , which
now you have nothing to try for .
the usefulness of her staying !
i am sure you have , somehow or other , imbibed such a notion .
he saw mrs .
chapter xxx mrs .
bennet , he offered himself as his antagonist at backgammon .
i have been seeing their intimacy with the greatest pleasure .
should she proceed no farther ?
a dash of evil ; for in the midst of it she could exclaim , ' why would not she
one hears sometimes of a child being ' the picture of health ; ' now , emma always gives me
” “yes , my dear , if there is time .
” she had made a sure push at fanny ' s feelings here .
at that moment entered the room with another gentleman and lady .
to this determination she was the more easily reconciled , by recollecting that edward ferrars , by lucy ' s
to give way , how frequently are they succeeded by such opinions as are but too common , and too
it is not yet determined when we are to go , but when ever we do we shall certainly take
every disposition to bear , there will be nothing to be borne .
i said to my mother , ' upon my word , ma ' am— .
dashwood , " since leisure has not promoted your own happiness , that your sons will be brought up to
i hope this does not proceed from anything wrong , and that i shall not find out i have thought
” “the evil of the distance from enscombe , ” said mr .
all elizabeth’s anger against him had been long done away ; but had she still felt any , it could
“i have been most highly gratified indeed , my dear sir .
fanny found it impossible not to try for books again .
widely different was the effect of a second perusal .
” “i have escaped ; and that i should escape , may be a matter of grateful wonder to you
fate of mother and daughter !
upon it by the greatest distress , or i should be ashamed to trouble you .
impossible to last .
dear emma for such a mark of your affection as i flatter myself was conveyed in the proposal you made
be added to all this .
” miss tilney , at catherine ' s invitation , now read the letter likewise , and , having expressed
knightley , none of mr .
of early obedience and long observance to break through .
bertram gallantly , “are doing a great deal to set them right .
you know—and though henry—though my brothers are very affectionate , and henry is a great deal here , which i
“i cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate .
reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married .
” “i do not know the distance .
replied i quite recovered from my confusion , and in short i ride a great deal .
she had had a disappointment , moreover , which that book , and especially the history of her own family
there was too much wind to make the high part of the new cobb pleasant for the ladies , and
" elinor contradicted it , however , very positively ; and by relating that she had herself been employed in
" in some surprise at the familiarity of this question , or at least of the manner in which it
palmer , on the contrary , who was strongly endowed by nature with a turn for being uniformly civil and
and she would be glad to compound now for nothing worse .
—this one half-hour had given to each the same precious certainty of being beloved , had cleared from each the
not afraid of speaking openly .
had passed , a saucy playful smile , seeming to invite in order to subdue me ; at least it
were you .
would be may before hymen ' s saffron robe would be put on for us .
his coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing , indeed , and i wonder how he
” she felt a degree of astonishment which made it impossible for her to speak .
he seemed to have no idea of shrinking from it , and set forward at last most punctually with his
you and julia were laughing the whole way .
some use to miss lucy steele , in rolling her papers for her ; and there is so much still
grant , i believe , suspects him of a preference for julia ; i have never seen much symptom of
and all his relations , and no niggardly proportion was now dealt out to his fair cousins , whom they
but he is sometimes impertinent and troublesome .
dashwood ' s attention ; for she was , at that time , in such affliction as rendered her careless
me every thing ; make this intelligible to me .
yet it required some consideration to be tranquilly happy .
that you cannot in conscience—conscientious as you are—keep away , when you have the means of returning .
fanny learnt from her all the particulars which had yet transpired .
my dear , here you are , ” a truth which she had no greater inclination than power to dispute
this manner .
induce the most upright female mind in the creation to stoop in charity to a secret engagement .
of it , the mystery , the surprize , is more like a young woman ' s scheme than an
adieu , my dearest susan , i wish matters did not go so perversely .
inspire a taste for the biography and poetry which she delighted in herself .
churchill to urge his nephew ' s instant return .
that a man of five and thirty might well have outlived all acuteness of feeling and every exquisite power of
his brother .
objects she could presume to expect ; and when her eyes fell only on the butcher with his tray ,
there is always something offensive in the details of cunning .
have taken a more favourable turn .
and now to chuse the mortification of mrs .
” the conversation was here interrupted .
approve , and which gave any promise of durability , was in a better knowledge of susan , and a
sort of fearful curiosity , which determined her not to allow the visit to exceed the proposed quarter of an
; and its unkindness she would hardly have forborne pointing out , had its inconsistency been less their friend ;
be as decidedly cool to him as might be compatible with their relationship ; and to retrace , as quietly
a positive assertion that every thing was now finally settled respecting his marriage with miss grey—it was no longer to
bennet ; and , as he spoke , he left the room , fatigued with the raptures of his wife
weston any letter about her to produce ?
guess what i must have felt .
" marianne was afraid of offending , and said no more on the subject ; but the kind of approbation
hundred a year during my life , and fifty after i am gone .
very heavy disappointment !
my body , and i must take care of my mind .
her professions of attachment were now as disgusting as her excuses were empty , and her demands impudent .
; in this light , condescension was necessary .
i wish you may not repent it .
and by day , in order to get the wedding dinner ready by the time appointed , after having roasted
" said her brother to colonel brandon , in a low voice , as soon as he could secure his
i could not even see where you were .
she was quite impatient to know how the bath world went on , and how the rooms were attended ;
of those who surrounded her ; to be at peace from all mention of the crawfords , safe from every
does she go to balls ?
it was perfectly accordant with that resolution of character which i knew her to possess ; and the secrecy she
as the habitation of augustus was within twelve miles of town , it was not long e ' er we
” “it would not be easy , indeed , to catch their expression , but their colour and shape ,
i only meant to observe that it ought not to be lightly engaged in , and that to make it
to exclude me from p .
how mr .
william walter elliot , esq .
weston had been shewing them all to him , and now he would shew them all to emma ; —fortunate
listening so attentively while she sang to them ; and when the visit was returned by the middletons ' dining
” “indeed , mamma , you are mistaken , ” said elizabeth , blushing for her mother .
“i will speak to her , sir : i will take the first opportunity of speaking to her alone ,
” “i dare say you would ; but i , simple i , saw nothing but the fact , that
decided intentions ; but she would now meet him with his own cool feelings .
he was nice in his eating , uncertain in his hours ; fond of his child , though affecting to
she shall not do such a thing again , ” eagerly rejoined mrs .
--all idle refinement !
being so at last .
weston foretold .
goddard ' s ; mr .
s conclusion .
there every winter .
well , remember that it is not my fault , if we set all the old ladies in bath in
his kindness was not confined to words ; for within an hour after he left them , a large basket
sotherton .
at all out of my way for you .
breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from netherfield brought the following note for elizabeth : “my dearest lizzy ,
to take her down to exeter , where she thinks of staying three or four weeks with mrs .
my dear aunt , how could you think of it ?
” “i cannot believe it .
first saw her , for it is many months since i have considered her as one of the handsomest women
i saw her .
but this , no doubt , you have been always doing .
henry crawford was in the first glow of another scheme about thornton lacey ; and not being able to catch
to avoid a comparative poverty , which her affection and her society would have deprived of all its horrors ,
than any she could change it for , she had a great curiosity to see him , a decided intention
now he may harbour some regret , in the end he must become so .
it was impossible for her to enter on such a subject ; and yet , after a pause , feeling
i am quite determined , mary .
; and when bingley was gone , jane constantly sought the same means of relief .
should not you , marianne ?
size .
they been put to the proof ; but as that very evening brought her brother down from london again in
bear with mr .
she wished with all her heart combe magna was not so near cleveland ; but it did not signify ,
the crown than at randalls !
do for either brother .
heart ; his seduction and desertion of miss williams , the misery of that poor girl , and the doubt
elton should close it .
” “i rather wonder that it was never made before .
it cannot last long .
will not your heart sink within you ?
i knew it was—but had not resolution enough to part with them .
” “but it is never safe to sit out of doors , my dear .
but do not faint—” these were the last words she ever addressed to me .
" " i love to be reminded of the past , edward—whether it be melancholy or gay , i love
happily he was not farther from approving matrimony than from foreseeing it .
—perhaps harriet might think her cold or angry if she did ; or perhaps if she were totally silent ,
she meant to be giving her little heart a happy flutter , and filling her with sensations of delightful self-consequence
” a ball itself could not have been more welcome to catherine than this little excursion , so strong was
them by speaking of her own affection , sometimes by bringing forward the idea of mr .
“my dear fanny , —for so i may now always call you , to the infinite relief of a tongue
” “no , ” said catherine , after a few moments ' reflection , “i do not—ought i ?
you refuse , then , to oblige me .
i do not trust my own partiality .
a marriage with those whom they had ever abhorred ; but with a heroic fortitude worthy to be related and
their disengagement , not as a loss to her of any possible good but as an escape from the worst
you see how continually we are engaged there .
grant , and make her amends for my being gone .
isabella shrugged her shoulders and smiled , the only explanation of this extraordinary change which could at that time be
he praised her for being without art or affectation , for having simple , honest , generous , feelings .
no , my plan is to make fanny price in love with me .
catherine , delighted at so happy an escape , spoke her pleasure aloud with grateful surprise ; and her companion
i am in no hurry .
” this was almost the only rule of conduct , the only piece of advice , which fanny had ever
—so kind of her to think of my mother !
through all her affectionate attention to herself , how much the[ _num_ ] heart of marianne was in it ,
but my dearest love , tell me what dish mr .
) on wednesday the _num_ th of february _num_ —to the everlasting reproach of elizabeth , her ministers , and
not be hazarded .
he was coming through the hall .
” “yes—rather—i have been thinking of it some little time .
their stirrups , and numerous outriders properly mounted , sunk a little under this consequent inconvenience .
s tender care .
how acceptable mrs .
but you were preparing yourself to be an excellent wife all the time you were at hartfield .
“i should like to know how he behaves among strangers .
how shall we manage to see one another ?
they were to go immediately to delaford , that edward might have some personal knowledge of his future home ,
this she would not hear of ; but she was not so unwilling to comply with their brother’s proposal ;
to go to bath with sir walter and elizabeth , as a most important and valuable assistant to the latter
" then returning to his former earnest tone-- " my first wish for all whom i am interested in ,
spirits than of any natural gloominess of temper .
kitty stared at him , and lydia exclaimed .
elton ; the whole system of whose treatment of her , by the bye , has ever filled me with
accordingly , with a mixture of the serious and the playful , which she hoped would best suit his half
he truly wants to marry you .
at the further end of the village , and tolerably disengaged from the rest of it , stood the parsonage
her eyes were red and swollen ; and it seemed as if her tears were even then restrained with difficulty
i shall never reflect on my former acquaintance with your family in devonshire without the most grateful pleasure , and
head , and sat in such a general tremor as made her fear it impossible to escape mrs .
jennings had , for some time ceased to think at all of mrs .
go and see her .
but i hope it will soon come , ” she was obliged to pause before she answered , and at
” had been repeated many times over .
to belie his words , or give her hopes of his being less unreasonable than he professed himself .
another week , only one other week , would have been enough for us .
, ” she added , “i shall know how to understand it .
glimpse of one or other of you ; and nothing but the most constant watchfulness on my side , a
well , pray do not let anybody here be a restraint on you .
" " i have not had the pleasure of visiting in camden place so long , " replied he ,
a gentle sigh , " a few months more , and he , perhaps , may be walking here .
i observed with delight the impression my children made on them— .
brown , and the other women at the commissioner ' s at gibraltar , appeared in the same trim ,
how very odd !
after chatting some time on such matters as naturally arose from the objects around them , he suddenly addressed her
charles hayter had met with much to disquiet and mortify him in his cousin ' s behaviour .
—every body invited , was certainly to come ; frank had already written to enscombe to propose staying a few
their opportunity of acquaintance in the house of mr .
and how you will explain away any part of your guilt in that dreadful business , i confess is beyond
impatient for the realization of all that he hoped at home , his adieus were not long ; and they
miss bates stood in the very worst predicament in the world for having much of the public favour ; and
i hope they are not so impertinent as to follow us .
bennet was forced to submit to a separation , which , as her husband by no means entered into her
so shy before company .
—“yes—no—yes , to mrs .
uppercross .
" " i flatter myself , " replied elinor , " that even under the disadvantage of better rooms and
[ _num_ ] chapter l after a proper resistance on the part of mrs .
have been in a very pitiable state at this time , for from the day of the invitation , to
to be borne .
she heard him sigh .
jane as at herself , and frequently on no object but the ground .
in what a disgraceful light might it not strike so vain a man !
emma was soon perfectly satisfied of mr .
something so formal and arrangé in her air !
did you not think him dreadful low-spirited when he was at barton ?
” was all that fanny attempted to say .
but at other times doubt and alarm intermingled with his hopes ; and when he thought of her acknowledged disinclination
she has a blister on one of her heels , as large as a three-shilling piece .
i am therefore by no means discouraged by what you have just said , and shall hope to lead you
dinner passed heavily .
shall i , william ?
it would be a small consolation to her , for the clownish manner which might be offending her every hour
my wife should have the credit of them , however .
" yes , " he replied , with some embarrassment , " almost ever since ; i have been once
for fanny ' s present comfort it was concluded , perhaps , at the happiest moment : had he been
think that any consideration would tempt me to accept the man who has been the means of ruining , perhaps
debt , but was hearing of it so often , that it became vain to attempt concealing it longer ,
maria , with only mr .
” and then he would have changed the subject , and sipped his coffee in peace over domestic matters of
” “who do you mean , my dear ?
it can be no sacrifice on their side , for it is highly comic .
' —miss austen had in mind some real hampshire or devonshire country house .
the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter he held .
how do you do , mrs .
gradual metamorphosis of the impassioned baron wildenheim into the well-bred and easy mr .
looked eagerly round the room , took notice of some little alteration in it , and observed , with a
” “is it possible ?
i hope , from the bottom of my heart , he won ' t keep her waiting much longer ,
” this was very bad .
a man once , and his name begins with an f .
i must hope , however , that time , proving him (as i firmly believe it will) to deserve you
but edmund goes ; true , it is upon edmund ' s account .
or a shark ?
a very raised voice , but from the clamour of the children on his knees , generally in vain .
there can be no want of gallantry , admiral , in rating the claims of women to every personal comfort
to her dress and appearance she was grown so perfectly indifferent , as not to bestow half the consideration on
“he had just looked into the dining-room , and as he was not wanted there , preferred being out of
” “i would not give much for mr .
weston ' s communications furnished emma with more food for unpleasant reflection , by increasing her esteem and compassion ,
i told you that i did not wonder at your attachment ; that considering the service he had rendered you
allen thought his expressions quite good enough to be immediately made use of again by herself .
i beg your pardon , sir .
may knock—tho ' that someone does rap at the door , i am partly convinced .
of unhappiness to himself of a far more incurable nature .
norris should ever have it in her power to tell them , as she now and then did , in
so , if you are not against it , i will write to my poor sister tomorrow , and make
” “i remember once calling you ' george , ' in one of my amiable fits , about ten years
be dictated to ; she takes her own independent walk whenever she can ; she certainly has a little spirit
” her sister had not the smallest objection , and the pianoforte was opened ; and darcy , after a
i have two favours to ask , fanny : one is your correspondence .
allen ' s opinion was more positive .
upon my representation of what you were suffering , he immediately , and with the greatest delicacy , ceased to
matilda and margaret lesley are two great , tall , out of the way , over-grown , girls , just
no , marianne .
” “that circumstance would by no means tempt me , ” he replied , “for i should be sorry to
you and the girls may go , or you may send them by themselves , which perhaps will be still
considerably , and it was not long before he thought so ill of himself as to be as ready as
all handsome : i like them prodigiously .
” and the consequence was , that fanny , strange as it was—strange , awkward , and distressing—found herself and
i never was more surprized—but it does not make me unhappy , i assure you .
i have been too much at my ease , too happy , too frank .
i am absolutely certain ; and the gown which had been let down to hide it not doing its office
, after a while , shared the feeling , was more openly acknowledged , for she did not scruple to
” “and do you impute it to either of those ?
all was safe and prosperous ; and as the removal of one solicitude generally makes way for another , emma
effect ; mrs .
marianne slowly continued— " it is a great relief to me—what elinor told me this morning—i have now heard exactly
of moral obligation , her evident duty to marry mr .
, and led soon afterwards , by rapid degrees , to the highest state of affection and influence .
, a surgeon this instant , " was darting away , when anne eagerly suggested-- " captain benwick , would
in everything , and to walk for her life to do him good .
and mrs shirley ?
had you not been surrounded by other friends , i might have been tempted to introduce a subject , to
her eyes , a deep grey , with dark eye-lashes and eyebrows , had never been denied their praise ;
to the sea , who ever deserved to look on it at all , proceeded towards the cobb , equally
i like them extremely .
no one can be deceived in him .
the truth rushed on her ; and how she could have spoken at all , how she could even have
his manners are certainly not the happiest in nature .
" " there now , " —said his lady , " you see mr .
not , upon reflection , imagine him aware of it .
and as to the house being a bad one , i do not know what the colonel would be at
expressions of the moment , that she could define many as accurately , did not delicacy forbid it .
that he should prefer henrietta to louisa , or louisa to henrietta .
” emma made as slight a reply as she could ; but it was fully sufficient for mrs .
all her attention to the feelings of her friends , were requisite to check the indulgence of those regrets which
was in a way to be very much in love ; but she considered with pleasure that it was not
we were all delighted .
elton , she had a quarter of an hour of the lady ' s conversation to herself , and could
restless and dissatisfied every where , her sister could never obtain her opinion of any article of purchase , however
the apothecary came , and having examined his patient , said , as might be supposed , that she had
bennet , offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood .
affection ; for , though i would not say it to any body else , she has no more heart
and marianne was in spirits ; happy in the mildness of the weather , and still happier in her expectation
darcy’s letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart .
" " you are quite in the right , " replied elinor calmly .
, to seek her for that purpose , in the pump-room at noon .
inviting his sisters another year ; at the same time , however , slyly suspecting that another year would make
yourself to be in your senses as soon as you can by a different conduct ; nothing else will satisfy
—it was a union to distance every wonder of the kind .
he dismounted , and giving his horse to his servant , walked back with them to barton , whither he
i tried—but could not frame a sentence .
elizabeth was now to see mr .
i am ashamed to think how long i bore with it ; but if ever man had reason to believe
well , colonel , i have brought two young ladies with me , you see—that is , you see but
lydia had been fortunate enough never to be without partners , which was all that they had yet learnt to
he is , if possible , to prevail on miss summers to let frederica continue with her ; and if
s superiority .
i must feel—i must be wretched—and they are welcome to enjoy the consciousness of it that can .
their steps and their voices again .
bingley must be down again in the summer .
to lose the possibility of speaking two words to captain wentworth in the course of her quiet , solitary progress
not till after easter !
found themselves at last in the passage behind the highest bench .
” “with all my heart ; i will buy pemberley itself if darcy will sell it .
she stept forward and put an end to all farther singing .
a great deal more .
” jane ' s solicitude about fetching her own letters had not escaped emma .
in him but a propensity , in which he strongly resembled and peculiarly delighted her sister , of saying too
they repulsed every attempt of mrs .
of her cousin , and of hoping that she was to be blessed with a second spring of youth and
soon sufficient to convince him , where conviction was at least very agreeable , he had no farther scruples as
say that i think you will like to hear , and that you will not hear so soon from any
his visit he would now defer ; but they had a very interesting parley about what could be done and
and with no one to speak to about what i felt , no jane to comfort me and say that
they have half a buck from northanger twice a year ; and i dine with them whenever i can .
” “you could not be expected to have thought on the subject before ; but when you do think of
well , miss woodhouse , is he like what you expected ?
properly tempted ; actually looking round , ready to fall in love with all the speed which a clear head
frank churchill .
” “very true ; but , in short , it had not occurred to me .
herself ; and the appearance of the carriage was the first thing to startle and recall them to the present
there had been no comfort around , no hope within her .
“the nonsense and folly of people ' s stepping out of their rank and trying to appear above themselves ,
” emma could not but rejoice to hear that she had a fault .
there was not only the debility of recent illness to assist : there was also , as she now learnt
same captain wentworth whom they recollected meeting , once or twice , after their coming back from clifton--a very fine
walked towards the fireplace , where sat the others , he had nothing to do but to go in good
rushworth ' s pink satin cloak as her brother-in-law entered , she could hardly be said to shew any sign
rushworth in future , that her father might not be again suspecting her .
this house to see that i am but a nominal mistress of it , that my real power is nothing
you will be a very happy woman .
there is not a sound piece of iron about it .
elton might not be of an imprudent , inconsiderate disposition as to money matters ; he might naturally be rather
" " i believe about two thousand a year .
but may we not hope that the period of future happiness to which miss bingley looks forward may arrive earlier
means of exercising it ; and though she would not place herself as his principal inducement , she could ,
and while conducting to the scaffold , she wrote a sentence in latin and another in greek on seeing the
over , she wished that she had shaken hands with him too .
i cannot bear to hear him mentioned it wounds my feelings .
—the attachment of frank churchill and jane fairfax became commonplace , threadbare , stale in the comparison , exciting no
” “whoever might be her parents , ” said mr .
) mary , without waiting for any further commands immediately left the room and quickly returned introducing the most beauteous
not to have failed of .
phillips’s .
whatever they may have been , however , she may now , and hereafter doubtless will , turn with gratitude
she could have none , so long lost sight of !
been little .
jennings ' s compassion she had other claims .
a public school , she could not think of edward ' s abode in mr .
” we bowed .
in chatting with miss tilney before the evening concluded , a new source of felicity arose to her .
describe any particular scene , will we begin quarreling about its relative situation .
” “a very serious sort , i assure you ; ” still smiling .
her own family were plain , matter-of-fact people who seldom aimed at wit of any kind ; her father ,
there are plenty of books , but it is not every girl who has been running wild the first fifteen
jennings at the door of her carriage , and repeating his hope of being able to call on them the
that was the act of a very , very young man , one too young to consider whether the inconvenience
about ?
threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the skill of the speaker .
” “i mean that he has done it , ” answered mr .
town ; —and a faint invitation from fanny , to come to norland whenever it should happen to be in
his attachment to her mother , for his abjuring all future attachments , and detesting the sex , might be
beginning to own other eyes and other limbs !
and entreat the sanction of the uncle , who seemed to stand in the place of her parents ; and
“i like your miss bertrams exceedingly , sister , ” said he , as he returned from attending them to
hand , and hear her say to her eldest sister , “ah !
help admitting it to be very agreeable flattery , or help listening , and answering with more animation than she
we were talking of you at the parsonage , and those were her words .
with only a little shawl over her shoulders—and it makes one think she must catch cold .
you have deprived the best years of his life of that independence which was no less his due than his
" sir walter only nodded .
not what might have befallen me had i not at length discerned thro ' the solemn gloom that surrounded me
the latter , though unable to speak , seemed to feel all the tenderness of this behaviour , and after
he brightened up directly .
certainly she had often , especially of late , thought his manners to herself unnecessarily gallant ; but it had
maria must be agatha .
to any body that has a living to bestow , am very sure you will not forget us , and
yes , i believe we were ; but i have not the least recollection at what .
we agreed that the best thing we could do was to begin eating them immediately , and accordingly we ordered
no , no ; i shall exercise mine at the average of four hours every day while i am here
, " are you acquainted with mr elliot ?
i wish margaret were married , for my poor friend ' s sake , for i look upon the frasers
“now , ma ' am , ” said jane to her aunt , “shall we join mrs .
and public places .
not vain , mr .
the bed , she jumped hastily in , and sought some suspension of agony by creeping far underneath the clothes
if you cannot bear an uncle ' s admiration , what is to become of you ?
repinings at the dullness of everything around them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle ; and , though
“we allowed unnecessary room .
, it might be fairly supposed from her easy conceit , had been the best of her own set .
she hardly knew what to say .
a shift to live !
enough even to satisfy the general .
she could not regret her being led on , though so unaccountably , to mention the circumstance which had produced
” “an afterpiece instead of a comedy , ” said mr .
wishes of giving emma that distinction .
declaration , that though he had been invited only to a family dinner , she would take care to have
writer of it and her cousin edmund together , would have made her (as she felt) incapable of judging impartially
the eye of others , before she could recover calmness enough to return the letter which she had been meditating
no longer .
with such encouragement , catherine hoped at least to pass uncensured through the crowd .
their minds most dissimilar !
that he has sent them off in , as long as it is in sight , and then turns away
you are not going to be missish , i hope , and pretend to be affronted at an idle report
one moment she feared that no serious design had ever been formed on his side ; and the next that
” “that ' s true , ” she cried—“very true .
” “and have you heard from him often ?
; for had it been otherwise , i must have been involved in all your sorrow and disgrace .
that the hope of revenging himself on me was a strong inducement .
crayons !
chapter _num_ more than once did elizabeth , in her ramble within the park , unexpectedly meet mr .
; for he certainly does like henrietta a great deal the best .
” catherine said nothing .
would she but present them to matilda and me , how greatly should we be obliged to her , how
on the stars , to think beyond themselves ; but when the first pause came , edmund , looking around
" remember , elinor , " said she , " how very often sir john fetches our letters himself from
if you knew how much i love every thing that is decided and open !
i will ask sir thomas , as soon as he comes in , whether i can do without her .
” “i will not trust myself on the subject , ” replied wickham ; “i can hardly be just to
sir john , i do think i hear a carriage ; perhaps it is colonel brandon come back again— "
it was evident that they had been spending their time pleasantly , and were not aware of the length of
“you were with her , i suppose , to the last ?
no doubt that it will be all done extremely well .
at three-and-twenty to be the king of his company—the great man—the practised politician , who is to read every body
as no scandalous , ill-natured rumour had reached her , it was impossible for her to understand much of this
i have engaged for your seeing him whenever he calls , as you might have done had nothing of this
during part of that time , mr .
elton , my astonishment is much beyond any thing i can express .
she could soon tell at what coachmaker ' s the new carriage was building , by what painter mr .
had predicted .
it was not required of her for willoughby ' s ; since , though marianne might lose much , he
aye , and blaize castle too , and anything else we can hear of ; but here is your sister
his bailiff ; to examine and compute , and , in the intervals of business , to walk into his
" she paused .
possible good can arise from harriet smith ' s intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you .
the charm of kellynch and of " lady elliot " all faded away .
it was as incomprehensible as it was mortifying and grievous .
, that i had been actually sitting with them very nearly three-quarters of an hour .
my daughter and i are both highly sensible of your goodness , and have the greatest satisfaction in seeing you
, i removed her and her child into the country , and there she remains .
” “yes ; but , when questioned by him , denny denied knowing anything of their plans , and would
others made commanders before him ?
me partial to the daughters of my husband and perhaps you are right—they are indeed so very like sir george
i had not been long in my own room , after breakfast , when mr .
chloe scene—an inn enter hostess , charles , maria , and cook .
muslin , and nothing but the shortness of the time prevented her buying a new one for the evening .
let her name her own supper , and go to bed .
and she is a good-natured woman after all .
common particulars , could not be concealed from miss dashwood , in spite of her constant endeavour to appear to
to be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love ; and very lively hopes of mr
she believed every body found his manners pleasing .
you with yours , in spite of the nurseryman and the poulterer , perhaps on their very account .
” “my dearest emma , do not pretend , with your sweet temper , to understand a bad one ,
more was not expected by one who , while seeing all the obligation and expediency of submission and forbearance ,
opportunity of proving his regard for admiral crawford , and that the circumstance of mr .
rushworth , but much worse-looking , and with a blackguard character .
, as he happened to do a little before christmas , colonel wallis made him acquainted with the appearance of
rushworth and mr .
one accompaniment to her song took her agreeably by surprize—a second , slightly but correctly taken by frank churchill .
in short , my dear aunt , i should be very sorry to be the means of making any of
dared not approach nearer to wickham , georgiana also recovered in time , though not enough to be able to
thou—whomsoever thou mayst be , into whose hands these memoirs of the wretched matilda may fall ' —when your lamp
the room ; and when they see you standing up with somebody else , they will quiz me famously .
' s perfectly knowing their situation .
” “my dear jane !
it possible .
so there i have the whip hand of you .
i never heard .
" was there no one else in the carriage ?
it was a match which sir thomas ' s wishes had even forestalled .
immediately amongst their present acquaintance .
as much a debt of gratitude to him , as of his affection to myself .
not in the habit of letting them out ; but , in harvest , it must be quite out of
one of five thousand mr smiths whose names are to be met with everywhere .
besides , it will not much signify what one wears this summer , after the ——shire have left meryton ,
declared her to be receiving unpleasant news ; and henry , earnestly watching her through the whole letter , saw
”—but checking himself—“no , no , i understand you—forgive me—i am pleased that you can say even so much .
same system in another way .
jane says that colonel campbell is a little deaf .
unpleasant alteration in his patient , he would not allow the danger to be material , and talked of the
passed between the young people .
but yes , in the never of conversation , which means not very often , i do think it .
” “as a friend !
—poor thing !
sam , loud and overbearing as he was , she rather regretted when he went , for he was clever
nothing can be kinder than her behaviour ; and she can hardly do all this , without being aware of
" " why , i hope not that .
advantage as years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge .
she was persuaded by lady russell ' s countenance that she had seen him .
" " no , not all , " answered marianne ; " we could not be more unfortunately situated .
her poor mother now did not look so very unworthy of being lady bertram ' s sister as she was
i hope his letter does not breathe the spirit of an ill-used man .
should have been deeply mortified if any son of mine could reconcile himself to doing less .
” with tuesday came the agreeable prospect of seeing him again , and for a longer time than hitherto ;
full of garden stuff and fruit arrived from the park , which was followed before the end of the day
she was sure her dearest , sweetest catherine would not seriously refuse such a trifling request to a friend who
for his wool than any body in the country .
” emma was almost too much astonished to answer ; but mrs .
she thought there was an air of greater happiness than usual—a glow both of complexion and spirits .
it contained , when separated from all the feebleness and tautology of the narration , a substance to sink her
but she is very young ; she has never been taught to think on serious subjects ; and for the
goddard ' s , that mr .
hurst reminded his sister-in-law of the card-table—but in vain .
in short , i am persuaded that his continuing here beyond the time originally fixed for his return is occasioned
the important tuesday came that was to introduce the two young ladies to this formidable mother-in-law .
introduced by his servant , the general was shortly restored to his complacency , and catherine to all her usual
” continued harriet—“these two last !
” “yes—entirely her own doing , entirely her own choice ; and colonel and mrs .
him happy .
were most delightful sentences to her .
you know my sentiments .
player in the servants ' hall , and the possibility of raising five couple with the help of mrs .
the memory of mrs .
obliged to leave all to their own discretion .
it is so .
” emma listened , and then coolly said , “i shall not be satisfied , unless he comes .
“it is only cecilia , or camilla , or belinda” ; or , in short , only some work in
" it is charming weather for them indeed , " she continued , as she sat down to the breakfast
so far from having long understood you , i have been in a most complete error with respect to your
‘lady catherine , ’ said she , ‘you have given me a treasure .
equal to it .
was still inflexibly studious .
pain of obligation , were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true !
he did not speak , he did not behave like himself .
there was consciousness , animation , and warmth ; there was every thing which her countenance or manner could ever
“return the necklace !
i had heard you described by those who knew you intimately .
impertinent ; but i had not supposed any secrecy intended , as they openly correspond , and their marriage is
" elinor saw that it was his hand , and she could doubt no longer .
“my dear mrs .
bates ?
” “but he will tell only half of it .
her father was walking about the room , looking grave and anxious .
“you will divide your year between london and northamptonshire ?
bennet was privileged to whisper it to mrs .
must have betrayed her emotion in some unpardonable excess .
we parted at last by mutual consent—happy for me had we never met !
i am sorry you do not happen to know mrs .
she is perfectly feminine , except in the instances we have been speaking of .
it came from town , and is merely a letter of business .
bath as the renter of kellynch hall .
” “my indulgence shall be given , sir , ” replied sir thomas gravely , “but without any other rehearsal
my dear emma , your own good sense could not endure such a puppy when it came to the point
" said lucy , eyeing elinor attentively as she spoke ; " but perhaps there may be reasons—i wish i
, settling with the servants , and equally saving her from all possible fatigue or exertion in every particular but
her mind without much effort into its everyday state , and easily conform to the tranquillity of the present quiet
on finding himself thus bewildered in his own house , making part of a ridiculous exhibition in the midst of
means go through the ring of the cross .
sir thomas , after a little consideration , judged it better to indulge her .
the blind fondness which was for ever producing evil around her she had never known .
and loving them .
chagrined and surprised , they were obliged , though unwillingly , to turn back , for no shelter was nearer
” she could not deny it , but said it was not very bad .
shortly after breakfast henry left them for woodston , where business required and would keep him two or three days
where pride and stupidity unite there can be no dissimulation worthy notice , and miss vernon shall be consigned to
she could not stand it .
” cried emma , turning her glowing cheeks towards him ; for , while she spoke , it occurred to
why should they try to influence him ?
i can only pronounce him to be a sensible man , well-bred , well-informed , of gentle address , and
, " said charles .
for me to any body .
how they might be benefited , how they must rejoice in such an establishment for you , is nothing to
my voice faltered , my eyes assumed a vacant stare , my face became as pale as death , and
my ability of distressing you during my life would be a species of revenge to which i could hardly stoop
how glad i am !
her folly in forming the connection was so great that , though mr .
collins’s making two offers of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted .
phillips’s supper party , but his manners recommended him to everybody .
mind .
in your ' s .
and woman , lovely woman , reigns alone .
to her , and breach of honour to me ?
weston was most comfortably pleased on the occasion .
when they left the high road for the lane to hunsford , every eye was in search of the parsonage
" " you must not talk so , marianne .
do ; and it had a sound of most sisterly cordiality .
the season was full , the room crowded , and the two ladies squeezed in as well as they could
will not be very unwilling to accept the charge .
" a blush overspread anne ' s cheeks .
de courcy , than to irritate him and the rest of his family by making her marry sir james .
here , —probably this basket with pink ribbon .
i think if we had had the disposal of events—if mansfield park had had the government of the winds just
expected ; and that mr .
palmer ' s , where i have been dining .
fanny has taken a great many drawings of the country , which are very beautiful , tho ' perhaps not
we had much better put it off till another day , and turn round .
he come at all ?
catherine will be amply provided for , and not , like my frederica , indebted to a fortunate establishment for
in pompous nothings on his side , and civil assents on that of his cousins , their time passed till
no , james should never hear isabella ' s name mentioned by her again .
he may be very ' amiable , ' have very good manners , and be very agreeable ; but he
the proposal ; and , as soon as matters are settled , i will engage to get the child to
oh , said i , my dear , i did say as much as i could .
and in a moment he entered the room .
but satisfying them instantly on that head , she eagerly communicated the cause of their summons , reading the two
knightley—“i do not accuse her of want of feeling .
weston and mr .
of ever being otherwise .
own and coldly said : “she is tolerable , but not handsome enough to tempt me ; i am in
wait only till tomorrow .
i dare say they will be here soon .
he has had great faults , faults of inconsideration and thoughtlessness ; and i am very much of his opinion
her back .
some more of the careys came to dinner , and they had the pleasure of sitting down nearly twenty to
poor tom !
darcy than he has received ; and i am sorry to say by his account as well as his sister’s
decides ; and for myself , i certainly never should , in any circumstance of tolerable similarity , give such
i do not know who would ever look at him in the company of the other .
angry .
if you have not been mistaken here , i must have been in error .
he was after her immediately .
this lady was one of my nearest relations , an orphan from her infancy , and under the guardianship of
even for simple dancing itself , without any of the wicked aids of vanity—to assist him first in pacing out
" the crofts have arrived in bath ?
while she treated it as a joke , therefore , she did not forget to think of it seriously .
she was anxious , she knew—more anxious perhaps than she ought to be—for what was it after all whether she
am quite at leisure .
for one daughter , his eldest , he would really have given up any thing , which he had not
“i am almost certain that the meeting at the crown is not till to-morrow .
i have written to colonel forster , to inform him of our present arrangements , and to request that he
she listened reluctantly , and her replies were short .
“my friend mr .
it was so with elizabeth , still the same handsome miss elliot that she had begun to be thirteen years
i hear you have a charming collection of new ribbons from town .
i had rather , ten thousand times rather , get out now , and walk back to them .
but in an instant arose the dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted for mr .
with an income quite sufficient to their wants thus secured to them , they had nothing to wait for after
whom she had always loved and relied on , could not , with such steadiness of opinion , and such
do try to find it out , miss woodhouse .
” for some time she was amused , without thinking beyond the immediate cause ; but as she came to
does it not expressly declare that caroline neither expects nor wishes me to be her sister ; that she is
a faint smile , " your sister , i understand , does not approve of second attachments .
the judgment of most people looking on it must have had such an appearance as no english word but flirtation
" they could not listen to her description of him .
time was therefore at her own disposal , the evening was by no means more productive of pleasure to her
but it shall be regulated , it shall be checked by religion , by reason , by constant employment .
have something the air of ingratitude , though i know it could never have the meaning , is not in
, would prove unfounded ; but there was no reason why fanny should not know the truth .
might occupy the meditations of almost all .
in a doleful voice mrs .
“this is coming as you should do , ” said she ; “like a gentleman .
he protested that she should receive from him no mark of affection whatever on the occasion .
dignity which ought to belong to sir walter elliot .
the scheme for the play , and she , invariably serious , most warmly opposing it , and not omitting
he was either less disposed for it than charles had imagined , or he was too shy ; and after
she could not be mistaken as to the room ; but how grossly mistaken in everything else !
be such an indulgence to her ; she had not seen her poor dear sister price for more than twenty
you must have heard him notice mrs clay ' s freckles .
soon after you left me on saturday , i was fortunate enough to find out in what part of london
—“the best fruit in england—every body ' s favourite—always wholesome .
, was ready to own all their obligation to her , and openly declared that no exertion for their good
” “you are too ridiculous (said augusta) to argue with ; perhaps however you may in time be convinced that
you saw her with the campbells , when she was the equal of every body she mixed with , but
likely to live at kellynch without a revival of former pain ; and many a stroll , and many a
but i will not repine .
gardiner gave her the particulars also of miss bingley’s visit in gracechurch street , and repeated conversations occurring at different
not believe she could accept him .
a sermon , good in itself , is no rare thing .
knightley does nothing mysteriously .
their society can afford no pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this !
we hear nothing of mr .
but here comes in the little problem to which we have referred .
weston ' s own happiness was indisputable .
, under their present circumstances , could only be exposing them to inadvertencies and misconstructions of the most mischievous kind
there the news must follow him , but who was to tell it ?
" " no , you shall not , " i replied ; " in such a point as this your
likewise such a degree of lively talents and comic taste , as were exactly adapted to the novelty of acting
knightley , why do not you stay at home like poor mr .
hardly answer calmly .
to our own .
his marrying anybody else .
” chapter _num_ with no greater events than these in the longbourn family , and otherwise diversified by little beyond
did you see it ?
” “it is above a week since i saw miss crawford .
in a general light , private theatricals are open to some objections , but as we are circumstanced , i
had little curiosity beyond .
short had been the notice—short their meeting ; he was gone ; and emma felt so sorry to part ,
but you know what i am .
" he was cut short by the eager attacks of the little boys , clinging to him like an old
her which had saved him from its evil consequences .
” were the first salutations .
fond of talking of him—said he would be the best man in the world if he were left to himself
i think harriet is doing extremely well .
received him with the most delighted and exulting affection .
is not meant—it is not fit—it is not possible that it should be so .
, ' as he says himself ; but he does sigh and languish , and study for compliments rather more
for my part , i am inclined to believe it all darcy’s ; but you shall do as you choose
spared the distressing idea of a friend displeased , a brother angry , and a scheme of great happiness to
perry ' s coming in soon after dinner , with a disengaged hour to give her father , she lost
woodhouse could only give a submissive sigh ; and as emma saw his spirits affected by the idea of his
both of them out of spirits , and the thoughts of both engaged elsewhere .
weston ' s .
miss anne , i cannot help wishing mrs charles had a little of your method with those children .
had she been tall , full formed , and fair , it might have been more of a trial :
unto strephon .
knightley ' s marrying did not in the least subside .
we have certainly done our best ; and most fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very
sleeping or waking , my head has been full of this matter all night .
ears .
each felt for the other , and of course for themselves ; and their mother talked on , of her
captain wentworth looked round at her instantly in a way which shewed his noticing of it .
“there is also one other person in the party , ” he continued after a pause , “who more particularly
had lydia’s marriage been concluded on the most honourable terms , it was not to be supposed that mr .
' i cannot help thinking , in short , that means might have been found .
he is brother to mrs .
made choice of matilda lesley for the object of my passion ; for there is nothing i hate so much
on the side of ancestry ; she had a value for rank and consequence , which blinded her a little
collins !
he looked all the astonishment which such unexpected , such unthought-of information could not fail of exciting ; but he
bingley’s chaise to go to meryton , and the hursts have no horses to theirs .
” “why , to be sure , ” said mr .
bingley’s being there ; and as to the loss of their society , she was persuaded that jane must cease
have done , instead of having that absurd new one of his own , which is wider , literally wider
than louisa , and so plausibly did she act and so cautiously behave that tho ' matilda and i often
" " then i rather suspect that my interest would do very little .
character and conduct , i shall certainly wish him well .
i wish you could get reginald home again on any plausible pretence ; he is not at all disposed to
whatever the truth of it might be , and far as elinor was from feeling thorough contentment about it ,
his value for rank and connexion she perceived was greater than hers .
pleasure quite unlooked for by all but the two youngest children , a boy and girl of six and four
she has been trying for him to such a degree .
campbell was here at four o ' clock to ask for you : he has got one of the thrush
it was agreed to .
she moved away and sat down .
no , you shall send it to hartfield , if you please .
” said she , quickly , looking up in his face .
at length collecting all the resolution i was mistress of , i arose and after packing up some necessary apparel
bennet , ” said his lady to him one day , “have you heard that netherfield park is let at
weston naming one family of cousins who must be included , and another of very old acquaintance who could not
, though , by the bye , i doubt anybody ' s striking out a better) you may give it
what can it possibly be ?
” “you cannot see too much perfection in mrs .
chapter _num_ the two gentlemen left rosings the next morning , and mr .
in spite of all her virtuous indignation , she found herself again obliged to walk with him , listen to
in such circumstances , it was better for both that they should not be long together ; and the restless
elizabeth’s correspondence with her , made her sister a slight answer , and , in compassion to her nieces ,
me again , so long as she lived ; but now she is quite come to , and we are
—you do not think i care about mr .
" elinor read and returned it without any comment .
knightley , am equally stout in my confidence of its not doing them any harm .
“she could not compose herself— mr .
when at last she returned to the unconscious marianne , she found her just awaking , refreshed by so long
upon this signal , the youngest of her daughters put herself forward .
but take care of yourself .
; for my mother will never have money enough to attempt it .
i did not see it to advantage , for nothing could be more forlorn than the furniture ; but if
be inconstant .
her uncle ' s kind expressions , however , and forbearing manner , were sensibly felt ; and when she
" and could not seriously picture to herself a more agreeable or estimable man .
refusal itself , i will not pretend to say that i might not influence her a little ; but i
but , because—and your brother !
and which reginald himself was entirely disposed to credit .
to have such a fine young man cut off in the flower of his days is most melancholy .
it sees through everything .
but i don ' t think mine would be , to make one son independent , because another had plagued
the situation of barton , in a county so far distant from sussex as devonshire , which , but a
be it from me to throw any fanciful impediment in the way of a plan which would be so consistent
, they might now be at home in little more than three weeks ' time .
that lady , i suppose , is your mother .
paul ' s , and i should be as glad of your nurseryman and poulterer as you could be .
such pleasures !
her husband call on mr .
she saw in a moment all the possible good .
had he feigned a regard for her which he did not feel ?
; but he might forget her ; and in that case , to meet— !
i set her the example of moderation myself in being satisfied with the old butler .
i would rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere .
if i had the power of recalling any one week of my existence , it should be that week—that acting
' elegance , sweetness , beauty .
i had no family , no home ; and my little eliza was therefore placed at school .
had intended .
to suit me ; but , in general , she is very much to the taste of every body ,
my dear sir , her throat is so much better that i have hardly any uneasiness about it .
apprehension was putting away her half-finished letter that she might escape all impertinent questions , when the door opened ,
—such a delightful evening as it would have been !
i do not perceive how you could express yourself more warmly .
“to be sure , my dear mother , your anxiety—i was unlucky there .
” “i do not say so ; but he did not seem in good spirits .
how always known no principle to supply as a duty what the heart was deficient in !
school , to place her under the care of a very respectable woman , residing in dorsetshire , who had
facts shall speak .
as will , probably , never occur to you again .
marrying , and burying his parishioners whenever it were required .
transient , varying , unsteady nature of love , as it generally exists , you cannot be struck as i
the same story and the same raptures were repeated , when the two girls came with their father , through
side ; if you do not , you had better read some other history , for i shall not be
, and what nobody likes ; and if the good people who used to kneel and gape in that gallery
and never thinking beyond what she heard , with no disposition for alarm and no aptitude at a hint ,
scene changes to the moon , and discovers popgun and pistoletta .
henry ' s words , his description of the ebony cabinet which was to escape her observation at first ,
it astonished her that tom ' s sisters could be satisfied with remaining in london at such a time ,
too soon did she find herself at the drawing-room door ; and after pausing a moment for what she knew
, and it passes off .
as to his real character , had information been in her power , she had never felt a wish of
on her father ' s account , who was immediately set as much at ease on the subject as his
the way which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived , she seated herself .
” replied the happily deceived aunt , while eagerly hunting for the letter .
she certainly did not hate him .
elton , very willing to suppose a particular compliment intended her by such a hope , smiled most graciously .
” “my poor dear harriet !
would have contented herself with merely giving up her sister , and thinking no more of the matter ; but
" the hint was immediately taken up by mr shepherd , whose interest was involved in the reality of sir
” “take care , lizzy ; that speech savours strongly of disappointment .
is ill qualified to recommend himself to strangers ?
he was released from the engagement to be mortified and unhappy , till some other pretty girl could attract him
he only means—” “he and i should differ very little in our estimation of the two , ” interrupted she
and pass all her time between suffering from that of to-day and looking forward to to-morrow ' s .
i do not want the match—i do not want to injure dear little henry—but the idea has been given me
i always deserve the best treatment , because i never put up with any other ; and , therefore ,
” “i have always thought it a very foolish intimacy , ” said mr .
did you ever see their equals ?
norris ' s death the presentation became the right of a dr .
if you mention my name at the bell , you will be attended to .
chapman could do themselves .
waiting for any better authority , she boldly burst forth in wonder and praise .
was to close the very questionable enjoyments of this day of pleasure .
he quitted the militia and engaged in trade , having brothers already established in a good way in london ,
” “then why , might she ask , in such a hurry herself to leave them ?
rent so uncommonly moderate , as to leave her no right of objection on either point ; and , therefore
was such as no interest could reach ; and before he had time to devise any other method of assisting
but with me , it is not so .
was his letter a long one ?
continued at school it had better not be known to exist ; but now , as i am convinced that
girls , can i do anything for you in meryton ?
bennet perhaps surpassing the rest ; though , when the first tumult of joy was over , she began to
indignant .
a very little trouble on your side secures him .
you had better look about you , and ascertain what you do , and what you mean to do .
wrapt up in a cloak of politeness , she seemed determined to hazard nothing .
lord !
but i need not be particular on this subject .
fanny in those early days had preferred her to susan ; and when the news of her death had at
inn , which he had adopted , when quite a young man , on the principal of its being very
mother advanced .
in every view it is unaccountable !
, and made abundance of civil speeches to mrs .
for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone to scotland .
he might be jealous of her brother as a rival , but if more had seemed implied , the fault
more natural than the change ?
“there goes a temper which would never give pain !
from miss bennet , it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern for the welfare of
ferrars looked exceedingly angry , and drawing herself [ _num_ ]up more stiffly than ever , pronounced in retort this
not attribute such behaviour to mistake or misapprehension of any kind .
i have certainly meant well through the whole affair .
“i hope your ladyship is pleased with the game .
a large bulky figure has as good a right to be in deep affliction , as the most graceful set
she felt all the advantages of what they had gained .
i always regret excessively on dear emma ' s account that she cannot be more at highbury ; but now
elizabeth , though expecting no less , thanked him with tears of gratitude ; and all three being actuated by
could now manage them with perfect ease .
, “you know all other things give place .
than politeness ; there was good humour and kindness .
how poor they will be !
any events (except what i make myself) is uninteresting to me ; my principal reason for undertaking the history of
the portsmouth girls turn up their noses at anybody who has not a commission .
there[ _num_ ] was something in her style of beauty , to please them particularly .
” said he , “and you have been promoting her comfort by preventing her from setting off half an hour
take your own .
employment , if nothing but musing would do , she could scarcely see an object in that room which had
and now you must be off for spithead too .
i should not mind walking half the way .
be imagined .
too good .
elinor could not be surprised at their attachment .
they are both so very large , and take up so much room ; and mr musgrove always sits forward
churchill probably has not health or spirits like selina to enjoy that sort of seclusion .
he was close to her .
and elizabeth , too .
bertram property than any other possible ' sir .
i might have sold it again , the next day , for more than i gave : but , with
for when there she immediately fell into a sound sleep which lasted nine hours , and from which she awoke
what a reproof would she have given me !
down as a lively girl .
knightley , ) who know how very , very seldom i am ever two hours from hartfield , why you
yates , with an urgency which differed from his but in being more gentle or more ceremonious , and which
and expensive style of living there , as from her particular attachment to mr .
their being her relations too made it so much the worse ; and mrs .
be this as it may , he did not live for ever , but falling ill , his son the
at this period of their quarrel i entered the library and was as you may imagine equally offended as sophia
at all , which was much more (as emma felt) than he had acknowledged to her .
i never heard any harm of her ; and i dare say she is one of the most tractable creatures
" here comes marianne , " cried sir john .
we do not expect perfection .
curtain and a little carpenter ' s work , and that ' s all ; and as the carpenter '
your wits about you , with so much changing of chaises and so forth ; and i hope it will
yes , next week .
if i could believe it—my spirit , you know , is pretty independent .
unrelenting contempt ; but by all that i can gather lady susan possesses a degree of captivating deceit which it
" " a little .
she said little , assented only here and there , and betrayed no inclination either of appropriating any part of
“this fine account of him , ” whispered her aunt as they walked , “is not quite consistent with his
for famous you must be to satisfy all your family ; and with no inclination for expense , no affection
a sacrifice was always noble ; and if she had given way to their entreaties , she should have been
, the sinking again into nothing , would awaken very wholesome regrets in her mind .
will do you good .
i do not care for myself .
with general approbation .
i suppose i shall not see them any more , and yet as a family party we are so stupid
“i cannot think how it could happen !
norris , most happy to assist in the duties of the day , by spending it at the park to
to be tied down to the regular payment of such a sum , on every rent day , is by
and smiled when she went away .
every sort of exercise fatigues her so soon , miss crawford , except riding .
they were all disengaged and all happy .
he had spoken to her with some degree of openness of mrs clay ; had appeared completely to see what
perhaps to hartfield , perhaps to the abbey mill , perhaps into his woods .
who but henry could have been aware of what his father was at ?
so much superadded decision of character !
and a special licence .
my freind herself has four thousand pounds , and will probably spend nearly as much every year in dress and
“what are you thinking of so earnestly ?
” “by the bye—i have not wished you joy .
” “was not he in the kings bench once ?
that young lady , you know , that we have all been so concerned for .
, mr .
was now beginning to consider donwell abbey , was never struck with any sense of injury to her nephew henry
i presume , but that she may hope to see another day .
but myself .
way of thinking .
it is such a delicate muslin .
friends in it .
pratt ' s purposely to see us .
” “they are neither of them alive ma ' am .
was seeing clearly , and judging candidly , she would probably have made some important communications to her usual confidant
hughes .
: —mr .
dropped by mary , as well as of some apparent confusion as to whom their party consisted of .
know how he was , how were his spirits , how was his aunt , and what was the chance
i have the satisfaction of informing you that we have every reason to imagine our pantry is by this time
i could name , at this moment , at least six young men within six miles of us , who
” emma had done .
i speak from experience .
the feelings which , you tell me , have long prevented the acknowledgment of your regard , can have little
" not at all—i never saw him ; but i fancy he is very unlike his brother—silly and a great
father ' s suspicion .
” said ellen .
i want her to play and sing with some portion of taste and a good deal of assurance , as
her spring of felicity was in the glow of her spirits , as her friend anne ' s was in
knightley , she was more conscience-stricken about jane fairfax than she had often been .
supper , wound up the enjoyments and fatigues of the day .
” “i am to have it to-morrow ; but how do you think it is to be conveyed ?
i wish i could say , for the sake of her family , that the accomplishment of her earnest desire
quite worn out and broken up .
rushworth had , perhaps , been accepted on too short an acquaintance , and , on knowing him better ,
does mrs .
not these two or three years , perhaps .
” “do not you intend it ?
inclination , the same inevitable necessity of temporizing with his mother .
" " no , " said marianne , in a low voice , " nor how many painful moments .
he evidently tried to please her : he was gallant , he was attentive , he was something like what
let the other young ladies have time to exhibit .
and it only harasses me .
“they battled it together for a long time , which was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in
a yet stronger interest , would have left it unwillingly .
at the park , and which , when edmund ' s acquaintance with her increased , led to his encouraging
“are you pleased with the country miss grenville ?
far from me be all complaint , every sigh of regret .
more , but that she had been inflicting deeper wounds in almost every sentence .
friends , she was not without a settled habitation of her own .
i can only suppose the lady to be governed by the fear of never getting her money .
, but i am happy to add that sir thomas will not leave me on this distressing occasion , as
” “obstinate , headstrong girl !
before that happens .
become easy .
i am very glad you liked her .
" " but how came the hand to discompose you so much , if it was only a letter of
with real affection , fanny , like mine , more might be overlooked .
after continuing in chat with the party round the fire a few minutes , miss crawford returned to the party
he will find an addition to the society of highbury when he comes again ; that is , if i
as dinner was not to be ready in less than two hours from their arrival , elinor determined to employ
when dinner was over , she returned directly to jane , and miss bingley began abusing her as soon as
what a happy day for booksellers , music-sellers , and print-shops !
her from venturing at disapprobation .
, till sir william thus began : “what a charming amusement for young people this is , mr .
the rest , for the purposes of mere domestic economy ; and would willingly have been spared the mortification of
she was most sure of success , for those to whom she endeavoured to give pleasure were prepossessed in her
for nothing .
miss bates was obliged to return without success ; jane was quite unpersuadable ; the mere proposal of going out
there was no difference between him and the man who had stood on the steps at lyme , admiring anne
and even when it was settled that lydia should go with mrs .
and now my dear margaret let me talk a little of your affairs ; and in the first place i
her attention to the orchestra and look straight forward .
but in vain ; common sense , common care , common prudence , were all sunk in mrs .
and his acquaintance were all of use , and susan was entertained in a way quite new to her .
i have just as much right to be asked as she has , and more too , for i am
of a yearning which she could not suppose any schoolboy ' s bosom to feel more keenly .
sure somebody else might be found that would do as well ; somebody that is in orders already .
” “i will not say , ” replied fanny , “that i was not half afraid at the time of
' s particular favourite , which had been long a matter of great curiosity to her , margaret answered by
she had never heard of his having had any relations , except a father and mother , both of whom
; but augusta , i believe , with her own good-will , would never stir beyond the park paling .
” accompanied by a violent yawn .
she is just what she was in october , believe me .
i should not like a man who is so soon discomposed by a hot morning .
the scheme had received its first impulse by captain harville ' s wanting to come to bath on business .
i think you the most amiable , and the handsomest man in england , and so to be sure you
, and she said : “in such cases as this , it is , i believe , the established mode
no , i will not do her any harm , dear little soul !
i have heard before from some one of his being in love with julia ; but i could never see
—it would have been a much better transgression had i broken the bond of secrecy and told you every thing
fanny began to hope there would be nothing worse to be endured than a half-hour of moderate agitation .
" " in defence of your protégé you can even be saucy .
she could think of nothing else ; and yet whether bingley’s regard had really died away , or were suppressed
, and was too busy , and—may i add ?
you divert me against my conscience .
i can ; and i will step to mrs .
printed by t .
he was very much vexed .
pratt ' s , near plymouth .
—in short , my dear madam , it was a quarrel blameless on her side , abominable on mine ;
i still assert that , considering what her behaviour was , my confidence was as natural as your suspicion .
open it—though it was not directed to me—it was to mrs .
in their power to reconcile her to it entirely .
nurse a sick maid , there was peace and good-humour in their little party , though it could not boast
her spirits seemed overcome .
had never known her .
there is not a stone laid of fanny ' s green-house , and nothing but the plan of the flower-garden
with quickness in understanding the tempers of those she had to deal with , and no natural timidity to restrain
might fairly claim some place in the thoughts and conversation of the ladies .
let there be an end of this suspense .
her first answer to herself , resulting , she supposed , from doubt of what might be said , and
and was immediately followed by a return of the same excessive affliction .
it is a difference of opinion which does not admit of proof .
fidelity and complaisance are the principal duties of both ; and those men who do not choose to dance or
perry , and mrs .
various as were the tempers in her father ' s house , he pleased them all .
in a tone of affection , held out her hand to him .
orders for portsmouth .
how , in all the peculiar disadvantages of their respective situations , would he ever learn of her real sentiments
transplantation would be a risk of her father ' s comfort , perhaps even of his life , which must
i can leave them at the great house very well , for a month or six weeks .
darcy speaking to her .
disposed for conversation , and who now said rather abruptly , " and how do you like devonshire , miss
she appears to have infinite wit and a good humour unalterable ; her conversation during the half hour they set
weston had his five minutes share of it ; but five minutes were enough to familiarise the idea to his
” “that little boys and girls should be tormented , ” said henry , “is what no one at all
something was certainly to be concealed ; her fancy , though it had trespassed lately once or twice , could
but so it always is with me ; the first moment settles everything .
” “aye , very true .
“i do indeed , ” replied elizabeth , colouring .
was delighted at her entrance .
—and mr .
best and kindest love , but had had no time for writing ; that he thought himself lucky in seeing
” “engaged since october , —secretly engaged .
" aye , aye , " said mrs .
she tried to explain the real state of the case to her sister .
look at her .
” lady bertram seemed quite resigned to waiting .
great deal worse than i ever own .
on the contrary , i think a young man might be very safely recommended to take mr .
elton only looked very conscious and smiling , and rode off in great spirits .
her illness required ; —and they had advanced only so far beyond the house as to admit a full view
but that it was not without an effort , the restless , unquiet thoughtfulness in which she had been for
was on receiving mrs .
crawford should continue to know that it is paying me a very great compliment , and i feel most undeservedly
so well .
and therefore entreat you to let me know how far i have been rightly informed .
allen as to catherine , petitioned for the pleasure of her company to dinner on the day after the next
grant , “all the better ; i am glad to hear you have anything so good in the house .
i will look another way .
" — elinor made what excuse she could for her .
perry had remonstrated with him about it , and told him how shabby it was in him , their best
this will certainly be the beginning of one of our quarrels about emma , mr .
from a preference only given her , because her real situation was unknown .
” “i am far from attributing any part of mr .
his coldness and reserve mortified her severely ; she was vexed and half angry ; but resolving to regulate her[
vivacity as he returned to his seat , — " what does it signify ?
” in this quarter , indeed , disappointment was impending over sir thomas .
” said he , giving her a hearty shake of the hand .
" we are never safe from him .
exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together .
i should not have supposed that you could have found anything in lyme to inspire such a feeling .
nor honour ; that he is as false and deceitful as he is insinuating .
been pleasant enough , as he had found them in general a set of gentlemanlike , sensible men ; and
means there was one subject always to be recurred to by the ladies in case of extremity , for they
allen , or anybody else .
in short , she could not sleep till she had examined it .
and , seriously , miss fairfax is naturally so pale , as almost always to give the appearance of ill
jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match ; but she said less of her astonishment than of her
be offered .
norris , which happened when fanny was about fifteen , and necessarily introduced alterations and novelties .
hints which had accompanied an almost positive command to his son of doing everything in his power to attach her
” “if it is designedly done , they cannot be justified ; but i have no idea of there being
emma said it would be awkward ; mrs .
—how do you like my trimming ?
we were getting too noisy .
he says he has business there , but will not tell me what .
“if i , ” said mr .
eleanor seemed now impelled into resolution and speech .
chapter _num_ colonel fitzwilliam’s manners were very much admired at the parsonage , and the ladies all felt that he
to favour him , she is not now .
allen ' s house , he was sure , must be exactly of the true size for rational happiness .
the charm of an object to occupy the many vacancies of harriet ' s mind was not to be talked
, they will both be more prudent .
my mother rode upon our little poney and fanny and i walked by her side or rather ran , for
such society and such scenes as must prevent her ever knowing a moment ' s rest .
" " was mr .
to him under any distress .
mr .
the place , but especially wanting to speak of the circumstance of their happening to be guests in the same
” chapter _num_ the whole party were in hopes of a letter from mr .
judge as your eldest sister does on the matter .
better for the change , and that he had no doubt of being able to join them for twenty-four hours
how very comfortable they make it ; —impossible to feel cold with such precautions .
first creature who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence .
yates , desirous of being really received into the family , was disposed to look up to him and be
“how despicably i have acted !
the household , and the one whom they could most trust should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the
and though nothing was settled but that tom bertram would prefer a comedy , and his sisters and henry crawford
longed to see him distinguished as—they hardly knew what .
in this calm kind of way , with very little interest on either side , they continued to talk ,
extended to the advanced age of forty .
was constrained to acknowledge that the wind had kept her awake a little .
the enclosed letter my dear charlotte you could not have applied for information concerning the report of sir george lesleys
into the grappler .
than before— " i am now perfectly[ _num_ ] satisfied , i wish for no change .
civility between the other two .
the deed thoroughly answered : a source of domestic altercation was entirely done away , and it was the means
i received my information in mr .
recent event , took her hand , and said in a low , but very expressive tone , “no wonder—you
s negative , though miss fairfax continued to assure her that she would not at present engage in any thing
all the unceremoniousness of perfect amity .
” “yes , very kind ; i never was so happy before ; and now you are come it will
and then we were so merry all the way home !
covies for you .
in every meeting there was a hope of receiving farther confirmation of miss crawford ' s attachment ; but the
her that he might have called at mrs .
perhaps catherine was wrong in not demanding the cause of that gentle emotion—but she was not experienced enough in the
a butcher hard by in the village , and the parsonage-house within a stone ' s throw .
few days , he could not help trying to procure a companion ; and therefore hoped that if william could
a weaker state of health than she had been half a year ago .
knew nothing .
for the first seven miles miss bertram had very little real comfort : her prospect always ended in mr .
—i was saying this to mr .
" to me it is faultless .
but you have not explained to me the particular reason of your coming now , nor how you heard of
for the intermediate days , and what do you think it is ?
as much time as possible for getting the better of her other complaint before the gentleman ' s return .
“did it , ” said he , “did it soon make you think better of me ?
may be she is ill in town ; nothing in the world more likely , for i have a notion
fearful sort of watch for him in vain ; but at last , in returning down pulteney street , she
ended , with rather a strengthened belief of there being a great deal of wine drunk in oxford , and
rushworth , ” he continued ; “but , had i a place to new fashion , i should not put
you ; to assure him that he has made me a very—an exceedingly happy man .
say find some difficulty in prevailing on herself even to satisfy the curiosity i dare say she feels of beholding
she was stronger alone , and her own good sense so well supported her , that her firmness was as
her acceptance must be as certain as his offer ; and yet there were bad feelings still remaining which made
, of gallantry , of flirtation , which bounded his views ; but in triumphing over the discretion which ,
from his wife ' s account of him she could discern mr smith to have been a man of warm
knew any gentleman of the name of willoughby at allenham .
the last two days he was always by the side of charlotte davis : i pitied his taste , but
stokes to be trusted ?
interruption of all that she had heard .
eleanor ' s countenance was dejected , yet sedate ; and its composure spoke her inured to all the gloomy
collins , in reply to his last .
before that period , as i understand , the pews were only wainscot ; and there is some reason to
“shall not you be late at devizes ?
strictly reasonable , is too common to excite surprize or resentment .
thought they must be a most delightful set of people , longed to be with them , but certainly without
” turning away distressed .
a man of fortune at once with horses and grooms at his command .
" henrietta , conscious and ashamed , and seeing no cousin charles walking along any path , or leaning against
" she was now lying on the faded sofa of the pretty little drawing-room , the once elegant furniture of
elizabeth , who had a letter to write , went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon after tea
but this place will always have one claim of my affection , which no other can possibly share .
elton , of the utmost advantage to the latter .
” “i can answer for every thing of that nature , sir , because it will be under mrs .
; and , with a repetition of every thing that she could venture to say of the good wishes which
knightley , a word or two more , and i have done .
she would have fixed him ; she would have made him happy for ever .
' no , you would not guess , from his way of writing , that he had ever thought of
i am sure they will bring him soon .
the morning hours of the cottage were always later than those of the other house , and on the morrow
my curiosity .
there probably was something more to conceal than her own preference ; mr .
' s reply .
i will write to my sister gardiner about them directly .
crawford would certainly never address her so again : he must have seen how unwelcome it was to her ;
, let the subject be ever so serious that he may be conversing on , i am much mistaken if
, i hope some body will chuse my wife for me .
is gone out of harbour , please sir , and one of the officers has been here to—” she was
his friend .
i know it to be impossible .
the admiral hated marriage , and thought it never pardonable in a young man of independent fortune .
but as they drew towards the end of it , their interest in the appearance of a country which they
depend upon it , he will be much farther from doing you justice .
if you could be supposed to be biased in any respect by your own feelings , your opinion would not
at lesley castle , that one has time to write even to a charlotte lutterell .
of the harp , and no fond parents , to sit by and fancy themselves delighted , her performance was
service to him ; and on george wickham , who was his godson , his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed
that is quite surprising , for we have had a vast deal of rain here .
stay a month .
do you then pretend to be ignorant of it ?
where i sit is of no consequence .
how many a man has committed himself on a short acquaintance , and rued it all the rest of his
” here , a _num_ d tremendous rap interrupted my father in his speech , and somewhat alarmed my mother
i have something of consequence to inform you of , which i was on the point of communicating by paper
she now lost every expectation of pleasure .
it is a sort of prologue to the play , a motto to the chapter ; and will be soon
this is strange indeed , when your eyes have been reproaching them every day for incautiousness .
she was sensible and clever ; but eager in everything : her sorrows , her joys , could have no
to separate for a couple of dances , were careful to stand together and scarcely spoke a word to any
her manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed , a mixture of pride and impertinence ; she had no
cares for is gone .
henry would have been too happy and too busy to want any other object .
descend to her children .
” “well , then—supposing them to be in london .
she could not endure to give him the true explanation ; for though her suspicions were by no means removed
came to the point , so little liked her going , that he told her to write to him ,
of a parent , it suits my ideas of comfort better than what is warmer and blinder .
; but i forbade everything of the kind .
when tom is better , i shall go .
though single and though poor .
way , and perhaps you would not mind passing through london , and seeing the inside of st .
palmer laughed heartily at the recollection of their astonishment , and every body agreed , two or three times over
to remain some days longer with his friend .
anne was not animated to an equal pitch by the circumstance , but she felt that she would rather see
i am really tired of exploring so long on one spot .
i will not take her from northamptonshire .
address , she was of that inferior order of beings with regard to delicate feeling , tender sentiments , and
woodhouse uncomfortable , and be an excuse for his hurrying away .
so sad of the autumnal months in the country , did not think that , everything considered , she wished
an indifferent judge of such matters in general , and very inadequate to sympathise in an attachment to mr .
chapter iv human nature is so well disposed towards those who are in interesting situations , that a young person
instantly .
about five hours where she is absent one—and who , when he is at home , is either reading to
—shocking plan , living together .
i fancy i am rather a favourite ; he took notice of my gown .
margaret related something to her the next day , which[ _num_ ] placed this matter in a still clearer light
was ; but when she saw , on her frequent and minute examination , that every symptom of recovery continued
” “what sort of girl is miss darcy ?
how proper mr .
" as mr shepherd perceived that this connexion of the crofts did them no service with sir walter , he
” she held out her hand ; he kissed it with affectionate gallantry , though he hardly knew how to
the minutest inspection , and on opening it , a door will immediately appear—which door , being only secured by
knightley ' s words dwelt with her .
—show and finery are every thing .
he readily agreed to it .
her nerves were under continual irritation and suffering ; and by the ten days ' end , her nephew '
she could not compliment the newly arrived gentleman , however , with any appearance of interest , in a scheme
, of whose whole heart she felt thoroughly possessed , and whom she expected to see in every carriage which
will , i think , be amply discharging my promise to my father .
let us walk out in the park , and you shall tell me all about your brothers and sisters .
they will do very well as foils to myself , so i have invited them to accompany me to london
general , soon procured herself a book .
in the meanwhile , we need not talk much on the subject .
he added that mr .
thing else in the world .
the gentlemen arrived early ; and , before mrs .
becoming , as she then did , the only young woman in the drawing-room , the only occupier of that
whose faces possessed nothing to interest , and with all of whom she was so wholly unacquainted that she could
robertus accompanied him , with his lady the amiable cecilia and her two lovely sisters arabella and marina to whom
this is not the place for explanations .
grant , a mr .
—well , i am convinced that there is a vast deal of inconsistency in almost every human character .
that crime has been the origin of every lesser one , and of all his present discontents .
“i did not know that you intended to walk , ” said miss bingley , in some confusion , lest
” emma pondered a moment , and then replied , “i will not pretend not to understand you ; and
practised here , was on the point of being called into action .
the room had then become useless , and for some time was quite deserted , except by fanny , when
side dissatisfied , though not to an equal degree , for in darcy’s breast there was a tolerably powerful feeling
i am sure of your kind support and aid .
have waited the effect of time and judgment .
i found a dismal letter from him on my arrival here , full of complaints of his wife and sister
she could now answer as she ought ; and was happy to feel , when mrs croft ' s next
rejoice in that light , cheerful , unsentimental disposition which allowed her so many alleviations of pleasure , in the
sir—but a thoughtless young person will sometimes step behind a window-curtain , and throw up a sash , without its
company is always cheerful .
perhaps , if particularly questioned , she might just give an idea—just distantly hint at it—but not more .
jennings , " should not stand upon such ceremony .
well , it is the oddest thing to me , that a man[ _num_ ] should use such a pretty
; but why he should say one thing so positively , and mean another all the while , was most
” “isabella and emma both write beautifully , ” said mr .
if the talking aunt had taken me quite by surprize , it must have been the death of me .
“this was a lucky idea of mine , indeed !
” at length he appeared ; and , whatever might have been the gloom of his meditations , he could
resistance in the course of a few days seemed somewhat less formidable .
with admiration on his undaunted bravery , led me from the parlour to his father ' s carriage which yet
, for having took such a liberty as to trouble you with my affairs .
chapter _num_ elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed her eyes
darcy would consider his addressing him without introduction as an impertinent freedom , rather than a compliment to his aunt
as soon as they were joined by the thorpes , catherine ' s agony began ; she fidgeted about if
live to see the other be .
i am sure your mother will not object to it ; for i have had such good luck in getting
sweetest of all sweet tempers .
i cannot think of it without abhorrence .
charming as were all mrs .
no further attempt to distinguish elizabeth ; and they parted at last with mutual civility , and possibly a mutual
elton going to be married !
she , poor soul , is tied by the leg .
my poor husband !
i must show it you some day or other .
” “and whose fault is that ?
i mean that has been more valuable , because this is what did really once belong to him , which
had been fixed without the smallest apprehension of really meeting with what he related .
—perhaps i am the readier to suspect , because , to tell you the truth , i think it might
she was considerably worse from this reappearance of mr .
dixon , but this is a punishment beyond what you can have merited !
but , on second thoughts , perhaps , lizzy could tell us what relations he has now living , better
brothers , and sisters , from whom she had been divided almost half her life ; of returning for a
be a more feeling heart nor a better man in existence .
every friend of miss taylor must be glad to have her so happily married .
” “elizabeth , you are not serious now .
" added mrs croft .
were it settled so , it would be somewhat less intolerable , though in such common attentions you would have
in affluence above what my fortune can procure— .
even when days were fixed , and invitations accepted , it was an even chance that mrs .
the letter was to this effect : “my dear lizzy , “i wish you joy .
grant was indebted for her sister ' s proposal of coming to her , a measure quite as welcome on
more or less , in their time .
great favourite with the men .
she is not satisfied .
“might he be trusted with the commission , what infinite pleasure should he have in executing it !
weston is really as kind as herself .
he had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies , of whose beauty he had
they proceeded in silence along the gravel walk that led to the copse ; elizabeth was determined to make no
do not think of me as i appeared then .
” said emma again .
" if he is not here by the end of the week , i shall go after him .
" i cannot possibly do without anne , " was mary ' s reasoning ; and elizabeth ' s reply
far enough .
weston”—with half a sigh and half a smile at her .
; no , the love of your brother for miss burton could not be so strong tho ' it might
it cannot be doubted that sir walter and elizabeth were shocked and mortified by the loss of their companion ,
crawford ' s heart , and caring little for anything else .
s acquaintance here , any of those who have known her longer than yourself , can shew her any other
gardiner left longbourn on sunday ; on tuesday his wife received a letter from him ; it told them that
d— , ' said i ; ' i am your man ; what do you ask ?
” nothing further was said for a few minutes ; and then speaking through her tears , she added ,
altho ' lady dorothea ' s visit was nominally to philippa and augusta , yet i have some reason to
apparently in violent affliction .
let me return your congratulations .
[ _num_ ] elinor , according to her expectation , saw on the two or three following days , that
felt , or fancied , an evil .
” catherine ' s heart swelled ; she drew away her arm , and isabella made no opposition .
than he had ever done before , in a very particular way indeed !
to fulfill them immediately , which was in full force at the end of every week , they were prevailed
her partner now drew near , and said , “that gentleman would have put me out of patience , had
the perpetual commendations of the lady , either on his handwriting , or on the evenness of his lines ,
i must go and look through that iron gate at the same view , without being able to see it
" but then at other times i have not resolution enough for it .
" said she with all her accustomary complacency .
something more .
be justified by his relationship to the young ladies who introduced him to her notice .
friend ' s to be torn asunder by any common effort of a struggling assembly .
he must know that the woodhouses had been settled for several generations at hartfield , the younger branch of a
the effect was—fortunately he need not attempt to describe what the effect was .
without resentment under such a stroke .
necessary for the freedom of her sister .
_num_ ] material advantage to marianne , from the communication of what had passed .
" repeated mrs .
remark—“i really have not patience with the general”—to fill up every accidental pause .
we really seem quite the fashion .
to whom could it relate ?
then conveyed to hartfield .
for , much as you know already , there is a great deal more for you to learn .
mind , in the something like confusion of countenance with which she entered , and an attempt at cordiality in
he was wishing to confide in her—perhaps to consult her ; —cost her what it would , she would listen
but must if henry should recover (which however is not very likely) dress as much for you again ; or
ay , sam ' s voice louder than all the rest !
i could almost assert that you had named mr .
i must beg , therefore , that you will not deceive yourself any longer .
—as far as your friend emily herself left poor valancourt when she went with her aunt into italy .
returning with the same warmth of sentiment which he had taken away , it would be very distressing .
harding) for his advice ; mr .
then meant in the warmth of her heart to be guided in every thing , met with a look of
the motherbank ; he swore and he drank , he was dirty and gross .
she was deeply ashamed , and a little afraid of his next look .
have been reserved , spiritless , dull , and deceitful : —had i talked only of the weather and the
remained for his widow and daughters .
“we are not comparing it with fullerton and northanger—we are considering it as a mere parsonage , small and confined
my resolution of thanking you for your kindness to lydia had certainly great effect .
—i mean of late .
what might have been hard to bear at mansfield was to become a slight evil at portsmouth .
hughes , and mr .
this gallant young man , who seemed to love without feeling , and to recommend himself without complaisance , directly
if he knew them better , he would value their society as it deserves ; for they are in fact
seemed to make allies unnecessary ; and , independent of this great irreconcilable difference , they wanted a piece containing
bingley , and talked of mrs .
which edward would give her , that she spoke of her friendship for them both with the most grateful warmth
—they had all the assistance which isabella could give , by letters of the strongest approbation ; and mrs .
the old lady at allenham court , to whom he was related , and whose possessions he was to inherit
qualified to give .
” as a general reflection on fanny , sir thomas thought nothing could be more unjust , though he had
with as much ease as i was told to go into this wilderness .
days .
cousin anne ' s boots were rather the thickest .
what you direct in this house cannot be wrong .
the admiral ' s kind urgency came in support of his wife ' s ; they would not be refused
if i can but be near you , i shall be satisfied .
i should be ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me .
i considered the past : i saw in my own behaviour , since the beginning of our acquaintance with him
elton warmly added , “oh no !
can destroy ; but it has also redundancies and repetitions which require good reading not to be felt .
her jealous eye was satisfied in one particular .
what this additional fortnight was to produce to her beyond the pleasure of sometimes seeing henry tilney made but a
and irregular , with many comfortable , and one or two handsome rooms .
a bowing acquaintance .
last !
—our little room so honoured !
he had begun at the wrong end .
" replied her cousin , with affected earnestness , " and i beg you will contradict it , if you
up the principal staircase , pursued by the ceaseless country-dance , feverish with hopes and fears , soup and negus
so low , that if i had not happened to have the necessary sum in my banker ' s hands
eloisa ' s indisposition has brought us to bristol at so unfashionable a season of the year , that we
occasioning , of the curiosity there will be to see you , of the endless questions i shall have to
i am quite of your opinion , mrs croft , " was mrs musgrove ' s hearty answer .
her mother leaves her more to herself than she did , and i have her with me as much as
he felt himself bound as much in honour as in affection to miss morland , and believing that heart to
as the horse continued in name , as well as fact , the property of edmund , mrs .
draw your chair nearer , my dear .
how to dictate liberality to others ; but her love of money was equal to her love of directing ,
you can imagine what an artful man would do ; and with this guide , perhaps , may recollect what
and as general a surprise that miss elliot should be apparently , blind to the danger .
i am glad to find miss vernon does not accompany her mother to churchhill , as she has not even
chapter _num_ half a minute conducted them through the pump-yard to the archway , opposite union passage ; but here
my uncle !
have pained you too much already .
—miss smith !
, who met her there with looks of true kindness , and with features which fanny loved the more ,
as much as she wished of the circumstances attending the story .
she has plenty of money , and i intend she shall buy all the high-priced things i have in hand
how would mr .
the power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering visitors , and of letting them see her
adieu , i will send you a line as soon as i arrive in town .
lady russell and anne paid their compliments to them once , when anne could not but feel that uppercross was
collins and charlotte appeared at the door , and the carriage stopped at the small gate which led by a
the whole party walked about , and looked , and praised again ; and then , having nothing else to
little henry was in her thoughts , and a mixture of alarm and delicacy made her irresolute what else to
once , and once only , in the course of many years , had she the happiness of being with
the very mention of anything concerning the match threw her into an agony of ill-humour , and wherever she went
the cold repast was over , and the party were to go out once more to see what had not
to his ; indeed i had always heard what a dab he was at a love-letter .
elton chose another subject .
which i listened with perfect indifference , that my daughter had acquainted him with some circumstances concerning herself , sir
why will such things ever pass away ?
for thy daughter could have induced us to remain so long beneath thy roof .
but the fact is , that we are very different sort of men , and that he hates me .
elinor then ventured to doubt the propriety of her receiving such a present from a man so little , or
” “yes , my father can seldom be prevailed on to give the waters what i think a fair trial
hint .
i could have poisoned him !
” “i do remember it , ” cried emma ; “i perfectly remember it .
weston and her companion taking leave also , could allow themselves only to walk with the two young ladies to
may be weathered without our being any of us quite overcome .
i always say , we are quite blessed in our neighbours .
jennings , on returning from her ordinary visit to mrs .
season .
dejected and humbled , she had even some thoughts of not going with the others to the theatre that night
grant to keep them both with her , and dr .
emma waited the result with impatience , but not without strong hopes .
certain that a man must be acceptable to every woman he may happen to like himself .
i wonder who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love !
, and i assure you he is by no means deficient in natural taste , though he has not had
her sensibility was potent enough !
miss bingley moved with some alacrity to the pianoforte ; and , after a polite request that elizabeth would lead
all , one is so very handsome and agreeable .
the expectations of his friend morland , therefore , from the first overrated , had ever since his introduction to
the crimes and cruelties of this prince , were too numerous to be mentioned , (as this history i trust
darcy gave her the letter , did not expect it to contain a renewal of his offers , she had
in every thing equal to your sense of his merits .
who could have seen through such thick-headed nonsense ?
” they hurried on , and were speedily at randalls .
in good society , as to be independent even of hartfield and miss woodhouse .
world ' s law .
half the time would have been enough for the curricle , and so nimbly were the light horses disposed to
unconnected ; nothing to do with the strafford family .
" i thought you were both in devonshire , " said he .
upon the whole , it was a comfortable winter to her ; for though it brought no william to england
which i know i can borrow of colonel brandon .
hours of separation that must sometimes occur .
she had never seen frank churchill so silent and stupid .
, gradually overcome this youthful attachment .
this would not do ; she immediately stopped , under pretence of having some alteration to make in the lacing
is not she an angel in every gesture ?
remember how few minutes i was at randalls , and in how bewildered , how mad a state : and
in any future war ; and he was sure captain wentworth was as likely a man to distinguish himself as
now , as we may fairly suppose , he would not allow much time to pass before he spoke to
get into the carriage , “you have been at least three hours getting ready .
jeffereys—clara partridge , that was—and of the two milmans , now mrs .
my brother , his conduct in the business , i must own , has been no more than i believed
my conduct shall speak for me ; absence , distance , time shall speak for me .
gardiner could not be seen , and mr .
mama , the more i know of the world , the more am i convinced that i shall never see
“aye , very true , my dear , ” cried the latter , though jane had not spoken a word—“i
unhappy by that martin .
always kept a very good table , she did not think anything less than two courses could be good enough
after a pause of wonder , she exclaimed— " four months !
darcy had been over-rated , elizabeth had never yet answered mrs .
willoughby in your sister ' s writing .
in the house by the end of next week .
” to the theatre he went , and reached it just in time to witness the first meeting of his
” she then sat still five minutes longer ; but unable to waste such a precious occasion , she suddenly
could he have seen her happy with another .
but a faithful promise—the fidelity of promising !
into one house in this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance .
there had been no free conversation , no walk on the ramparts , no visit to the dockyard , no
she was no sooner in possession of it than , hurrying into the little copse , where she was least
to all the demands of her aunt ' s stupidity , working with her , and for her , her
campbell has been here , quite in a worry about you ; and now what shall we do ?
he was giving orders for a toothpick-case for himself , and till its size , shape , and ornaments were
i used to boast of my own anne elliot , and vouch for your being a very different creature from--
“are , to the jealous , confirmation strong , “as proofs of holy writ .
she was immediately up , and wanting to quit the table ; but so many were also moving , that
put on a most forbidding look , and darting an angry frown on the undaunted culprit , demanded in a
not—and she was expecting him every moment to escape into the card-room .
chance of its ceasing but with life ; she seemed a part of himself that must be borne for ever
he knew of no one but mrs .
children ' s sake , continue her in the family ; but there is no reason to expect so great
frederica is too shy , i think , and too much in awe of me to tell tales , but
she frequently gave me hints of it .
she had some satisfaction in finding that he was really going out of bath the next morning , going early
carrying through a resolution to do right against the will of others .
” in half a minute they were in the room .
with such a confederacy against her—with a knowledge so intimate of his goodness—with a conviction of his fond attachment to
the weather was at present favourable , and at this time of year the uncertainty was very great of its
and formality of the first great circle , which the manners of neither sir thomas nor lady bertram were of
” elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy .
acceptable ; for though her first remark , on reading it , was that “of course it must be declined
a great deal of good sense followed on sir thomas ' s side , tending to reconcile his wife to
chapter xxix before the housemaid had lit their fire the next day , or the sun gained any power over
" " yes , that he will !
selfish view , no view at all , but of endeavouring , if she allowed him an opening , to
elton looked all happiness at this proposition ; and nothing could exceed his alertness and attention in conducting them into
young ladies) she will i dare say gain herself as many admirers as the more regular features of matilda ,
gardiner , though unknown .
mrs harville , a degree less polished than her husband , seemed , however , to have the same good
last night after tea , when you and mama went out of the room , they were whispering and talking
even to mention the name of crawford again , except as it might be connected with what must be agreeable
his ingenuity in finding out such a method of pleasing her , as well as of his dutiful attention to
—frank churchill is , indeed , the favourite of fortune .
he watched her with this idea ; but he could hardly tell with what success .
such an office of high responsibility !
few weeks ago , had robbed her of one ; the similar annihilation of robert had left her for a
“you and miss smith , and miss fairfax , will be three , and the two miss coxes five ,
” “something was said about it , i remember , ” said catherine , looking at mrs .
is only as agatha that i was to be so overpowering !
loving , guiding , protecting her , as he had been doing ever since her being ten years old ,
her , and to enjoy excellent health herself .
, in me especially .
of bringing on your cough again .
” “the shame , ” he answered , “is all mine , or ought to be .
of her own mind , to convince her that if she wanted plain muslin it was of no use to
often deficient in the forms of politeness ; her kindness , recommended by so pretty a face , was engaging
to that point went every leisure moment which her father ' s claims on her allowed , and every moment
jennings hear in the morning of what had passed .
yates did yet mean to stay a few days longer under his roof .
humour .
short , that he was already aware of what occasioned her absence .
there was no gratitude for affection past or present to make her better bear with its excesses to the others
she has now been a longer time stationary there , than she ever was before , and she begins to
for her to make .
will that do ?
horses , and of james , and of their having so many friends about them , revived him a little
in his niece ' s mind , conceived that by such details he must be gratifying her far more than
but suites of apartments did not spring up with her wishes .
had he been more in the habit of examining his own motives , and of reflecting to what the indulgence
for me .
to be studying his character for a twelvemonth .
she was the first to announce it to mr .
" modest sir walter !
but the idea of having such another to observe her was a great increase of the trepidation with which she
” “do let us have a little music , ” cried miss bingley , tired of a conversation in which
on the present occasion she addressed herself chiefly to miss crawford and fanny , but there was no comparison in
it was broken by lucy , who renewed the subject again by saying , with some hesitation— " i cannot
not to debar the others of amusement .
woman could be plagued with .
nor was darcy’s vindication , though grateful to her feelings , capable of consoling her for such discovery .
she had never been able to attach even those she loved best ; and since mrs .
and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave , than a glance from jane invited her to follow
mother , and in what particular he resembled either , for of course every body differed , and every body
very little to do with it .
harriet , harriet , do not deceive yourself ; do not be run away with by gratitude and compassion .
the mortification of finding that i had been roasting , broiling and stewing both the meat and myself to no
and you may say , that i mean to call upon her soon .
gave occasion to the lovely julia for making most sensible reflections on the many changes in their situation which so
wickham in and near brighton , with assurances of speedy payment , for which i have pledged myself .
that anne should not go to bath till lady russell took her , and that all the intervening time should
knightley would be forgotten , that is , supplanted ; but this could not be expected to happen very early
have not the heart for it when it comes to the point .
goddard ' s , or in london , made perhaps an unreasonable difference in emma ' s sensations ; but
i will dictate , and you write for me .
felicity , but it would have been a material drawback to be owing such felicity to persons in whose feelings
entirely .
” “that is a failing indeed !
he did not disturb the wretchedness of her mind by ill-timed conversation .
and this question , which he was continually repeating to himself , though oftenest answered with a “yes , ”
out of the way when admiral and mrs croft first arrived , she had determined to make her own absence
” “thank you , ” said lydia , “for if you did , i should certainly tell you all ,
but it should be so no more .
not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of pride .
“for there is more than time enough for my cousin to ride twice as far as she ever goes ,
” “they are to be put into mr .
taylor did say this morning , that one day miss walker hinted to her , that she believed mr .
house before the tempest subsided or she unknowingly fell fast asleep .
who appeared likely to knock him down backwards .
" is anything the matter with her ?
what are we to do ?
grant ' s carriage and horses out to take her home , with which she was threatened .
after that , i suppose , i was wrong in remaining so much in sussex , and the arguments with
it seemed quite a shame , especially considering how many houses there are where fine instruments are absolutely thrown away
” and these were her longest speeches and clearest communications : the rest was only a languid “yes , yes
, regretting with a deep blush that she had implied so much ; but less would hardly have been sufficient
thing ; for she had not been brought up to understand the propensities of a rattle , nor to know
he does not chuse it ; that he has more invitations than there are days in the week .
” “oh dear !
, to rebel against , dethrone and imprison the unfortunate mary ; to oppose , to deceive , and to
, ringing the bell , requested the footman who answered it to get that letter conveyed for her to the
to all the rest .
must add considerably to the pleasures of their engagements at rosings .
” “well , ” said mrs .
lee wondered at her ignorance , and the maid-servants sneered at her clothes ; and when to these sorrows was
thorpe ' s interest in the family , by his sister ' s approaching connection with one of its members
the bargain .
—he saw the advantages of the match , and rejoiced in them with all the constancy of his wife ;
sensible face , nothing to admire ; but in the other , who was not more than two or three
, i should have suffered more in continuing the engagement than i did even in giving it up , because
ford .
there is no doubt of your doing exceedingly well , —quite as well , or better , perhaps , all
everything now marked out louisa for captain wentworth ; nothing could be plainer ; and where many divisions were necessary
of the evening .
some time before you left the house .
that ' s honest , by heavens !
really confide in her sincerity ; but , as for myself , i am still unconvinced , and plausibly as
much to her , should not be more visibly regretted .
ah !
pray come in ; do come in .
" " i think you spoke of having known mr elliot many years ?
for mrs .
it was a prettily shaped room , the windows reaching to the ground , and the view from them pleasant
crawford , ” repeated twice over ; and in vain did she try to move away .
think it will wash well ; i am afraid it will fray .
she had known , it seems , of their being in love with each other , many weeks .
could , and that i might not have such another opportunity all the winter .
and leaving them to the ruinous depredations of time has been of infinite use to the landscape of england in
, in trade , and only moderately genteel .
unnecessary pain ; how to make her any possible atonement ; how to appear least her enemy ?
some public place or other , and we can never expect her to do it with so little expense or
" you will think my question an odd one , i dare say , " said lucy to her one
family did not , from his usual goings on , expect him back again for many weeks , it would
dixon seems a very charming young man , quite worthy of him .
they were all in high spirits and good humour , eager to be happy , and determined to submit to
forward a few hours before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling .
dignity of her situation could not be known , she was sharing with the scores of other young ladies still
is , that they are as far from any attachment or admiration for one another , as any two beings
“it seems likely to have been a desirable match for jane , ” said she .
his only choice , had fortune permitted it .
” said she , when the door was shut .
heaven and earth !
to repent it .
there is a sort of domestic enjoyment to be known even in a crowd , and this you had .
heard him speak of them for ever .
here , its power was only a glare : a stifling , sickly glare , serving but to bring forward
confess that his affection originated in nothing better than gratitude , or , in other words , that a persuasion
harriet would be loved as one to whom she could be useful .
—what do you mean ?
almost incredible !
” “perhaps we—yes , i think we certainly shall .
would .
” “is it my brother ' s attentions to miss thorpe , or miss thorpe ' s admission of them
do not mistake me , however .
i am sure you must feel it so .
to be compared with the prospect of rosings , afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park
feelings they must have been dreadful .
" such , she believed , were his words ; but scarcely had she received their sound , than her
price , or the good offices of rebecca , everything was rationally and duly accomplished , and the girls were
have you met him to— " " i could meet him no other way .
no change in her wish of retreat , and she worked and meditated in the east room , undisturbed ,
darcy said very little , and mr .
” “there is no denying it , ” he replied .
but do not deceive yourself into a belief that i will ever recede .
campbell will not be able to part with her at all .
their mother had no objection to the plan , and they were not in the least afraid of their father
and so , just as he was going away again , it came into my head , i am sure
and there were a great many more people to look at in the church at lyme than at uppercross ;
he was determined , at least , not to mar it by an imprudent marriage ; and i know it
her mother wished her to learn music ; and catherine was sure she should like it , for she was
might find it dull at barton , if they had not so many as they used to have .
chapter v small heart had harriet for visiting .
but i see what you mean .
" " ' tis because you are an indifferent person , " said lucy , with some pique , and
poor little creatures , how unhappy she would have made them !
let every body on the hill hear me if they can .
weston ' s surprize , and felt that it must be great , at an address which , in words
to trim it with fresh , i think it will be very tolerable .
yes my dear girl , the poor despairing musgrove did reveal to me the story of his love— .
, and he wished so much to be introduced to captain wentworth , that , perhaps , he might join
for my temptation to think it a right , i refer every caviller to a brick house , sashed windows
herself about his manners .
blessing of having two months before him of such near neighbourhood to many dear friends—for the house was taken for
wickham for the last time .
lease .
search of me .
thorpe , most happy to be on speaking terms with a man of general tilney ' s importance , had
correct and unassuming ; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably , when the sound
thinking myself too sure of yours , and of those among your friends who have had any ground of offence
it was very little less .
i was sure it could not be far off ; but i had put my huswife upon it , you
but it was said , i know , very well , [ _num_ ]and by more than one ; for
principal walk .
“lizzy is only headstrong in such matters as these .
deal , so she could never be entirely silent ; and , therefore , while she sat at her work
may presume to call myself an addition .
the crofts must be in bath !
castle of wolfenbach , clermont , mysterious warnings , necromancer of the black forest , midnight bell , orphan of
the death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of this .
my dear freind , how happy should i be to see you within these venerable walls !
her , she might soon have been comforted .
day or two would suffice to wipe away every outward memento of what had been , even to the destruction
her sisters were uneasy for her , but her mother was delighted .
) “augusta (replied the noble youth) i thought you had a better opinion of me , than to imagine i
conversed with the familiarity of a long-established acquaintance .
she seemed bent on giving no real insight into mr .
fatigued as she had been by the morning’s walk they had no sooner dined than she set off again in
with multiplied strength and refinement .
elton , was disposed to pay him attention on his marriage .
the rest of the day with mrs .
she could not wholly surmount even in speaking to mr .
” for a moment no one spoke ; and then many spoke together to tell the same melancholy truth ,
share of surprize , introduction , and pleasure .
they then proceeded a few paces in silence .
a meeting with both brother and sister .
and trust they will yet be happy .
are you never to hear yourself praised !
invited to become such , while mrs .
she gave him a brief reply .
i consider the blessing of a wife as most justly described in those discreet lines of the poet— ' heaven
he turns out ill-tempered and exigeant , and wants a young woman , a beautiful young woman of five-and-twenty ,
she is in high favour with her aunt altogether , because she is so little like myself , of course
respect would be added to affection .
, to share the provocation .
your uncle !
leaving wickham .
” these words roused the rest of the party , and every eye was directed to the corner in which
” miss bennet still looked all amazement .
bertram and maria .
the others joined them , and it was a group in which anne found herself also necessarily included .
how was such jealousy to be quieted ?
of julia ' s , yet it has a pleasing plumpness which is in a different way as estimable .
willoughby ' s death .
well have been spared , for mrs .
she was then merely a quiet , modest , not plain-looking girl , but she is now absolutely pretty .
“i found , ” said he , “as the time drew near that i had better not meet mr .
" mary talked , but she could not attend .
sacrifices to the gods on their safe return .
think of at least half a day , before i can at all comprehend it .
i should never be happy without him , so think it no harm to be off .
it was not the gipsies—it was not mr .
look , she answered , “yes , cousin , i am convinced that you would be incapable of anything else
elinor was not prepared for such a question , and having no answer ready , was obliged to adopt the
” then turning away towards any or all of the rest , he tranquilly said , “mr .
and , as it was , she could only lament her ill luck , and think over what she had
” “indeed he is , mrs .
nothing but an increase of curiosity .
the welfare and poultry of her eldest daughter ; mrs .
there is such an expression of goodness in his countenance !
shocking trick for a young person to be always lolling upon a sofa .
but have you heard about the thrush ?
elinor ' s office was a painful one .
others present when they met was fanny ' s only support in looking forward to it .
i return you many thanks for the account it contains of lesley ' s acquaintance , love and marriage with
dashwood took the house for a twelvemonth ; it was ready furnished , and she might have immediate possession .
elinor was pleased that he had called ; and still more pleased that she had missed him .
she was pleased with the eagerness to arrive which had made him alter his plan , and travel earlier ,
—no hairdresser from london i think could .
one evening—now be quiet .
he is in my room , and hoping to see you there .
the coldness of a jane fairfax !
how is miss fairfax ?
only one serious , parting look , went away .
soon as louisa ' s .
anything to express .
she is an amiable girl , and has a very superior mind to what we have given her credit for
of condition which seemed to be your lot .
he is but young , and his uncle , perhaps—” “my dear papa , he is three-and-twenty .
with—“i have hitherto been very remiss , madam , in the proper attentions of a partner here ; i have
they were then to set forward for the dockyard at once , and the walk would have been conducted—according to
“that is what you have in your head , i know—and what you would certainly say if my father were
amongst the objects in the scene , they soon discovered an animated one ; it was a man on horseback
she was sure her sister must want something after her journey .
i hate such greediness—so good as your father is to the family , employing the man all the year round
nobody is more liked than mr .
—so frank churchill is a capital dancer , i understand .
miss crawford was glad to find a family of such consequence so very near them , and not at all
she never could accept him .
collins , seeing that she was really unwell , did not press her to go and as much as possible
—for it seems all to depend upon that .
that night was now approaching and that the damps began to fall .
' —and to this day , i do believe , she knows not whether it was his present or his
, except when mr .
hot supper afterwards .
, and entertaining their young cousin , produced little union .
and was taken up lifeless !
might as well call on you .
after his decease the duke of northumberland had the care of the king and the kingdom , and performed his
he wishes his boys to be active and hardy ; and if they misbehave , can give them a sharp
do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt phillips be placed in the gallery at pemberley .
, who knew better than his nephew the value of such a loan , and some alarms to reason away
for the summer !
been passing while mr .
by all their calculations there was just time for this ; but as they drew near the cobb , there
all employed , not in urging her , not in pitying her , nor in appearing to regard her ,
it would be sunk into a badge of disgrace ; for what can be more unbecoming , or more worthless
their visits to mrs .
they are my old friends .
” “and yours , ” he replied with a smile , “is willfully to misunderstand them .
thorpe should allow it .
but i only mean to say that there are advertising offices , and that by applying to them i should
“she is a riddle , quite a riddle !
consent to it .
as i have been long in the practice of doing .
had no interruption and no witnesses , unless the servants chiefly intent upon opening the proper doors could be called
door , and go in for a few minutes : he was therefore later than he had intended ; and
opportunity , while their two fathers were engaged with each other , of introducing his mother-in-law , and speaking of
denial was impossible .
rest .
and when i have done with her i must go to her sister , lady stornaway , because she was
palmer had her child , and mrs .
morning had produced any .
she thought it could scarcely escape him to feel that a persuadable temper might sometimes be as much in favour
vernon declares that he never saw deeper distress than hers , on the receipt of the letter ; and is
the good-humour of success , she said , “thank you , my dear fanny , but i and my gown
such a change !
into which she was betrayed by the openness of her heart , her youth , and her education .
would collect good company around them , they had their value .
you look as if you would not do such a thing again .
conversation .
chapter _num_ as no objection was made to the young people’s engagement with their aunt , and all mr .
year .
make the character ridiculous by bad acting .
she still intended him for her friend .
" " good heavens !
receiving unpleasant and most unsuitable ideas .
it was only for the private use of the family .
" " much nearer thirty , " said her husband .
she is perfectly well-bred , indeed , and has the air of a woman of fashion , but her manners
all her usual warmth , was in a moment as much overcome by her happiness , as she had been
nothing in norfolk to equal the social pleasures of mansfield , he gladly returned to it at the time appointed
no , i could not endure william coxe—a pert young lawyer .
while fanny ' s mind was engaged in these sort of hopes , her uncle was , soon after tea
catherine , who , in rather a solemn tone of voice , uttered these words , “i have heard that
was against me .
she heard miss bates ' s voice , something was to be done in a hurry ; the maid looked
“they are so much alike (said he) that i should suppose the faults of one , would be the faults
but , lizzy , you look as if you did not enjoy it .
the very curtains of her bed seemed at one moment in motion , and at another the lock of her
she , who had seen her week after week so constantly suffering , oppressed by anguish of heart which she
” added eleanor ; “though i never loved it then , as i have loved it since .
friend , and for whom there was with some contrivance found a chair , and with some hasty washing of
my curiosity was so much raised , that i was resolved at any rate to satisfy it .
was not handsome , his countenance was sensible , and his address was particularly gentlemanlike .
towards the end of the morning , however , catherine , having occasion for some indispensable yard of ribbon which
told him that i would not listen to him , that it was very unpleasant to me in every respect
to be driven by him , next to being dancing with him , was certainly the greatest happiness in the
" and what a charming little family they have !
my uncle says nothing , but i am sure he will do everything in his power to get you made
—are you disposed to pity me for what i must have suffered in opening the cause to him , for
” she cried with a most open eagerness—“never , for the twentieth part of a moment , did such an
and kitty were out of sight , then returned into the drawing-room .
not help replying with quickness , “mr .
the means of ever hearing of each other ' s existence during the eleven following years , or , at
what one means one day , you know , one may not mean the next .
risk by a state of variance .
" " in a stationer ' s shop in pall mall , where i had business .
a quiet-looking young man .
” “sir charles grandison !
reginald .
” “no , sir , ” replied his son , laughing , “i seem to have had it from nobody
i have a great regard for him , i assure you : a gentleman-like , good sort of fellow as
—she had bound herself to do it , in such an hour of mr .
modesty , and all that , is very well in its way , but really a little common honesty is
with the exception , perhaps , of admiral and mrs croft , who seemed particularly attached and happy , (anne
" " no , " replied be , with sudden consciousness , " not to find it in you ;
delightful things which put one in good humour with oneself and all the world .
come , miss morland , let us leave him to meditate over our faults in the utmost propriety of diction
her mother has insinuated that her temper is intractable , but i never saw a face less indicative of any
in that , he could not be defended ; but if he had injured her , how much more had
” there was nothing more to be said , or that could be said to any purpose , till sir
an explanation that would rob him of his borrowed feathers , and give the praise where it was due .
of brother and sister ; with lady russell , attempts at conversation , which a delicious consciousness cut short ;
“the evenings do not appear long to me .
you will find her a very agreeable young lady .
” “but , cousin , will it go to the post ?
there are one or two , perhaps , (glancing at mr .
the prospect for her cousin grew worse and worse .
look , she made me this bow to my hat , and put in the feather last night .
and saying , ' they cannot be here till such a day , ' but all the while hoping for
is it true , pray ?
” “it shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing , ” said bingley .
—i saw you the other day as you rode through the town—mrs .
elton would now be talked of no more .
what can sir thomas and edmund together do , what do they do for her happiness , comfort , honour
what arises from discretion must be honoured .
” “was she a very charming woman ?
do as much for her as you have done for me , except falling in love with her when she
from this moment her mind was never quiet ; the expectation of seeing him every hour of the day ,
what manner she acceded to it .
he never read the romance of the forest , nor the children of the abbey .
she had great satisfaction in replying that she was going into devonshire .
with him ; but , as charles maintained to the last , captain benwick seemed much more disposed to ride
with eyes closed , as if the view of cheerfulness oppressed him , and the lovely scenes of home must
i met the letters in my way this morning , and seeing my son ' s hand , presumed to
” “you do not appear so well satisfied with his letter as i am ; but still you must ,
some , conversation ought to be so arranged , as that they may have the trouble of saying as little
am , etc .
he was ordered to walk to keep off the gout , and mrs croft seemed to go shares with him
man of education , taste , modern manners , good connexions .
been uttered , and in spite of all the various noises of the room , the almost ceaseless slam of
“i wonder my aunt did not tell us of that .
repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to his sister .
but though i was always doing wrong things , they were very bad wrong things , and such as did
if we find they correspond , every fear of mine will be removed .
the journey would moreover give her a peep at jane ; and , in short , as the time drew
season of the year : he had set his heart upon having a something there that he could come to
” “no wonder that mr .
alone for five minutes—however , it is not worth arguing about , for whatever might pass on his side ,
where or other ; and how he had stayed about at an inn all thursday and friday , on purpose
allen expressed himself on the occasion with the reasonable resentment of a sensible friend ; and mrs .
charles musgrove , indeed , afterwards , shewed more of inclination ; " the child was going on so well
does very little either for their good or his own .
knightley grew angry .
“what do they bring but disappointment and sorrow ?
" " no ; as soon as she recovered from her lying-in , for i found her near her delivery
” “i did hear , too , that there was a time , when sermon-making was not so palatable to
drink tea : —a very handsome summer-house , large enough to hold a dozen people .
i shall go distracted .
do not hurry yourself , i entreat .
her present comfort ; for i cannot lament the acquaintance .
it is a great way , you know , from hence to barton .
" taking a last look at the picture , as they began to be in motion .
rushworth ; “but i thought i should like the count best , though i do not much relish the finery
” fanny coloured , and doubted at first what to say ; when , hoping to assail her on her
you have some touches of the angel in you beyond what—not merely beyond what one sees , because one never
but the remembrance of the appeal remained a pleasure to her , as a proof of friendship , and of
[ _num_ ] marianne rose the next morning with recovered spirits and happy looks .
elizabeth merely curtseyed to him without saying a word .
“why upon my word said i , i think he is a very handsome young man .
spirits which had seldom been depressed before , were now so much affected as to make it almost impossible for
as soon as jane had read mr .
, and felt , as a good man must feel , how wretched , and how unpardonable , how hopeless
and i do not know that i should be fond of preaching often ; now and then , perhaps once
she was not sorry .
of night , whereas , sophia lying totally inactive on the ground must have been exposed to all their severity
” “there was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to give me no hope from
emma thought with pleasure of some change of subject .
would be all very bad ; emma communicated her news of jane fairfax , and her dependence on the effect
informing themselves how well the other liked bath , how much she admired its buildings and surrounding country , whether
in his figure or address , the young lady was well pleased with her conquest .
the boy had , with the additional softening claim of a lingering illness of his mother ' s , been
she could not but consider it as absolutely unnecessary , and even improper , that fanny should have a regular
have seemed to be only suffering for me !
for him , provided he would take a small house near the borders of an extensive forest , and about
must be in my own way .
when she could give another glance , he had moved away .
a heavy scene however awaited me , before i could leave devonshire : i was engaged to dine with you
them , as mansfield park , a description of the people , the manners , the amusements , the ways
she left her seat , she would go ; one half of her should not be always so much wiser
the indelible impression , which such a disappointment must make on his mind .
, had no scruple in believing her capable of the utmost meanness of wanton ill-nature .
he has been teazing me to allow of his coming into this country , and lodging somewhere near incog .
catherine , delighted by all that had passed , proceeded gaily to pulteney street , walking , as she concluded
a present of fifty pounds , now and then , will prevent their ever being distressed for money , and
she was always a very handsome young lady—and she seemed vastly contented .
—you cannot mean to say , that harriet smith has accepted robert martin .
i am always well , you know .
encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the female character .
agreed he should take orders directly , and they must wait to be married till he got a living .
all the work of the morning , and pack her trunk afresh .
, that of _num_ ; the other , by archbishop[xi] whately , the first which treated her in earnest ,
[ _num_ ] the young ladies arrived : their appearance was by no means ungenteel or unfashionable .
she was far from depending on that result of his preference of her , which her mother and sister still
, or he was too happy for letter-writing !
nothing was wanting but to be happy when they got there .
or a mermaid ?
gardiner’s former residence , and where she had lately learned some acquaintance still remained , they bent their steps ,
she could not refuse to give him hers ; —he pressed it with affection .
so again .
it was all general approbation and smoothness ; nothing delineated or distinguished .
exasperate his brother by interference , gave her only an encouraging smile .
” “not as you represent it .
collins for having spoken so sensibly , and observed in a half-whisper to lady lucas , that he was a
as she could , the few steps of unnecessary intimacy she had been gradually led along .
course of their meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought , when she saw mr .
it off with a smile .
her air was not conciliating , nor was her manner of receiving them such as to make her visitors forget
half an hour ' s notice , whenever she were weary of the place .
when you are a lieutenant !
shepherd will be for him .
poor nancy had not seven shillings in the world ; —so i was very glad to give her five guineas
” “you are prepared for the worst , i see—and very bad it is .
his displeasure against herself she trusted , reasoning differently from mrs .
you have every body dearest to you always at hand , i , probably , never shall again ; and
” “i am disappointed , ” was his only answer .
it was soon pain upon pain , confusion upon confusion ; for they were hardly in the high street before
what is there to surprise you in it ?
behaviour to his cousin , for whom he was evidently destined by lady catherine , who talked of his coming
” “she said he was very agreeable the day he dined there .
what say you to mr .
' s opened , and whose engagements now allowed of no delay in any one at highbury , who wished
it was melancholy to leave her to such society !
and are you in love with her , cousin ?
success is not perhaps to be wondered at .
they only knew how little he had had to tempt him to be disobedient , and how small was the
” “this account then is what he has received from mr .
the joy , the gratitude , the exquisite delight of her sensations may be imagined .
lady russell quite bores one with her new publications .
norris might never have saved her money ; but having no care of that kind , there was nothing to
to make them comfortable .
“fanny has been reading to me , and only put the book down upon hearing you coming .
to look .
” “donwell !
a letter exposes to all the evil of consultation , and where the mind is anything short of perfect decision
my dear brother since you were five years old , i entirely acquit you of ever having willingly contributed to
she was not at all afraid .
to receive it , as they are now arrived at that age when it is necessary for them in some
have sensibly hurt me if my acquaintance with mr .
only civilities were necessary ; but fanny felt her aunt ' s attention almost as much as lady bertram or
my temper i dare not vouch for .
if he could so command his affections , hers should do her no harm .
alphabets , which no one seemed so much disposed to employ as their two selves .
here is winthrop .
letter from philippa .
you must not depend upon ever being repeated .
—the campbells , the dixons , did none of them know of the engagement ?
in their employment ; and regret , in a reasonable way , that he should be so late .
anything preceding , and most severely condemned by the event , when marianne , perceiving that she had finished the
jennings ' s active zeal in the cause of society , procured her some other new acquaintance to see and
; and till he could find a seat by her , would not sit at all .
till the late explanation at northanger that they had the smallest idea of the false calculations which had hurried him
“i come from your theatre , ” said he composedly , as he sat down ; “i found myself in
however we were obliged to have them both capped and heelpeiced at carmarthen , and at last when they were
comes of it , will set down upon a curacy of fifty pounds a-year , with the interest of his
that ' s one of the ladies in the irish car party , not at all like her .
“william collins” “at four o’clock , therefore , we may expect this peace-making gentleman , ” said mr .
hint , was likely to be very soon engaged .
let us be discreet—quite on our good behaviour .
excellent dinner at home , that sitting down to a middling one for one day could not signify .
against her character , oppose the connection , turned her feelings moreover with some alarm towards herself .
where , where is my uncle ?
james’s .
i know you have something on your mind .
you shall find me as stubborn as you can be artful .
where it is not , he can never believe it absent .
the whole family perceived it , and mrs .
but here , by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my sister’s absence , i may reasonably
he begged their pardon , but he had forgotten his gloves , and instantly crossing the room to the writing
never more so , i assure you .
it would vex me , indeed , to see you again the dupe of miss bingley’s pretended regard .
we have it from frederick himself .
miss carteret ; and all the comfort of no .
this was quite a female case , and it would be highly absurd in him , who could be of
the son had a good estate in norfolk , the daughter twenty thousand pounds .
susan , which , after many hesitations of delicacy , she at last worked herself up to .
” “how fearfully will you examine the furniture of your apartment !
mind by and bye , why so much the better .
—where did you hear it ?
“if i had been able , ” said she , “to carry my point in going to brighton , with
crawford was not far off ; sir thomas brought him to her , saying something which discovered to fanny ,
spring , all gone together , blessed her memory .
over their infancy and formed their minds—” “with such expectations and such intentions (cried i) i can have nothing to
at the same moment from them both , more than once .
” “i do not at all know ; but i heard nothing of his going away when i was at
” fanny obeyed , with eyes cast down and colour rising .
my dear miss dashwood !
“my dear girls the moment is now arrived when i am to reap the rewards of all my anxieties and
deserve , and which were dangerous to herself .
to go by them , too , without saying a word !
the inn .
i am sure we never read the same , or not with the same feelings .
” “i do not believe any such thing , ” replied emma .
poor kitty has anger for having concealed their attachment ; but as it was a matter of confidence , one
be no further delay .
she will be married !
of robert martin , ” that she was really expecting the intelligence to prove , in some measure , premature
knightley shook his head at her .
crawford as some people are ?
or , rather , he has not wickham’s countenance , for his features are perfectly good .
he seemed to have all the life and spirit , cheerful feelings , and social inclinations of his father ,
de courcy churchhill .
—but—(in a very depressed tone)—she is coming for only one week .
of her were felt sufficient .
she had felt an early presentiment that she should like the eldest best .
way , and your lamp being nearly exhausted , you will return towards your own apartment .
affectionately .
towards a reconciliation with my father .
chapter ix mr .
told them that wickham had been obliged to go to town on business the day before , and was not
such violence of affliction indeed could not be supported for ever ; it sunk within a few days into a
face to be seen .
before the week ended , it was all disappointment .
” “and it is to be a two months ' visit , is not ?
well , it don ' t signify talking ; but when a young man , be who he will ,
cole gave me a hint of it six weeks ago .
dashwood and elinor were left by themselves , they remained long together in a similarity of thoughtfulness and silence .
with only the feeble rays of a single lamp to take in its size—its walls hung with tapestry exhibiting figures
her person was rather good ; her face not unpretty ; but neither feature , nor air , nor voice
there was no time for farther remark or explanation .
i admire your little establishment exceedingly ; and as soon as i am gone , you will empty your head
he now seated himself by her , and talked so agreeably of kent and hertfordshire , of travelling and staying
the man must be a blockhead who wanted more .
whatever else you may like to provide , it is to be all out of doors—a table spread in the
i hope he has not had any material share in bringing on mr .
he was in love , very much in love ; and it was a love which , operating on an
, for she spoke what she did not , could not believe herself .
she died without issue , and then the dreadful moment came in which the destroyer of all comfort , the
harriet , tempted by every thing and swayed by half a word , was always very long at a purchase
” “no—i shall not stir .
any description , and no material injury accrue either to body or mind ; —but when a beginning is made—when
by the present of a thousand pounds a-piece .
” (said he) .
of a large party assembled for gaiety at the house of another friend , which he had left weymouth to
their appearance together , and heard their history of it , without feeling that circumstances had been at work to
you will find some friends here .
, and brought them into the lane again .
she looked at her however , from time to time , anxiously ; and when the moment approached which must
dashwood went away delighted with both .
jane and i quite ready .
highbury and its connexions .
it was the end of an old pencil , —the part without any lead .
two motives for their choosing to walk up and down the room together , with either of which motives his
falling on me at once , my answer , instead of being sent with all the many other letters of
friends ; secondly , that his father had made a most tiresome piece of work of it ; and ,
of his having any such views had never entered his sister ' s imagination ; and she looked so truly
—why not seize the pleasure at once ?
that is worse than anything—quite disgusting !
say .
, his assistance , would lessen it .
” “nay , if you can use such a word , i can urge you no farther .
really like them at all .
; and when you have had her here to do needlework , i observe she always turns the lock of
i will explain to you instantly all that makes me urge you in this manner , all that gives me
possibly impoverished .
on friday we are to be at a private concert at sir john wynna ' s—and on saturday we expect
the object of attentions , or rather of professions , of a somewhat pointed character .
” “i can allow for his wishing catherine away , when he recollected this engagement , ” said sarah ,
and from the whole she deduced this useful lesson , that to go previously engaged to a ball does not
chapter _num_ happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which mrs .
captain carter before he goes .
elizabeth ' s last letter had communicated a piece of news of some interest .
mother stood with salts in her hand , expecting to be agitated ; her aunt tried to cry ; and
" " i thought captain benwick a very pleasing young man , " said anne , " and i understand
on her side more strong than he had supposed .
is knightley ' s right hand .
woodhouse ' s account .
moon—and you will have an horrid walk home—my compts to your mother—i am afraid your dinner will be cold—drive on—”
are strikingly like .
you and mr .
and in all that he said she heard an accent so removed from hauteur or disdain of his companions ,
but i have long thought mr .
public papers , which she saw her eagerly examining every morning .
what i thought , what i feared , may be imagined ; and what i suffered too .
but do not tell me—i would not be told upon any account .
” “do you really think so ?
rushworth could be silent no longer .
to fear i may be wrong ?
fanny ' s feelings on the occasion were such as she believed herself incapable of expressing ; but her countenance
and how does your business go on ?
it is very plain that he considers the good fortune of the engagement as all on my side , but
writing-master ' s son .
my father ' s next heir ?
above once a day , unless , by some cruel and malicious arrangement at the war office , another regiment
elinor turned involuntarily to marianne , to see whether it could be unobserved by her .
“i wonder at that .
for we came away from your brother ' s wednesday , and we saw nothing of him not all thursday
she was then but fifteen , which must be her excuse ; and after stating her imprudence , i am
" anne heard nothing of this .
mary and kitty , thank heaven , are quite well .
, the sameness and the elegance , the prosperity and the nothingness of her scene of life ; such the
inquire where she would , she could not find out that mrs .
collins’s character , connection , and situation in life , i am convinced that my chance of happiness with him
every body was punctual , every body in their best looks : not a tear , and hardly a long
made lord be more delighted with the place he held in society .
everything returned into the same channel as before his absence ; his manners being to each so animated and agreeable
the invitation was accepted of course , and at a proper hour they joined the party in lady catherine’s drawing-room
do you advise it ?
to be listened for , when the youngest miss musgrove walked in .
get rid of him ; but it was too transient an indulgence of self-amusement to be detected by any who
dashwood felt too much for speech , and instantly quitted the parlour to give way in solitude to the concern
but now she would no longer conceal from her his share in lydia’s marriage .
she was executed in the great hall at fortheringay castle (sacred place !
" but not a bit did walter stir .
love fanny price , was of course the groundwork of his eloquent answer .
now , how i do wish i understood you !
” “i shall not ride to-morrow , certainly , ” said fanny ; “i have been out very often lately
it was not mr .
see but dick jackson making up to the servants ' hall-door with two bits of deal board in his hand
his temper might perhaps be a little soured by finding , like many others of his sex , that through
how languid their conversation the last evening of their being together !
dear jane , how shall we ever recollect half the dishes for grandmama ?
he is a most extraordinary young man , and whatever be the event , you must feel that you have
fits of frenzy had so effectually circulated and warmed my blood as to make me proof against the chilling damps
again , therefore , she applied herself to the key , and after moving it in every possible way for
elton ' s intentions .
we live at home , quiet , confined , and our feelings prey upon us .
could presume to do it .
some mothers would have insisted on their daughter ' s accepting so good an offer on the first overture ;
the contagion of his , before you have contracted any of his foolish opinions , or learned to sit over
, and allow her to take her place by marianne ; but elinor had no sense of fatigue , no
a neighbour of ours , dr .
with admiral and mrs croft , everything of peculiar cordiality and fervent interest , which the same consciousness sought to
the place in the middle alone remained now unexplored ; and though she had “never from the first had the
hartfield will only put her out of conceit with all the other places she belongs to .
why should i feel it more , why should it wound me deeper than those i have experienced before ?
as her conductor ; and though catherine had hoped to explore it accompanied only by his daughter , it was
within twenty-four hours she was hoping to be gone ; her father and mother must be spoken to , susan
“cannot you , my dear emma—cannot you form a guess as to what you are to hear ?
but no edward appeared .
breakfast had not been long over , when they were joined by captain and mrs harville and captain benwick ;
and those grave looks directed to her , and at last decide against her , she might not be able
am always thinking of every moment of my life , your compassion would make you overlook every thing else i
give up the whole of her time to her ; and , contenting herself with visiting her once or twice
' may its approval beam in that soft eye !
if i were you , i should not think of the expense .
darcy , to allow nothing for the influence of friendship and affection .
, and to be as quiet as possible : and i have been so , my dear creature ; i
with his sister .
she thanked him as heartily as if he had written it himself .
article farther .
neither of them were ever again to be mentioned to mrs .
she very often reads sir charles grandison herself ; but new books do not fall in our way .
i must be in town next saturday .
—miss smith is a very good sort of girl ; and i should be happy to see her respectably settled
not engage for it at all .
it was a contrast which recommended him most forcibly to her mother .
you are not strong .
wickham’s affection for lydia was just what elizabeth had expected to find it ; not equal to lydia’s for him
they arrived .
—the fate of thousands .
as i can ; but i am not qualified for an adviser .
my mother is so fond of riding fast that she galloped all the way .
instrument of his deliverance from it ; for her respectful humility , assiduous attentions , and endless flatteries , as
your sister wrote to me again , you know , the very next morning .
not there .
sufficient reason in the eyes of janetta for rejecting him .
” and nine years , catherine knew , was a trifle of time , compared with what generally elapsed after
jennings ' s notice .
her father and mother !
little sauciness , she could not help saying , as he was admiring the baby , “what a comfort it
it is not quite a week since they left brighton .
edward by the cruel and unrelenting baronet .
” “yes , they have been there about a fortnight , miss price , have they not ?
i think i shall certainly write .
you can have given him no just cause of offence .
if i loved a man , as she loves the admiral , i would always be with him , nothing
everingham could not do without him in the beginning of september .
i used to think she had neither complexion nor countenance ; but in that soft skin of hers , so
” “yes , i went to the pump-room as soon as you were gone , and there i met her
the necklace really looked very well ; and fanny left her room at last , comfortably satisfied with herself and
what will it answer ?
if colonel campbell is not the person , who can be ?
i only wish tom had known his own mind when the carpenters began , for there was the loss of
and some apprehensions ; she was fully satisfied of being still quite as handsome as ever , but she felt
but miss bates soon came—“very happy and obliged”—but emma ' s conscience told her that there was not the same
ablution enough to cleanse him from its impurities , were he once to enter it ; and depend upon it
, a little affectation and a great deal of small-talk , (in each of which she is superior to the
—engaged to her all the winter—before either of them came to highbury ?
“i was wrong , ” he continued , “in talking of its being broke to you .
—who can this be ?
, to whom she owes every thing , while she exercises incessant caprice towards him , she should frequently be
morland would not be pleased .
she was just in time to ascertain that it really was mr elliot , which she had never believed ,
you must go to bed early , my dear—and i recommend a little gruel to you before you go .
her opinion , might very well justify mrs .
your wife has a claim to your politeness , to your respect , at least .
as the head of the house , he felt that he ought to have been consulted , especially after taking
let them be sent to donwell .
—do you think i had better say ' no ?
friendship with such a man ?
" " i knew that he was not absolutely the man she would have chosen , but i was persuaded
sometimes mr .
” “the error is plain enough , ” said the less courteous edmund ; “such girls are ill brought up
i do not know the particulars , but i know very well that mr .
this is a sort of talking which is very unpleasant to me .
ever taught us to expect) could not on our own accounts , excite from our exalted minds a single sigh
many ; for william , you know , thinks more of his master ' s profit than any thing ;
susan tried to be useful , where she could only have gone away and cried ; and that susan was
as to there being any quantity of snow fallen or likely to fall to impede their return , that was
of success , was resolved to leave nothing unattempted that might offer a chance of obtaining her sister-in-law ' s
rest of the family it was the affectionate attention of a son and a brother .
as , upon the whole , i hope it will give you satisfaction .
only get something worse .
three transparencies , made in a rage for transparencies , for the three lower panes of one window , where
to the great house accordingly they went , to sit the full half hour in the old-fashioned square parlour ,
my greif was more audible .
in any possible way that would induce you to accept me .
it could not be otherwise .
should foresee such a series of dissipation for me , i cannot imagine .
" two thousand a year !
it would make us the talk of the place , if we were not to change partners .
she had great pleasure in hearing frank churchill talked of ; and , for his sake , greater pleasure than
the first act , in spite of the feelings it excited in some speeches for maria .
—you quite forget poor mr .
other parties , too strong for any fine prospects , or any cold collation , or any cheerful mr .
” emma was most agreeably surprized .
” “but it was not so bad as that , isabella ; there was no superciliousness ; she was very
much longer .
” their affectionate mother shared all their grief ; she remembered what she had herself endured on a similar occasion
henry tilney and his father , joining a party in the opposite box , recalled her to anxiety and distress
not in my power to inform the reader who was his wife .
his behaviour during the last day must have material weight in confirming or crushing it .
” “if it was to be secret , ” said jane , “say not another word on the subject .
they were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother .
one with the least appearance of bitterness ; —to meet lucy without betraying the smallest increase of dislike to her
lady russell ' s composed mind and polite manners were put to some trial on this point , in her
we shall have him very thankful to anybody that will bring him his wife .
call for her in the carriage at any hour that jane would name—mentioning that she had mr .
of the crofts and their business no evil .
it is not unlikely that some memories of steventon may survive in norland ; and it may be noted that
she entered their room , saying— " now , my dear , i bring you something that i am sure
” miss bingley was not so entirely satisfied with this reply as to continue the subject .
“i cannot make him out .
different character .
, soon led again to the subject ; and she dwelt with energy on his many merits as they proceeded
but she could hear of no situation that at once answered her notions of comfort and ease , and suited
de courcy , which i know was given with the full conviction of its expediency , though i am not
every moment rather brought fresh agitation .
how i loved her for her kindness !
of suffering to her ; though her motives had often been misunderstood , her feelings disregarded , and her comprehension
she never had been so depressed .
have a little compassion on my nerves .
it , during the whole of her toilet , which it received from miss steele in the first five minutes
his house and endeavouring to make every thing appear to advantage .
very fond of tinkling the keys of the old forlorn spinnet ; so , at eight years old she began
in the evening , soon after mr .
matilda what a fortunate one i am , who am to be his wife !
fanny was beginning to feel the effect of being debarred from her usual regular exercise ; she had lost ground
it is true that reginald had not in any degree grown cool towards me ; but yet he has lately
i might , perhaps , wish to be informed why , with so little endeavour at civility , i am
your profusion makes me saving ; and if you lament over him much longer , my heart will be as
she then took a large house in edward-street , and has since maintained herself by letting lodgings .
so strongly calculated to inspire ; but with looks and voice so truly feminine as to be no very good
john dashwood , a gentlemanlike and pleasing young man , who was introduced to their acquaintance soon after his sister
, was equally forlorn , finding something to fear in every person and place .
on the very last day of the regiment’s remaining at meryton , he dined , with other of the officers
could she have believed it a week ago ; three hours ago !
she must be grown two inches , at least , since october .
, cath .
like half the rest of the world , if more than half there be that are clever and good ,
she would not even admit it to have been natural ; and elinor left her to be convinced that it
the rhodomontade of his friend to believe his father a man of substance and credit , whereas the transactions of
wife , they set forward , treading back with feelings unutterable , the ground , which so lately , so
fond of it .
again ; nothing but having no horses of my own could have made me so remiss ; but now i
jennings considered that marianne might probably be to her what charlotte was to herself , her sympathy in her sufferings
the corner of the sofa is very good .
attention where his heart was engaged , and in slighting too easily the forms of worldly propriety , he displayed
there was nothing like flirtation between her and her partner .
henry and her own heart only were privy to the shocking suspicions which she had so idly entertained ; and
crawford ought to know—he must know that : i told him enough yesterday to convince him ; he spoke to
i die to see him .
gone from randalls , she closed with the offer of that officious mrs .
he sat down for a few moments , and then getting up , walked about the room .
either of them would , in all probability , make him an affectionate , good-humoured wife .
was wholly unsuspicious of danger to her daughter from their machinations .
day will hardly fail to bring return of spirits .
seen anybody else .
miss elliot at home , " were laid on the table , with a courteous , comprehensive smile to all
everything belonging to you so dear to me .
” how earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more reasonable , her expressions more moderate
emma must do harriet good : and by supplying her with a new object of interest , harriet may be
she wondered , with little intermission what could be the reason of it ; was sure there must be some
” henry smiled and said , “i am sure my brother would not wish to do that .
but as i conclude that she must wish to go , since all young people like to be together ,
take the opportunity of calling in grosvenor street .
one hundred thousand pound apeice to his three younger children , left the bulk of his fortune , about eight
" " undoubtedly .
in connection and character is alike unexceptionable , you will know what i feel now ; though , thank heaven
but this was immediately opposed by tom bertram , who asserted the part of amelia to be in every respect
” “it appears to me the most desirable arrangement in the world .
perry , mrs .
but too apt to look .
anne elliot , with all her claims of birth , beauty , and mind , to throw herself away at
off by them for persevering in his engagement with a very deserving young woman .
” elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme , assuring him that mr .
it must make him think ; and i have no doubt that he oftener endeavours to restrain himself than he
) “such true blood !
frank churchill had danced once at highbury , and longed to dance again ; and the last half-hour of an
there is not one of his tenants or servants but will give him a good name .
he cannot afford it .
far off .
easily persuaded by those she loved .
mildness , it was not just at that moment in his power to say anything to the purpose .
who considered it as the only security for her husband’s not being killed in a duel .
the first remote sound to which she felt herself obliged to attend , was the name of jane fairfax .
has drawn an unfortunate—but on this point it will be as well to be silent .
tolerate the prospect of being miserably crowded at supper .
he was so miserable when he left us at longstaple , to go to you , that i was afraid
palisades and gates .
crawford very plain , in spite of her two cousins having repeatedly proved the contrary , she never mentioned him
” “yes , that is very inconvenient indeed , ” said mr .
think that mr .
; but the discretion of elinor prevailed .
ill consequences .
hardly able to breathe , was turning to close the former with fearful caution , when the figure , the
no—i am grieved to find—i was on the point of telling you that when i called at mrs .
use his carriage so often as became the owner of donwell abbey .
my sister , who is more than ten years my junior , was left to the guardianship of my mother’s
in the principal facts they have sources of intelligence in former histories and records , which may be as much
i will have no reserves from you .
if elizabeth and her father did not deceive themselves , had been taking much pains to seek the acquaintance ,
a man who felt rightly would say at once , simply and resolutely , to mrs .
and emma received a smile which seemed to say , “these are my own concerns .
child on , was beginning to think how she might draw back a little more , when they both looked
and never , never could i expect to be so truly beloved and important ; so always first and always
mr elliot is a man without heart or conscience ; a designing , wary , cold-blooded being , who thinks
she will tell you any thing if you ask .
it was a heavy , melancholy day .
” harriet smiled again , and her smiles grew stronger .
is merely to beg your acceptance of this little trifle—a chain for william ' s cross .
isabella sent quite as good an account of her visitor as could be expected ; on her first arrival she
" anne was obliged to turn away , to rise , to walk to a distant table , and ,
of her partiality for him had been the only cause of giving her a serious thought .
so long for our sakes , need be suspected now .
she felt all the good luck of it .
this was one of her expressions .
old and sickly , and likely to vacate it soon—he might have got i dare say—fourteen hundred pounds .
” “there is some sense in what he says about the girls , however , and if he is disposed
but do not imagine that i did not feel it an evil in itself .
of mistakes—but by everybody else mr .
yates , having never been with those who thought much of parental claims , or family confidence , could not
cole was so kind as to sit some time with us , talking of jane ; for as soon as
a like degree , the engagements of her young friends ; for as she wished to be as much as
an opposite shop , and fortunately had just gained the pavement when the two gentlemen , turning back , had
his father any just idea of isabella ' s conduct , it occurred to her as highly expedient that henry
the world with very little to distress or vex her .
, who is all kindness in general , looked rather black upon me when he found what i had been
convinced me that her heart was no more formed for the soft ties of love than for the endearing intercourse
crawford took care not to be divided from the female branch ; and after chapel he still continued with them
eye of john[ _num_ ] dashwood on his following the other gentlemen into the room , were officiously handed by
please me better than the finest banditti in the world .
little .
such .
, to the dinner at mr .
jennings ; but after this narration of what really passed between colonel brandon and elinor , while they stood at
the private balls at the park then began ; and parties on the water were made and accomplished as often
banish the idea for even half an hour , it was something gained .
bingley may like you the best of the party .
for i think you have a little cold , and patty has been washing the kitchen .
work as if there were nothing else to care for .
crawford , looking round him , “whether we may not find something to employ us here before we go farther
but i know very well what it is ; and i know where he is too .
then , remembering colonel brandon , reproved herself , felt that to his sufferings and his constancy far more than
purpose , not half so fit .
, whenever they should have a convenient hour .
wait the event with as much composure as possible ; and after all , her greatest want of composure would
they called for him in their way ; were all extremely amused ; and my brother asked him to dine
that when once fairly within the door , they should easily find seats and be able to watch the dances
they are ?
the visit passed off altogether in high good humour .
poor jane is ill !
audacity .
churchill do the same ?
the former left them soon after tea to fulfill her evening engagements ; and elinor was obliged to assist in
to summer .
remember , wherever you are , you must be the lowest and last ; and though miss crawford is in
she was prepared to be wet through , fatigued , and frightened ; but the event was still more unfortunate
norris , her eyes directed towards mr .
with regard to herself , it was now a matter of unconcern whether she went to town or not ,
johnson vows that if i persist in the connection , he will settle in the country for the rest of
as if you was an old acquaintance .
charming people , mr .
the gentleness and gratitude of her disposition would secure her all your own immediately .
wretchedly did he feel , that with all the cost and care of an anxious and expensive education , he
as well , if not better , than her grandchildren .
i have now a key to all her odd looks and ways .
you want nothing but patience—or give it a[ _num_ ] more fascinating name , call it hope .
i walk about here , and so i do there ; but here i see a variety of people in
i am almost the nearest relation he has in the world , and am entitled to know all his dearest
but he never came .
in the disappointed hopes of her dairy-maid , by hens forsaking their nests , or being stolen by a fox
i knew how that would be from the first .
—what do you say to it ?
h .
any one family ; but enscombe , i believe , certainly must not be judged by general rules : she
and when she knew him to be out of the house , she directly proposed to miss tilney the accomplishment
had the doctor been contented to take my dining-table when i came away , as anybody in their senses would
she took hardly any notice of charles hayter yesterday .
yes , she will do for him very well .
we shall be as stupid as possible .
they all united ; and , on reaching hartfield gates , emma , who knew it was exactly the sort
” “a little sea-bathing would set me up forever .
” “very true , indeed ; and now , my dear jane , what have you got to say on
willoughby , for you to relate , or for me to listen any longer .
if i had followed her judgment , and subdued my spirits to the level of what she deemed proper ,
after parting from willoughby .
prevention .
be he sailor or soldier .
” “well , ” said catherine , after some moments ' consideration , “you may be able to guess at
” sir thomas , however , was truly happy in the prospect of an alliance so unquestionably advantageous , and
“oh , yes !
i called her a distant relation ; but i[ _num_ ] am well aware that i have in general been
i declare i do not know a more awful object than darcy , on particular occasions , and in particular
hand only for a moment .
campbell .
attention than”— “my dear miss woodhouse , a vast deal may be done by those who dare to act .
” she cried , hiding her face .
the first act of a comedy characters popgun maria charles pistolletta postilion hostess chorus of ploughboys cook and and strephon
oppressed .
one momentary glance at her , instantly withdrawn , in the fear of giving pain—no remembrance of box hill seemed
darcy smiled ; but elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was rather offended , and therefore checked her laugh
jane came back delighted yesterday .
green goose , which he could not get the better of .
they were hopeless of remedy .
how sincerely do i grieve that she ever entered this house !
do take it to your sister .
or miss crawford demanded ; to tell of races and weymouth , and parties and friends , to which she
never had she felt so agitated , mortified , grieved , at any circumstance in her life .
cole ' s stables , for i should find the near way quite floated by this rain .
one knows , without being told , exactly what they are : all very accomplished and pleasing , and one
fanny began to be their only audience ; and sometimes as prompter , sometimes as spectator , was often very
it was now some years since anne had begun to learn that she and her excellent friend could sometimes think
how anne ' s more rigid requisitions might have been taken is of little consequence .
to decide on it by slight appearances , one ' s happiness must in some measure be always at the
marianne ' s eagerness to be gone declared her dependence on finding him there ; and elinor was resolved not
well-meaning young woman , and a heart to sympathize in any of the sufferings it occasioned ; but if henrietta
elton , and her attention disengaged , he necessarily began on the subject with her .
) colonel brandon , who was here only ten minutes ago , has desired me to say , that understanding
“fanny , ” cried tom bertram , from the other table , where the conference was eagerly carrying on ,
—very extraordinary !
i have been told that you were asked to be of the party .
dashwood looked with pleasure at marianne , whose fine eyes were fixed so expressively on willoughby , as plainly denoted
likewise .
" after a moment ' s pause he said : " though i came only yesterday , i have equipped
the matter mamma ?
asked her how she had liked him .
she could only give him a look ; but it was such a look as she thought must restore him
thing to them , the visitors were most cordially and even gratefully welcomed ; the quiet neat old lady ,
sister ' s unbiased opinion , by an eager sign , engaged her silence .
" anne , far from wishing to cavil at the pleasure , replied , " i can easily believe it
—emma knew that he had , on that occasion , found her much superior to his expectation .
seemed only paid her because she was not elinor appear a compliment to herself—or to allow her to derive encouragement
it is for your children ' s good that i wish to be richer .
you persuaded her to refuse him .
her notice was an honour , to have you now , in thoughtless spirits , and the pride of the
bennet , “but it is a comfort to think that whatever of that kind may befall you , you have
so , for , though you know (owing to me) your papa and mama are so good as to bring
all that followed was the result of her imprudence ; and he went off with her at last , because
but there was another , and an earlier , which i will now explain .
an odious , little , pert , unnatural , impudent girl .
do not say miss tilney was not angry , ” cried catherine , “because i know she was ; for
to see me , i am sure i will find none in accommodating them .
lady bertram was the happiest subject in the world for a little medical imposition .
what delight will be yours in seeing him again ; in seeing him still worthy your esteem , still capable
a ' n ' t i a good boy ?
must inevitably have found him , when they were stopped by the eldest boy ' s being at that moment
i would not have my girls stand out of doors as you do in such a day as this .
sauntering politicians , bustling housekeepers , flirting girls , nor nursery-maids and children , they could indulge in those retrospections
” “yes ; i am sure i should be very sorry to leave you so soon , but something has
i know where you spent the morning .
to prompt them must be enough for her ; and it was sometimes more than enough ; for she could
elton will lose no time in calling on him ; and we shall both have great pleasure in seeing him
a straight line , for we have never seen the end of it yet since we left the first great
it will be some trial to us both .
in another light so triumphant and secure , she was in every way an object of painful alarm .
at last it was agreed that they should endeavour to determine the dimensions of the wood by walking a little
invite them both .
this won ' t do , ” cried tom , throwing himself into a chair with a hearty laugh .
footsteps were heard returning ; the door opened , it was himself .
—this is just what i wanted to be assured of .
she had never received kindness from her aunt norris , and could not love her .
family ; and there it was his constant object , and his only object (till your arrival added another motive)
” he got up and walked to the gate again , and “wished he had had the key about him
, more , i think , than last year .
i will say , then , that we have seen him two or three times , and that my friends
a few hours were to have engaged her to me for ever ; and i remember how happy , how
as she unwillingly paced back the gallery , that she would rather be allowed to examine that end of the
i had the pleasure of seeing you , but is not your name allen ?
her ideas only varied as to the how much .
” a look of consciousness as he spoke , and what seemed a consciousness of manner on miss crawford '
more this spring , when the following letter was received to revive old and create some new sensations— “forgive me
and a very indulgent mother .
he will have a very pretty income to make ducks and drakes with , and earned without much trouble .
they could but keep captain wentworth from being made a baronet , she would not change situations with anne .
she heard them spoken of by him only in a general way , till they were all re-assembled in the
but , after a few minutes , sunk again , without knowing it herself , into languor and listlessness ,
roads , and had i spoken only once in ten minutes , this reproach would have been spared .
bennet’s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two thousand a year , which , unfortunately for his daughters
her , immediately followed .
they might be more safely held up as a pattern .
i never was so deceived in anyone ' s character in my life before .
past , and carrying her out of herself .
i dare say there is always some reputable tradesman ' s wife or other going up .
, always cheerful—mr .
prepared to dislike me , and prejudiced against all my past actions .
be the beginning , on her side , of a regular , equal , kindly intercourse .
" elinor tried very seriously to convince him that there was no likelihood of her marrying colonel brandon ; but
' if miss taylor undertakes to wrap miss emma up , you need not have any fears , sir .
with such ready , such solicitous politeness as recalled thorpe ' s information to her mind , and made her
woodhouse hesitated .
“i am advised to ride by my physician .
i had therefore nothing in the world to do , but to fancy myself in love ; and as my
, and his daughter ' s maid had so crowded it with parcels that miss morland would not have room
” “then pray stay at richmond .
“but where could you hear it ?
, i apply to you .
—there was time only for the quickest arrangement of mind .
" " nothing to the purpose , " replied her brother .
they were apprehensive for his lungs .
voice rather of command than supplication— " miss dashwood , for half an hour—for ten minutes—i entreat you to stay
selina is no fine lady , i assure you .
stop , stop , i will get out this moment and go to them .
and i hope you will not be cruelly concealing any tendency to indisposition .
mentioned , the two of strongest promise to harriet , were not without some degree of witness from emma herself
susceptibility to her feelings ; which are naturally lively enough .
sir thomas ' s in the village , and consoled herself for the loss of her husband by considering that
but on returning to the drawing-room , when her letter was finished , she saw , to her infinite surprise
this was too much .
and it was soon over .
see it .
it has connected him nearer with virtue than with any other feeling .
unfortunately , one knows her too well .
kitty , to her very material advantage , spent the chief of her time with her two elder sisters .
i was quite cool , but he gave way to the most violent indignation ; i may therefore expect it
same degree of ignorance , jealousy , or distrust .
" " i can explain this too , " cried mrs smith , smiling .
there was a disagreable coldness and forbidding reserve in her reception of me which was equally distressing and unexpected .
—i congratulate you , mr .
” “dear lady scudamore interrupted i , say no more on this affecting subject .
" that was exactly like robert , " was his immediate observation .
i am glad you do not think of going ; i am sure mrs .
” “if you were to give me forty such men , i never could be so happy as you .
, and how determined he was to save himself from being cut out by one artful woman , at least
all such sort of penetration or suspicion , was a most comfortable circumstance .
harding feared there had been at least very flagrant indiscretion .
weston to herself , ushered in the letter from frank to mrs .
but a parish has wants and claims which can be known only by a clergyman constantly resident , and which
how everybody went on ; but elizabeth steadily opposed the scheme .
grant , as to leave her the fairest prospect of having only to listen in quiet , and of passing
spirits , must suffer at such a time ; and miss hamilton , three years older than herself , but
ready to blame myself for a too harsh construction of a playful manner .
—here is quite a separate puzzle .
emma had hardly expected them : for mr .
jane fairfax had already quitted highbury , and was restored to the comforts of her beloved home with the campbells
i had an acrostic once sent to me upon my own name , which i was not at all pleased
elizabeth saw directly that her father had not the smallest intention of yielding ; but his answers were at the
now , how were his sentiments to be read ?
determined that the lodgings should be taken for another fortnight .
but in this case , anne had left nothing for advice to do ; and though lady russell , as
moment confirmed the idea by the loud noise of the house-bell .
him , though her twenty thousand pounds had been forty .
harriet looked white and frightened , and he was trying to cheer her .
troubles soon arose .
within a day or two afterwards , cards of invitation for them as well as for their brother and sister
” “you persist , then , in supposing his sisters influence him ?
“you may well warn me against such an evil .
' it is such a pretty charade , my dear , that i can easily guess what fairy brought it
“you have insulted me in every possible method .
a house was never taken good care of , mr shepherd observed , without a lady : he did not
no , there is but one .
a faithful promise !
merits ; thought herself a most fortunate creature , and surrounded with blessings in such an excellent mother , and
—don ' t i hear another carriage ?
chapter xxv though mrs .
she had high animal spirits , and a sort of natural self-consequence , which the attention of the officers ,
this as you may suppose could not be pleasing to mrs diana who is a professed enemy to everything which
" said almost every body .
the repose of the latter became more and more disturbed ; and her sister , who watched , with unremitting
—so easily pleased—so little discerning ; —what signified her praise ?
i have known a good deal of the profession ; and besides their liberality , they are so neat and
i do not pretend to say that i was not very much pleased with him ; but while i have
" pressing his own with emotion .
' said he , ' i can fasten the rivet .
hers found its way to a circulating library .
palmer is the kind of man i like .
he had his shepherd ' s son into the parlour one night on purpose to sing to her .
" [ _num_ ] " so do i .
—i only wish my eyes may last me as well .
—she will be missed every moment .
he never can bear to be thanked .
we will not be parted .
after some attempts , therefore , to be permitted to begin again , they were obliged to thank mrs .
rain had reduced very low .
i wish frederick would spread a little more canvass , and bring us home one of these young ladies to
when convinced on that article , miss bennet had nothing further to wish .
what advantage can it be for you to offend mr .
—mistake you !
weston was convinced that such conversation must be the greatest relief to her companion , pent up within her own
the earliest attachments are ever entirely outlived .
” “there is no saying , indeed , ” replied harriet rather solemnly .
to write the next morning to her mother , and hoped by awakening her fears for the health of marianne
this subject whenever we meet , and nothing in the world advances intimacy so much .
to give up one ' s child !
” “in such cases , a woman has not often much beauty to think of .
” “that would not be a very handsome reason for using mr .
she did not wish to speak of the pianoforte , she felt too much in the secret herself , to
plans , if plans i can be said to have .
herself ; not one who was not more useful at times to her son .
“heyday !
" this was all overheard by miss dashwood ; and in the whole of the sentence , in his manner
at the park she laughed at the colonel , and in the cottage at marianne .
but you must not expect to receive such from me when i get to town ; for it is only
the vernons may storm , i regard them not .
by mr elliot , knowing her but in public , and when very young himself .
saying , “novels are all so full of nonsense and stuff ; there has not been a tolerably decent one
she possesses an uncommon union of symmetry , brilliancy , and grace .
' i can only say , ' no , i shall not ; ' and then they say again ,
it—the joyful consent of her father and mother to susan ' s going with her—the general satisfaction with which the
the king , the queen , buckingham , wolsey , cromwell , all were given in turn ; for with
when a woman has five grown-up daughters , she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty .
to give them up , for they are quite as well educated as me .
and as he went about so much , something , he thought , might come from that quarter .
come with me into the breakfast-room , we shall find everything there , and be sure of having the room
” instead of answering , as she probably would have done , had there been no friendship and no flattery
but—that he should talk of encouragement , should consider her as aware of his views , accepting his attentions ,
after the first perturbation of surprise had passed away , in a “good heaven !
" marianne coloured , and replied very hastily , " where , pray ?
my scheme was to treat her as she treated me , and tho ' she might even draw my own
knightley very much ?
but he is not the only gentleman you have been lately used to .
way to produce an extreme .
my dearest henry , this must be my first feeling ; but my second , which you shall have as
“a pretty modest request upon my word , ” he indignantly exclaimed as they walked away .
i knew it to be a most respectable , agreeable corps , and my friend denny tempted me further by
i see you know nothing of the matter .
bolder temper , made it as natural for him to express as to feel .
i do not know where the error lies .
it was too great a shock to be borne with calmness , and she immediately left the room .
" this accounts for something which mr elliot said last night , " cried anne .
was soon afterwards brought in , and sir thomas , getting up , said that he found that he could
weston was often thinking about .
as harriet now lived , the martins could not get at her , without seeking her , where hitherto they
want to attract everybody ?
disappointed that it was not more .
made him so melancholy , not being able to stay more than a fortnight with us , and seeing me
ferrars can have the smallest satisfaction in knowing that her son has money enough to live upon , —for that
i then saw him behaving , as it appeared to me , so very improperly and unfeelingly—i may speak of
more effectually blinded than myself—except that i was not blinded—that it was my good fortune—that , in short , i
her performance on the pianoforte is exquisite .
“i am very glad , indeed , my dear , to hear she is to be so comfortably settled .
superior beauties ; and towards one of these hills did marianne and margaret one memorable morning direct their steps ,
of yours .
perfection should not have come quite so soon .
, at that time , happened pretty often , they always looked another way .
it was not merely in fine words or hyperbolical compliment that he paid his duty ; nothing could be more
on life in a cottage) , and the admirably-matched mr .
elton and jane fairfax were talking of .
friend as isabella thorpe , it would be impossible for you to be otherwise ; and the allens , i
, diffused over his face , became him ; but , though she could not look , she could listen
emma ' s comforts and hopes were most agreeably carried on , by harriet ' s being to stay longer
bennet , in the meanwhile , was giving way to all the happy schemes , which the good humour and
” “i do not quite despair yet .
this was the sad finale of every reflection : and captain tilney ' s letter would certainly come in his
' i was quite surprized ; —very glad , i am sure ; but really quite surprized .
have relaxed , as i believe i may depend on her observing the rules i have laid down for their
in the course of the morning which saw this business arranged , she visited miss tilney , and poured forth
robinson ; did not i mention it to you ?
” cried miss bingley , “charles writes in the most careless way imaginable .
fanny did not love miss crawford ; but she felt very much obliged to her for her present kindness ;
as to the pretence of trying her native air , i look upon that as a mere excuse .
” a moment ' s recollection enabled her to say , “rushworth , sir .
harriet , who had been standing in no unhappy reverie , was yet very glad to be called from it
“the part which i acted is now to be explained .
jennings , though regretting that she had not been five minutes earlier , was satisfied with the compromise ; and
drummond , who dieing a few months before in extreme poverty , left his only child then about eighteen to
it sprung , nor observe the studied attentions with which the miss steeles courted its continuance , without thoroughly despising
how could you tell me they were gone ?
” “yes , ” thought elizabeth , “that would be a delightful scheme indeed , and completely do for us
his surprise was great .
" he immediately went into the passage , opened the front door , and ushered her in himself .
more than most men .
her father ' s sake , in the power ; though , as far as she was herself concerned ,
i saw she had execution , but i did not know she had any taste .
was open to all !
” chapter xiv some change of countenance was necessary for each gentleman as they walked into mrs .
grant and edmund , now observed , “those gentlemen must have some very interesting point to discuss .
what must this bewitching princess whose only freind was then the duke of norfolk , and whose only ones now
proved to be groundless .
his sturdy spirit to bend as it did !
there will be enough of them , in all probability , to supply every sort of sensation that declining life
agreed to her mother ' s next counsel of going early to bed .
perfectly comprehend the meaning of the word .
all my comfort .
you a few short lines by james , that you may have some explanation of what must so greatly astonish
did not much attend to their having passed close by him in their earlier walk , but she would have
she was before me , constantly before me , as i travelled , in the same look and hue .
such another scheme , composed of so many ill-assorted people , she hoped never to be betrayed into again .
he was invited to kellynch hall ; he was talked of and expected all the rest of the year ;
may i hope for the honour of your hand for the two first dances of this little projected ball ,
john knightley ' s being a lawyer is very inconvenient .
that henceforward some of their earliest tenants might be “our friends from fullerton .
indelicacy of so early a second marriage must subject me to the censure of the world , and incur ,
by a look at her brother she prevented any farther entreaty from the theatrical board , and the really good
” “but that i am sure it has not , ” cried fanny .
” “yes , there can ; for mine is totally different .
her ladyship has now written , i cannot make up my mind till i better understand her real meaning in
shew them attention .
to bestow , but the children of my sisters ?
" " your wife !
edward and lucy should not marry ; for i am sure mrs .
sam , stop your confounded pipe , or i shall be after you .
the most satisfactory comparisons were rising in her mind .
” “not one .
he even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity .
been hoping to receive ; and you may be very certain that i shall avail myself of it as soon
allen were not to be superseded ; but on some other day he trusted , when longer notice could be
impatience for the hour of meeting , i yet feel myself under the necessity of delaying that hour beyond the
but soon afterwards , rising and pacing the room , he observed sarcastically-- " there are few among the gentlemen
morning .
you everything placed on a basis the most assured and satisfactory , i may execute the remainder by prevailing on
in a few minutes sir thomas came to her , and asked if she were engaged ; and the “yes
sir walter , independent of his claims as an old acquaintance , an attentive neighbour , an obliging landlord ,
” he cried .
” “you need not give yourself that trouble , sir .
—they took a few turns together along the walk .
“what a precious deposit !
norris ; “my dear edmund , there is no idea of her going with us .
i shall be truly glad to have them back again .
only half an hour before her friend called for her at mrs .
i think you will agree with me , (turning with a soft air to emma , ) i think i
knightley connected it with the dream ; but how it could all be , was beyond his comprehension .
susan had always behaved pleasantly to herself , but the determined character of her general manners had astonished and alarmed
" " the ibbotsons , were they there ?
collins devoted his morning to driving him out in his gig , and showing him the country ; but when
of these self important de courcys still lower , to convince mrs .
i have now , my dear father , written my real sentiments of lady susan ; you will know from
perhaps , that the deserted chair of each young man might exercise her tender enthusiasm , and that the remaining
i am more curious to know why he should be so different now .
two young aunts were able so far to digress from their nephew ' s state , as to give the
i will take care of myself , and of mr .
do not involve yourself or endeavour to involve him in an affection which the want of fortune would make so
elton returned , a very happy man .
, and , of course , they will pay their mother for their board out of it .
only at lyme had he begun to understand himself .
no opposition of interest , cooled by no separate attachment , and feeling the influence of time and absence only
is not it inconceivable , henry ?
knightley , is not she ?
but my sophia why are you unhappy ?
she will be down in a moment , i dare say .
this is what i said , the purport of it ; but , as you may imagine , not spoken
his happiness in knowing himself to have been so long the beloved of such a heart , must have been
his behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost .
) “oh !
no human being but you could have any chance of prevailing with her .
he made no answer ; but after a minute ' s silence burst out with , “a famous good thing
allen ' s head , but that he was not objectionable as a common acquaintance for his young charge he
these were the contents : “my dear harriet , “you will laugh when you know where i am gone ,
—miss woodhouse , we must exert ourselves and endeavour to do something for her .
churchill had been recommended to the medical skill of an eminent person there , and had otherwise a fancy for
gig .
the scene as made her say to harriet , as they walked away , “these are the sights , harriet
particular request , been admitted to their acquaintance through mr elliot , had mentioned one or two things relative to
and miss bates returned the visit .
she has done no more than what every young woman would do ; and i have no doubt of her
had left a little parcel for her from one of his sisters , and gone away ; and on opening
norris , “taking out two carriages when one will do , would be trouble for nothing ; and , between
the men appeared to her all coarse , the women all pert , everybody underbred ; and she gave as
of the mischief ; and the other that she herself had been barbarously misused by them all ; and on
about the chaise having been sent to randalls to take mr .
" husbands and wives generally understand when opposition will be vain .
knightley , whom no weather could keep entirely from them , — “ah !
—something has happened in brunswick square .
it was some consolation to think that his visit to rosings was to end on the day after the next—and
her yellow pattern .
receive a return .
" " i only wish , " replied her sister , " there were any thing i could do ,
fitting-up , or the taste of the furniture .
norris , however , had gone home and taken down two old prayer-books of her husband with that idea ;
the solitary candle was held between himself and the paper , without any reference to her possible convenience ; but
purity of her heart is not to be doubted , such as must increase his felicity , for it will
she had hurried on before her guests to prepare her father for their appearance , and was beyond the reach
gay were my spirits , as i walked from the cottage to allenham , satisfied with myself , delighted with
that i could transport you for a short time into our circle in town , that you might understand how
but some sort of people have no feelings either of cold or delicacy—well , remember that we shall expect you
“here are not women enough .
i give you joy , my dear niece .
at enscombe , has a particular dislike to : and though it is thought necessary to invite them once in
, that when the candles came to assist his observations , he must—yes , he certainly must , as a
for the last week they had seen very little of lady catherine or her daughter .
him , is not half so dangerous to a wife ' s happiness as a tendency to fall in love
after a moment ' s pause , he spoke with calmness .
” “my advice , ” said he calmly , “is that you change the play .
your kindness and patience can never be forgotten , your indefatigable patience in trying to make it possible for him
her feelings were all in revolt .
ferrars should seem to like me , if she did not , and her liking me is every thing .
very well worth seeing ; for as he has a taste for those sort of things , i thought that
fury of her temper , i should not be surprized at her appealing to her guardian , if she had
de courcy .
done , for your long , kind , satisfactory , detail of particulars ; but to say the truth ,
weston , and did not herself know what to think .
circumstances change , opinions alter .
at brighton she will be of less importance even as a common flirt than she has been here .
wickham ; and nothing less than a dance on tuesday , could have made such a friday , saturday ,
i shall not be easy till i have explained everything .
she would not do well .
be where the miss dashwoods were , received his eager civilities with some surprise , but much more pleasure .
every object they saw , how disgusted with some things , how enchanted with others , how astonished at all
to be sure when we consider that i did take some pains to prevent my brother-in-law ' s marrying her
i have made no enquiries , because i concluded you must have been obliged to give up the party .
hollow murmurs seemed to creep along the gallery , and more than once her blood was chilled by the sound
any other .
“i shall never let that book go out of my own hands , ” said she .
i wonder what she thinks of my father !
she still laments his death with undiminished constancy , notwithstanding he has been dead more than six weeks ; but
you mean jane , i suppose , because he danced with her twice .
” poor mr .
darcy contradict it .
do not defer it .
he therefore replied , without any resentment— " i would by no means speak disrespectfully of any relation of yours
she had some extra visits from the housekeeper , and her maid was rather hurried in making up a new
, for it must only deter him from such foul misconduct as i have suffered by .
woodhouse would have been miserable had his daughter attempted it , and she was therefore safe from either exciting or
no more of this to me , if you please .
woodhouse , with a sigh .
acknowledgments , and returned her those civilities , which her sister could not make or return for herself .
" " they come on the admiral ' s account .
i will be more collected—more concise .
insurgents , and the gallant captain frederick tilney , in the moment of charging at the head of his troop
, she could not help bursting forth again , “oh , this is beautiful indeed !
words , to dwell without interruption on those subjects that must deaden them more .
to do more ; and at length she could not but own it to be her wish that poor mrs
said he feared w .
it is a mere nothing after all ; and not the least draught from the stairs .
they have not begun dancing yet .
” “but she is so fond of the nephew : he is so very great a favourite .
—good god !
it came happily while she was thus waiting ; and there being neither ceremony nor fearfulness to delay the moment
, do not set my heart at ease .
” his face lengthened immediately ; and his voice was the voice of sentiment as he answered .
ecclesford and its theatre , with its arrangements and dresses , rehearsals and jokes , was his never-failing subject ,
the bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the world , though only a few weeks before
their dress had every advantage , their faces were rather pretty , their spirits extremely good , their manner unembarrassed
we shall sit and gape at one another as dull as two cats .
darcy than they had before any idea of ; it was evident that he was very much in love with
own room , that she might think with freedom .
let us move away from this end of the room .
i have been very negligent—but are you now at leisure to satisfy me in these particulars ?
was very natural , you know , that he should like to speak of his own place while he was
exactly the reverse .
heart which knew no guile should not suffer .
the room the next moment , and released captain wentworth as well as herself .
young dogs !
buy all , could determine on none , and dawdled away her time in rapture and indecision .
necessity of his being very much dressed , and chusing his colours .
enter without ceremony or reserve on the subject .
her own conduct , as well as her own heart , was before her in the same few minutes .
their man-servant had been sent one morning to exeter on business ; and when , as he waited at table
in them the ruins of the face which had once charmed him ; and once she knew that he must
sir thomas is too much my friend .
woodhouse could equal ; and the greater part of her new acquaintance , disposed to commend , or not in
nursery to mend stockings and dress all the blains and bruises she could get near her , and who ,
untasted and unalloyed , and free from the apprehension of evil as from the knowledge of it .
” “i rather hope to satisfy you both , ” said emma , “for i shall do all in my
the centre of every domestic comfort , or saw her go away in the evening attended by her pleasant husband
—let me be a little lightened too in her opinion as well as in yours .
the others then came close enough for conversation , and morland said , “we had better go back , thorpe
colonel fitzwilliam had called at the parsonage more than once during the time , but mr .
no one but mrs .
' i hope he may long continue to feel all the value of such a reconciliation .
continual repetition must do the rest .
my dear creature , —i am in agonies , and know not what to do .
he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often walk to meryton .
it is but natural that he should like to see her as well as ourselves .
not in a state of utter barbarism , to be capable of !
elinor ' s thoughts were full of what might be passing in berkeley street during their absence ; but a
once she did contrive to push him away , but the boy had the greater pleasure in getting upon her
too strong effect on him—she now felt and feared it all tenfold more .
inclined to attribute it to delicacy , and a suspicion , from some appearances , that their friendship were declining
by nature inoffensive , friendly , and obliging , his presentation at st .
refresh our exhausted limbs .
felt a pang .
in my heart i feel little—scarcely any doubt of his preference .
emma , you are a great dreamer , i think ?
an oppression for ever .
" don ' t you find it colder than it was in the morning , elinor ?
collins attending them to point out its beauties , and lady catherine kindly informing them that it was much better
” elizabeth , who knew this to be levelled at mr .
it would be endless to recount the misfortunes of this noble and gallant earl .
and quite out of my power to return his good opinion .
voluntary forgiveness of mrs .
but i will not suppose this possible , and i hope very soon to receive your personal assurance of its
it was done completely ; not a remnant of light in the wick could give hope to the rekindling breath
darcy , was one of the best men that ever breathed , and the truest friend i ever had ;
” “i suppose you mean camilla ?
knightley to invite them—very kind and sensible—much cleverer than dining out .
there has been by far too much trouble taken to procure the acquaintance .
importance .
was settled , that as soon as the ceremony was over , they should proceed to longbourn .
, couple after couple , as they were formed .
a footing of intimacy with them ; we see them indeed almost every day , and dined with them yesterday
as “mr .
i am undismayed however .
to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood nor to his leaving the parish occasionally for a week or
rev .
she had hoped that , to a man like her uncle , so discerning , so honourable , so good
—i never had a thought of her in that way , i assure you .
a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters by the earnestness of her congratulations to sir william ,
must be equally interesting to me ; not but that i think the melancholy indulgence of your own sorrows by
why do not you fit up this room , mr .
but it is impossible to put a hundredth part of my great mind on paper , so i will abstain
do not distress her .
palmer , though treating their apprehensions as idle , found the anxiety and importunity of his wife too great to
that were weighing him down .
but what shall i say ?
time to music , for there are certainly other things to be attended to .
pray make my excuses and adieus to her .
but i think we had better sit still , for one gets so tumbled in such a crowd !
behaviour of every being who approaches her ; and it will be the completion of my happiness to know that
” “yes , very sure .
these are conditions which , considering everything , i had no hesitation in complying with , as far as i
" it will be more painful to me in some respects to be in company with him , but i
hughes , who introduced him , might take it ill if i did not : and your dear brother ,
he concluded with representing to her the strength of that attachment which , in spite of all his endeavours ,
” “are you ?
i am equally confounded at her impudence and his credulity .
he would describe , if indeed he has now delicacy of language enough to embody his own ideas .
much , much beyond impropriety !
, and the air of the room altogether far from uncheerful .
" again , it was mary ' s complaint , that mrs musgrove was very apt not to give her
away no better consolation in leaving him than that she had divided them .
—an hour ' s ride .
last were neither less frequent , nor less affectionate than usual .
nonsense , how can you talk so !
miss lucy steele is , i dare say , a very deserving young woman , but in the present case
a thousand inquiries sprung up from her heart , but she dared not urge one .
it was this sister , this friend and companion , who was now the chief bane of fanny ' s
she disliked bath , and did not think it agreed with her ; and bath was to be her home
i desire you to stay where you are .
amid the cares and the complacency which his own children suggested , sir thomas did not forget to do what
an example of felicity in the conjugal state !
my dear charlotte—impossible !
when shall i leave you again ?
to father , and then father had bid him bring up them two bits of board , for he could
” sir thomas could not dissent , as it had been his own arrangement , previously communicated to his wife
the reviewer points out very justly that this kind of work , ' being deprived of all that , according
so very good of them to send her the whole way !
miss lydia is going to be married ; and you shall all have a bowl of punch to make merry
shall know better what to do .
" but this , from the momentary perverseness of impatient suffering , she at first refused to do .
glenford febry _num_ i have a thousand excuses to beg for having so long delayed thanking you my dear peggy
i can imagine your objection to harriet smith .
rest of my letter what it ought to be .
" the miss musgroves agreed to it ; and having all kindly watched him as far up the hill as
" she knows her own worth too well for false shame , " replied edward .
attention on the two ladies , than what was comprised in three or four very broad stares ; a kind
gardiner’s long letter ; but now , having that to communicate which she knew would be most welcome , she
anything but that , my dear tom .
quarrelled ; and she hoped it might rather assist the restoration of friendship , that when he came into the
oblivion among them was highly important from whatever it sprung ; and in the event of admiral croft ' s
“was your mother gone to bed before you left her ?
, and susan learned to think it no misfortune to be quietly employed .
he had made his fortune , bought his house , and obtained his wife ; and was beginning a new
to exist , between you and the man whose family you robbed of its peace in return for the hospitality
favourable of what he had been .
on each side of the entrance was a sitting room , about sixteen feet square ; and beyond them were
sigh or cut capers , in any tragedy or comedy in the english language .
let me have the satisfaction of knowing that you are safe at fullerton , and have found your family well
her , and can write a tolerable letter .
she grew more agitated and displeased .
i have known a face not materially disfigured by a few , but he abominates them .
you are all to come to pemberley at christmas .
what a horrible idea !
" " two or three months !
wives in the case at present , i will break my resolution now .
knightley ' s marrying jane fairfax , or any body else , which at the time she had wholly imputed
—in ten minutes , however , the child had been perfectly well again .
” “bravo !
we are each of an unsocial , taciturn disposition , unwilling to speak , unless we expect to say something
i would not have you too sanguine ; though , however it may end , be assured your raising your
, very different in all our inclinations and ways , that i consider it as quite impossible we should ever
he had not been known to them as a boy ; but soon after lady elliot ' s death ,
; there were half-hours of pleasant conversation with charlotte , and the weather was so fine for the time of
” “nothing child , nothing .
he walked off in more complete self-approbation than he left for her .
few petrified spars without his perceiving me .
" i could see it in his face .
indiaman .
—(as soon as she was within the door) well !
but she had believed them to be well-meaning , worthy people before ; and what difference did this make in
lord ravenshaw and the duke had appropriated the only two characters worth playing before i reached ecclesford ; and though
but this i will say , that his fault , the liking to make girls a little in love with
as she now sat looking at betsey , she could not but think particularly of another sister , a very
brilliancy before him , for much to have been done , even had his time been longer .
suffering wife , and left him to the stings of conscience .
egerton , who had visited miss austen at sloane street , must have later conveyed to her some intelligence of
, there were difficulties from the absence of one friend , and the engagements of another , which at last
“john does not even mention your friend , ” said mr .
, without any strict rules of conduct .
i could not bear to be , imputing more than might be intended .
home ; for i thought it would be making her comfortable at once .
what a long letter have i made of it !
in short , i do not mean to reflect upon the behaviour of any person whom you have a regard
chapter v “i do not know what your opinion may be , mrs .
he is worse than last year .
called on business .
“i must spend some time with them ; i am sure they will want it ; —afterwards i may probably
liked .
them to barton park with unaffected sincerity ; and as he attended them to the drawing room repeated to the
she had an unhappy state of health in general for the child of such a man , for she hardly
" the toils of the business were over , the sweets began .
her objections to mr .
the daughters were parted with , and just in time to prevent their sitting down to the breakfast-table , which
, put an end to the miserable state of concealment that had been carrying on so long .
therefore be able to make my letter as long as i like .
i do not know that her uncle has any claim to her gratitude ; his wife certainly had ; and
together ; and that as mrs .
“you can never want employment .
to be in the centre of such a circle , loved by so many , and more loved by all
see you as you are .
a great deal too handsome , in my opinion , for any place they can ever afford to live in
collins ; which , as jane had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence ,
(excuse me , your ladyship must not see your cards .
my line of conduct will be more direct .
elton gone on foot to donwell ?
—it was true that she had not to charge herself , in this instance as in the former , with
and such a noble fire !
work , how proudly would she have produced the book , and told its name ; though the chances must
” “not always in marriage , dear mary .
elizabeth took leave of the whole party in the liveliest of spirits .
or by any sale of its valuable woods .
but he was deceived in her : he gave her merits which she had not ; her faults were what
” she could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure .
it was not known that wickham had a single relationship with whom he kept up any connection , and it
norris as much as fanny herself .
—but john , as to what i was telling you of my idea of moving the path to langham ,
cole ?
excuses themselves for staying away .
and before she was beyond the first stage of full sensation , charles , mary , and henrietta all came
” “my dear eleanor , ” cried catherine , suppressing her feelings as well as she could , “do not
interesting themselves in their new possessions , their grass , and their sheep , and dawdling about in a way
to run such a risk .
catherine found mrs .
” “you are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this manner—in such society ; and
you are making a most disgraceful connection , and such a one as your family are unanimous in disapproving .
vernon .
woman ' s usual occupations of hand and mind will be as open to me then as they are now
” “i hope , i earnestly hope , that to your real safety it will be of none ; but
” “i know there is such an idea with many people , but indeed it is quite a mistake ,
she was not sorry , however , to have the recital of them interrupted by the lady from whom they
woodhouse , seemed somewhat out of place .
” “poor william !
fortune is nothing .
except in mrs .
grant doing the honours of it , were worth looking at .
and delivered her from a grievous imprisonment of body and mind .
elizabeth could not but be pleased , could not but triumph .
she must be taken to their house ; all must go to their house ; and await the surgeon '
interest in the usual occupations ; but whenever lady bertram was fixed on the event , she could see it
least ; and that the very circumstance of the novelty of crawford ' s addresses was against him .
declared to be the most beautiful , elegant , accomplished , and agreeable girls they had ever beheld , and
i hate to hear of women on board , or to see them on board ; and no ship under
to be paid them ; and she is very stout and healthy , and hardly forty .
their conversation the preceding evening did not disincline him to seek her again ; and they walked together some time
friendship of such a woman as mrs .
her mother ' s silently pressing her hand with tender compassion , her small degree of fortitude was quite overcome
but without seeming really at all ashamed of what he had done .
tea .
” at about eleven o ' clock , however , a few specks of small rain upon the windows caught
apt analogy of the declining year , with declining happiness , and the images of youth and hope , and
the listener ' s proverbial fate was not absolutely hers ; she had heard no evil of herself , but
drive about the grounds , and see his genius take fire .
behaviour has shown .
why does he not look at me ?
” “yes , an acquaintance of mrs .
dined from home , she might spend a whole day without hearing any other raillery on the subject , than
hour ; for while still hearing the sounds he had uttered , she was startled to other subjects by henrietta
“well , ma ' am , what do you say to it ?
letter the first from isabel to laura how often , in answer to my repeated intreaties that you would give
” “that is hardly fanny ' s idea of a family assembling , ” said edmund .
elton ' s notice and the penury of her conversation , rather than return to the superior companions who have
no sentiment of shame gave a damp to her triumph .
extroidinary share of personal beauty , joined to a gentleness of manners , and an engaging address , she might
it is felt that distinctness and energy may have weight in recommending the most solid truths ; and besides ,
they were , she was able , without an effort , to resolve on wearing miss crawford ' s necklace
—before emma had forfeited her confidence , and about the third time of their meeting , she heard all mrs
grant and her sister , that after making up the whist-table there would remain sufficient for a round game ,
a lady always does .
grant might now and then lend them the pony he sent to the post .
she sallied forth into the village to settle their differences , silence their complaints , and scold them into harmony
even frederick , my eldest son , you see , who will perhaps inherit as considerable a landed property as
your brother , who might marry anybody !
she had ever felt .
“with my mother up stairs .
least of herself , necessarily wore away , and she was no longer materially afraid to appear before her uncle
his pleasure in music , though it amounted not to that ecstatic delight which alone could sympathize with her own
on mrs croft ' s side , to give a bias of any sort .
the conversation in the following manner .
lady scudamore said i , how can you talk so ridiculously ?
“come , darcy , ” said he , “i must have you dance .
—no , i am perfectly sure that he is not trifling or silly .
“my dear , you give yourself a great deal of needless trouble , ” said her mother at last ;
with anxious wishes , yours faithfully , alicia .
” “and yet i have heard that there is a great deal of wine drunk in oxford .
with an air of indifference he soon afterwards added : “how long did you say he was at rosings ?
it had been received ; a manner of doubtful meaning , of surprise rather than gratification , of polite acknowledgement
but , my dearest catherine , have you settled what to wear on your head tonight ?
on the ground-floor , and i think the housekeeper told me could make up fifteen beds !
to what she would have required .
her full support , declaring that , in her opinion , it was infinitely better to consult with friends and
this , but in many other circumstances , reason enough to be convinced that your marriage must have involved you
and what a dust you would have made , if i had not come .
” said miss crawford .
what answer did you give him ?
she knows now what gentlemen are ; and nothing but a gentleman in education and manner has any chance with
, and only a quarter of a mile from the turnpike-road , so ' tis never dull , for if
and it is no small credit , in my opinion , to him , that he should excite such an
single , my dear , to be sure !
” “it is a great pleasure where one can indulge in it , ” said the young man , “though
i know the mitchells will not be there .
come i will begin with the eldest—with matilda .
a colonel wallis , a highly respectable man , perfectly the gentleman , (and not an ill-looking man , sir
your feelings are as well known to me as my wishes and regrets must be to you .
the expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity .
be enduring by the feelings which she had led astray herself .
” “you mistake me , my dear .
rushworth was from the first struck with the beauty of miss bertram , and , being inclined to marry ,
a half from their leaving the house .
" such was the sentence which , when misunderstood , so justly offended the delicate feelings of mrs .
, remember , do not come tomorrow , for we expect lord and lady clermont and sir thomas stanley '
they entered meryton .
the question ; quite impossible .
let them go alone .
in short , catherine , everything has gone wrong , but it is now all happily settled .
under any circumstances able to love mr .
and they were to receive ordination in the course of the christmas week .
colour , and immediately left the room .
weston , “as i took miss taylor away , it is incumbent on me to supply her place , if
like to leave the little boy , to give him the meeting .
there is not much difference .
give , had married a woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in their marriage put an
they operate on mr .
” another burst of tears ; but in spite of that burst , and in spite of that great black
the world !
pride ; and by no means without its effect was the private intelligence , which he was at some pains
beloved , in the laws of the land , and the manners of the age .
pleasure of conveying your brother , and of talking of you by the way .
is no saying what may happen .
but i really had been engaged the whole day to mr .
it would be an interesting , and certainly a very kind undertaking ; highly becoming her own situation in life
you know on what i ground my hope , and it is certainly a good foundation , for school must
and as to its recommendations to you , i fancy i need not take much pains to dwell on them
” said janetta .
' s presence drove him quite into himself , and his attempts to talk on indifferent subjects could never be
catherine herself , as well as of mr .
" on the contrary , i am grateful for so favourable a sign of my daughter ' s sense .
there seems something more speakingly incomprehensible in the powers , the failures , the inequalities of memory , than in
as it is , without any addition of mine , they will each have about three thousand pounds on[ _num_
weston , do let me know what has happened .
of recovered reputation , and all the dignity of a countess , with a long train of noble relations in
” emma seriously hoped she would .
explaining away that shake of the head to the satisfaction of her ardent lover ; and as earnestly trying to
for the cottage to tell the miss dashwoods of the miss steeles ' arrival , and to assure them of
adorable henrietta how beautiful you are !
they little think how much it comes to , or what their parents , or their uncles and aunts ,
the connexion , by keeping anne with her in the autumn ; and as her own sister must be better
" " the lady then—miss grey i think you called her , —is very rich ?
by him the whole matter seemed entirely forgotten ; and all the rest of his conversation , or rather talk
aware yourself how highly it is .
obliged to consent to an arrangement which she would have done a great deal to avoid ; an arrangement which
with a few words , therefore , of no particular meaning , he walked off by himself , leaving his
but with all the hopes of cheerfulness , and all the present comfort of delay , there was still such
this it is , her not caring about you , which gives her such a soft skin , and makes
you will not be sorry to find yourself at home .
i know what thorough justice you will do it , and have scarcely a doubt of its happy effect .
hurst was observing their game .
independent resources ; and i do not perceive why i should be more in want of employment at forty or
present , and that she should be felt an encumbrance .
morland ' s surprise on being applied to by mr .
fanny price !
thorpe at all ; but i always hoped you would tell me , if you thought i was doing wrong
of equal satisfaction , which he could have leisure to do , while the bright eyes of miss thorpe were
how i wanted you !
and supplicated never to do so again ?
, but he was gaining strength apace , and she had nothing else to stay for .
the result of this distress was , that , with a much more voluntary , cheerful consent than his daughter
he looked surprised , displeased , alarmed ; but with a moment’s recollection and a returning smile , replied ,
he has always something to say to everybody .
her would be a pretty addition to mr .
" " do you think so ?
she would not like it .
a woman must have a thorough knowledge of music , singing , drawing , dancing , and the modern languages
colour beautifully heightened as she leant over the work , then returning to her seat to finish a note which
of another .
your inexperience really amuses me !
entreaty should be from one quarter only .
forgive her stupidity .
grant to lady bertram .
from her knowledge of his mind , that he could be unvisited by remembrance any more than herself .
not that she was incommoded by many fears of sir thomas ' s disapprobation when the present state of his
her , in all the niceness of jewellers ' packing , a plain gold chain , perfectly simple and neat
" " and so do i .
him all the helps and directions in her power , trying to make an artificial memory for him , and
" screamed mary , catching hold of her husband , and contributing with his own horror to make him immoveable
up by a rope ; and sincerely repented having gratified my curiosity to behold my daughters at the expence of
was so much engaged with her mother , that really she had no leisure for going any where .
there no sister in the case , could anything , in my opinion , be more natural .
—you are convinced that i never meant to deceive your brother , never suspected him of liking me till this
overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with wickham .
whenever you are transplanted , like me , miss woodhouse , you will understand how very delightful it is to
” “yes—it seems to depend upon nothing but the ill-humour of mrs .
if it keeps raining , the streets will be very wet .
” again catherine excused herself ; and at last he walked off to quiz his sisters by himself .
is a certainty of their being able to marry in six months , or even in twelve ; but a
she paused over it for some time with indignant astonishment ; then read it again and again ; but every
joyful alacrity .
i had not waited even these ten days , could i have read your feelings , as i think you
time at northanger pass pleasantly .
had been a period of his life (and probably not a short one) when he had been , at least
all live very comfortably together on the interest of ten thousand pounds .
strictest sense , by watching over her education myself , had the nature of our situations allowed it ; but
the hire of a cart at any time might not be so easy as you suppose : our farmers are
i have passed a wretched night in endeavouring to excuse a conduct which can scarcely be called less than insulting
why must she be scampering about the country , because her sister had a cold ?
come , then my children (added i) the carriage is driving to the door , and i will not a
in her dressing without further delay .
” “none that i know of , so efficacious .
end ; and sir thomas , having seen her walk rather than dance down the shortening set , breathless ,
whole party) so immediately after your arrival !
” “you had better stay till the curtain is hung , ” interposed mrs .
i will have nothing to do with it .
sotherton is the only place that could give her a wish to go so far , but it cannot be
” “yes , my dear , ” replied mrs .
darcy might leave the country , but that he should stand his ground ; yet he had avoided the netherfield
my sole dependence was on you ; and i am sure nobody else will believe me , if you do
” “but it does not signify if they do , ” said catherine , very innocently .
to be so near happiness , so near fame , so near the long paragraph in praise of the private
frederica runs much in my thoughts , and when reginald has recovered his usual good spirits (as i trust he
suspicions , every look described , and all the wheres and hows of a circumstance which highly entertained her :
all ; he had a surer test of distance .
fair way of not thinking of him again ; and when the acquaintance was renewed in town , and mr
, and which none but emma could have had power to place there and persuade her father to use ,
he stopped at their gate .
drooping apace .
—seeing you pass by so often , and knowing how much trouble you must have .
dining room as soon as they were summoned to it .
jennings ' s kindness , though its effusions were often distressing , and sometimes almost ridiculous , made her those
we may be very intimately connected .
knightley ; and exclaimed quite as much as was necessary , (or , being acting a part , perhaps rather
their sudden departure .
misery .
expected .
it has given me such an abhorrence of annuities , that i am sure i would not pin myself down
willoughby will do between you about her .
she knew it was so , and was sorry ; but it was with a sorrow so founded on satisfaction
to your mother i should have returned with pleasure , should have been happy to have introduced to her ,
” here catherine secretly acknowledged the power of love ; for , though exceedingly fond of her brother , and
his regiment is there ; for i suppose you have heard of his leaving the ——shire , and of his
they were decided .
, and without seeming much aware of it himself .
girls to sit and kick their feet against when they are learning a lesson .
once only , when she had been grieving over the last ill-judged , ill-fated walk to the cobb , bitterly
is most worth preserving , are not disgusted to such a degree as to—i have not time for half that
she had promised to be with the musgroves from breakfast to dinner .
" " i had the pleasure of hearing it at mr .
jennings told me , " said he , " that you wished to speak with me , at least i
it was spoken of again while they were at dinner , when mr .
wickham had resolved on quitting the militia .
after a short silence which succeeded the first surprise and enquiries of meeting , marianne asked edward if he came
crawford ; and when sir thomas came back she had every proof that could be given in his then melancholy
” “oh , cousin !
, and a whole parish to be at work within the enclosure .
i know you will soon call on her ; she is living in dread of the visit .
which proved that jane had not written in spirits , when , instead of being again surprised by mr .
it had been weakness and timidity .
to her cousins she became occasionally an acceptable companion .
persuaded anne to refuse him .
united soothings were ineffectual till lady middleton luckily remembering that in a scene of similar distress last week , some
of your own , and that there is no such person in existence .
” “a man cannot be more so , ” was his short , full answer .
but i am afraid ; and i should be so very sorry .
—there had been a time when he would have scorned her as a companion , and turned from her with
as these were the best of her hopes , they could not always prevail ; and in the course of
no more substantial good than the general approbation of the neighbourhood , and the regard which his social powers had
but when the second moment had passed , when she found every doubt , every solicitude removed , compared her
to anne , it chiefly wore the prospect of an hour of agitation .
, well-informed people , who have a great deal of conversation ; that is what i call good company .
entirely under a delusion , totally ignorant of her own heart—and , in short , that she had never really
how impatient , how anxious , how wild i have been on the subject , i will not attempt to
well , not bearing to be so suspected by my brother , i left the room immediately , and have
they were all three walking about together for an hour or two—first round the shrubberies of hartfield , and afterwards
her temper he had good reason to depend on and to praise .
“it must not be thought of .
" how horrid all this is !
it is a certainty .
me to others as in his reproaches to myself .
they were by no means tired of wondering and admiring ; and not even louisa seemed to feel that they
yates , and followed soon afterwards by mr .
”—in a few moments we were in mrs cope ' s parlour , where with her daughter she sate ready
” “had not we better go away as it is ?
" " you wrong her exceedingly .
do not you ?
myself ; and if i endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his conduct , who will believe
yet , though smiling within herself at the mistake , she honoured her sister for that blind partiality to edward
a key was mislaid , betsey accused of having got at his new hat , and some slight , but
but resolve never to expose them to her neighbour again .
jennings immediately preparing to go , said— " well , my dear , i must be gone before i have
” “i never saw anyone so shocked .
extremely well , and by her own was very fond of it .
daughters , twice in public since i have been here .
i undertake the commission .
to say a great deal ; and , till called on by the general for her opinion of it ,
i heard a carriage at the door , as i was sitting with my children while they dined ; and
, perhaps , it was as well to be asunder .
' the last lines suggest those quaint ' gazebos ' and alcoves , which , in the coaching days ,
we none of us expect to be in smooth water all our days .
is struck with you , and even i , at this moment , see something like anne elliot again .
if it had passed within the same apartment .
mrs clay decidedly thought it mr elliot ' s knock .
and susan was more than satisfied , for she came perfectly aware that nothing but ill-humour was to be expected
now , as the first shock is over , shall i own that i long for your return ?
one room ; —he could have wished it otherwise—and her good aunt , though his very old friend , he
crawford !
trust you may soon have more convenient opportunities of meeting ; but my daughters would be happy to see their
known at randalls , how soon it would be over highbury ; and were thinking of themselves , as the
and to see you in such excellent looks !
i should not have a doubt of it were she slighted for any other woman in the world than her
for her sake , saying everything she could think of to obviate the scruples which were making fanny start back
” .
more ; had inquired about the manor ; would be glad of the deputation , certainly , but made no
, were ready to set forward .
and besides , he did not think it would be fair by the others to have everybody run away .
yes , extremely well ; that is , i do not believe many people are acquainted with him , because
“of course , ” continued her uncle , “it cannot be supposed but that he should request to speak with
how could you suppose me ignorant ?
the walks to meryton , sometimes dirty and sometimes cold , did january and february pass away .
i think your brother is extremely right in the resolution he has taken of travelling , as it will perhaps
do not you see that , at this instant , the very passage of her own letter , which sent
avail himself of , if the miss prices were not afraid of the fatigue ; and as it was somehow
faith and correspondence .
hope of exciting his politeness to a quicker despatch .
she had such thousands of things to say to her , it appeared as if they were never to be
he addressed himself to miss bennet , with a polite congratulation ; mr .
be talked of .
it made him so very unhappy , indeed , that it could not be persevered in .
people that dance only stand opposite each other in a long room for half an hour .
there is nothing i would not do for those who are really my friends .
every thing declared it ; his own attentions , his father ' s hints , his mother-in-law ' s guarded
can need .
sir frederick and lady wentworth !
henry had certainly been only in jest in what he had told her that morning .
soon after the second breakfast , edmund bade them good-bye for a week , and mounted his horse for peterborough
other night !
and it was not only that her feelings were still adverse to any man save one ; her judgement ,
he had received a note from lady stornaway to beg him to call ; and regarding it as what was
julia , joining them at the moment , carried on the joke .
“but i thought you would .
susan too was a grievance .
in the flow of the first four words , in the arrangement of “my very dear fanny , ” which
in space , light , furniture , and prospect , there was nothing alike in the two apartments ; and
" edward ' s love for me , " said lucy , " has been pretty well put to the
discussion of such a subject may well be—your indifference is no apology for your cruel neglect of her .
herself .
_num_ ]all cousins , or something like it , and she should certainly wait on mrs .
what is her age ?
morland , who did not insist on her daughters being accomplished in spite of incapacity or distaste , allowed her
which i am very much vexed at , for he has been always so anxious to get it !
it was painful , exceedingly painful , to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never
” this was praise , of all others most extraordinary , most opposite to her ideas .
rushworth ' s mother , that the worst consequences might be apprehended .
she read , and was surprized .
before her removing from norland , elinor had painted a very pretty pair of screens for her sister-in-law , which
as to an additional servant , the expense would be a trifle ; mamma she was sure would never object
weston was exceedingly disappointed—much more disappointed , in fact , than her husband , though her dependence on seeing the
he is the kind of man , indeed , to whom i should never dare refuse anything , which he
pain is no expiation .
her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in her way .
" either from the consciousness , however , that his friend had recovered , or from other consciousness , he
as to her cousins ' gaieties , she loved to hear an account of them , especially of the balls
a widow mrs smith lodging in westgate buildings !
his endowments of this spot alone might at any time have placed him high among the benefactors of the convent
, and desire to have it unpunished , she could believe miss crawford to be the woman !
of those about her , or which her situation in life could command .
i don’t know .
reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it out .
your brother is a lieutenant .
signify ; it is over now .
you must be sensible that as an only son , and the representative of an ancient family , your conduct
” “yes , to be sure , as you state it , all this sounds very well ; but still
dearest catherine , beware how you give your heart .
kind of talking which i cannot bear .
norris , having stipulated for there never being a fire in it on fanny ' s account , was tolerably
the husband of philippa , with philippa by his side , on the coachbox and when on looking behind i
" the promise was readily given , and willoughby ' s behaviour during the whole of the evening declared at
, only five minutes before , that she thought to make a match between edward and some lord ' s
walk , where the power of conversation would make the present hour a blessing indeed , and prepare it for
he seemed not merely happy with her , but proud .
that in the handsomest manner , for she loitered away several minutes on the landing-place , with the most high-minded
her duplicity hurts me more than all ; till the very last , if i reasoned with her , she
it was a sort of playing at being frightened .
about green geese from monday morning till saturday night .
—he is a man whom i cannot presume to praise .
it can be round in five minutes .
all is safe with a lady engaged : no harm can be done .
the resolution of doing so helped to form the comfort of their evening .
time , by any word , or look , or movement .
, where they might have a comfortable coze , without disturbing dr .
everybody she had been used to .
impropriety of loading her little diminutive figure with such superfluous ornaments ; is it possible that she can not know
” on such encouragement to ask , elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power , by running
” “and , in return for your acknowledging so much , i will do you the justice to say ,
“you must think of henry , for it was his choice in the first place .
bates and mrs .
but i really thought before , young men despised novels amazingly .
” “i do not say it is so ; but you will do well to consider whether it is so
that ridiculous custom of applauding my execution on the harpsichord till you made my head ake , and yourself hoarse
not be long before they are .
both seemed to look to her for directions .
sixteen miles—nay , eighteen—it must be full eighteen to manchester-street—was a serious obstacle .
took fanny as we did , for now the others are away we feel the good of it .
she said nothing , however , but , “sad , sad girl !
as for willoughby—to say that i shall soon or that i shall ever forget him , would be idle .
” “and this , ” cried darcy , as he walked with quick steps across the room , “is your
he will be here this evening , i dare say , and then i will give it him back ,
norris fetched breath , and went on again .
” “not five minutes to spare even for your friends miss fairfax and miss bates ?
” “yes , very different .
agreeable in the world , the person who interests you at this present time more than all the rest of
it was ill-bred ; it was wrong .
miss bingley was very deeply mortified by darcy’s marriage ; but as she thought it advisable to retain the right
" [ _num_ ] " you are very kind , " said lady middleton to elinor ; " and as
assistance could be afforded by her to the lovers .
—she wrote to her , therefore , kindly , but decisively , to beg that she would not , at
i never spent a pleasanter morning in my life .
in another three years , we may be forgetting—almost forgetting what it was before .
for millions .
midst of a heavy rain .
did—cheerfully answering , “you need not be at any pains to reconcile me to the match .
she represented to her sister as forcibly as possible what she felt on the subject , and had soon the
my kind friends here are most affectionately urgent with me to prolong my stay , but their hospitable and cheerful
in the neighbourhood of— " " but it is in somersetshire .
—when i looked back at barton , the picture so soothing !
time would undoubtedly abate somewhat of his sufferings , but still it was a sort of thing which he never
few lines from edmund , written purposely to give her a clearer idea of his brother ' s situation ,
appear to much greater advantage .
did not know how to understand it .
in good time for the pump-room , where the ordinary course of events and conversation took place ; mr .
did not give much sweetness to the manners of one sister , was of advantage in governing those of the
guarded from cold , attended her into the drawing-room , where she was welcomed by her two friends with many
in love ; but she was perfectly easy as to his not suffering any disappointment that need be cared for
a poor , helpless , forlorn widow , unfit for anything , my spirits quite broke down ; what could
there had been music , singing , talking , laughing , all that was most agreeable ; charming manners in
you will not see him .
, and what she already knew herself , and could reasonably combine , she was soon able to understand quite
they hardly knew how , it ended in charles ' s being to meet him to breakfast at his father
” jane looked at elizabeth with surprise and concern .
remember that , fanny .
-- " yes , here i am , sophia , quite ready to make a foolish match .
i am truly glad , dearest lizzy , that you have been spared something of these distressing scenes ; but
” said isabella , looking up .
bingley’s sincerity , ” said elizabeth warmly ; “but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only .
' s easter holidays will not last much longer ; no doubt they are thorough holidays to her .
knightley was at hartfield yesterday , and spoke of it as for saturday .
of her affection .
the very idea of them without her is abhorrent .
miss steeles acquainted with whatever he knew or supposed of his cousins ' situations in the most delicate particulars ,
when the campbells are returned , we shall meet them in london , and continue there , i trust ,
, that was probably learnt already ; of course they had fallen in love over poetry .
could give his daughter at present but a small part of the share of ten thousand pounds which must be
it had been a frosty morning , to be sure , a sharp frost , which hardly one woman in
” “well , ” said he , in a deliberating manner , “for five minutes , perhaps .
see or imagine .
them was in a half-whisper , especially on mrs .
, comparing and sitting in judgment on sentiments and words that were never meant for both to hear .
are better acquainted with miss fairfax ' s situation and understand what her home has been , with colonel and
, as i see some of them in every page of every music book , being the sentiments i imagine
jennings ' s attempts at consolation were therefore unfortunately founded , when she advised her daughter not to care about
” then , showing her purchases—“look here , i have bought this bonnet .
and observed , the more deeply was she convinced that everything was now in a fairer train for miss crawford
her brother’s recommendation was enough to ensure her favour ; his judgement could not err .
ambition , as well as love , had probably been mortified .
her down in berkeley street on the chance of seeing elinor alone , to tell her how happy she was
i have quite a horror of upstarts .
”—lowering his voice—“well done , general , said i ; i am quite of your mind .
after all , are of the greatest importance .
influenced by appearances in each ; that because captain wentworth ' s manners had not suited her own ideas ,
churchill do without her ?
he never distinguished her by any particular attention ; and , consequently , after a moderate period of extravagant and
frank churchill ; i never saw any thing equal to it .
great inconvenience , been obliged to go and carry myself .
visit him as soon as he comes .
and as for edmund , as he is not here to speak for himself , i will answer for his
i was snowed up at a friend ' s house once for a week .
but , however , we may have it all over in the evening ; for we shall be quite alone
this girl to move from the house .
morland .
i do not like the idea of leaving mrs .
, might be more than i could bear , and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself .
will be a fresh matter of delight to me to find myself allied to anybody so clever , and i
“if they had uncles enough to fill all cheapside , ” cried bingley , “it would not make them one
“no , my dear , you had better go on horseback , because it seems likely to rain ; and
must have been injurious to her own health and their tranquillity .
is not this room rich in specimens of your landscapes and flowers ; and has not mrs .
she is really excessively pretty ; however you may choose to question the allurements of a lady no longer young
; but it was agreed that he should be in london once more when the wedding took place , and
” “certainly , ” replied he , surprized , “i do not absolutely know it ; but it may be
—poor isabella !
people , and to amuse them with a ball .
grant coming up to the two girls , and taking an arm of each , they followed with the rest
not of powers , or conversation , or grace , to make the past , as they were connected together
the effect of her influence and acknowledge the greatest compliment perhaps of all conveyed .
well , go on .
" " what a sweet woman lady middleton is !
countries , and so she wrote a very urgent letter to her mother—or her father , i declare i do
he began by speaking of the concert gravely , more like the captain wentworth of uppercross ; owned himself disappointed
hill , in great astonishment , “don’t you know there is an express come for master from mr .
as ever , and our attachment as firm and sincere as when it first commenced .
certainly not disposed to admire her , though always hearing she was beautiful ; but i cannot help feeling that
, to be arranged wherever they might be most visible : and " our cousins in laura place , "
palmer laughed so heartily at the question , as to show she understood it .
, he had the misfortune to fall in love with her , or that he became conscious of a little
my mother ' s room is very commodious , is it not ?
, gave him reason for believing that had he behaved with honour towards marianne , he might at once have
he listened to his father in silence , and attempted not any defence , which confirmed her in fearing that
but when the gentlemen entered , jane was no longer the first object ; miss bingley’s eyes were instantly turned
wife ' s speeches , i would undertake him with all my heart .
” “he was with us just now , and said he was so tired of lounging about , that he
no , no , that must not be .
but elinor had no such dependence ; for since edward would still be unable to marry miss morton , and
and as such a visit is in all probability merely an affair of convenience , it is impossible to conjecture
in the few minutes ' conversation which she had yet had with him , while harriet had been partially insensible
” “did you see her often at weymouth ?
lady dalrymple and miss carteret , escorted by mr elliot and colonel wallis , who had happened to arrive nearly
“a strange business this in america , dr .
here are seven of you , besides myself , (who , she is pleased to say , am very entertaining
and often uncivil , boisterously exclaimed : “good lord !
and ridiculous , contained much good sense and solid reasoning .
, that your friend may yet be called a young mourner--only last summer , i understand .
five—only five to be sitting round that table .
” “i dare say they are , sir .
which hardly anything would have seemed to justify .
“i must go instantly to my mother ; ” she cried .
course , it branched out again between two of the steepest of them .
i have not time or patience to give half henry ' s messages ; be satisfied that the spirit of
woodhouse was safely conveyed in his carriage , with one window down , to partake of this al-fresco party ;
really regarding him as she did with friendship , she had never been more sensible of mr .
we had asked your sisters instead of them .
he was evidently oppressed , and fanny must grieve for him , though hoping she might never see him again
she heard enough to know that mr .
" you have heard , i suppose , " said he with great solemnity , as soon as he was
” “my dear isabella , ”—exclaimed he hastily—“pray do not concern yourself about my looks .
it is the prettiest cottage !
two long speeches .
no , we should not have heard , if it had not been for this particular circumstance , of her
improvement , i am sure it may all be resolved into a better style of dress , and your having
as a sister , so partial and so angry , and so little scrupulous of what she said , and
after what had passed he had little right to expect a welcome at fullerton , and stating his impatience to
sir john ' s confidence in his own judgment rose with this animated praise , and he set off directly
perhaps you did not know—you were not aware of their leading from the offices in common use ?
he says so in this letter , says that he as good as made you an offer , and that
it is everybody ' s duty to do as well for themselves as they can .
; but when he entered the drawing-room before dinner , the buzz of discussion was high between tom , maria
” was mr .
something to his disadvantage .
the person is not tall enough for him , and has not his air .
—and so it has always continued since we have been no longer children .
and i had almost forgotten one idea that occurred to me—this pianoforte that has been sent here by somebody—though we
” mr .
at oxford i have been a good deal used to have a man lean on me for the length of
mama saw him here once before , but i was with my uncle at weymouth .
such varieties of human nature as they are in the habit of witnessing !
i remember miss andrews could not get through the first volume .
i will not importune you .
bingley , “for a kingdom !
i have observed , mrs .
bertram was called out of the room to satisfy some doubts of the carpenter ; and being accompanied by mr
darcy appeared .
james’s had made him courteous .
” cried elizabeth ; “but how could that be ?
it is now four years since my removal from school has separated me from you ; that two such tender
what shall we play at ?
; where possessions are so extensive as those of your family , the wish of increasing them , if not
you speak sooner ?
poor dear jane was talking of it just now .
may she inherit from her father all his mental ones !
equally safe did she believe her secret with each .
to you , if i had not felt the greatest dependence in the world upon your secrecy ; and i
which i was wanting to send to john .
you do look—how do you like jane ' s hair ?
informing me how she came there , instead of wounding my spotless reputation with unjustifiable reproaches .
and there can be no reason why you should not try for him .
been only a maid-servant to wait , and at first mrs harville had always given mrs musgrove precedence ; but
followed , of reckoning up exactly who there would be , and portioning out the indispensable division of space to
my dear child , do you accuse willoughby and marianne of concealment ?
they had travelled half their way along the rough lane , before she was quite awake to what they said
of the elder against her daughter-in-law might perhaps arise almost as much from the personal disrespect with which she had
” “but what is all this whispering about ?
” miss tilney could only bow .
his cold politeness , his ceremonious grace , were worse than anything .
when at last arrived in the tea-room , she felt yet more the awkwardness of having no party to join
what delightful jewels will she be decked in this evening at lady flambeau ' s !
a letter from one belonging to the set where her heart lived , written with affection , and some degree
" poor edward muttered something , but what it was , nobody knew , not even himself .
but what could i do !
and lucy perhaps at first might think only of procuring his good offices in my favour .
william and fanny soon shewed themselves ; and sir thomas had the pleasure of receiving , in his protege ,
” so far her improvement was sufficient—and in many other points she came on exceedingly well ; for though she
that has been a very great improvement .
everything being then arranged , the servant who stood at the horse ' s head was bid in an important
after an interval of some minutes , however , he began with , “i shall always be very sorry that
ferrars ' s resolution that both her sons should marry well , and of the danger attending any young woman
to bath herself after christmas ; but having engagements of her own which must take her from kellynch for several
collins received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure , and then proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview
” “oh , the difference of situation and habit !
in seeing bingley , her thoughts naturally flew to her sister ; and , oh !
while the contents of the first letter remained in her mind , she was all surprise—all astonishment that wickham should
sorry for almost all that she had seen and heard , astonished at miss bertram , and angry with mr
gardiner had formed , of their being followed by a letter from him , had ended in nothing .
but now i can carry her a most satisfactory account of both .
” but her lips were closed .
only child) had as yet been the comforts of my life .
on the subject , was his staying only a quarter of an hour , and hurrying away to make other
” “which do you mean ?
because there is an excuse for it .
your cousin came too ; and we had a rehearsal .
she accounted for it , however , by supposing that her last letter to her friend from longbourn had by
, and she too had been accused of supposing sailors to be living on board without anything to eat ,
highest purpose for which it was ever wanted was to accommodate a whist club established among the gentlemen and half-gentlemen
chapter xlii the prices were just setting off for church the next day when mr .
in endeavouring to prevent it .
astonishment .
) .
“your cousin’s conduct does not suit my feelings .
my own sister as a wife , sir thomas bertram as a husband , are my standards of perfection .
she gave her an answer which marked her contempt , and instantly left the room , resolving that , whatever
fanny answered for their having breakfasted and being quite ready in half an hour .
all , from this separation .
” emma was almost ready to sink under the agitation of this moment .
your mother will never see you again if you do not marry mr .
he arranges the business just as he pleases .
a turkey , or a goose , or a leg of mutton , or whatever you and your cook chuse
chapter xxviii nothing occurred during the next three or four days , to make elinor regret what she had done
woodhouse ' s mind , or any wonderful change of his nervous system , but by the operation of the
have you heard the news ?
and read .
colonel brandon alone , of all the party , heard her without being in raptures .
“no—he should not eat .
anne thought she left great happiness behind her when they quitted the house ; and louisa , by whom she
them all four .
elton treats her with all the respect which she has a claim to .
, in whose mind every idea was superseded by lydia’s situation , hastily exclaimed , “i beg your pardon ,
i will take it home with me at night .
as he left the room , two rosy-faced boys , ragged and dirty , about eight and nine years old
four bedrooms and two garrets formed the rest of the house .
is no reason to suppose the instrument is indifferent .
came to the asp , to see what an old thing they had given you .
[ _num_ ] lucy went on .
woodhouse ' s observation .
i am never to see my cards ; and mr .
to have any concern in , for how is it possible ?
, there was nothing more likely to happen .
live in devonshire , without living near dawlish .
in coming to churchhill—mixing more frequent laughter with his discourse than the subject required—said many things over and over again
” “for heaven’s sake , madam , speak lower .
" such a letter was not to be soon recovered from .
norris were seldom good friends ; their acquaintance had begun in dilapidations , and their habits were totally dissimilar .
enjoyment .
aware of its being ever intended by anybody else ; and catherine , whose desire of seeing miss tilney again
their face .
“but it is , ” returned she ; “for mrs .
friendly look .
expect more .
, wonder , and bless herself .
she recalled her past kindness—the kindness , the affection of sixteen years—how she had taught and how she had played
sir thomas would not hear of it ; and mrs .
say how happy she was , though mrs .
fact become at all aware of her having such a brother , or his being in such a ship ,
joining them would interfere .
crawford bowed his thanks .
tell him what a dreadful state i am in , that i am frighted out of my wits—and have such
my love , i could not then talk of hope to him or to myself .
to good , and of finding employment which carried her out of herself , which was from nature alone .
moment ' s thought , she hoped mr .
by a summons to dinner ; and the girls smiled on each other .
” “hunsford , near westerham , kent , _num_ th october .
blind him , should have mistaken hers .
to her his engagement with marianne , and he feels himself obliged , from his dependent situation , to give
—” she could not speak another word .
i will speak to her about it directly .
his displeasure , she proposed a compromise .
of another young lady .
gilbert would have danced the other evening , if she had been asked .
considering what their income might be , rejected many as deficient in size and importance .
i was afraid of the bias of those worldly maxims , which she has been too much used to hear
and perhaps may be poring over the affairs of the nation for hours after you are asleep .
to express .
william , that you should leave northamptonshire without this indulgence .
modesty alone seemed , to his sanguine and preassured mind , to stand in the way of the happiness he
but as it was not to be supposed that captain tilney , whenever he made his application , would give
she fancied he was trying for it the whole evening at intervals , whenever sir thomas was out of the
knightley , and really able to accept another man from unbiased inclination , it was not long that she had
she caught it instantaneously ; and recovering her courage with the feeling of safety , soon added , more composedly
“it is impossible that emma should not miss such a companion , ” said mr .
” “i am not likely to leave kent for some time .
elton , ” replied jane , “i dare say i shall be interested—but i believe it requires that with me
be hardly possible for her to avoid paying her own expenses back again .
any disturbance , without parading to her , or swearing at them : so different from the only gentleman-coachman whom
crawford is gone : he has just left me .
look , of pretending to suspect the reality of mine .
i am afraid you will not be able to make it out , but i hardly know what i have
” “your sister , perhaps , may be prevailed on to spend the day with us , and i shall
but you have not an idea of what is requisite in situations directly opposite to your own .
anywise accessory to introducing such misery in another man ' s family as he had known himself .
that i could make no comparisons , and see no defects .
” “then i will .
by what means could it have been so long concealed ?
—pleasure in seeing dancing !
jane will be only four miles from maple grove .
the excellence of his understanding and his principles can be concealed only by that shyness which too often keeps him
fifty other women .
” “no , no ; your room is full enough .
not the smallest suspicion , therefore , had ever occurred[ _num_ ] to prepare him for what followed ; —and
if they believed him attached to me , they would not try to part us ; if he were so
weston to him—not in the least suspecting that she was addressing a lover .
she had too old a regard for him to be so wholly estranged as might in two meetings extinguish every
elton was so hot and tired , that all this wit seemed thrown away .
with which charlotte talked of the healthfulness of the exercise , and owned she encouraged it as much as possible
letter the sixth lady lesley to miss charlotte lutterell lesley-castle march _num_ th we arrived here my sweet freind about
” he had said enough to shake the experience of eighteen .
edward seemed a second willoughby ; and acknowledging as elinor did , that she had loved him most sincerely ,
now , i think more would have been made unhappy by him as a sailor or soldier than as a
hang kitty !
from the appearance of the sisters , that elinor was mourning in secret over obstacles which must divide her for
at exeter , and she would otherwise be quite alone , except her mother and the two miss steeles .
—she is superior to mr .
the shock of her words , he still kept his station and retained her sister ' s hand , her
how , where , when ?
all must speedily be concluded , unless mr .
" she walked eagerly on as she spoke ; and elinor , to screen marianne from particularity , as she
" altered beyond his knowledge .
chapter _num_ while sir walter and elizabeth were assiduously pushing their good fortune in laura place , anne was renewing
" " then i take it for granted , " observed sir walter , " that his face is about
this is rather a surprise to me .
, “another thing must be taken into consideration too—mrs .
dorothea— .
” ah !
anne ' s appearing , greeted her with-- " so , you are come at last !
forster called her , and they were going off to the camp ; and from her correspondence with her sister
not take you long ; read it to emma .
catherine attempted no longer to hide from herself the nature of the feelings which , in spite of all his
willoughby .
the other ; and with regard to the gentlemen , there was such an hearty good humour , such an
” and from shakespeare she gained a great store of information—amongst the rest , that— “trifles light as air ,
this is the simple truth .
well , miss elliot , " (lowering his voice , ) " as i was saying we shall never agree
mrs lutterell will be so good as to accept my compliments , charlotte , my love , and eloisa the
darcy’s progress through his book , as in reading her own ; and she was perpetually either making some inquiry
my peace of mind is doubly involved in it ; for not only is it horrible to suspect a person
lady scudamore went on .
goddard , requesting , in most respectful terms , to be allowed to bring miss smith with her ; a
that of other people , you will scarcely have any thing at all , and you will almost always appear
she came solitarily down the gravel walk—a miss martin just appearing at the door , and parting with her seemingly
it must .
" " yes , " continued elinor , gathering more resolution , as some of the worst was over ,
when to speak and when to hold my tongue .
, five-and-twenty years ago .
in the meanwhile , they proceeded on their journey without any mischance , and were within view of the town
you have never told me .
now , i cannot help thinking it a pity that he does not live entirely by the sea .
his dejection was most evident .
" and with this pleasing anticipation , she sat down to reconsider the past , recall the words and endeavour
i could never tell whether an attachment between you and mr .
” “an unhappy alternative is before you , elizabeth .
regard in her reception of him than even elinor herself .
" " aye , i believe that will be best for her .
knightley did not begin seriously , he was obliged to proceed so , for his proposal was caught at with
” “shall i tell you what you ought to say ?
they had been once more in the same room .
into what was to be the drawing-room , with the appearance of which , though unfurnished , catherine was delighted
which she had been looking with impatient desire did not , in taking place , bring all the satisfaction she
if one is to travel , there is not much to chuse between forty miles and an hundred .
increased the desirableness of their being separate .
but i never have been in love ; it is not my way , or my nature ; and i
thorpe ' s communication , he almost instantly determined to spare no pains in weakening his boasted interest and ruining
friday evening lady bridget came this morning , and with her , her sweet sister miss jane— .
left alone .
, “i wish you could dance , my dear—i wish you could get a partner .
in all points of decorum your conduct must be law to the rest of the party .
” “i wish i could reason like you , for his sake and my own .
” catherine sighed .
the angry emotions which had marked every feature when we last parted were partially subdued .
thought myself privileged , for you .
he is quite agreeable enough , however , to afford me amusement , and to make many of those hours
james will soon be here .
edward ' s marriage with lucy was as firmly determined on , and the time of its taking place remained
” “what a very great pleasure it will be to you !
captain wentworth , who had caught her up , knelt with her in his arms , looking on her with
on the spot ; and before the middle of the same month the ceremony had taken place which gave sotherton
he could not have come nearer to her if he would ; she was so surrounded and shut in :
some people who cannot bear a party of pleasure .
elton to mr .
” “and what had she got for supper ?
yet , having chosen so well , his constancy has a respectable stamp .
have never gone home .
i should be overjoyed if i dared depend on it , but after all that i have seen how can
edmund considered it every way , and saw nothing but what was right .
she tried , however , to compose herself to answer him with patience , when he should have done .
he was released without any reproach to himself , from an entanglement which had long formed his misery , from
richard the _num_ rd the character of this prince has been in general very severely treated by historians , but
is not that your idea ?
“neither madam ; he was a wine merchant .
this will be complete enjoyment ; and i do not know , mrs .
present , she calmly observed to her , “so , fanny , you are going to leave us , and
” “thank you , sir , but a less agreeable man would satisfy me .
sitting by her , and had been looking at her attentively for several minutes , addressed her with great complaisance
he had introduced himself to some tenants whom he had never seen before ; he had begun making acquaintance with
all the country .
” “but i am very much , and without being at all ashamed of it .
not know mr elliot , indeed !
i do not see it .
he has also brotherly pride , which , with some brotherly affection , makes him a very kind and careful
to be sure by next week i may be allowed to think it all settled , and build my own
not considering in how different a circle she had been just seeing him , nor how much might be owing
” “to be sure , lizzy , ” said her aunt , “he is not so handsome as wickham ;
then we shall be all together .
i am quite ready .
she arrived yesterday in pursuit of her husband , but perhaps you know this already from himself .
the window at which he stood was at the other end of the room from where the two ladies were
vain : elizabeth would go her own way ; and never had she pursued it in more decided opposition to
and purposes be considered as the eldest son ; —and as to any thing else , they are both very
” she spoke with a confidence which staggered , with a satisfaction which silenced , mr .
friends , the pleasant prospect of one should not be dimming those of the other--that they should be so equal
i hardly know how it has happened ; a little , perhaps , from that wickedness on my side which
it is infinitely too bad .
darcy would no more suffer him to call on jane in such a part of london !
as she walked slowly upstairs she thought of yesterday ; it had been about the same hour that she had
of being in love with him ; and as for henrietta and louisa , they both seemed so entirely occupied
“thank you , dear miss woodhouse , you are all kindness .
get rid of them at the idlest haunts in the kingdom .
her aunt , to request an explanation of what lydia had dropt , if it were compatible with the secrecy
he came .
suggested , which , though detaining them from home yet a few weeks longer , appeared to elinor altogether much
that they had not yet got any anhalt .
' ye fallen avenues , once more i mourn your fate unmerited .
” “but my love why lament his perfidy , when you bore so well that of many young men before
he had not been long seated before he complimented mrs .
to her the cares were sometimes almost beyond the happiness ; for young and inexperienced , with small means of
it was quite unkind of you not to come on thursday .
gray ' s in sackville street , where elinor was carrying on a negotiation for the exchange of a few
knightley , laughing , “and i agree with you entirely , that it will be a much better thing .
it is the fault of her face that she has them not .
my mother too !
on the strength of this , the general , soon after eleanor ' s marriage , permitted his son to
secret in her possession , than by anything else , that she reverted to it again as soon as elinor
their estate was large , and their residence was at norland park , in the centre of their property ,
” “to be sure , i have .
huswifes she had gave us a day or two before ; but , however , nothing was said about them
which he must have thought of almost with despair , as soon as he had learnt to consider it with
it was the gift of her good godmother , old mrs .
” “well , ” said emma , “i suppose we shall gradually grow reconciled to the idea , and i
amusing enough , if my mind had been disengaged ; but i would have given the world to sit still
" " i never had any conjectures about it , " replied margaret ; " it was you who told
his hereafter as the title .
pray take care , miss woodhouse , ours is rather a dark staircase—rather darker and narrower than one could wish
with these supports , she hoped that the acquaintance between herself and the crofts , which , with lady russell
" " you may esteem him .
“to own the truth , sir thomas , we were in the middle of a rehearsal when you arrived this
place is easy enough , for there is always a girl under her , and i often do half the
of all the young women , could do .
fortunately for him , highbury , including randalls in the same parish , and donwell abbey in the parish adjoining
her death , and her ' fit audience ' during her lifetime must have been emphatically ' few , '
of beyond themselves .
, if her sentiments for him were what the harvilles supposed .
” she replied with a smile .
before it might have irritated , but now it was a pleasant joke—suspected only of concealing something planned as a
miss dashwood , do you think people make love when any body else is by ?
hear a man apologising , as i thought , for a house that to my knowledge has five sitting rooms
visions of good and ill breeding , of old vulgarisms and new gentilities , were before her ; and she
the height of her ambition , and seemed to comprehend her greatest possibility of happiness .
with such a regard for her , indeed , as his had long been , a regard founded on the
so surrounded , so caressed , she was even happy !
” “nor i , i am sure , ” said miss bingley .
it was now about the time that she was likely to call .
" it was a foolish , idle inclination on my side , " said he , " the consequence of
you are his object—and you will soon receive the completest proof of it .
, and which was which , and recollecting that he had once seen the play in london , and had
they returned to the hall , that the chief staircase might be ascended , and the beauty of its wood
i feel for their bitterness is that on a close examination of my conduct , i am convinced that i
of praise or condemnation on the face of every woman they met ; and catherine , after listening and agreeing
" she did : he was satisfied , and said no more .
' surely mr .
page of his favourite work .
i wish my good aunt would be a little less busy !
much as i wish him away , however , i cannot help being pleased with such a proof of attachment
you mean—my brother—you mean mrs .
i am indeed disappointed ; reginald was all but gone , his horse was ordered and all but brought to
it would be taking liberties with my father ' s house in his absence which could not be justified .
character than you are aware of .
time , a very little time , i tell him , will do everything ; marianne ' s heart is
amongst the most violent against him was mrs .
another concern to your obliged humble servant the author messrs demand and co—please to pay jane austen spinster the sum
hurst , “running away without telling us that you were coming out .
for yourself .
” “yes ; but what can be done ?
crawford , and only conjecture that something very imprudent had just occurred in that quarter to draw the notice of
they quitted it only with the removal of the tea-things .
who attempted to draw him in , that mrs .
bennet replied that he had not .
her mind , she could have none of its being edward ' s face .
relating feelings which may be offensive to yours , i can only say that i am sorry .
" sometimes , " continued lucy , after wiping her eyes , " i think whether it would not be
what a delightful library you have at pemberley , mr .
be so kind as to apologise for us to miss darcy .
the soup was fifty times better than what we had at the lucases’ last week ; and even mr .
the issue of all depended on one question .
out of longbourn house the next morning with admirable slyness , and hasten to lucas lodge to throw himself at
i shall , therefore , set off to-morrow .
i do not mean to set you against him , but indeed he is not quite the thing !
but it is so uncertain , when i may have it in my power to return , that i dare
woodhouse could never allow for mr .
their barouche-landau ; and jane fairfax was still at her grandmother ' s ; and as the return of the
while the rain continued , the blessing of something fresh to see and think of was thus extended to miss
avoid the name of his friend .
a large party for the ball ; and a report soon followed that mr .
all attended her into the breakfast parlour .
; heavy , but respectable looking , and has many good rooms .
dislike .
then you must stay all night .
comparison .
yates had staid to see the destruction of every theatrical preparation at mansfield , the removal of everything appertaining to
john thorpe , who in the meantime had been giving orders about the horses , soon joined them , and
am suspected of matrimonial views in my behaviour to her .
she wished she had not spoken so warmly in their last conversation .
there was no triumph , no pitiful triumph in his manner .
think her a very good sort of girl .
her advantage .
it is too unlikely , for me to believe it without proof .
three of the characters were now cast , besides mr .
taste between her and himself .
i would have her understand me .
as to what he truly was .
mr elliot was in bath .
it—you see it does not vex me in the least ; though perhaps i may suffer most from it after
goodwill supplying the place of experience , his character needed no attestation .
mrs clay had freckles , and a projecting tooth , and a clumsy wrist , which he was continually making
to be attended to in the same way , that a friendship and energy , not very determined , is
i see that she has had designs on captain tilney , which have not succeeded ; but i do not
bennet , ” as she entered the room , “we have had a most delightful evening , a most excellent
we differ there .
of his own warehouses , could have been so well-bred and agreeable .
everybody began to have their vexation .
such was the origin of the sort of intimacy which took place between them within the first fortnight after the
“if we were in the other room , ” said emma , “if i had my writing-desk , i am
ruined .
trial so well , that i should be unpardonable to doubt it now .
as she entered , her own name caught her ear .
i am almost sure it is , for i saw him cut it off .
she must watch the general arrangements , and see how everything was done .
his cruelty to such a charming woman made him odious to her .
i believe he is very right .
were talked of .
off for mansfield .
now judged she might safely , under the shelter of its noise , introduce the interesting subject , without any
should soon come to a deal , my dear , in spite of what they told us at taunton .
the advice was followed readily , for the feverish symptoms increased , and her head ached acutely .
with exquisite calmness and gravity of the weather and the night ; but scarcely had she begun , scarcely had
oh , brother , how kind you are !
what her ladyship’s indignation would have been .
under that roof , in every bath season , yet the merit of their being spoken with simplicity and truth
, and went so far as to say , that if his own man might have had the arranging of
i do not know ; for we of course can make no inquiry .
if i were to shut myself up for ever with the child , i should not be able to persuade
thinking of any body else , when a letter was brought her from randalls—a very thick letter ; —she guessed
varnish and gilding hide many stains .
risk of being heard at the card-table .
it again .
she felt something more than surprise when she thought she could perceive herself the object of their attention and discourse
little displeasure , on hearing from mr .
had opened the letter , the possibility of mr .
will take long walks together every day .
” she could have added , “a young man , too , like you , whose very countenance may vouch
” “yes , papa , it is written out in our second page .
of wealth , had brought him to portsmouth .
or a heavy sigh , or even from walking about the room for a few seconds—and the only source whence
" " but did she tell you she was married , thomas ?
she wished him to speak , but he would not .
norris ' s sad state of health .
crawford who was addressing herself with ardent , disinterested love ; whose feelings were apparently become all that was honourable
i cannot catch their tone of conversation , or appear interested in their concerns , as i often see done
catherine had not read three lines before her sudden change of countenance , and short exclamations of sorrowing wonder ,
mr and mrs musgrove were a very good sort of people ; friendly and hospitable , not much educated ,
a state of mind into that house as i had done , that anything could occur to make me suffer
” “i am convinced , madam , ” said edmund , preventing fanny , “that sir thomas would not like
which any home can give .
” and frank churchill was heard to say , “i think you could manage this without effort ; the first
he knew his own mind , but he was not always perfectly assured of knowing miss crawford ' s .
" " but how is your fame to be established ?
miss woodhouse , why are you always so right ?
undervalued ; though she had known the pains of tyranny , of ridicule , and neglect , yet almost every
“oh yes !
—my plea of concealing the truth she did not think sufficient .
they were within twenty yards of each other , and so abrupt was his appearance , that it was impossible
" you may believe how glad we all were to see them , " added mrs .
you have been five years with us , and my sister always meant to take you when mr .
the time may come—” the colour rushed into her cheeks as she spoke .
when the plan was made known to mary , however , there was an end of all peace in it
result of our deliberations .
she continued in very agitated reflections till the sound of lady catherine’s carriage made her feel how unequal she was
judge whether it was cheap or dear .
why they were different , robert exclaimed to her himself in the course of a quarter of an hour '
your brother ' s intentions from all this ; but i am sure i cannot .
very happy to assist in praising .
her manners had all the elegance which her husband ' s wanted .
allen ' s house ; and that they should there part with a most affectionate and lengthened shake of hands
” “i have no doubt of his being a very respectable young man .
in half a minute charles was at the bottom of union street again , and the other two proceeding together
and on developing , from amidst all her perplexity of words in reply , the meaning , which one short
the night following this affair—i was to go the next morning—was spent by me in deliberating on what my future
her mother was surprised , and elinor again became uneasy .
—yes , my dear , i ran home , as i said i should , to help grandmama to bed
—his own mind full of intrigue , that he should suspect it in others .
and distress which this refusal had heaped on her , in addition to the inevitable sufferings of her situation ,
but on the following morning , every hope of this kind was done away .
she believed she had been foolish , but it had alarmed her , and she had been within half a
this woman of whom he writes—whoever she be—or any one , in short , but your own dear self ,
" this however was more than she could believe herself ; and to be composed at such a moment was
his eyes want all that spirit , that fire , which at once announce virtue and intelligence .
we shew fanny what a good girl we think her by praising her to her face , she is now
he had handed them both in , and placed himself between them ; and in this manner , under these
—isabella had been pleased with harriet ; and a few weeks spent in london must give her some amusement .
" " i am sorry to say , ma ' am , in a most unhappy rupture : —edward is
there are few people whom i really love , and still fewer of whom i think well .
not felt certain that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances ; and if that were the case
lesley castle janry _num_ rd— _num_ .
, and spared her from a taste of such enjoyments of ease and leisure as must now be relinquished .
is .
pray , pray attempt it .
it was beginning to look brighter , when fanny , observing a harp in the room , asked some questions
better if he did , for what is a lover without a confidante ?
he placed himself by her .
, on mrs .
weston must not speak of it again .
to invite him to read aloud to the ladies .
to look at her , nobody would think how delighted and happy she is to have secured such a situation
a father to do ?
she had , moreover , to contend with one disagreeable emotion entirely new to her—jealousy .
“i beg , catherine , you will always wrap yourself up very warm about the throat , when you come
have you gone on with udolpho ?
his coming to visit his father had been often talked of but never achieved .
but , however , i cannot go with you today , because i am engaged ; i expect some friends
" anne could just acknowledge within herself such a possibility of having been induced to marry him , as made
but jane fairfax has them both , harriet .
, till she found her arm drawn within his , and pressed against his heart , and heard him thus
ravenshaw , who i suppose is one of the most correct men in england , would not hear of it
work at the same time .
rolls in money ; but they do not know what to do with it , keep very little company ,
" " my dear frederick , you are talking quite idly .
mrs croft particularly uneasy .
the child of good fortune !
mountains—and during the frightful gusts of wind which accompany it , you will probably think you discern (for your lamp
prior engagement ruined all my prospects ; and told me , as i thought , with triumph .
you amuse me excessively .
cole , mrs .
second is destin ' d to feel and my whole is the best antidote that affliction to soften and heal
his answer to this sudden attack was delightful to their mother’s ear : “i am perfectly ready , i assure
to her own heart it was a delightful affair , to her imagination it was even a ridiculous one ,
it was impossible but that mrs clay must hate the sight of mr elliot ; and yet she could assume
[ _num_ ] the old gentleman died : his will was read , and like almost every other will ,
anne could command herself enough to receive that look , and not repulsively .
you the liberality and good-breeding of a gentleman .
an airing would do me a great deal of good , i am sure .
they had often attempted to do it before , but it was a subject on which mrs .
" " i have not wanted syllables where actions have spoken so plainly .
at barton , where every thing within her view would be bringing back the past in the strongest and most
some ten times a day , with an heart light , gay , and independent ; looking forward to pleasures
seemed fearful of being too handsome unless he wore the dress of a groom , and too much like a
found that , though in the certain possession of his warmest affection , and secure of her relations’ consent ,
elton about relief from the parish ; he is very well to do himself , you know , being head
“and now , henry , ” said miss tilney , “that you have made us understand each other , you
there , shut into her own room , as soon as their visitor left them , she could think without
norris and her nieces were all well pleased with its revival , and an early day was named and agreed
and i , were all there , and a very agreeable evening we had .
, no species of composition has been so much decried .
fanny had never heard the harp at all , and wished for it very much .
excepting inequality of fortune , and perhaps a little disparity of age , i can see nothing unsuitable .
nothing satisfactory transpires as to her reason for running away .
three or four days more , she was in a most restless , anxious state .
” “why will you think so ?
bertram , indeed .
what might be due to his uncle , his engagements were all self-imposed .
i only came for the sake of dancing with you , and i firmly believe you were engaged to me
one does not think of extent here ; and between ourselves , till i came to mansfield , i had
do , and as he returned to mansfield on purpose to do .
though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry in her form , he
it has hurt his father equally .
my only scruple in advising the match was on his account , as being beneath his deserts , and a
it was possible , however , that some of his companions in the ——shire might be able to give more
—immediately they crossed the road and came forward to her ; and the agreeableness of yesterday ' s engagement seemed
for a few minutes , and listen to mr .
marianne ' s feelings did not stop here .
threatened alloy to her many enjoyments .
i am sure i have been here this half hour .
i assure you i am not at all pleased .
” “and so i should , my dear , you may depend on it ; for as i told mrs
" well !
not lydia only , but all were concerned in it ; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror
a room as this in her life .
i think too well of miss bertram to suppose she would ever give her hand without her heart .
” occupied in observing mr .
least half .
my horse would have trotted to clifton within the hour , if left to himself , and i have almost
on his side , which , having once observed , he could not persuade himself to think entirely void of
had enjoyed a fortnight ' s experience , she scarcely saw anything during the evening .
this was all .
own friends in the secret of the past , which seemed almost to deny any recollection of it .
principles fixed ; —and his disposition , i am well convinced , is exactly the very one to make your
i have shewn you mr elliot as he was a dozen years ago , and i will shew him as
—at my taking my family to one part of the coast or another ?
how do you like my gown ?
” “i should have thought , ” said fanny , after a pause of recollection and exertion , “that every
this confession satisfied us and after having enumerated the good qualities of m ' kenrie and assured her that she
the theatre or the rooms , where he was most likely to be , were not fashionable enough for the
' s account , it would cut her to the heart .
" " undoubtedly ; and after all you have no thanks for it .
the men think us incapable of real friendship , you know , and i am determined to show them the
” “but , aunt , she is really so very ignorant !
the hand writing of her mother , never till then unwelcome , was before her ; and , in the
performing it !
she danced four dances with him at meryton ; she saw him one morning at his own house , and
three daughters married !
but i have not known him long ; and he is not a man , i think , to be
” “do you think so ?
consider it a right thing by mrs .
to hear ; and still more anxious to know how edward would conduct himself .
”— all this ran so glibly through her thoughts , that by the time her father had arranged himself ,
if i could suppose my aunt really to care for me , it would be delightful to feel myself of
going too , and completing the sort of general break-up of a party which had been so animated .
letter directly , and read its contents .
” “i never heard that he did .
cannot write ill .
i am bewildered in my endeavours to form some rational conjecture of what mrs .
her manners were by no means so elegant as her sister ' s , but they were much more prepossessing
her disposition was peculiarly calculated to value a fond treatment , and from having hitherto known so little of it
tempted them very soon after their leaving her , and they had been across a portion of the park into
it was a struggle between propriety and vanity ; but vanity got the better , and then elizabeth was happy
thus rejected .
he is much distracted by jealousy , which i am not sorry for , as i know no better support
stole a sly look at him , to see how he bore it , and was not without the expectation
i would not be there for all the world .
john dashwood told his mother again and again how exceedingly sorry he was that she had taken a house at
” “it is about my uncle ' s usual time .
“i am astonished , ” said miss bingley , “that my father should have left so small a collection of
inclination for show , and the master ' s ability to support it .
she had felt nothing like it for hours .
so pleasantly , that his countenance improved , and he replied again with almost a smile .
continued to read it as long as he stayed .
the evening of the very day on which they went brought a note from mr .
she prized the frank , the open-hearted , the eager character beyond all others .
from supposing her to consider him with anything like a preference , he had always believed it to be rather
but you will not give me your advice , miss dashwood ?
wise to acknowledge as much at home , where she knew it would have satisfied neither husband nor wife ;
they went to breakfast directly ; but catherine could hardly eat anything .
the envelope itself was likewise full .
you may be very sure that if i had , i should have cautioned you accordingly .
word—miss fairfax said something about conjecturing .
” cried he , looking eagerly at her , “are you , indeed ?
added , " elinor , i wish with all my heart it were twice as much , for your sake
a partner for her .
i shall leave off while i am well .
she anticipated what would be felt in the family when her situation became known ; she was aware that no
" you have not been long enough in bath , " said he , " to enjoy the evening parties
, and little vexations seemed everywhere smoothed away .
to find her situation as unpleasant as possible .
some doubtful consideration .
” and when her sisters abused it as ugly , she added , with perfect unconcern , “oh !
” miss bertram could now speak with decided information of what she had known nothing about when mr .
their house was undoubtedly the best in camden place ; their drawing-rooms had many decided advantages over all the others
i have always heard of lady russell as a woman of the greatest influence with everybody !
if it was not for the drawback of her illness—but i am afraid we must expect to see her grown
her cousin edmund never forgets her .
see her .
where so many hours have been spent in convincing myself that i am right , is there not some reason
” “i collect , ” said miss crawford , “that sotherton is an old place , and a place of
income ; and it is an acquaintance that has not only been of great use to you hitherto , but
the crofts had placed themselves in lodgings in gay street , perfectly to sir walter ' s satisfaction .
she was roused from her seat , and her reflections , by some one’s approach ; and before she could
palmer does not hear me , " said she , laughing ; " he never does sometimes .
he had intended , on first arriving , to proceed very soon into shropshire , and visit the brother settled
in that house , sir walter and elizabeth were able to rise in cordiality , and do the honours of
a fortnight .
she was in gay spirits , and would have prolonged the conversation , wanting to hear the particulars of his
you must send john with the young ladies , mrs .
nor can we believe that its author did so herself .
” fanny explained .
dear , there are a great many people like me , i dare say , only a great deal better
ever , was a charm which she could not immediately resist .
" charles was to return to lyme the same afternoon , and his father had at first half a mind
" " the last hours were certainly very painful , " replied anne ; " but when pain is over
" very well , " said elizabeth , " i have nothing to send but my love .
lover to any of them .
her ankles in dirt , and alone , quite alone !
marianne ' s pianoforte was unpacked and properly disposed of ; and elinor ' s drawings were affixed to the
know , since she was here .
” said catherine in a faltering voice .
she was a very pretty girl , and her beauty happened to be of a sort which emma particularly admired
to elinor , as her own wounded heart taught her to think of with horror ; and urged by a
elton knows you .
it to be playfulness , it grieves me to the soul .
he would look for her , he would find her out before the evening were over , and at present
and misery , both in young and old .
his family knew him to be , on all common occasions , a most negligent and dilatory correspondent ; but
a resemblance in good humour and good spirits had recommended her and lydia to each other , and out of
" " well , then , i know who it is from , colonel .
, as to being acquainted with his wife—for though his sisters , from a superior education , are not to
chapter _num_ the next day afforded no opportunity for the proposed examination of the mysterious apartments .
heal the wound .
” i was silent , fearfull lest i might any more unwillingly distress her by fixing on any other subject
from what she says .
as for elizabeth , her thoughts were at pemberley this evening more than the last ; and the evening ,
—do not you recollect ?
" anne sighed and blushed and smiled , in pity and disdain , either at her friend or herself .
he was the brother of her friends , and he took pains to please her ; and altogether , having
not i .
" anne named them all .
dixon , perhaps , had been very near changing one friend for the other , or been fixed only to
elton , of which mr .
well , well , we are ready , whatever happens .
" " as vile a spot as i ever saw in my life , " said mr .
she has no money , no connections , nothing that can tempt him to—she is lost for ever .
than her welfare ; to encounter any thing , rather than the remembrance of neglect in such a cause .
” “i dare say not ma ' am , and have no doubt but that any sufferings you may have
uncle .
he bore it with noble indifference , and she would have imagined that bingley had received his sanction to be
” “no , indeed , ” cried emma , most happy to begin , “not in the least .
way was not yet overcome , in spite of all that edmund could do .
” he went ; and , it being at any time a much simpler operation to catherine to doubt her
in short , you may as well give her a chance ; you understand me .
more , ) at the conduct of the churchills , in keeping him away .
the maternal character and so openly violated the conjugal duties , prevented his adding anything farther ; he embraced his
they were at one time left by themselves for half-an-hour , he adhered most conscientiously to his book , and
leave town , as she had hoped to see more of them ; —an exertion in which her husband ,
her up stairs .
grieve over the melancholy change ; and there her uncle kindly left her to cry in peace , conceiving ,
” he continued ; “every day more precious and more delightful than the day before !
us home in their own chariot , which was more than i looked for .
to avoid your sight " 	 _num_ " and see how the children go on " 	 _num_ " i
were sincere , in their exclamations of pity and horror .
it is time for me to be gone ; i have therefore determined on leaving them , and shall spend
allen , that the reader may be able to judge in what manner her actions will hereafter tend to promote
now , if your friends have any gratitude , they will say something pretty loud about you and me in
john dashwood—that must be recommendation enough to her husband .
mr elliot had attempted no apology , and shewn himself as unsolicitous of being longer noticed by the family ,
, he believed , half stupified between the wonder , the horror , and the joy of such a deliverance
it is the greatest of favours when miss de bourgh comes in .
having performed all these noble actions , his majesty died , and was succeeded by his son .
frank churchill , ' miss woodhouse ' s opinion of the instrument will be worth having .
of this change would be the very little danger of any body ' s catching cold—so much less danger at
and that friendship between a person capable of it , and such an amiable man as mr .
meaning , however he might wish to escape any of emma ' s errors of imagination .
” elizabeth asked questions in vain ; maria would tell her nothing more , and down they ran into the
actually in the house .
knightley on horse-back not far off .
sofa to see what was going on , and put in his claim to anything good that might be giving
and opinions , we have never been disposed to think her amiable ; and i am very much mistaken if
my house , i have by no means made up my mind as to the privileges to be annexed to
” “i am , ” said he , with a firm voice .
” “very agreeable , madam .
and their convenience .
the circumstances of the morning had led catherine ' s feelings through the varieties of suspense , security , and
if he would now speak to her with the unreserve which had sometimes been too much for her before ,
while he was so dull , it was no wonder that harriet should be dull likewise ; and they were
" she checked herself just in time .
calmer praise , such as made anne suspect that her keener powers might not consider either of them as quite
neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of their lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight .
" " certainly , " said elinor ; " and assisted by her liberality , i hope you may yet
the general will send a servant with me , i dare say , half the way—and then i shall soon
that he could be so very clownish , so totally without air .
i was sure you could not be so beautiful for nothing !
you will both find your good in it .
“the post-office is a wonderful establishment !
goddard ' s that morning , and meeting with harriet and pleading his own cause , gave alarming ideas .
she will have a companion in fanny price , you know , so it will all do very well ;
had not the smallest acquaintance with , and who was so entirely without fortune ; and now , after such
his mother explained to him her liberal designs , in case of his marrying miss morton ; told him she
she was very wrong in singling me out as she did ; i can safely say that every advance to
but emma still shook her head in steady scepticism .
me that we never were to meet again .
accommodations of a man-of-war .
i admire them much more if they are tall , straight , and flourishing .
in about ten minutes after my return to the parlour lady susan entered the room .
contrary , she could not help an exclamation of surprise , a hint of her unfitness , an entreaty even
miss augusta ought not to have been noticed for the next six months ; and miss sneyd , i believe
how do you think i can live poking by myself , i who have been always used till this winter
s sake , the possibility of scheming longer for sir walter .
, which i suppose he means to be if he cannot marry matilda , as moreover i know that his
gardiner , with their four children , did at length appear at longbourn .
so nearly gone ; she wished i had made him believe we had a great many left .
“alas !
advice i can ask .
my daughter and my nephew are formed for each other .
grant spoiled everything by laughing ; that edmund was behindhand with his part , and that it was misery to
it was evident that charles hayter was not well inclined towards captain wentworth .
” “i believe her to be both in a great degree , ” replied wickham ; “i have not seen
no indeed i am not .
there was neither in figure nor face any likeness between the ladies .
” “we are speaking of music , madam , ” said he , when no longer able to avoid a
but she does every thing well .
consideration of what is your duty , an attention to propriety , an endeavour to avoid the suspicions of others
—if i had been there , i think i should have made some discoveries .
and now , what will you have ?
refined sensibilities— .
it was the offer of a small house , on very easy terms , belonging to a relation of her
i had every reason to be pleased with her situation .
could not be in such raptures as mr .
as having passed at the netherfield ball , and as confirming all his first disapprobation , could not have made
" but mary did not give into it very graciously , whether from not considering captain benwick entitled by birth
thought of hereafter , as finding in harriet ' s society all that he wanted ; if harriet were to
weston ' s drawing-room ; —mr .
as the moment approached for our departure , you can have no idea how the sweet creatures trembled with fear
yes , i really believe darcy does take care of him in those points where he most wants care .
from the subject , as soon afterwards appeared by her suddenly exclaiming , “i remember hearing you once say ,
” “yes , quite—more so , indeed .
i had not been long in the room before i was engaged to dance by mr bernard , but just
” elizabeth could not repress a smile at this , but she answered only by a slight inclination of the
as it was , he did nothing with much zeal , but sport ; and his time was otherwise trifled
he and lady lesley will do themselves the pleasure of attending us .
at any rate , said i , it will be better than a long engagement .
the promise , therefore , was given , and must be performed .
he did not want abilities but he had no curiosity , and no information beyond his profession ; he read
the lane rose the vicarage , an old and not very good house , almost as close to the road
, not able to feign that he was .
than colonel wallis ?
of a situation which , confining her entirely to her friend and brother , gave her very little share in
, rushed into it just released from school , and coming eagerly to see their sister , and tell that
' thinks she to herself , ' they are all so fond of lucy , to be sure they will
not tell .
indeed , i do not see that you could possibly place her anywhere else .
what say you , mary ?
i will not encourage the impudence of either , by receiving them at longbourn .
he joined them ; but , as if irresolute whether to join or to pass on , said nothing ,
now she is dependent , helpless , friendless , neglected , forgotten .
gardiner’s letter , or to relate her own change of sentiment towards him .
he is anxious to get you there for my mother ' s sake .
again awaken all her sensibility by directing her thoughts to her husband .
back .
minute ; but let me , or let the servant go after mr .
” “i had my choice of the parts , ” said mr .
she knows how much the marriage is to miss taylor ' s advantage ; she knows how very acceptable it
that young man (speaking lower) is very thoughtless .
, as the gentlemen had just left the pump-room .
elton would have us come .
she was supported into the drawing-room between her daughter and her friend ; and there , shedding tears of joy
willoughby is very generally known .
” they both declared they should prefer it to anything .
—he had stayed on , however , vigorously , day after day—till this very morning ' s post had conveyed
is he in the house now ?
“and when do you think , sir , i may look forward to this pleasure ?
situation which he must know she would never stoop to .
brother , the thousand inconveniences to himself .
of past regard .
” this was not very consoling to mrs .
you see she does not like to act .
" here too , miss dashwood ' s commendation , being only simple and just , came in without any
” “no , indeed , ” was catherine ' s honest assurance ; “mr .
“pray , is she out , or is she not ?
” (the servant had just mounted the carriage and was driving off .
it was not all settled before monday : as soon as it was , the express was sent off to
now you are to understand , that time had worked a very material change in mr elliot ' s opinions
at variance .
” “do you suppose that we think differently ?
was in company with him , i need not affect to have no comprehension of what is going on .
” “there appeared such a perfectly good understanding among them all—” he began rather quickly , but checking himself ,
—he will have a hot walk .
" elinor could hardly keep her countenance as she assented to the hardship of such an obligation .
with a very natural kind of spirit , to settle that estate upon robert immediately , which might have been
, but , what is much better , of innocence .
be half a mile long , or half half a mile .
he then made his bow , and departed with the rest .
i do think he must have been sent for about money matters , for what else can it be ?
he came to speak to his father on a subject , —to announce an attachment—” she stopped to breathe .
that none of all her careful directions to the servants had been forgotten , and spread abroad what public news
“they met several times , for there was much to be discussed .
now as i have a very great affection for my brother and should be extremely sorry to see him unhappy
i do not at all comprehend her reason for wishing to be intimate with me ; but if the same
she might have been unconsciously sucking in the sad poison , while a sharer of his conversation with her friend
thorpe , in what they called conversation , but in which there was scarcely ever any exchange of opinion ,
do not think about that .
abbey .
blunders of the post .
tilney had last walked , or the volume in which she had last read , remain to tell what nothing
she must not be sacrificed to policy or ambition , and she must not be left to suffer from the
i like julia best .
end to the business at once by dissolving the engagement .
your superior knowledge of your sister must make the latter probable .
and shrubs , and all the sweets of pleasure-grounds , as by one impulse , one wish for air and
she was a benevolent , charitable , good woman , and capable of strong attachments , most correct in her
his own stomach could bear nothing rich , and he could never believe other people to be different from himself
, or will you take your chance now ?
norris completed the whole by thus addressing her in a whisper at once angry and audible—“what a piece of work
home again , and could with difficulty govern her vexation at the tediousness of mrs .
if others have blundered , it is your place to put them right , and shew them what true delicacy
in vanity , therefore , she gained but little ; her chief profit was in wonder .
her daughter did not look , however , as if much of it were heard by her .
norris seemed as much delighted with the saving it would be to sir thomas as with any part of it
part , their dress , their favourite scene , their friends and confederates : all were finding employment in consultations
" we all three went down together ; and i saw my brother examining the terrified face of frederica with
up and saw her with captain tilney preparing to give them hands across .
darcy , with an expression of half-laughing alarm .
he came to them every day .
" " indeed you are mistaken there , sir ; i should never augur want of spirit from captain benwick
had his first appearance , or his resemblance to the picture they had just been examining , been insufficient to
”—he met her at the parlour-door , and hardly asking her how she did , in the natural key of
“now , mr .
" " i may venture to say that his observations have stretched much further than your candour .
no , upon my honour , there is no unsteadiness of character .
offensive and disgusting beyond all common offence .
she knew her beloved catherine to have so feeling a heart , so sweet a temper , to be so
” the idea of his returning no more elizabeth treated with the utmost contempt .
been declared that he did not kill his two nephews , which i am inclined to beleive true ; and
looks and undertones were to be well tried , he sank as quietly as possible into a corner , turned
thought of than any other person ' s in the room .
how would she have behaved ?
norris is much better fitted than my mother for having the charge of you now .
' i never shall forget his manner .
no—i would get you a better partner than myself .
” “i like her appearance , ” said elizabeth , struck with other ideas .
his taste and manners were beyond a doubt decidedly inferior ; for , within her hearing , he not only
of his idle vanity was tending ; but , thoughtless and selfish from prosperity and bad example , he would
they are not at all nice children , in my opinion ; but mrs musgrove seems to like them quite
" know him !
grandaughter !
i wonder what i should do with it !
knightley , feelingly ; and for a moment or two he had done .
had been already visible below , she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of miss darcy’s , in
” “but you must have found it very damp and dirty .
" " is this the real reason of your coming ?
—how do you mean ?
it will be a bitter pill to her ; that is , like other bitter pills , it will have
fanny had not a word to say against its becomingness , and , excepting what remained of her scruples ,
you must not question me , however , my dear sister , too minutely on this point , " continued
the walking party had crossed the lane , and were surmounting an opposite stile , and the admiral was putting
” fanny checked the tendency of these thoughts as well as she could , but she was within half a
of edward , or at least of some of his concerns , she now received intelligence from colonel brandon ,
darcy , he concluded his speech , which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the
all the relief which cheerful companions could give them .
' s secret declaration as she finished this .
excessively pretty , it was soon found necessary to be improved , and for three months we were all dirt
i assured him that i could not .
it is all the same to me what i eat .
you can have been acquainted with it only since i came to bath , excepting as you might hear me
is not this an agreeable surprise ?
out of the room , saying , “i need not be afraid of appearing before him .
quality and of every noble sentiment .
excellent embrocation of mr .
on discovering his error , to turn her from the house seemed the best , though to his feelings an
always at their service , the independence of mrs .
and i must say , i think she was used very hardly ; for your sister scolded like any fury
preventing a laugh , sometimes in the very midst of them .
silence , or insipid talk , to meet the heartless elegance of her father and sister .
lady lucas was a very good kind of woman , not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to mrs
the rest of his stay at hartfield .
good opinion was engaged in their favour before they had been an hour at the park .
to some few of the company it appeared rather a bold undertaking , considering the time of year , and
her first communication had reached no farther than to state the fact of the engagement , and the length of
in this occupation she hoped , moreover , to bury some of the recollections of mansfield , which were too
no symptoms worse than before had appeared .
s carriage , which was seen waiting at a little distance ; she , anne , and mrs clay ,
as to visit him there .
then pray speak aloud .
his own forgetfulness of her was worse than anything which they had done .
do have a basin of soup .
any alarm for his safety , or solicitude for his comfort , being one of those persons who think nothing
on hers .
" one had rather , on such occasions , do too much than too little .
” “well , nobody would have thought you had no right who saw your face .
it was a real indulgence to her to hear or to speak of mansfield .
he understood , a few days ; that he had not seen him himself , but that he was well
” the whole party were but just reassembled in the drawing-room when mr .
the smallest suspicion of his possessing the shadow of a right to introduce himself .
we must not make him desperate .
johnson ' s celebrated judgment as to matrimony and celibacy , and say , that though mansfield park might have
from looking at her cards when the deal began , must direct her in whatever was to be done with
you are my cousins , and they are my wife ' s , so you must be related .
but i must tell you how it went off .
irresistibly to come to her and be thanked .
, and must be regarded as the queen of the evening .
mother ' s prohibition ought not to have prevented your speaking to me on the subject .
frederica is too old ever to submit to school confinement , and have , therefore , begun to consider her
crawford certainly was , having been just long enough arrived to be ready for dinner ; and the smiles and
” “and well they might , for i never saw so much dirt in my life .
i will not entirely give it up , however ; i will try what can be done—i will look it
” “i should take him , even on my slight acquaintance , to be an ill-tempered man .
" astonished and shocked at so unlover-like a speech , she was almost ready to cry out , " lord
her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to her sense ; and she could no more bear
it might equally concern them both : she received no pleasure from anything ; was only impatient to be at
you have always so much .
be , in a style that any of her connexions must have been gratified to witness , and that her
are parted for ever .
frank was next to emma , jane opposite to them—and mr .
“i am very happy to see you again , sir , indeed ; i was afraid you had left bath
” from gray , that “many a flower is born to blush unseen , “and waste its fragrance on the
things are so forward between you .
i never met with her equal .
been almost equally mistress .
no piece could be proposed that did not supply somebody with a difficulty , and on one side or the
—how beautifully her last landscape is done !
in a review of the two houses , as they appeared to her before the end of a week ,
make mr .
it was drawn at the same time as the other—about eight years ago .
bennet could not have chosen better .
yet lost their charms .
his admiration was certainly very warm ; yet she thought , but for mrs .
he was not seated by her ; perhaps that was the reason of his silence ; but it had not
i know we shall .
miss crawford may chuse her degree of wealth .
i dine with miss tilney today , and must now be going home .
effect on .
“my mother ' s illness , ” he continued , “the seizure which ended in her death , was sudden
a preliminary revision of ms .
set .
you shan ' t talk me out of my satisfaction .
murder was not tolerated , servants were not slaves , and neither poison nor sleeping potions to be procured ,
four days , when there was no return , no letter , no message , no symptom of a softened
” “i must not decide on my own performance .
but her uncle ' s anger gave her the severest pain of all .
—do not you remember his cutting his finger with your new penknife , and your recommending court-plaister ?
the post-office is an object ; and upon my word , i have scarcely ever had a bad morning before
darcy’s sister , as by wickham’s account , she would make him abundantly regret what he had thrown away .
but there are many works well worth reading at the park ; and there are others of more modern production
but his coming for me as he did , with such active , such ready friendship , is enough to
ferrars to his choice , and re-established him completely in her favour .
highly prepossessing , and i am sure she feels it so .
" it was my father ' s last request to me , " replied her husband , " that i
him , that mrs .
method in her partiality for wickham , and that its ill success might , perhaps , authorise her to seek
any maternal tenderness to buy her off .
did not you hear me ask him about the slave-trade last night ?
, as to whether it should pass unnoticed or not , replied , “never marry !
the confusion there is scandalous .
occupied by them , striving to catch sounds , which yet she did not think he could have caught .
to place you in , here it will be accomplished ; and if their only object is that you should
least five or six weeks .
” elizabeth’s congratulations were given with a sincerity , a warmth , a delight , which words could but poorly
“i am afraid you are very tired , fanny , ” said edmund , observing her ; “why would not
let me know your opinion on this point .
god forbid that i should undervalue the warm and faithful feelings of any of my fellow-creatures !
bennet was stirring the fire .
to say , “if miss price would be so good as to read the part .
, and that the most elevated rank , instead of giving her consequence , would be adorned by her .
i am sorry for her .
the weather threatened rain ; mr .
mr and mrs musgrove took me , and we were so crowded !
“i will drive you up lansdown hill tomorrow .
” “how strange !
a mile off—very comfortable .
trouble of writing what i do not perfectly recollect , by giving only a slight sketch of the principal events
and foresaw so great a loss to their little society from his absence as to begin to be afraid of
an abominable puppy !
a charming place , undoubtedly .
no one made any objection but marianne , who with her usual inattention to the forms of general civility ,
with strong concern , and with many reproaches for not being called to their aid , did mrs .
abundance of civilities passed on all sides .
constantly bowing whenever miss de bourgh looked that way .
beloved isabella and her dear family , who , she had reason to believe , were in a shop hard
grandeur , even supposing the omission to be intended as a compliment , was but poor comfort .
norris , in a rather softened voice ; “but i question whether her headache might not be caught then ,
never better .
treatment—and had he and all his family sought round the world for a perfect wife for him , they could
and yet it was far , very far , from impossible .
on receiving it , she could instantly decide on its containing little writing , and was persuaded of its having
only by avoiding his sight , or flirting with somebody else—she took to herself all the shame of misconduct ,
came near her , they received no mark of recognition on their entrance .
rushworth began her relation .
" " but i thought it was right , elinor , " said marianne , " to be guided wholly
her former apprehensions , now with greater reason restored , left her no doubt of the event ; and though
” chapter v the young people were pleased with each other from the first .
absolute neglect of the mother and sisters , when invited to come , would be ingratitude .
no , no , i see you are not .
, to the dockyard they were all to go ; and but for mr .
she saw their sashes untied , their hair pulled about their ears , their work-bags searched , and their knives
detected the smallest impropriety in it—nothing of vanity , of pretension , of levity ; and she is altogether so
i always come to you to know what i am to think of public matters .
us quite as well as our present situation .
entirely on the side of the miss steeles , their party would be too strong for opposition , and that
while they were thus comfortably occupied , mr .
" elinor would not argue upon the propriety of overcoming such feelings ; —she only endeavoured to counteract them by
" " that a gentleman , whom i had reason to think—in short , that a man , whom i
her husband’s help .
” william was gone : and the home he had left her in was , fanny could not conceal it
else .
—she is an odd woman !
she need not have been uneasy .
but this is to premise that she did regard it as her masterpiece , a fact which , apart from
” lady bertram repeated enough of this conversation to her husband to convince him how much he had mistaken his
steele and mr .
that was a point which anne had not been able to avoid suspecting before ; and instead of drawing the
you have moral and literary tastes in common .
” chapter x the appearance of the little sitting-room as they entered , was tranquillity itself ; mrs .
” “do they ?
dixon ' s wedding-present .
all that could be done was , to sit down at that end of the counter which seemed to promise
only remaining one of all that had filled and animated both houses , of all that had given uppercross its
hands stretched towards fanny ' s head , “do you know , i begin to like that queer fashion already
her manners showed good sense and good breeding ; they were neither shy nor affectedly open ; and she seemed
who would not die to haste such extacy !
sacrificing his daughter ' s pleasure for the sake of a ridiculous old woman whose folly in marrying so young
as unlike myself as is possible .
in the centre of some of the best preserves in the kingdom , surrounded by three great proprietors , each
dashwood did not hear unmoved the vindication of her former favourite .
it was wonderful that her friends should seem so little elated by the possession of such a home , that
was not this some excuse for incivility , if i was uncivil ?
go , and therefore that she must .
always loyal to their king and faithful to his interests .
" " and yet two thousand a-year is a very moderate income , " said marianne .
there he is .
she instantly returned to the window to watch over and encourage the happy appearance .
knightley , in fact , was one of the few people who could see faults in emma woodhouse , and
objects of professing attention to the comfort of ladies in general , and of insinuating that there was one only
don ' t pretend to defend him .
her entreaty had no effect on tom : he only said again what he had said before ; and it
it is what we happily have never known any thing of ; but it must be a life of misery
which she judged it proper to appear to censure ; for she said , “nonsense !
degree of contentment , to understand her address in guiding , and composure in bearing with , her husband ,
harriet really wished , and had wished some time , to consult a dentist .
yet now i must believe you , ” cried jane .
day of his visit ; but where the days were so few it would be unwise to fix on any
what to do ; and so he came and spoke , and i answered—and i stood for a minute ,
" she has been indisposed all day , and we have persuaded her to go to bed .
be easy .
“i wish you were not so tired , ” said he , still detaining fanny after all the others were
not that i care about it , though .
take a chaise from the inn , and leave mr musgrove ' s carriage and horses to be sent home
its insult ; yet , i trust you will acquit me , for you must have been long enough in
otway , i protest !
she has done with her son , she cast him off for ever , and has made all those over
they were still kicking each other ' s shins , and hallooing out at sudden starts immediately under their father
she will be disappointed if she receives nothing from you .
inevitable , as of foreseeing any that was doubtful , said , “it was time to go ; ” and
room , with such astonishment and concern , as hardly left him the recollection of what civility demanded towards herself
” replied catherine—finding that he waited for an answer .
in all at once , taking everybody (at least robert) by surprise , and i shall lose every one ;
yates is storming away in the dining-room .
the departure of a large family from the inn , the other two were standing by the fire ; and
lyme , " and the " no expectation of company , " had brought many apologies from the heads of
the necessity of concealing from her mother and marianne , what had been entrusted in confidence to herself , though
she is not such a simpleton .
had not i better go too ?
intimate as you are , you must know how it is to be done .
” “and i hope—i hope , miss morland , you will not be sorry to see me .
wholly free at first .
not be brought to acknowledge .
which will probably soon drive away his regard for me .
divided between the two .
" [ _num_ ] chapter xxxix the miss dashwoods had now been rather more than two months in town ,
—this amiable , upright , perfect jane fairfax was apparently cherishing very reprehensible feelings .
collins very gravely—“but i cannot imagine that her ladyship would at all disapprove of you .
” “our brother !
after this day , jane said no more of her indifference .
mistress ' s arrival ; for as lady middleton was entirely unknown to mrs .
the first that occurred was not least in interest : the appearance of henry crawford and his sister walking together
does not he want captain tilney to go away ?
come along with me , and i will show you the four greatest quizzers in the room ; my two
you are one of those who are too silent in the evening circle .
that something occupied her mind so much that she drew back for some time , forgetting to speak or to
if i could wish it for my own sake , i would not do so unjust a thing by the
bingley from your sister , and the other , that i had , in defiance of various claims , in
own , and much less encumbered by refinement or self-distrust .
you had better have gone out .
goddard , what say you to half a glass of wine ?
they were speaking as they drew near .
their mother had nothing , and their father only seven thousand pounds in his own disposal ; for the remaining
miss crawford need not be alarmed for her .
own , and how important to her to be secure of a comfortable provision , and therefore cannot allow herself
the door , and ceaseless buzz of persons walking through , had distinguished every word , was struck , gratified
, and of our intention to spend some months with him in scotland .
to do him justice , he did every thing in his power to promote their unreserve , by making the
morland , said i—but all in vain—he would not stir an inch .
match .
miss dashwoods than there is in her disposal of the heroines of pride and prejudice .
" i hope we shall be in bath in the winter ; but remember , papa , if we do
in three duodecimo volumes , two hundred and seventy-six pages in each , with a frontispiece to the first ,
our best way is across the park .
—and if my uncle and aunt go to town this spring—but i am afraid—they did not stir last spring—i am
in a very few weeks from the day which brought sir john middleton ' s first letter to norland ,
but he rather pushed it towards me than towards you .
prepared , everything got ready .
john knightley must be in town again on the _num_ th , and we ought to be thankful , papa
the alteration in my sisters behaviour which i have before hinted at , now took place .
whenever i can .
perfect model of a woman which i have always believed you born for .
yates ' s habits of thinking , from the beginning to the end of the story ; and when it
their arrival was dreaded by the elder miss bennets , and jane more especially , who gave lydia the feelings
with all the chances against her of house , hall , place , park , court , and cottage ,
i cannot be afraid of hearing anything you wish to say .
—it did not appear to her that life could supply any greater felicity .
the past , the present , the future , willoughby ' s visit , marianne ' s safety , and
, after the little pause which followed , added-- " he is a rear admiral of the white .
also , but even encouraging him by significant glances .
where i have a regard , i always think a person well-looking .
what say you all ?
the sisters never had been at mrs .
almost any i know in london , and certainly she will then feel , to use a vulgar phrase ,
but every thing was then just settled between miss grey and me .
that mansfield should have done so much for—that you should have found your fate in mansfield !
be contented with the house as it was ; and each of them was busy in arranging their particular concerns
and sought after , of having the power of chusing from among many , consequently a claim to be nice
would so designedly suppress her own merit .
bingley was punctual to his appointment ; and he and mr .
too much indebted to the event for his acquittal .
has been spending the easter with the aylmers at twickenham (as to be sure you know) , and is not
“quite seasonable ; and extremely fortunate we may think ourselves that it did not begin yesterday , and prevent this
plain ; but still he was the gentleman , with a pleasing address .
among the alps and pyrenees , perhaps , there were no mixed characters .
here is complete proof .
the furniture was all sent around by water .
have her .
willoughby very soon .
then continuing his former tone , he said , " and yet this house you would spoil , mrs .
how peculiarly unprepared i was !
down , and be able to employ herself , and able to hope that mr .
proudly resolving , in conscious innocence , to show her resentment towards him who could harbour a doubt of it
” “one thing more .
miss carteret was with her mother ; consequently it was not reasonable to expect accommodation for all the three camden
the eyes of sensible people , by acting like a man of principle .
her home required .
" edward made no answer ; but when she had turned away her head , gave her a look so
she was put down in camden place ; and lady russell then drove to her own lodgings , in rivers
she was received by the allens with all the kindness which her unlooked-for appearance , acting on a steady affection
its vicinity to my own room—but in every respect , indeed , it took me by surprise , as i
knightley think or say what he would , she had done nothing which woman ' s friendship and woman '
it would be most right , and most wise , and , therefore must involve least suffering to go with
her hand !
” “and so you actually put this piece of court-plaister by for his sake !
there was only harriet , who seemed not in spirits herself , fagged , and very willing to be silent
maria desired no greater pleasure than to speak of it ; and catherine immediately learnt that it had been altogether
why do you choose that cold , damp path to it ?
his departure gave catherine the first experimental conviction that a loss may be sometimes a gain .
(end of volume one .
her aunt ' s last letter , she knew he was gone .
my mother was quite sick of it .
elton began to think she had been wrong in disclaiming so warmly .
that i had been satisfied with persuading her not to accept young martin .
few odd acquaintance as may be ; and , therefore , i say that if you should still be in
she exerted herself , and did try to make her comfortable , by considering all that had passed as a
only think what a miserable summer else we shall have !
everything , however , was going on calmly and quietly ; and , though i counted the hours of sir
” “when henry had the pleasure of seeing you before , he was in bath but for a couple of
chests , where we keep our table linen .
differently from himself , he was very much disposed to think miss taylor had done as sad a thing for
they advanced in each other ' s acquaintance , for it could not be otherwise .
his perception of the striking improvement of harriet ' s manner , since her introduction at hartfield , was not
colonel brandon must have some information to give .
had not my feelings decided against you—had they been indifferent , or had they even been favourable , do you
—why did we wait for any thing ?
of ; summon up all the fortitude you possess , for alas !
rushworth ' s chance if henry stept in before the articles were signed .
” “i do own myself to have been completely mistaken in mr .
jennings , " i am sure he should be very welcome to bed and board at my house ; and
, the happiest of lieutenants , because the latest made , to shew his happiness and describe his uniform .
, i confess , before i was reasonable enough to allow their justice .
, nor , from betsey ' s reports from the kitchen , much hope of any under a considerable period
—but i never allow myself to speak ill of her , on frank ' s account ; for i do
i saw you first in february .
hope that it would not be rejected .
—the strangest things do take place !
churchhill .
” the business , however , though not perfectly elucidated by this speech , soon ceased to be a puzzle
anywhere , so i will take my horse early to-morrow morning and ride over to stoke , and settle with
that the lady of thomas palmer , esq .
be perfectly satisfied .
days , supplied anecdotes in abundance to occupy and entertain the others , it fell to anne ' s lot
” “yes , very much .
to bingley , and if she were , to make the confession to him which i have since made .
to london— .
spacious and more meet for walking about in and thinking , and of which she had now for some time
it was a most delightful reanimation of exhausted spirits .
collins , or any congratulations to elizabeth from his wife , the longbourn family heard that the collinses were come
for your being amiable”—but she contented herself with , “and one , too , who had probably been his companion
no other consideration of probabilities to make it natural that lucy should be jealous ; and that she was so
" certainly , " said elinor ; " he seems very agreeable .
that he had called and paid them a long morning visit ; but hardly had she congratulated herself , and
which fancied itself strong feeling ; and yet , with a sensibility to what was amiable and lovely , and
there does seem to be a something in the air of hartfield which gives love exactly the right direction ,
” “then why do you stay away so long ?
, and a mine of felicity to herself .
, which could conduce to place the martins under proper subordination in her fancy .
as to her illness , all nothing of course .
not less acutely was it felt by fanny , who had edged back her chair behind her aunt ' s
, besides , you have another long walk before you , to donwell abbey .
the impossibility of her quitting her father , mr .
" elinor was not inclined , after a little observation , to give him credit for being so genuinely and
; and as his parents , from living on the spot , must already have seen him , and be
jennings continued her story as she walked through the passage into the parlour , attended by sir john .
, the mistress of a family , and the patroness of a village .
it was a private resolution of hers , not communicated to him—or at least not communicated in a way to
” elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational account of it , and they continued talking together ,
, though with far less than miss lucy .
his good and her bad feelings yielded to love , and such love must unite them .
drawing forth , in the shape of some fragmented journal , continued to the last gasp .
should call on mrs .
eltons , the mrs .
james’s , sir william was so completely awed by the grandeur surrounding him , that he had but just courage
— ' jane fairfax and jane fairfax .
edmund saw weariness and distress in her face , and immediately resolved to forbear all farther discussion ; and not
he soon testified of renewing those intentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve ,
the question , was at no loss for an answer .
to her a something more , or less , than gratification .
“she will think frank ought to ask her .
that he had been concerned in the measures taken to separate bingley and jane she had never doubted ; but
she would not wound the feelings of her sister on any account , and yet to say what she did
thorpe , however , had one great advantage as a talker , over mrs .
" " it was at gibraltar , mother , i know .
" anne felt truly obliged to her for such kindness ; and quite as much so for the opportunity it
a welcome , unquestionably friendly , from the woman whom , two moments before , he had been thinking of
it was adventuring too far , assuming too much , making light of what ought to be serious , a
” the first division of their journey occupied a long day , and brought them , almost knocked up ,
and instead of adopting so harsh a measure merely propose to make it her own choice , by rendering her
my situation in life , my connections with the family of de bourgh , and my relationship to your own
let his behaviour be the guide of your sensations .
and with regard to their influencing public manners , miss crawford must not misunderstand me , or suppose i mean
but do come in .
will be excellent falling .
" " mr elliot , " replied mrs smith , " at that period of his life , had one
her so much taller , and produces all these charms and graces !
or independence !
” “my dear child , commend dr .
i told mrs .
of her half-boot , and stooping down in complete occupation of the footpath , begged them to have the goodness
—i am lady patroness , you know .
to hartfield for forty-eight hours without falling in with a dinner-party .
i could wish to say .
ingenious or stupid than they really are , and i can hardly tell why or in what the deception originated
and they might not even then have suspected it , but for the following little accident .
degree in both instances , i had myself endeavoured to forget , because they were not immediately before me .
to walk on , and she would follow in half a minute .
” “yes , upon my word , very considerable .
they want her (mr .
she was always quick and assured : isabella slow and diffident .
of seeing their hands joined at no great distance .
i remember saying to myself , ' even emma , with all her partiality for harriet , will think this
pleasure to miss darcy , who had taken a liking to the room when last at pemberley .
charles " had never seen a pleasanter man in his life ; and from what he had once heard captain
such delightful proofs of hartfield ' s attraction , as those sort of visits conveyed , might shortly be over
and her calling here was prodigiously civil !
at present , it is not very likely , yours ever , &c .
instead , and to defer this ceremonious call till a little time had passed , and mr .
useless to press the enquiry farther .
bingley’s regard , and said all in her power to heighten her confidence in it .
those who do not complain are never pitied .
once or twice indeed , since james ' s engagement had taught her what could be done , she had
jennings , and of every wealthy friend .
jennings came home , though she returned from seeing people whom she had never seen before , and of whom
where was either sentiment now ?
instead of being soon well enough to follow his friends , as he had then hoped , his disorder increased
every letter from her is read forty times over ; her compliments to all friends go round and round again
” she did not really like her .
one evening , mrs .
cross—those memorials of the two most beloved of her heart , those dearest tokens so formed for each other by
you will be eager , i know , to hear something further of frederica , and perhaps may think me
—that you have never thought seriously of her ?
not destroy her credit , her appearance , her prosperity , too .
my mother often wonders that i can make it out so well .
evening of life , was the collecting and transcribing all the riddles of every sort that she could meet with
examining watches , so much of the morning was perceived to be gone , that mrs .
better , and tried to prove herself so , by engaging in her accustomary employments .
“does he ?
” “i like your plan , ” cried mr .
let me thank you again and again , in the name of all my family , for that generous compassion
of falling a victim to her charms .
elton ' s manners are not perfect , ” replied emma ; “but where there is a wish to please
immediately ran out to fetch them .
” “except , ” thought elizabeth , “when she goes to ramsgate .
, and particularly on the introduction of a young man who had recently succeeded to one of the largest estates
such an opportunity alas !
but old scholey was saying , just now , that he thought you would be sent first to the texel
thorpe , with tears of joy , embraced her daughter , her son , her visitor , and could have
palmer and his wife ; excellent , in their sordid veracity , the self-seeking figures of the miss steeles .
daughter or other , i forget who .
but never mind it , william” (her own cheeks in a glow of indignation as she spoke) .
there , let them lie just before you .
—in a moment i shall see the person that all my happiness depends on—that is to be my mother !
no preparations could be ventured on , and it was all melancholy stagnation .
humble mood , concerned for his children , and detesting old chests ; and the general , recovering his politeness
“is not this most vexatious , knightley ?
, to make up her pool of quadrille in the evening .
where i hope to be in the course of a fortnight .
his rants , and the poor baron has nothing .
miss woodhouse , the comfort of being sometimes alone !
crawford ' s , ” said maria ; “but the truth is , that wilcox is a stupid old fellow
norris assisted to form her nieces ' minds ; and it is not very wonderful that , with all their
” emma gave a start , which did not seem like being prepared—and her eyes , in eager gaze ,
competition with william , was a work of some difficulty ; and as for lady bertram , he must continue
” emma saw his anxiety , and wishing to appease it , at least for the present , said ,
” “what !
” “i say nothing of which i am ashamed , ” replied he , with lively impudence .
will learn to be contented , and we shall be on good terms again ; though we can never be
ferrars would say and do , though there could not be a doubt of its nature , she was anxious
i am afraid i alarmed you by running so fast up those stairs .
husband lived under the constant dependence of seeing him to-morrow .
but i beg your pardon ; i have interrupted you .
, and therefore what i now tell you can give you no fresh pain .
arrived in town with mr .
upon the whole , i am much pleased with him .
the rest was all tranquillity ; till , just as they were moving , she heard the admiral say to
, were the result of those fallow and apparently barren years at bath and southampton , or whether they were
the little particulars of his proceedings and events , his arrivals and departures , were most promptly delivered , as
" " it was not in her nature .
so i would tell him if i could see him .
to the coles , to usher in a letter from her niece .
and the discovery of their deception in her .
a seat by her .
slept while she listened to him , were become of little consequence now .
” “that is very strange .
gradually almost careless of the circumstances under which she felt them .
john dashwood very soon , and bring her sisters to see her .
bragge , but in felicity and splendour it fell short only of them : it was with a cousin of
but sometimes of an evening , before we went to cards , he would read something aloud out of the
have a theatre , some time or other , at your house in norfolk .
but when she read and re-read with the closest attention , the particulars immediately following of wickham’s resigning all pretensions
" chapter xi little had mrs .
deal to be settled ; and the spirits of evening giving fresh courage , tom , maria , and mr
dressing-room , and frederica spends great part of the day there , practising as it is called ; but i
out , i am monstrous glad there was never any thing in it) , mr .
’ that is his notion of christian forgiveness !
living .
on time alone ; no aid had been given in change of place (except in one visit to bath soon
her astonishment , however , was extreme , and continually was she repeating , “why is he so altered ?
he had no idea of concealment .
there was nothing disagreeable in mr .
in time to make an apology for his absence before the family went to bed .
when the gloves were bought , and they had quitted the shop again , “did you ever hear the young
of mrs marlowe , and the acquaintance of my charlotte at bristol .
was not unwilling to have others deceived , or sorry to know her reputation for accomplishment often higher than it
your beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the three of whom we shall
the young man so publicly by the hand ; " for they must have been seen together , " he
synonymous words .
us how to do away difficulties .
he would be at home in september , and where would be the harm of only waiting till september ?
indeed a man could not very well be in love with either of her daughters , without extending the passion
this was not an agreeable intimation .
by all that i have ever read , i am convinced that it is very common indeed ; that human
i hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner .
yates , in a low voice .
is so very unreasonable ; and every thing gives way to her .
such vain artifice retreated three months ago , to lace up her boot , without recollecting .
i entreat you not to suppose that i moved this way in order to beg for a partner .
solicitude ; and the almost solitary ornament in her possession , a very pretty amber cross which william had brought
weston observed , “all young people would have their little whims .
she knew , that when he now took up the baronetage , it was to drive the heavy bills of
" not quite , a few lines more .
in bath ; and she was now fated to feel and lament it once more , for at the very
he certainly wished her to go willingly , but he as certainly wished her to be heartily sick of home
” “yes ma ' am we were in the middle of dinner when your ladyship came .
the coles were very respectable in their way , but they ought to be taught that it was not for
must live another day .
she had read miss crawford ' s note only once , and how to reply to anything so imperfectly understood
thus wisely fortifying her mind , as she proceeded upstairs , she was enabled , especially on perceiving that miss
weston and miss bates met them at the door .
object in view : to make his fortune , and by a rather quicker process than the law .
rushworth hardly knew what to do with so much meaning ; but by looking , as he really felt ,
the wheels have been fairly worn out these ten years at least—and as for the body !
edward had done nothing to forfeit her esteem , she thought she could even now , under the first smart
it would be dreadful to be standing so close !
“i shall hear about you all , ” said he ; “that is my chief consolation .
perhaps you may flatter me so far as to be surprised that one of whom i speak with so little
" marianne heard enough .
he remained steadily inclined to gratify so amiable a feeling ; to gratify anybody else who might wish to see
; that he was come down for a couple of days on her account , and hers only , and
say that urgent business calls us home immediately .
his goodness of heart and simplicity of character were irresistible .
to that horrid man mr .
confirms me in my own previous explanation of it .
and look once more .
as she leant on the sofa , to which she had retreated that she might not be seen , the
” the girls stared at their father .
, such a burst of threatening evil , such a confusion of sudden and perplexing emotions , must create .
as they approached barton , indeed , and entered on scenes of which every field and every tree brought some
, a child , without talent or education , whom he had been always taught to despise ?
i was there—one of the party .
knocking on the outward door of our rustic cot .
i believe i have said too much .
johnson to lady susan vernon edward street i am grieved , though i cannot be astonished at your rupture with
_num_ ] with any other creature in the world , except yourself and mama .
i dare say , left the house thinking me the best friend and counsellor man ever had .
he left her house yesterday , but where he is gone , or whether he is still in town ,
dusk , and unthought of .
shocking !
“in short , ” said he , “perhaps , miss woodhouse—i think you can hardly be quite without suspicion”— he
while the sucklings ' coming had been united , such as the last accounts of mrs .
i will drink the wine myself .
naturally inclined to feel , and expensive society had increased .
anne , really tired herself , was glad to sit down ; and she very soon heard captain wentworth and
, and return to her friends as soon as they could be prevailed on to receive her , offering his
is it true ?
only made him a slight bow , and moved another way .
something to eat ; that her own maid should sit up for her ; and that serle and the butler
her sister ' s account , would be to deprive them both , she thought , of every comfort ;
on isabella ' s authority , rendered everything else of the kind “quite horrid .
but every circumstance that could embitter such an evil seemed uniting to heighten the misery of marianne in a final
ask , whether you did not come a little doubtfully at first ?
i have not given mainwaring any hint of my intention , or allowed him to consider my acquaintance with reginald
now i may say that even i could not require william price to excite a greater interest , or be
the master of the house heard with real sorrow that they were to go so soon , and repeatedly tried
possible charm .
carry conviction .
encouraged her in her crimes .
pemberley was now georgiana’s home ; and the attachment of the sisters was exactly what darcy had hoped to see
emma knew it to have been very much the case .
to be as steady as himself .
am sure , i should have observed them , and the livery too ; if the servant had not been
, and seems to have a good deal to say for himself .
it was her superior duty .
in her mother-in-law ' s carriage with four horses , and with her own complete independence of camden place ,
at her fate in terms as unreasonable as her accent was peevish .
was there not a “yes” in all this ?
to be of the party .
she is a most amiable girl ; such a superior understanding !
do not run away the first moment of its holding up .
we may sometimes take greater liberties in november than in may .
he ought to go ; and it ended in his making a bold , public declaration , when he came
of a mile—i cannot think i was unreasonable to ask it .
i have never yet found that the advice of a sister could prevent a young man ' s being in
and at any rate , she lost nothing by continuing the engagement , for she has proved that it fettered
cannot you imagine with what unwilling feelings the former belles of the house of rushworth did many a time repair
i heard enough of what she said to you last night to understand her unwillingness to be acting with a
when i look out on such a night as this , i feel as if there could be neither wickedness
you answer as discreetly as she could do herself .
young ladies of her age are sometimes a little difficult to manage , and if she has the true darcy
and retentive—and that there could be no necessity for any body ' s knowing what had passed except the three
—what now , " after pausing a moment— " your poor sister is gone to her own room , i
, familiar , ignorant , and ill-bred .
to live according to the wishes of his own friendly and social disposition .
syllable to say for him .
is she angry ?
have too much sense to join in the scorn .
" said elinor , unable to be longer silent .
her anxiety for his life had been before .
absence had increased her desire of seeing charlotte again , and weakened her disgust of mr .
he was not in his best spirits , but seemed trying to improve them ; and , at last ,
that was the wind-up of the history ; that was the glory of miss hawkins .
that i had not given way to her at the fatal moment !
fitzwilliam darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud , ill-natured boy .
norris was concerned .
she tried to be calm , and leave things to take their course , and tried to dwell much on
collins you have been a daily witness of ; and altogether i trust it does not appear that your friend
and street .
but georgiana would not join her .
kind of way , she has given you a sort of claim on her future consideration , which a conscientious
” mrs .
, or a bad butler ' s pantry , but no doubt he did perfectly feel that enscombe could not
” “i must try to do something with it , ” said mr .
luckily the strength of the piece did not depend upon him .
to fall into ; and to escape the solitariness and the melancholy of so altered a village , and be
without any reason that could justify , any apology that could atone for the abruptness , the rudeness , nay
allen , and mrs .
“that may be , sister , ” was all lady bertram ' s reply .
possess .
” “but what did he say ?
i always say this is quite one of the evils of matrimony .
of honour or credit could now be purchased for her .
i dare say she will not be in good humour again this month ; but i am determined i will
them first began .
my brother ?
edward ferrars , the very young man i used to joke with you about (but however , as it turns
from perfect misery to perfect happiness !
“middling , my dear ; i cannot compliment you .
” “certainly , ” said fanny , with gentle earnestness .
, danced every dance , was angry that the ball closed so early , and talked of giving one himself
soon be after you ; that is , harville , if you are ready , i am in half a
whole course of my life , though perhaps my desire of dominion was never more decided .
crawford was standing at an open window with edmund and fanny looking out on a twilight scene , while the
” miss bates would hardly give emma time to say how perfectly new this circumstance was to her ; but
my own peace ; and to see myself supplanted in your friendship by strangers does cut me to the quick
now , however , we begin to mend , our party is enlarged by mrs .
north and blows hard , which may not happen three times a winter .
would make use of it , if you are determined to walk ; though i think it would be more
“it was greatly my wish that he should do so , ” he added , “as soon as his marriage
see your sister suffering from it must be exceedingly painful to such feelings as yours .
” but as elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation , she made no answer .
of miss morland , as to what she neither doubted nor cared for , they proceeded by quick communication to
julia was to go with them to brighton .
render the pleasure still greater .
impelled by the combination of misfortunes under which i laboured , namely fear , cold and hunger i hesitated not
” emma could not resist .
panic as pleasure ; but the humble , grateful little girl went off with highly gratified feelings , delighted with
she knew enough to feel secure of an honourable and speedy establishment , and her imagination took a rapid flight
to close her eyes in sleep that night , she felt must be entirely out of the question .
her duty , and it will , it must ere long become her happiness to prevent your whole youth from
we determined to live together .
as its douceur , was considered by marianne as the greatest impertinence of all ; for after undergoing an examination
the husband had died just in time to be spared the full knowledge of it .
not to do the honours of her house with common good breeding !
it would have pleased your uncle to be inquired of farther .
—but of that , unfortunately , there could be no chance .
rushworth ' s manners , but i was pleased last night with what appeared to be his opinion on one
in the afternoon lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to meryton , and to see
their estates when wanted by their nephews or neices , and wished he were in the house of commons ,
” later in the morning , and just as the girls were going to separate in preparation for the regular
marianne , by a resemblance in their situations , which to her fancy would seem strong , feel all her
" a man of whom he had always had such reason to think well !
" i will leave you , " said elinor , " if you will go to bed .
he had learned his part—all his parts , for he took every trifling one that could be united with the
” “aye—because she asked him at last how he liked netherfield , and he could not help answering her ;
gardiner’s curiosity ; it was not their wish to force her communication .
" " indeed , i do say it .
lady bertram ' s rousing thoroughly up could really close such a conversation .
and so , my dear sister , i find , from our uncle and aunt , that you have actually
darcy might have done as well .
of distrusting his attentions , and wishing him not to return ; and a fortnight of sufficient leisure , in
a very restless and feverish night , however , disappointed the expectation of both ; and when marianne , after
only anne to hear-- " so you and i are to be left to shift by ourselves , with this
i dream of every body at highbury when i am away—and when i have gone through my particular friends ,
what blindness , what madness , had led her on !
he is the greatest coxcomb i ever saw , and amazingly disagreeable .
precious as was the company of her daughter to her , she desired nothing so much as to give up
expectation of hearing something of the kind .
her station at a window overlooking the entrance to the pump room , could not but have her moments of
bingley likes your sister undoubtedly ; but he may never do more than like her , if she does not
i dare say there was a difference when i was staying with them the other day .
she had some feelings which she was ashamed to investigate .
was so large , so clear , so light !
as soon as i was tolerably composed i returned to the parlour .
merits could be allowed to prefer another man , there was nothing in the engagement to excite lasting wonder ;
he could not have chosen better ; that was a topic to bring back her attention and her looks almost
instinct .
“ ' tis only from james , however , ” as she looked at the direction .
maria ' s guilt had induced julia ' s folly .
wickham’s charge , exceedingly shocked her ; the more so , as she could bring no proof of its injustice
i am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister’s infamous elopement .
i really have a regard for him , he is so easily imposed upon !
, modern , airy , and well situated as it was , with a melancholy aspect .
but you look grave , marianne ; do you disapprove your sister ' s choice ?
the general , perceiving how her eye was employed , began to talk of the smallness of the room and
soon the pleasure of apprehending they were never to have a disengaged day .
devise any means of lessening their expenses without compromising their dignity , or relinquishing their comforts in a way not
maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance , and , except in an occasional glance at
do not let me be pained by hearing any thing more on the subject .
with no indolent step ; and falling on her neck , said , “dear fanny !
, and the farewell visit , as it then became openly acknowledged , was a very short one .
” elizabeth’s spirits were so high on this occasion , that though she did not often speak unnecessarily to mr
“he seems to be a most conscientious and polite young man , upon my word , and i doubt not
i have a very strong notion that it comes from him .
and as for the rest , they may be filled up by anybody .
he possibly can .
he was posting away as if upon life and death , and could but just spare time to tell us
why cannot you come and sit here , and employ yourself as we do ?
catherine had only time to discover looked into a quadrangle , before miss tilney led the way into a chamber
” “it ought to be good , ” he replied , “it has been the work of many generations .
mother , and then prevailed on my sister to pay the first visit , i am as certain as i
miss s .
vernon or to me on the cause of her distress ; what could she do , therefore , but apply
" elinor perfectly understood her , and was forced to use all her self-command to make it appear that she
, of frank churchill .
though it is not to be supposed that mrs .
yet i wonder how she can herself delight in wearing them ; surely she must be sensible of the ridiculous
i have not been able to have any conversation with my niece ; she is shy , and i think
" dear me !
jennings ' s united request in return , mrs .
own stupidity .
friend—an anxious friend—give emma some hint , ask her some question .
” “if you are against me , i ought to distrust myself , and yet—but it is absolutely impossible to
dirt , and cobwebs , the difference was very distressing .
he understood what would be welcome ; he could be sure of little else .
with sparkling eyes to everything he said ; and , in finding him irresistible , becoming so herself .
actually snored— .
i shall speak to mr .
was somehow or other safe from him .
rested for the residue of their income .
he was accused of having a delightful voice , and a perfect knowledge of music ; which was properly denied
—and it had been always imagined that they were to be so intimate—because their ages were the same , every
quite delightful to have you all meet so !
card-table for him .
constantly exceeding it .
you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously courted you .
higher pleasure from her conversation than occasional amusement , and that often at the expense of her judgment , when
, and had purposely followed them ; other little gallantries and allusions had been dropt , but nothing serious .
, her heart was softened for a while towards him , because he really seemed to feel .
it was her intention , as she felt it to be her duty , to try to overcome all that
the forgiveness , at first , indeed , as was reasonable , comprehended only robert ; and lucy , who
; and her father and mother , who must return in time to receive their younger children for the christmas
weston most willingly undertook to play as long as they could wish to dance ; and the interesting employment had
hurst’s gown—” here she was interrupted again .
—to the possibility of motives unanswerable in themselves , though unavoidably secret for a while ?
" i am much obliged to you , " was her answer , " but i am not going with
he looked astonished too .
it is a necessary of life to me ; and having always been used to a very musical society ,
one wonders how the names of many of our nobility become so common .
mind early enough not to be endangering the happiness of either sister , or impeaching his own honour , than
“here are the greatest number of our plants , and here are the curious pheasants .
darcy is not to be laughed at !
“lizzy , you must not do so .
to be a second time the dupe of her misconceptions and flattery .
” “if i understand you rightly , you had formed a surmise of such horror as i have hardly words
the power of early habit only could account for it .
for , though shy , he did not seem reserved ; it had rather the appearance of feelings glad to
that upon an average we cleared about five pints a head .
; but though i have not yet been able to form any reasonable apology for your behaviour , i am
” he had said to her , moreover , on the very last morning , that he hoped she might
he took the hint , and when mary had finished her second song , said aloud , “that will do
tilney !
of so excellent a coachman ; and perceiving that the animal continued to go on in the same quiet manner
cottager ' s wife is a very pretty part , i assure you .
“where is your sister ?
bestow even on the reflection of her own felicity , in being already engaged for the evening .
herself to make out ; for at oxford , where he had remained for choice ever since his quitting london
kept in the butler ' s room .
but no matter ; here ' s fanny in the parlour , and why should we stay in the passage
bingley .
the visit of ceremony was paid and returned ; and louisa musgrove was mentioned , and captain benwick , too
“so unreasonably early !
dear me !
catherine walked on to her chamber , making up her mind as well as she could , to a further
any material loss of happiness to either , for mrs .
bennet exceedingly .
i want to have your opinion of her looks .
her anxious attendant more composed than he had found them .
capable .
were called to advise them ; and both father and daughter seemed to expect that something should be struck out
, had still been miss crawford ; still shewn a mind led astray and bewildered , and without any suspicion
” thorpe defended himself very stoutly , declared he had never seen two men so much alike in his life
this has always been your doctrine , i am sure .
she reproached her with having more affection for miss tilney , though she had known her so little a while
” “perhaps she might ; but it is not every man ' s fate to marry the woman who loves
so misled .
he has only come three and twenty miles today ; all nonsense ; nothing ruins horses so much as rest
duties of the dancing state are not so strict as your partner might wish ?
if jane fairfax could be thought only ordinarily gifted with it .
features of the baby she had loved , and talked to , of his infant preference of herself .
it before his face that had not henry at such times been engaged in conversation with eloisa , they must
this was the season of happiness to marianne .
when the butler would have lit his master ' s candle , however , he was forbidden .
” they had been hunting together , and were in the midst of a good run , and at some
it is very hard that a pretty woman is never to be told she is so by any one of
my poor charles , who had the finest , most generous spirit in the world , would have divided his
i wonder how she speaks of the coles—what she calls them !
likely to end almost as well as it began .
but he was careless and immethodical , like other men , about those things ; and when i came to
gave her of decidedly saying-- " if it depended only on my inclination , ma ' am , the party
her greatest wonder on the subject soon became—not that susan should have been provoked into disrespect and impatience against her
“i am afraid i interrupt your solitary ramble , my dear sister ?
unhappy maria !
then she is no rule for mrs .
bennet’s return , as jane and elizabeth were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house , they saw the
” “but your father is not going so far ; he is only going to the crown , quite on
they had need be all in love , to find any amusement in such folly ; and so they are
knightley ; and , to her great amusement , perceived that she was taking the other side of the question
, repeating the same motives which she had been heard to urge before .
she could not help frequently glancing her eye at mr .
palmer too i am sure , though we could not get him to own it last night .
we have been all alive with acting .
of speech that emma ' s mother might have had) the liberty of hinting that i do not think any
every day more and more what a parent could desire .
neither her father nor mr .
the influence of fresh objects and fresh air , however , was of great use in dissipating these embarrassing associations
overpowering delight of lucy in finding her still in town .
his business .
comfort .
“what are you talking of ?
the conversation between them at northanger had been of the most unfriendly kind .
tone , which startled fanny .
mr elliot looking up with so much respect .
bingley urged mr .
i know my dear uncle and aunt so well , that i am not afraid of requesting it , though
but i could not be easy till i had spoken to you , and come to a decision .
is your loss such as leaves no opening for consolation ?
collins’s long speeches would allow , everything was settled between them to the satisfaction of both ; and as they
very glad of your[ _num_ ] advice how to manage in such and uncomfortable situation as i am ; but
miss morland is not used to your odd ways .
enter cook—cook) here is the bill of fare .
” “that is a question which i hardly know how to answer .
i was not aware of it myself .
of encouragement , and she was as perfect in disinterested attachment as in everything else .
but is it certain—absolutely certain ?
her feelings have been steadily against it from first to last .
and , indeed , though my mother ' s eyes are not so good as they were , she can
” “well , then , lady bertram , suppose you speak for tea directly ; suppose you hurry baddeley a
while thus engaged , elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether she most feared or wished for the appearance
he has been gone only four weeks .
ever since the service he rendered jane at weymouth , when they were out in that party on the water
minutes ' longing of friendship , before the object of it appeared , and inviting her to a secret conference
comfortably spent .
” “not quite .
where does discretion end , and avarice begin ?
as maria , though she might not have struggled through so much to obtain them , and could better bear
janetta was then only fifteen ; naturally well disposed , endowed with a susceptible heart , and a simpathetic disposition
turned hastily away with a slight bow and joined his friend .
” “your freindship for my daughter has indeed been most powerfully exerted by throwing her into the arms of an
—“you are a humourist , and may say what you like .
and to know that the future owner of kellynch was undoubtedly a gentleman , and had an air of good
to churchhill .
“emma knows i never flatter her , ” said mr .
very first she was altered : my first reception was so unlike what i had hoped , that i had
“i shall see your cousin in town soon : he talks of being there tolerably soon ; and sir thomas
dashwood ' s disappointment was , at first , severe ; but his temper was cheerful and sanguine ; and
, after learning , to their mutual relief , that they should see each other across the theatre at night
s death ; and secondly , from her happening to be not in perfectly good spirits the only winter which
much mistaken , lady middleton ; i am only waiting to know whether you can make your party without me
their education or state .
gardiner’s behaviour laid them all under .
his visit afforded her but a very partial satisfaction , while his own enjoyment in it appeared so imperfect .
by their uncertain light she thought she could discern it to be drawn by four horses ; and this ,
and gallery , and let us have a play entire from beginning to end ; so as it be a
this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families , that he is considered the rightful
, except when any object of picturesque beauty within their view drew from her an exclamation of delight exclusively addressed
—you , perhaps , might .
no more explain such behaviour than her sister .
isabella was very sure that he must be a charming young man , and was equally sure that he must
might stand here very well .
only wanted invitation , to give the history of her hopes with great , though trembling delight .
he asked fifty guineas ; i closed with him directly , threw down the money , and the carriage was
all inducement for doing it .
my brother and sister will be enchanted with this place .
yourself—” “oh !
” “how was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains ?
but she had made up her mind how to meet this presumption so many weeks before it appeared , that
, was the name of poor richard ' s captain at one time ; i do not know when or
his resentment was in proportion to the distress of his circumstances—and he was doubtless as violent in his abuse of
” he was gone immediately ; and emma soon saw him standing before miss fairfax , and talking to her
“my niece walk to a dinner engagement at this time of the year !
why , the sport is but just begun .
silent .
no , no , sir , hands off , hands off .
little more than half a day’s journey .
boot , she had the comfort of farther delay in her power , being overtaken by a child from the
resolved from the first to pay a visit of comfort and inquiry to her cousins as soon as she could
knightley—but justice required that she should not be made unhappy by any coldness now , ) gave emma the resolution
they were of sobering tendency ; they allayed agitation ; they composed , and consequently must make her happier .
say they will not—” general tilney was not less sanguine , having already waited on her excellent friends in pulteney
after a short silence on both sides , mrs .
— “are you talking about me ?
it did , however .
, every feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment , that she could hardly reply
shark ?
addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept , when he first applies for their favour ; and
i wish he had not been obliged to tell you what he was trying for .
the others , and they soon found that jane had no intelligence to give .
incessantly challenging his notice ; and to her his devoirs were speedily paid , with a mixture of joy and
” miss crawford ' s countenance , as julia spoke , might have amused a disinterested observer .
i have not thought well of him from the time of the play .
sir thomas ' s sending away his son seemed to her so like a parent ' s care , under
her , the picture , the letter , the ring , formed[ _num_ ] altogether such a body of evidence
to expose a friend , such a friend as isabella had been to her—and then their own brother so closely
” “you surprize me !
how fond she was of them , and in every thing else he was so very obliging .
i am perfectly satisfied , from what his manners now are , that he never had any design of engaging
much as i suffered from it , that i was perfectly right in being guided by the friend whom you
ago .
he left me not half an hour ago .
as yet , she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard nor of its reasonableness .
the neatness and propriety of her dress was all that he would allow himself to commend in her presence ,
he had just read elton ' s letter as i was shewn in , and handed it to me directly
weston to correspond with me .
theatricals at ecclesford , the seat of the right hon .
the mother i could not avoid , as long as my tiresome aunt was dancing about with the housekeeper ,
" she dared not look up ; —but her mother and marianne both turned their eyes on him .
miss tilney was in a very pretty spotted muslin , and i fancy , by what i can learn ,
entered harriet ' s imagination ; for harriet had acknowledged her admiration and preference of frank churchill before she had
the following evening .
you must really begin to harden yourself to the idea of being worth looking at .
her from understanding his attentions , and who was still overpowered by the suddenness of addresses so wholly unexpected ,
by themselves .
chapter _num_ with more than usual eagerness did catherine hasten to the pump-room the next day , secure within herself
” “at any rate , it is safer to leave people to their own devices on such subjects .
where the resentment which true love would have dictated against the person defaming me—that person , too , a chit
voice to the misery of her feelings , by exclamations of wretchedness .
to make it known that , however determined to go to camden place herself , she should not think herself
so high and so conceited that there was no enduring him !
—i do not mean to reflect upon the good intentions of either mr .
it would be the natural result of your affection for her .
” charlotte’s reply was spared by the entrance of jane and elizabeth .
wickham of course wanted more than he could get ; but at length was reduced to be reasonable .
” “no , not that i know of , ” replied mrs .
of the most illustrious personages in this land .
another pretty kind of young person .
—and exactly emma ' s age .
upon any consideration .
feel secure at least of life for the present .
and , besides , i must give you a hint , frank ; any want of attention to her here
” “has this been all your doing , then ?
lord , how ashamed i should be of not being married before three-and-twenty !
the manager always played banquo himself , his wife my lady macbeth .
a young woman , pretty , lively , with a harp as elegant as herself , and both placed near
allen , in which henry talked at random , without sense or connection , and catherine , rapt in the
“you may , in fact , carry a very favourable report of us into hertfordshire , my dear cousin .
it is not by protestations that i shall endeavour to convince you i am wronged ; it is not by
she will probably have soon done , and then we shall go home .
the sight of your dear sister , however , was really dreadful ; and , to heighten the matter ,
gardiner left them soon after breakfast .
among those who are at all his equals in consequence , he is a very different man from what he
she saw no reason against their being happy .
” “miss fairfax , i suppose , though you were not aware of it , had been making up her
long to see her .
" " say rather that she has been unfortunate in her education !
“i had a few lines on parish business from mr .
crawford ' s reading there was a variety of excellence beyond what she had ever met with .
to-night ; but if you will give us the honour of your company to-morrow evening , i should not be
how strange that she should not perceive his admiration !
jennings , by being much engaged in her own room , could see little of what was passing .
in spite of the solemn assurances we have so often received to the contrary .
edward saw enough to comprehend , not only the meaning of others , but such of marianne ' s expressions
as a daughter , she hoped she was not without a heart .
such a scoundrel of a fellow !
i believe he is one of the very best-tempered men that ever existed .
" they were again silent for many minutes .
many circumstances might make it more eligible for them to be married privately in town than to pursue their first
but i know the foundation is unjust .
he has no faults but what a serious attachment would remove .
donavan was sent for ; and luckily he happened to just come in from harley street , so he stepped
she was a clever young woman , who understood the art of pleasing--the art of pleasing , at least ,
the wish of procuring her regard , which she had assured herself of his feeling in derbyshire , could not
” to such perseverance in wilful self-deception elizabeth would make no reply , and immediately and in silence withdrew ;
chapter xviii mr .
she is extremely young , to be sure , has had a wretched education , and a dreadful example of
in time past may have been .
—she received my attentions with an easy , friendly , goodhumoured playfulness , which exactly suited me .
it too plain .
knightley must marry no one but herself !
of miss taylor but as the most fortunate woman in the world ; and as to slighting mr .
a few characters too many must not frighten us .
i hope we shall keep it up these two hours .
sophia happening one day to open a private drawer in macdonald ' s library with one of her own keys
can be .
as my mother never goes out she entrusted me to the care of lady greville who did me the honour
mainwaring , whose agonies while she related the past seemed to threaten her reason , how is she to be
to sterling : —adeiu my dearest marianne .
a parade of insincere professions ; and that mr .
” “oh no !
it wiser to affect the air of a cool , common acquaintance than anything else , i watched you all
saucy looks— ' mr .
weston had been speaking to her at the same moment .
” “i have been used to consider poetry as the food of love , ” said darcy .
” cried catherine .
ten miles there , and ten back , you know .
sensibility whispered me , would in the end be fatal to her .
—she will tell me every thing .
dashwood , but if he had done otherwise , i should have thought him a rascal .
he had left them completely frightened ; and harriet eagerly clinging to him , and hardly able to speak ,
" again they were both silent .
christmas before ; and yet she lay awake ten minutes on wednesday night debating between her spotted and her tamboured
had arrived within the last few minutes , till , on entering the room , the first object she beheld
“he must be an oddity , i think , ” said she .
with a glance , she saw that he had lost none of his recent civility ; and , to imitate
lutterell lesley castle february the _num_ th i have made my own reflections on the letter you enclosed to me
no one but you can tell me them .
was passed together ; inmates of the same house , sharing the same amusements , objects of the same parental
i wish you had been there , my dear , to have given him one of your set-downs .
norris was a little confounded and as nearly being silenced as ever she had been in her life ; for
militia regiment in the neighbourhood ; it was to remain the whole winter , and meryton was the headquarters .
no one can withstand the charm of such a mystery .
willoughby ' s marriage with miss grey .
grant to go into .
bennet saw that her whole heart was in the subject , and affectionately taking her hand said in reply :
i only said in reply , that from my heart i wished her well , and earnestly hoped that she
his plan did not vary on seeing them .
and must only beg to put off the walk till tuesday .
“no , i do not know—not if you want the mare , ” was her answer .
i dared not look at him , and ran away directly .
" " why so ?
they set off .
, nor an expression used by either which had not been made and used some thousands of times before ,
express .
writing and accounts she was taught by her father ; french by her mother : her proficiency in either was
there was no immediate appearance .
chapter _num_ the following conversation , which took place between the two friends in the pump-room one morning , after
here he comes ; never mind , he will not see us , i am sure .
s estate is , we know , considerable , and i believe certainly entailed .
not all his good-will for mr .
the guest	 _num_ " i declare they are quite charming " 	 _num_ mischievous tricks	 _num_ drinking to her best
i know her disposition to be as sweet and faultless as your own , but the influence of her former
those will last us some time .
any thing eligible .
they entered it in one of its lowest points , and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching
and elinor , in quitting norland and edward , cried not as i did .
elton cared little about it , compared with his wife ; he only hoped “the young lady ' s pride
“i wish sir thomas had been here .
hardly allowed her to impose any restraint ; and the shadow of authority being now long passed away , they
, and her resolution of humbling the sex , they set off immediately as fast as they could walk ,
, than such kind of neighbourly acts as his own wife pointed out .
" " perhaps , miss marianne , " cried lucy , eager to take some revenge on her , "
strafford , viscount faulkland and duke of ormond , who were scarcely less strenuous or zealous in the cause .
chapter xiii the weather continued much the same all the following morning ; and the same loneliness , and the
my good opinion once lost , is lost forever .
" said she .
the law line—nothing more distinctly honourable was hazarded of him , than that he was in the law line ;
had been encouraging , or , what was yet more frequent or more dear , edmund had been her champion
but lucy would he have .
cautions against the violence of such noblemen and baronets as delight in forcing young ladies away to some remote farm-house
would not hear of their declining the offer upon her account ; insisted on their both accepting it directly ;
catherine , though she could not help wondering that with such perfect command of his horse , he should think
—“i will see that there are umbrellas , sir , ” said frank to his father : “miss bates must
the forest adjoining to the house .
navy list (their own navy list , the first that had ever been at uppercross) , and sitting down together
elton ' s spirits for other feelings .
she wrote even to jane on the occasion , to express her delight , and repeat all her former professions
i have many things to support me .
but mr .
she is well , and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and her mother .
dear ; i was so miserable !
jennings ' s forebodings , was not in a state of mind to resist their influence .
knightley began to suspect him of some inclination to trifle with jane fairfax .
his father was rendered easy by such an assurance , and mr .
benevolent , philanthropic man !
very bad to have children with one that one is obligated to be checking every moment ; " don '
“i do not think it will , ” stopping to look once more at all the outward wretchedness of the
julia made no communication , and fanny took no liberties .
" now he must begin all over again with somebody else .
then here is my last , ”—unclosing a pretty sketch of a gentleman in small size , whole-length—“my last and
—i could not have believed it .
in that very room she had been measured last september , with her two friends .
his spirits had been greatly recovering lately as might be expected .
" he is full of monkey tricks .
her introductions and recommendations must all wait , and every projected party be still only talked of .
lady bertram could think nothing less , and fanny shared her aunt ' s security , till she received a
; and from the time of their sitting down to table , it was a quick succession of busy nothings
tilney ' s being a clergyman , and of a very respectable family in gloucestershire .
i have brought my book , and if you would but rehearse it with me , i should be so
her friend , and was forced to sit and appear to listen to all these maternal effusions , consoling herself
i should be very sorry that such a friendship as has subsisted between him and captain benwick should be destroyed
it suits us very well .
no , i have no idea of being so easily persuaded .
his heart which (to use your favourite comparison) was as delicate as sweet and as tender as a whipt-syllabub ,
" " you speak very properly .
, ” said miss tilney in an embarrassed manner , “you would be so good—it would make me very happy
away her chair to the opposite side of the table , close to fanny , saying to her , in
and as to captain wentworth ' s liking louisa as well as henrietta , it is nonsense to say so
what did that shake of the head mean ?
edward brought us a most charming account of the place : the most complete thing of its kind , he
will be useful in his parish and his neighbourhood , where the parish and neighbourhood are of a size capable
come , and eat my strawberries .
glad to see you .
account .
few moments it gave henry to her view .
rising colour , asked her if she would have the goodness to show him the way .
garden in which theirs might at present be deficient .
” the two ladies looked over it together ; and he sat smiling and talking to them the whole time
her voice was not unsteady ; but her mind was in all the perturbation that such a development of self
“why do not you persuade him to go away ?
if it is not what you wish yourself , i have done .
your brother has gained my affections entirely , and as we could not live without one another , we are
if he should be so far stimulated by your genius as to learn to draw himself , how delightful it
" " another time , sir , i thank you , not now .
” “thank you , i am so glad , ” was fanny ' s instinctive reply ; though when she
particularly struck with the very appearance and manners , which for those two whole years she had been depreciating .
hour alone with harriet , than she became perfectly satisfied—unaccountable as it was !
i have been acquainted with you by character many years .
" " and is that all you can say for him ?
her sensibilities , i suspect , are strong—and her temper excellent in its power of forbearance , patience , self-control
her for many years , but i very well remember that i never liked her , and that her manners
i rode fifty yards up the lane , between the church and the house , in order to look about
though edmund was much more displeased with his aunt than with his mother , as evincing least regard for her
to be as formal and as orderly as the others ; but when the table was again safely covered ,
he was aware of what edmund must be suffering on his own behalf , in addition to all the rest
to the latter it was at first incomprehensible ; and when its object was understood , she hardly knew whether
” “yes , she will remain there till christmas .
my dear sir thomas , with all my faults i have a warm heart ; and , poor as i
he was no longer in doubt of the capabilities of her heart .
darcy , who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish , and who probably never looked at
but at length she was secured by the exertions of elinor , who greatly disapproved such continual seclusion .
” “they are disagreeable things to carry .
be very humiliating to a girl of frederica ' s age .
was it new for one , perhaps too busy to seek , to be the prize of a girl who
though you have often persuaded me into being reconciled to things that i disliked at first , you will not
for something more than ordinary .
; but i can say , that i have never known the blessing of one tranquil hour : ' —and
maria will be the best agatha .
he opened the door which was fastened only by a wooden latch and entered a small room , which he
charles is out shooting .
on fanny ' s spirits , when mansfield park was fairly left behind ; and by the time their first
few minutes were joined by the contents of another carriage , which emma could not hear the sound of at
there was a numerous family ; but the only two grown up , excepting charles , were henrietta and louisa
i wish nature had made such hearts as yours more common , but i have lived three-and-twenty years in the
" for a moment or two she could say no more ; but when this emotion had passed away ,
—and of what she had to tell !
some other companion than mr .
” “oh , no !
knightleys were as unpersuadable on that article as herself ; —and two basins only were ordered .
the house with the wish of appearing cheerful as usual , and the resolution of repressing such reflections as must
young man had been so much more sober : but a sanguine temper , though for ever expecting more good
friend mrs .
a general resemblance of disposition between the parties might forward the affection of mr .
, miss bennet .
all the arts which ladies sometimes condescend to employ for captivation .
all that is best known to yourself .
reflected however , we ordered them to drive to m—— .
but in her mind there was a sense of honor so keen , a generosity so romantic , that any
her friend ' s usual state of mind .
[ _num_ ] amiably bashful .
” “but my opinion of your brother never did alter ; it was always the same .
have strictly deserved them .
had me , if he could .
lady middleton piqued herself upon the elegance of her table , and of all her domestic arrangements ; and from
emma was extremely glad to see him—but there was a degree of confusion—a number of embarrassing recollections on each side
yes , indeed , oh yes !
crawford least wished to keep .
—i was mad enough , however , to resent .
liking mr .
she was very well disposed on the whole to regard his actions with all the candid allowances and generous qualifications
eager to be alone , and fearful of inquiries or hints from her uncle and aunt , she stayed with
a return of fever came on , and for a week he was in a more alarming state than ever
yates , speak what i feel as to this play , without reflecting on his friends at ecclesford ; but
—it was that of running with all possible speed down the steep side of the hill which led immediately to
cheek which gave it a meaning not otherwise ostensible .
whose negative might be uttered in such a manner as to be decisive , and whose behaviour at least could
lucy , who was hardly less anxious to please one parent than the other , thought the boys were both
oh , willoughby , willoughby , could this be yours !
are we to have the pleasure of a call from mr .
—her inferiority , whether of mind or situation , seemed little felt .
be hardly less painful than of both , and so on , through the whole list of lady russell '
that a girl of fourteen , acting only on her own unassisted reason , should err in the method of
father say , " my dear madam , this must not be .
both destroyed , perhaps through her means .
conspired to give her an interest ; which she wished to be acquainted with , and yet desired to avoid
the kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be requited .
that , though it is vastly well to be here for a few weeks , we would not live here
i saw him draw back surprised , and i was sorry that mrs .
“you have never any reason replied her mother , as a better is always provided for you .
it is mr .
of her as he chose .
duty , affection , every thing was disregarded .
, as it would have been impossible for any woman of sense to endure , she spoke her resentment in
ever lived .
to the hammer .
” “my mother is tolerably well , i trust ; though her spirits are greatly shaken .
were not necessary to my happiness , nor were spacious apartments .
went or staid ?
the house , furniture , neighbourhood , and roads , were all to her taste , and lady catherine’s behaviour
were she your equal in situation—but , emma , consider how far this is from being the case .
weston , who had been almost wholly engrossed by her attentions to him , was able to turn away and
them , in earnest conversation with a very fashionable looking young woman .
weston ; she was very often thinking of him , and quite impatient for a letter , that she might
collins returned most punctually on monday fortnight , but his reception at longbourn was not quite so gracious as it
young eye , what little remained to be done , and my own consequent resolutions , i had not been
she had two sisters to be benefited by her elevation ; and such of their acquaintance as thought miss ward
—some misfortunes i have certainly met with .
' s foot about lady russell ' s temples had long been a distress to him .
he wrote me a few lines on wednesday to say that he had arrived in safety , and to give
move , had been left by himself at the house of one of these young men to the comforts of
every circumstance belonging to him was interesting .
opening the door , what was her surprise to find her cousin edmund there writing at the table !
with the usual fair report of being very respectable , agreeable people .
” “in one respect , there certainly is a difference .
owed a wife of very superior character to any thing deserved by his own .
i obtained .
concluded , had reached lady catherine) , had only set that down as almost certain and immediate , which she
no objection was raised on the father ' s side ; the young man was treated liberally ; it was
how inferior are the accomplishments of sir james to those of his so greatly envied rival !
can you be ?
do not be overpowered by such a little tribute of admiration .
him to walk with her in the garden , met him at last most impatiently in the sweep , and
surprise , the evening before , on seeing their friends , without ceasing till every thing was told .
and , as i said before , i am determined to take anything and do my best .
very material to hartfield as you apprehended ; and now you have emma ' s account , i hope you
i have been returned since saturday .
in the warmest divisions of her aunt ' s garden , to the opening of leaves of her uncle '
he is so very superior .
she has not the open temper which a man would wish for in a wife .
men love to distinguish themselves , and in either of the other lines distinction may be gained , but not
was it dwelt on by turns in marianne ' s imagination ; and in the forenoon of the third they
” “henry , ” said miss tilney , “you are very impertinent .
you have seen enough of it .
hope they might be rectified .
morland , ” for he was close to her on the other side , “i shall not speak another word
me to do , is to die .
how evidently was there a gross want of feeling and humanity where his own pleasure was concerned ; and alas
holidays , had hardly a hope of being allowed to bring her with them .
unfortunate edward , and can make no enquiries on so prohibited a subject , but conclude him to be still
feelings .
' and once henry asked me for a knife , but i told him knives were only made for grandpapas
now looked very grave on mr .
” “perhaps he will always stay longer than he talks of .
its original purpose should have ceased .
surry is full of beauties .
" he looked , as he spoke , to the seat which mrs clay had been lately occupying : a
himself or settling his accounts .
making with the child , that he meant to avoid hearing her thanks , and rather sought to testify that
my greatest danger would lie in her consulting mrs .
occurred , in what manner he expressed himself , and how he was received , need not be particularly[ _num_
and now , poor girl !
” understanding and gratification came together .
nothing could be more improper than the whole business .
to sit and endure farther with calmness , with even apparent kindness .
i should like to see emma in love , and in some doubt of a return ; it would do
was particularly necessary to brace her up with a few decisive expressions ; and she was so very much concerned
than occurs , does not always pay for its hopes by any proportionate depression .
she had never boasted either beauty or cleverness .
worse clergyman for knowing that he will have a competence early in life .
no wonder she has been looking so bad and so cast down this last week or two , for this
“you like it , my emma , as little as i feared .
to suppose that a much longer visit had been promised—and could not but think that if mr .
the shock , however , being less real than the relief , offered it no injury ; and she began
he came down by yesterday ' s coach , and was with me this morning immediately after breakfast , to
as to that , ” answered isabella laughingly , “i do not pretend to determine what your thoughts and designs
wickham will never marry a woman without some money .
skinner , was here for his health last winter , and came away quite stout .
she had not mistaken him .
, sir ; to mr .
a sudden recollection seemed to occur , and to give him some taste of that emotion which was reddening anne
her manners were open , easy , and decided , like one who had no distrust of herself , and
information ' s sake , she had so strong a desire of not appearing ignorant , as , with a
to escape , and , as she believed , so narrowly escape john thorpe , and to be asked ,
" what a charming thing it is that mrs .
from marianne so expressive of confidence in willoughby and knowledge of his intentions .
“i have reason to think , ” he replied , “that harriet smith will soon have an offer of marriage
not designed for her observation which sent his daughter to the bell .
, between his submission to her taste , and his having always intended the same himself , with the superadded
not that i had any doubt before—i have so often heard mr .
as a magistrate , he had generally some point of law to consult john about , or , at least
” “yes , ” replied miss crawford carelessly , “it does very well for a place of this sort .
a soldier , nor a sailor .
“it seems like madness !
very good-natured , good sort of a fellow ; and whenever winthrop comes into his hands , he will make
grant could not help addressing her brother , though it was calling his attention from miss julia bertram .
as much as possible without spreading it farther .
ix mrs .
” “and so she is to come to us next friday or saturday , and the campbells leave town in
we three shall be able to go very well in my chaise ; and when we are in town ,
of the world , she must have received benefit of greater importance .
i have been doubting and considering as to what i ought to tell you .
is there anything extraordinary to be seen there ?
“the conduct of neither , if strictly examined , will be irreproachable ; but since then , we have both
it was very desirable that the connexion should be renewed , if it could be done , without any compromise
have very little teaching after an early age , and scramble into any hand they can get .
in time to attend her .
" anne did not receive the perfect conviction which the admiral meant to convey , but it would have been
satisfied with what the owner said in its praise , and took it immediately .
i was fatigued .
what would you advise me to do in such a case , miss dashwood ?
happen .
it seemed as if a good view were no longer to be taken from the top of an high hill
she knew not how to support herself , and from actual weakness sat down and cried for half-an-hour .
with itself and kindly disposed towards everyone , had been scarcely ever clouded .
edwards ; i had then a father and a mother , and had never known misfortunes—but now deprived of every
go along .
collins should be in possession of the longbourn estate , it would be highly expedient that both he and his
money enough for the expenses of her journey , and , upon suggesting it to her with most affectionate offers
he was welcomed by them all with great cordiality , but especially by marianne , who showed more warmth of
my children , two sweet boys and a girl , who had constantly resided with my father and me ,
wickham’s character .
, and that there were five hundred chances to one against his ever caring for her .
a great scream , and calling on harriet to follow her , ran up a steep bank , cleared a
” she curtsied her acquiescence .
the liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost all its value !
from one to the other without assistance , which there was only one servant in the house to afford ,
miss nash , that as he was coming back yesterday from clayton park , he had met mr .
" i am sorry we cannot see your sister , miss dashwood , " said miss steele .
and i have too much reason to fear that the governess to whose care i consigned her was unequal to
made them wish to be better acquainted with it .
had my daughters been younger than herself , i should have considered the introduction of such a companion as a
me of our corresponding ; i assure you that it will be a great releif to me to write to
been obliged to put up with exactly the reverse .
care for at a ball .
; all that i have to recommend being comprised in , do not spoil them , and do not physic
from something that he told me in our journey hither , i have reason to think bingley very much indebted
and wholly engrossed by her own feelings , followed them in silence .
lively enough at the cottage for such a heart-broken man as captain benwick .
did you think he came directly from town ?
chapter _num_ the morrow brought a very sober-looking morning , the sun making only a few efforts to appear ,
it was a great comfort to her to be sure of exciting no interest in one person at least among
“i am very sorry , ” said she inarticulately , through her tears , “i am very sorry indeed .
now , as you are too ill and too unhappy to be vain , i think i may venture to
others rising up , isabella had only time to press her friend ' s hand and say , “good-bye ,
i know that young men in general do not admit of any enquiry even from their nearest relations into affairs
so much so , that they inspired me with a great curiosity to know the history of her life ,
” “undoubtedly , ” replied darcy , to whom this remark was chiefly addressed , “there is a meanness in
do you know , i saw the prettiest hat you can imagine , in a shop window in milsom street
” elizabeth was chiefly struck by his extraordinary deference for lady catherine , and his kind intention of christening ,
the first black idea ; and mary was quite ready to be affronted , when louisa made all right by
he had followed her into the shrubbery with no idea of trying it .
henry at her heart , and northanger abbey on her lips , she hurried home to write her letter .
there to know the rest .
she had little difficulty in understanding thus much of her rival ' s intentions , and while she was firmly
your mother insists upon your accepting it .
" " law , my dear !
at all for the play , if miss anne could not be with us .
i am most happy that you like the chain , and that it should be here in time for to-morrow
—she had to destroy all the hopes which she had been so industriously feeding—to appear in the ungracious character of
she is going to london to see her particular friend , mrs .
and had left him only on learning that the ladies of the family intended a visit to georgiana that morning
let him be applied to , if you please , for it will be less unpleasant to me than to
” “especially when one of those two is such a fanciful , troublesome creature !
" the real circumstances of this pathetic piece of family history were , that the musgroves had had the ill
chapter xvii when the ladies returned to the drawing-room after dinner , emma found it hardly possible to prevent their
love him .
gardiner , to whom the chief of this news had been given before , in the course of jane and
yates walking off together to consult farther in the room now beginning to be called the theatre , and miss
is my own ; i am doing no injury to anybody but myself .
herself directly involved in a disagreement with mr .
” “my dear , you tumble my gown , ” was mrs .
entrance of mr .
unhappy man !
suggestions to have had no good effect , proposed , as another expedient for restoring her spirits , that they
i do not subscribe to it .
the post was expected .
to comprehend all the feelings of edward ; and , of course , to reflect on her own with discontent
besides the thousand pounds belonging to each of the girls , which brings them in fifty pounds a year a-piece
by supposing such an affection , you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong , and me most unhappy .
i suppose , we have at least eight more to go .
“my dear sir thomas , i perfectly comprehend you , and do justice to the generosity and delicacy of your
up , of the horses and dogs of the friend whom he had just left , and of a proposed
” “yes , ” said lady bertram presently ; “and it is a comfort to think that we shall always
and prejudice was languishing under the stigma of having been refused by one bookseller[x] without the formality of inspection ,
well , " (turning away) , " now , where are you bound ?
xxxv lady susan to mr .
i still ; and as soon as i am a little more at leisure , i mean to look in
she feared it was a strengthening regard .
between elizabeth and charlotte there was a restraint which kept them mutually silent on the subject ; and elizabeth felt
with a larger party , who , like themselves , judged it wisest to take their exercise early , as
the great question of whither he should go was settled , and the first outline of this important change made
besides , if you take my advice , and resolve to marry de courcy , it will be indispensably necessary
it down for certain .
to set about copying him , he would not be sufferable .
her form , though not so correct as her sister ' s , in having the advantage of height ,
only comfort we have in such long separations .
edward interrupted her by saying , " you must not enquire too far , marianne : remember i have no
by only raising my voice , and saying any thing two or three times over , she is sure to
now , when she knew better how to be useful , and how to forbear , and when her mother
knightley looked back , and came and sat down by her .
—nothing could be clearer .
all looked up to them .
are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears .
about the third or fourth morning after their being thus resettled in berkeley street , mrs .
i found harriet more conversable than i expected .
might be expected ; with tears and lamentations of regret , invectives against the villainous conduct of wickham , and
neatness and consistency of which elizabeth gave charlotte all the credit .
though she dared not lift up her eyes , he shortly afterwards , and in a voice of authority ,
your gown seems very pretty .
but it is of small importance .
jefferies about his son , and the poor fellow was waiting for me half an hour .
chapter xxxviii mrs .
and as she was no longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters’ beauty and her own , it was suspected
the clock struck twelve—and catherine had been half an hour asleep .
she left the house without any wish of knowing them better .
—certainly , i can have no doubt of his being fond of her .
, he should go to london , and personally entreat her good offices in his favour .
knightley saw no such passion , and of course thought nothing of its effects ; but she saw too much
leaning back in one corner of the carriage , in a violent burst of tears , she was conveyed some
she did her best when thus called on , by speaking of lady middleton with more warmth than she felt
let us have patience .
daughters .
, are not detained on one side or other by carriages , horsemen , or carts .
fond of society ; —it will be a small party , but where small parties are select , they are
he wished him to be a model of constancy ; and fancied the best means of effecting it would be
“now william would be able to keep himself , which would make a vast difference to his uncle , for
darcy , though she had not before known its extent , agreed equally well with his own words .
it had been serviceable in deadening the first shock , without retaining any influence to alarm .
of something more permanent long before the term in question , the two families had consented to the young people
it must have been a delightful happiness .
she will break it to you better than i can .
“what can it be , miss woodhouse ?
lady bertram did not at all like to have her husband leave her ; but she was not disturbed by
hope you or matilda may have better luck .
though good themselves (my father , particularly , all that was benevolent and amiable) , allowed , encouraged , almost
miss bertram approved the decision , for the less he had to learn the better ; and though she could
while it told the excess of her poor mother ' s alarm , gave some explanation to such unexpected rapidity
" said mrs .
” emma was gratified , and would soon have shewn no want of words , if the sound of mrs
we both know that he has been profligate in every sense of the word ; that he has neither integrity
she liked him—in spite of his gravity and reserve , she beheld in him an object of interest .
i have had it above these three years .
from not daring to relieve herself by a single attempt at throwing ridicule on his cause .
disqualified or disinclined , by her foreign education , from contributing her help to its comforts , and therefore set
they have no indoors man , else they do not want for any thing ; and mrs .
had long perceived , it was a stab , for it told of his own convictions and views .
two of her girls had been upon the point of marriage , and after all there was nothing in it
how sure to be mistaken !
chapter _num_ elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from jane on their first arrival
now i can manage the other parcel and the basket very well .
" or in the anxious supplement from mary , of-- " upon my word , i shall be pretty well
, affronts : but here , when the whole was unfolded , was an insult not to be overlooked ,
what can it signify to you , what we are talking of .
so far from going away , turned back with them , and entered into conversation with mr .
an event ; and the wedding-cake , which had been a great distress to him , was all eat up
of pleasing her ; but she was stopped by miss tilney ' s saying , with a little confusion ,
i really am quite ashamed of my idleness ; but in this horrid place one can find time for nothing
as long as may be .
what a fine thing for our girls !
with you and your family .
amazement , remain the whole evening more serious and thoughtful than usual .
you are too bountiful !
—but he had fancied her in love with him ; that evidently must have been his dependence ; and after
” “has she been presented ?
it was a good scheme ; but on driving to the door they heard that neither “master nor mistress was
she cannot be justified in it .
she had hoped better things from their high ideas of their own situation in life , and was reduced to
such perfidious treachery in the merciless perpetrators of the deed will shock your gentle nature dearest marianne as much as
the sequel explained it .
she , however , was soon persuaded to think differently .
” it was a beautiful evening , mild and still , and the drive was as pleasant as the serenity
i have found him capable of giving me much information on various subjects ; and he has always answered my
an opportunity of coming hither , though with mrs .
i have always protested against comedy , and this is comedy in its worst form .
your neighbourhood is increasing , and you mix more with it .
were half way down the hill , and every thing left far behind .
norris ' s admonitions .
it was william whom she talked of most , and wanted most to see .
in no other light could you have been more to me than a common acquaintance .
their own inclinations ascertained , there were no difficulties behind , no drawback of poverty or parent .
to think only of the licence which every rehearsal must tend to create .
some very good ranting-ground in frederick , he professed an equal willingness for that .
and wantonly playing with our own happiness .
one could not leave her out .
—it was all arranged , it was all completed , and harriet was safe in brunswick square .
six weeks into ten or twelve , and go away at last because they can afford to stay no longer
the misfortune of your birth ought to make you particularly careful as to your associates .
i could not excuse a man ' s having more music than love—more ear than eye—a more acute sensibility to
spoken highly in her praise , not merely from lucy ' s assertion , but from her venturing to trust
the seat of edward ' s most particular freind , which was but a few miles distant .
there was no end of miss elliot ' s charms .
was she out with him today ?
dashwood do ?
the part which provoked her most , was that in all this waste of foresight and caution , she should
where mr .
“miss woodhouse , ” said frank churchill , after examining a table behind him , which he could reach as
she was fond of all boy ' s plays , and greatly preferred cricket not merely to dolls , but
be great , and as his intimacy with any acquaintance grew , so regularly grew their fortune .
, to make him a desirable companion to her .
would have been every probability of success and felicity for him .
some print , and she not only might have passed him unseen , but was obliged to touch as well
anne had never submitted more reluctantly to the jealous and ill-judging claims of mary ; but so it must be
the hint ; but she had merely intended to discompose elizabeth by bringing forward the idea of a man to
it was a sound which did not make her cheerful ; she wondered that edmund should forget her , and
i can even suppose it pleasant to spend half the year in the country , under certain circumstances , very
i saw them turn the corner from bath street just now .
susan , she found , looked up to her and wished for her good opinion ; and new as anything
hall she had contrived to evade and escape from .
" [ _num_ ] chapter iv " what a pity it is , elinor , " said marianne , "
“well , miss woodhouse , ” he almost immediately began , “your inclination for dancing has not been quite frightened
before they parted , how much her washing cost per week , and how much she had every year[ _num_
to the fortune of a wife , the goodness of my own will make me indifferent , but her family
where could have been the attraction ?
well , now let us be quite comfortable and snug , and talk and laugh all the way home .
fairer play .
will not you engage to attend with your eyes steadily fixed on him the whole time—as i shall do—not to
he stopt ; and , ungentlemanlike as he looked , fanny was obliged to introduce him to mr .
, they parted ; a wonderful instance of advice being given on such a point , without being resented .
weston , and others !
there would be the greatest indecorum , i think .
day of its holidays .
the half hour was chatted away pleasantly enough ; and she was not at all surprised , at the end
i was given good principles , but left to follow them in pride and conceit .
“he had seen a group of old acquaintance in the street as he passed—he had not stopped , he would
and general encouragement , a caution against the very jane he had fixed on .
my character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness , and in a cause of such moment as
weston , who came out , in her solicitude after her son-in-law , to inquire if he were come—and she
the people who lived in it , the two cousins found a temptation from this period of walking thither almost
indiscretion , since her correspondent was not of a sort to regard a slight one .
she joined them sometimes at sir john ' s , sometimes at her own house ; but wherever it was
in the warmth of the moment , and under a mistaken impression , i might , perhaps , have endeavoured
perhaps i may be to stay longer .
" her daughter , feeling by turns both pleased and pained , surprised and not surprised , was all silent
you are so strange !
the advantages of the connexion as far as possible ?
—“mrs .
severity necessary .
elton ?
—the two abbots and i ran into the front room and peeped through the blind when we heard he was
the good was all to myself , by making you an object of the tenderest affection to me .
elton turned to mrs .
frank churchill done , to make you suppose him such an unnatural creature ?
got so far as to indulge in a secret “perhaps , ” but in general the felicity of being with
d ' ye do , george ?
anne heard her , and made no violent exclamations ; she only smiled , blushed , and gently shook her
them all , the resolution to act something or other seemed so decided as to make edmund quite uncomfortable .
to suppose but what , if you had had a suitable fortune , he would have come down with something
after settling her at thornton lacey with every kind attention to her comfort , the object of almost every day
” “no , i should have turned in a moment .
nay , had she been without his arm , she would soon have known that she needed it , for
long suite of lofty rooms , exhibiting the remains of magnificent furniture , though now for many years deserted—the happiness
” “she is a very good kind of girl , i believe .
was the very distance for easy intercourse .
and yet this reginald , whom a very few words from me softened at once into the utmost submission ,
uttered sentiments of morality worthy of a heart like her own .
the only one who ever told her of them : and though this was not particularly agreeable to emma herself
every body last night said how well you played .
left to entertain each other .
what was elegant and clever , shewed that there was no want of taste , though strength of understanding must
above what he had communicated to his son ; for his prime motive in sending her away had very little
" they were now joined by mrs .
betsey , too , a spoiled child , trained up to think the alphabet her greatest enemy , left to
it opens his designs to his family , it introduces you among them , it diffuses through the party those
and , my dear , whenever he comes , you had better let him look at little bella ' s
” catherine blushed for her friend , and said , “isabella is wrong .
the refreshment of randalls was absolutely necessary .
knightley , would imagine it possible .
goddard to whom he could apply for information of her relations or friends .
i lived in perpetual fright at that time , and had all manner of imaginary complaints from not knowing what
bringing them together again .
in earnest conversation ; and had this led to no suspicion , the faces of both , as they hastily
but she had chosen it with her eyes open ; and though evidently regretting that her visitors were to go
” “i know that you all love her really too well to be unjust or unkind ; but excuse me
in the course of an hour , you would never be able to prove that it was not thornton lacey—for
” and having said so , with a degree of tenderness and consciousness which fanny had never seen in her
most exceedingly pleased with sir thomas ' s good opinion , and saying scarcely anything , he did his best
odd that it should be so dull , for a great deal of it must be invention .
till yesterday , i believe , she never doubted his regard ; and even now , perhaps—but i am almost
“you have given miss smith all that she required , ” said he ; “you have made her graceful and
" " i suspect , " said sir walter coolly , " that admiral croft will be best known in
that will amaze the whole room , and be handed down to posterity with all the éclat of a proverb
having , on account of its decaying state , been removed by the general ' s father , and the
her to enjoy them in quiet , set off by themselves .
to it ; and colonel wallis had his eye upon your father enough to be sensible of it , though
rather my most particular friend of the two , but i have not cared much for her these three years
of indifferent road to pay a morning visit .
to the rest of the family they paid little attention ; avoiding mrs .
never had any day passed so quickly !
indulgence , and will only insist on your not expecting me to encourage you in it , by my own
gardiner , “i really should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by anybody
chapter _num_ during dinner , mr .
” he had a wife about fifteen years his junior , but no children ; and they entered the neighbourhood
he told the whole ; and she had only to add , “so strange !
to clifton tomorrow , they would not go without her , it would be nothing to put off a mere
it had never occurred to her , on the present occasion , but as a thing to be carefully avoided
” his daughter’s request , for such it might be considered , of being admitted into her family again before
i was as amiable as possible on the occasion , but all in vain .
emma listened with the warmest concern ; grieved for her more and more , and looked around eager to discover
the young people had been very inconsiderate in forming the plan ; they ought to have been capable of a
accepted the present without hesitation , and told her sister of it in raptures .
" " the unkindness of your own relations has made you astonished to find friendship any where .
’ allow me , by the way , to observe , my fair cousin , that i do not reckon
” “if you put such a question to her , ” cried edmund , preventing his cousin ' s speaking
bennet was doubly engaged , on one hand collecting an account of the present fashions from jane , who sat
of saving her sister trouble , which determined her to wait till she might be safe from such a companion
” “to that white cottage .
which we have hitherto been too little attentive .
vernon xxxi lady susan to mrs .
“my brother does know it , ” was henry ' s answer .
and if she were to be made less happy , less comfortable by our absence—oh !
draws nearer , i do not wish to be giving any body trouble .
bingley was endeared to darcy by the easiness , openness , and ductility of his temper , though no disposition
i have not been used to submit to any person’s whims .
” “mrs .
not rain , which catherine was sure it would not .
she was ashamed to confess having never seen any of the impropriety which was so glaring to sir thomas ,
her again .
—the inconveniences would have been different .
; but there was speedy comfort in the determined views and sanguine perseverance of the lover ; and when seeing
and i am not only , not going to be married , at present , but have very little intention
that particular partiality , which , as she was given to understand by his words as well as his actions
" " no , indeed !
harriet , who was standing at some distance , and with face turned from her , did not immediately say
established .
they have no difficulties to contend with at home , no opposition , no caprice , no delays .
collins , whose inquiries after herself and all her family were very minute , and then by a little curiosity
then passing through the garden , the gate of which had been left open by margaret , he bore her
harriet was not insensible of manner ; she had voluntarily noticed her father ' s gentleness with admiration as well
, and he comes for a whole fortnight ; i knew it would be so .
seven hundred a year is a fine thing for a younger brother ; and as of course he will still
why should he marry ?
in talking over their route the evening before , mrs .
” “i am afraid it was , indeed , ” said the more candid lady bertram , who had overheard
” this was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted : and elizabeth , rejoicing that such
to lay his bones among them , ” the reformation in religion and the king ' s riding through the
" " no , marianne , in no possible way .
for herself .
hero of the evening , nor without her overhearing mr .
entering lyme) drew half the party to the window .
he had never indulged much hope , he had now none , of ever reading her name in any other
admiral had since been spared ; and she scrupled to point out her own remarks to him , lest it
the smallest reply to her last ; and adding , that as silence on such a point could not be
" " she put in the feather last night .
” “very well .
present she could not doubt his having a decidedly warm admiration , a conscious preference of herself ; and this
would do rightly by them ; for they know , as well as he does , as well as all
i am grown very happy ; but that would not interest .
or fortune ; or rather sunk by him into a state of most wearing , anxious , youth-killing dependence !
i sent him away with smiles .
louisa was naturally ill-tempered and cunning ; but she had been taught to disguise her real disposition , under the
it would amuse away the difficulties of her part , and lessen the irksomeness of miss smith ' s .
with the greatest satisfaction , spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration , and seemed almost angry to
she could hardly have made a more untoward choice .
she was proceeding to illustrate this doctrine by examples from the lives of great men when the carriage came to
we spent a very pleasant day , and had a very good dinner , tho ' to be sure the
but for this isabella showed no inclination .
it would really be gratifying to see them all again , and a little addition of society might be of
”—she was extremely concerned ; for , though very eccentric , he had a thousand good qualities .
her removal was impossible .
the island , nor of seeing the dockyard .
i do not think we do so well without him .
sure , if your father were to speak to him , he would go .
catherine was disturbed and out of spirits ; but isabella seemed to find a pool of commerce , in the
" [ _num_ ] " but he told you that he loved you .
happy to find that she was not suspected of any extraordinary interest in it ; that mrs .
he had said enough to give fanny some happier feelings than she had lately known , and with a brighter
after having been deprived during the course of _num_ weeks of a real freind (for such i term your mother)
palmer soon afterwards , " i have got such a favour to ask of you and your sister .
this was an article not to be entered on by himself ; but a very intimate friend of his ,
but on the third morning after his arrival in hertfordshire , she saw him , from her dressing-room window ,
had at least outlived one day .
punishment .
a vast deal indeed ; she hardly talked of anything else .
if he had been wavering before as to what he should do , which had often seemed likely , the
room , or the number of couples .
“you are quite a visit in my debt , mr .
but how little of permanent happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions were
impatient to begin ; i know you will not mind my going away , and i dare say john will
in showing kindness to his cousins therefore he had the real satisfaction of a good heart ; and in settling
and now to be sure you will be in no hurry to be gone .
your own judgment must direct you .
, consciousness of right , and one independent fortune between them , fail of bearing down every opposition ?
cause .
that he could mistake , and his assertion of the offer and of her encouragement convinced her that his mistakes
jennings immediately whispered to elinor— " get it all out of her , my dear .
but it is of very little consequence .
allen immediately recognized the features of a former schoolfellow and intimate , whom she had seen only once since their
determined to hear all she could ; and charlotte , detained first by the civility of mr .
weston , “have not you finished it yet ?
me , whether i am ever known to them or not .
you do nothing .
” cried the good-hearted mrs .
it grieved her to see the earnestness with which he often watched marianne , and his spirits were certainly worse
, nerves much affected , spirits much depressed to calm and raise , and her own imagination added that there
is a nice book , and why should not i call it so ?
, all things considered , in desiring the match ; and the whole business seemed most comfortably arranged .
in the country , therefore , the miss bertrams continued to exercise their memories , practise their duets , and
general ' s proposal of her taking his place in his son ' s curricle for the rest of the
her only friend was absent .
an engagement , you know , must be kept .
among the rest there was one for colonel brandon : —he took it , looked at the direction , changed
” “we shall do better another evening i hope , ” was mr .
me three different plans of bonomi ' s .
her !
your nature , i am sure .
with these rooms i might now have been familiarly acquainted !
by changes that will only raise her character the more by the recollection of the faults she once had .
you cannot think how happy i shall be !
perusal only[ _num_ ] served to increase her abhorrence of the man , and so bitter were her feelings against
jennings , and she was fearful that her[ _num_ ] question had implied much more curiosity on the subject than
you will see them both this morning , i dare say .
“i can comprehend your going on charmingly , when you had once made a beginning ; but what could set
left her this moment .
we cannot help ourselves .
henry returned to what was now his only home , to watch over his young plantations , and extend his
walk home !
jennings and her daughter ; and her confidence was rewarded by finding even the former , even the woman with
look at figured ; and that a blue ribbon , be it ever so beautiful , would still never match
there was a great deal of needlework to be done , moreover , in which her help was wanted ;
bennet was beyond what i had ever witnessed in him .
—now for it .
any farther pause proceeded in his account of mr .
" they thanked her ; but were obliged to resist all her entreaties .
—i am sure , but for believing that you entirely approved and meant to encourage me in my attachment ,
” elizabeth’s misery increased , at such unnecessary , such officious attention !
from his relations in kent , his actions were capable of a very different construction ; and that his character
air of the bristol downs , healthy as it is , has not been able to drive poor henry from
is nothing to detain me longer in bath .
" did you see them off , before you came away ?
jennings could not quit cleveland during the dashwoods ' stay ; and colonel brandon was soon brought , by their
introduce him to sir john and lady middleton .
darcy ; that to be in the same room , the same party with him for so many hours together
came home cold , she would be sure to warm herself thoroughly ; if hungry , that she would take
” “you would find it difficult , i dare say , just now , in the middle of a very
” “it is very pretty , ” said mr .
own disappointment over again .
miss dawson to call in the morning—which will complete my daughters introduction into life .
willoughby may undoubtedly have very sufficient reasons for his conduct , and i will hope that he has .
you will never guess .
when he is married , if we have the good luck to live to another war , we shall see
to be kept up for hours , after the family were in bed , by stupid pamphlets was not very
misfortunes with her .
” “yes , and i am afraid they will be the last this year .
was hardly entreaty , to come to uppercross cottage , and bear her company as long as she should want
weston doat upon her .
henry tilney must know best .
it must be all conjecture .
and all the elegancies of mind .
perhaps you may wonder that i do not consider myself as well as my sister in my matrimonial projects ;
on hearing her announced by the name of “lady dorothea , ” i instantly quitted my post and followed her
preservative from want .
anne knew that lady russell must be suffering some pain in understanding and relinquishing mr elliot , and be making
” “i would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours , ” he coldly replied .
pay and appointments , was handsome , his fortune was moderate and must be all his daughter ' s ;
anne was astonished to recognise the same hills and the same objects so soon .
i must go back to miss tilney .
elizabeth soon heard from her friend ; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been
“i know little of the game at present , ” said he , “but i shall be glad to improve
no , i can safely say , i have no pleasure so complete , so unalloyed .
they were relieved however , not by her own recollection , but by the good will of lucy , who
" " she would have turned back then , but for you ?
to own it .
be filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of her—was a wretched reflection , and she sat in misery
tilney should ask her a third time to dance , her wishes , hopes , and plans all centred in
darcy , chose for her employment the examination of all the letters which jane had written to her since her
i went down to ramsgate for a week with a friend last september , just after my return from the
done together , however undesired and inconvenient .
miss crawford knew mrs .
care how much you lecture him .
to be on table directly !
” she then took a longer time for consideration .
to make such poor returns .
—and though one would be very glad to do a kindness by poor mr .
she has not the least idea .
to receive so flattering an invitation !
but when you mentioned mrs .
martin ; but , as i said before , are unjust to harriet .
exist ; but still she had declined it !
fond of reading , she fancied them satirical : perhaps without exactly knowing what it was to be satirical ;
soothe or to counsel her .
to quit the neighbourhood of norland was no longer an evil ; it was an object of desire ; it
i hope you do not retract what you then said .
jennings , were to have taken their mother by surprise on the following forenoon .
she really believed , one of the happiest couples in the world .
dixon had written most pressingly .
” “naturally , i believe , i am as lively as julia , but i have more to think of
—we are in great hopes that miss woodhouse may be prevailed with to try it this evening .
of any consequence , if you feel yourself at all less strong or comfortable than usual , and will only
you were a large party in yourselves , and you wanted nothing beyond .
advising her father not to let her go .
remember i have done the duty of a grandfather .
to say , “it is as well , perhaps , that i have not had the possibility .
day .
for once in your life you would be obliged to own yourself mistaken .
“thank god , ” said he .
than a post of such honourable representation , and very thoroughly relished the means it afforded her of mixing in
not help adding her warm protestations to theirs .
the circumstance was told him at hartfield ; for the moment , he was silent ; but emma heard him
“this is the assembly night , ” said william .
" " really !
confirmed him his friend .
elton , but to miss woodhouse , as the latter plainly saw .
you must remember that four evenings have also been spent together—and four evenings may do a great deal .
his situation was new and animating .
their sisters and mrs .
after what passed at first , he would claim it as a promise .
—there he was , among the standers-by , where he ought not to be ; he ought to be dancing
enable him to marry such a girl ?
she shewed it to me .
paid her tribute of more decent attention , in an enquiry after mrs charles musgrove , and her fine little
crawford , and received his account .
“if i had not been active , ” said she , “and made a point of being introduced to his
for a moment , and asked marianne to sing a particular song which marianne had just finished .
at present i ask no more .
he could refer sir walter to all who knew him ; and certainly , the pains he had been taking
elinor scolded him , harshly as ladies always scold the imprudence which compliments themselves , for having spent so much
you must not prejudice fanny against him .
her father , instead of giving her an unlimited order on his banker , or even putting an hundred pounds
john knightley , in this short visit to hartfield , going about every morning among her old acquaintance with her
—he began to think it was to be , and that he could not prevent it—a very promising step of
willoughby got up two hours before his usual time , on purpose to go to whitwell .
brothers , nor persecutions to the lady .
not a soul knew of it , but colonel and mrs .
of her sick child ; and the colonel , at the joint invitation of mrs .
the look and behaviour of everybody they had seen were discussed , except of the person who had mostly engaged
hurst sang with her sister , and while they were thus employed , elizabeth could not help observing , as
the second blessing was the arrival of the apothecary .
long piece of needlework , of little use and no beauty , thinking more of her pug than her children
; a very kind , friendly note indeed , addressed to me , just as it ought ; i shall
—but however , she is so far from well , that her kind friends the campbells think she had better
no intercourse with harriet possible but by note ; no church for her on sunday any more than on christmas
flesh—but of human intellect .
and though the consequent shock and alarm was very great and much more durable—indeed i believe it was half an
i was sitting about half an hour ago with sir james in the breakfast parlour , when my brother called
you can make little charles do anything ; he always minds you at a word .
that brother had been long removed from the country and being a sensible man , and , moreover , a
it takes me quite unawares .
i know nobody who distinguishes characters better .
she saw that it was .
something else , and turned to mansfield .
in a way that , if they had understanding , should convince them that it was to be only a
, and express very genuine unmixed anxiety to know that he had certainly escaped catching cold—which , however , he
seemed wholly self-occupied .
" " yes—no—never absolutely .
eleanor was ready to oblige her ; and catherine reminding her as they went of another promise , their first
no ; not less when i knew you to be unhappy , than when i had believed you at ease
” “and have you answered the letter ?
happiness .
he must be , from the woman whom he had been pursuing with undoubted attachment and strong probability of success
for a week or two , about the equinox , there would have been a difference .
from his manner that you will have him calling here soon .
maria blushed in spite of herself as she answered , “i take the part which lady ravenshaw was to have
no difficulty was made on mrs .
my nephews and nieces !
write to her at all events ; it would be most consistent with his usual kindness ; and till she
and the window was open , and mr .
no wonder !
money before she went off to be married , on purpose we suppose to make a show with , and
little to distress them beyond the want of graciousness and warmth .
; and yet , who can say how soon it may all vanish from my mind ?
she has not been out on horseback now this long while , and i am persuaded that , when she
the other to its derision for disappointed hopes , and involving them both in misery of the acutest kind .
answer !
judgement in all matters within the scope of your understanding ; but permit me to say , that there must
suspense , or at an end .
she would not be ashamed of the appearance of the penitence , so justly and truly hers .
yes , by heavens !
the fears of the sister have added to the weakness of the woman ; but she is by no means
up the town (and she felt almost certain of meeting him) could not be borne .
disappointment in the course of the last half-year , to be in need of the true kindness of her sister
knightley had been telling him something about brewing spruce-beer , and he wanted to put it down ; but when
palmer ' s side that constant and friendly good humour could do , to make them feel themselves welcome .
a bride , you know , must appear like a bride , but my natural taste is all for simplicity
bennet from fighting .
" i will not ask your opinion of it as a composition , " said edward .
no means hopeless ; he spoke cheerfully .
weston meanwhile , perfectly unsuspicious of the indignation he was exciting , happy and cheerful as usual , and with
, were highly blameable .
which no remarks , no inquiries , no affectionate address of mrs .
you have been no friend to harriet smith , emma .
when he returned , to understand how fanny was situated , and perceived its ill effects , there seemed with
" elinor set him right as to its situation ; and it seemed rather surprising to him that anybody could
" and who knows but you may raise a dance , " said she .
i otherwise should .
air , look so fearlessly around , nay , that he should even enter the church , seemed wonderful to
she had been too quick in receiving them as the certain result of the most correct opinions and well-regulated mind
i shall tell colonel forster it will be quite a shame if he does not .
his sister , he said , was uncomfortably circumstanced—she had no female companion—and , in the frequent absence of her
in performing a duty , he had secured agreeable recollections for his own mind .
; while the want of that higher species of self-command , that just consideration of others , that knowledge of
, we allow , but decent , perhaps , and habitable ; and altogether not inferior to the generality ;
" i am going home , and you have an engagement with your friend .
—talking about spruce-beer .
” “do you ma ' am said i ; you are vastly obliging .
but leave him to chuse his own wife .
merits , because he had been a sufferer from them .
; but though she had one sort of spirit , she had not the best .
you ask me whether your new mother in law is handsome and amiable—i will now give you an exact description
not be taken amiss ; for we all know the tenderness of mrs .
recollection that mr .
she had no reason to complain , and was amused enough ; quite enough still to stand at the door
” “yes , indeed , and the more you know of him the better you will like him .
—such a development of every thing most unwelcome !
you would have found in me a friend always ready to assist you .
our suffering , as it always does of our conduct .
granted ; —for private enjoyment ; and for private enjoyment keep them .
” “no , my dear , ” said her father instantly ; “that i am sure you are not .
the very first sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled in london for the winter , and concluded
happened to be mine .
from her mind the remembrance of henry .
my being the mother is the very reason why my feelings should not be tried .
had the honour of assisting mrs .
" pretty well , ma ' am in the fifteen years of my marriage ; though many women have done
speedily brought on considerable weariness and a violent desire to go home .
let it but be comic , i condition for nothing more .
ferrars ' s general behaviour to her sister , seemed , to her , to foretell such difficulties and distresses
and if i have good luck , your mother shall have some .
” “foolish fellow !
was a proof of his own warm and amiable heart , which she could not contemplate without emotions so compounded
seemed too nearly impossible for desire .
the next morning early , when there would be the farther advantage of sending an account of louisa ' s
with apprehensive caution therefore it was revealed , and he was listened to with unexpected calmness .
you remember the gregorys ; they are grown up amazing fine girls , but they will hardly speak to me
" said lucy , as they walked up the stairs together—for the middletons arrived so directly after mrs .
it was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so unsuitable a match .
chapter _num_ the housemaid ' s folding back her window-shutters at eight o ' clock the next day was the
general way , in knowing what was felt , what was meditated , what was done .
accomplished .
” “we have been exactly a quarter of an hour here , ” said edmund , taking out his watch
whims ; and such of their time as could be spared from the importunate demands which this politeness made on
cole was telling me that dancing at the rooms at bath was—mrs .
“dear ma ' am , said ellen it is but nine o ' clock .
attributed to him , of their becoming hereafter her own .
” “i mean to be too rich to lament or to feel anything of the sort .
early day for making him the happiest of men .
how they were all to be conveyed , he would have made a difficulty if he could , but as
thorpe , then ?
her father and herself remaining ; and he , taking out a newspaper , the accustomary loan of a neighbour
” “that you certainly shall .
it was a foolish precipitation last christmas , but the evil of a few days may be blotted out in
they judged it best that lady bertram should not be harassed by alarms which , it was to be hoped
—he is a very liberal thanker , with his thousands and tens of thousands .
provide for .
gratified look on being told that her stay was determined , were such sweet proofs of her importance with them
and , by the bye , can i or my housekeeper be of any use to you with our opinion
, when the two morlands , after sitting an hour with the thorpes , set off to walk together to
our first care has been to keep the matter secret .
i suppose you have heard of it ; indeed , you must have seen it in the papers .
what do you think of it , miss morland ?
habits would be giving her refusal less meaning than she could wish .
i should have considered it at first too great a presumption almost , to dare to think of him .
her report was highly favourable .
of his aunt ' s could induce him to find mr .
rejected as no good at all ; and anne , glad to be thought of some use , glad to
they all paint tables , cover screens , and net purses .
but , whatever might really be its limits , it was enough , when perceived by his sister , to
she dreaded seeing mr .
" my dear madam , " i have just had the honour of receiving your letter , for which i
” there was no resisting such news , no possibility of avoiding the influence of such a happy face as
to[ _num_ ] the youthful fancy of her daughter , ventured to clear mrs .
are certainly not gone to scotland .
” “morland says exactly the same , ” replied isabella ; “and yet i dare not expect it ; my
i declare you are quite divine !
the army , and nobody sees anything wrong in that .
” “poor wickham !
it needed all jane’s steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable tranquillity .
dashwood was prevailed on to accept the use of his carriage on her journey back , for the better accommodation
price could have overlooked , when the third day did bring the sickening knock , and a letter was again
anyone ought to be credited ; since no character , however upright , can escape the malevolence of slander .
she thought he was really good-tempered , and could fancy his entering into a plan of that sort most pleasantly
she dreaded lest the chambermaid had been mistaken .
tintern abbey held its station between a cave in italy and a moonlight lake in cumberland , a collection of
yet i wish she had stayed quietly at langford .
two miles from perth on a bold projecting rock , and commands an extensive veiw of the town and its
” “no , ” said darcy , “i have made no such pretension .
previous study ?
“with respect to that other , more weighty accusation , of having injured mr .
will not leave the house without receiving her thanks for it .
it would probably be the middle of november at least ; the middle of november was three months off .
the remembrance of her first evening in that room , of her father and his newspaper , came across her
pages , she interrupted him with : “do you know , mamma , that my uncle phillips talks of turning
shall take no offence .
rushworth ' s company—“if this man had not twelve thousand a year , he would be a very stupid fellow
a little beauty , and a few smiles , and a few compliments to the navy , and i am
be more violent .
” said she , as she looked in her face .
there can be no doubt of my getting home safe .
of air on their summits , were a happy alternative when the dirt of the valleys beneath shut up their
of her persisting in this interference .
the lock yielded to her hand , and , luckily , with no sullen sound that could alarm a human
us—that is , it was a present from sir thomas , but i saw the bill—and i know it cost
dashwood or her daughters imagined when they first came into devonshire , that so many engagements would arise to occupy
how it could occur a second time , therefore , was very odd !
city .
go near .
—what a view this gives of her sense of his behaviour !
her chair all the way home .
elinor ' s marriage divided her as little from her family as could well be contrived , without rendering the
, that the visit should take place .
joining them the moment she is asked .
the very avenue which fanny had been hoping the whole morning to reach at last , and had been sitting
“as soon as my aunt gets well , i shall go abroad , ” said he .
checking it , by lucy ' s sharp reprimand , which now , as on many occasions , though it
and i believe[ _num_ ] marianne will be the most happy with him of the two .
we had begun , we had not done with you , fanny , till crawford and dr .
and alarm which this sudden departure occasioned .
i say all i can , however , to satisfy your father , and he is certainly less uneasy since
last week , to get up a few scenes , a mere trifle .
john knightley was delighted to be of use ; any thing of ill health was a recommendation to her—and though
all ; for i shall not only be obliged to eat up all the victuals i have dressed already ,
“indeed , isabella , you are too humble .
by her behaviour to mr .
” edmund left the seat likewise .
” “that is a good one , by jove !
down again , " but she will be here , i hope , before it is long .
of some of the old heathen heroes , who , after performing great exploits in a foreign land , offered
the suspicions which had just arisen of mr .
but he was neither fitted by abilities nor disposition to answer the wishes of his mother and sister , who
if any thing could be more , where all was most , she was more reserved on the subject of
chapter xliv seven weeks of the two months were very nearly gone , when the one letter , the letter
the reason of this sudden removal was soon evident .
her reflections were in general satisfactory .
mrs smith did not want to take blame to herself , and was most tender of throwing any on her
with an f .
offer some little variation on the subject , “that james ' s gig will break down ?
he rode down for a couple of hours ; he could not yet do more ; but as he came
was the very person to suit her in age , character and condition .
the world immediately , and continual occupation and change soon weaken impressions .
” “but indeed i did not wish you a pleasant walk ; i never thought of such a thing ;
i have done with match-making indeed .
the village of longbourn was only one mile from meryton ; a most convenient distance for the young ladies ,
indeed , brother , your anxiety for our welfare and prosperity carries you too far .
too significant reference !
do wait for mr .
and half state , she replied , “i am very much astonished , mr .
to separate edward and elinor was as far from being her object as ever ; and she wished to show
and to arrive with some degree of hope ?
his majesty ' s _num_ th wife was the duke of norfolk ' s neice who , tho ' universally
wickham’s society was of material service in dispelling the gloom which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of
the anxious cares , the incessant attentions of mrs .
having married on a narrower income than she had been used to look forward to , she had , from
but just got acquainted with mrs .
" he looked pleased by this remembrance , and added— " if i am not deceived by the uncertainty ,
she was deep in other musing .
to have the same objects and pleasures as myself .
i think mr .
norris could not see it in the same light .
of a gentleman before the gentleman is first known to have dreamt of her .
price , and creditable to ourselves , we must secure to the child , or consider ourselves engaged to secure
happy , happy elinor , you cannot have an idea of what i suffer .
consequence and fortune as likely to throw great difficulties in the way of her marrying their brother .
mary had been hysterical again this morning .
thought with the tenderest compassion of that violent sorrow which marianne was in all probability not merely giving way to
it was such an inexpressible obligation !
after an affectionate parting between the friends , elizabeth was attended to the carriage by mr .
" and i do assure you , ma ' am , " pursued mrs croft , " that nothing can
” they were interrupted by miss bennet , who came to fetch her mother’s tea .
in being on the hedge side , while anne was never incommoded on the other , he dropped the arms
not a word , however , passed his lips in allusion to it , till their visitor took his leave
to undertake the part of anhalt in addition to the butler : he had been most anxiously trying to make
not even innocence could keep from suffering .
of every day while she remained with the palmers , in the indulgence of such solitary rambles .
" " no , no , " cried marianne , " misery such as mine has no pride .
economy .
she knew but little of their meeting in derbyshire , and therefore felt for the awkwardness which must attend her
“indeed , you are mistaken , madam .
it was growing quite dusk , however , before they were in the neighbourhood of uppercross , and there had
remember the country and the age in which we live .
, with the liveliest emotion , that she was the happiest creature in the world .
“i did not think you had been so obstinate , catherine , ” said james ; “you were not used
you must allow for an injured , angry woman .
say that she was very much obliged to her aunt bertram for sparing her , and that she was endeavouring
even meet with the tilneys in any reasonable time , had just passed through her mind , when she suddenly
she could not do otherwise than accept him , for he was rich , and she had nothing ; but
over a wide extent .
” catherine ' s answer was only “oh !
” “you speak as if you envied him .
mrs musgrove ' s kind wishes , as to her son , he had probably been at some pains to
his two other children were of very inferior value .
he was calling out to miss morland to be quick .
she observed in a low voice , to her mother , that they were probably going down to mr .
it was now a real animation ; and she began to dress for it with much of the happy flutter
we shall be at newcastle all the winter , and i dare say there will be some balls , and
he believed this very stoutly while he was in mansfield wood , and all the way home ; but there
it was growing late , and miss bates became anxious to get home , on her mother ' s account
she rejoice in their joy .
“he was certainly right in respecting such feelings ; he was glad he had determined on it .
you shall be cottager ' s wife .
allen , ” said catherine the next morning , “will there be any harm in my calling on miss tilney
how they will bear so much dissipation i cannot imagine ; of their spirits i have no fear , i
she was tired of the woods and the shrubberies—always so smooth and so dry ; and the abbey in itself
i trust i shall be able to make my story as good as hers .
be said , that very few young ladies have any affections worth caring for .
—it was a life of deceit !
; but the latter half , which was dated a day later , and written in evident agitation , gave
and therefore took a seat as far from him as she could , and maintained a strict silence .
had not been the most direful mistake in his plan of education .
jenkinson was arranging miss de bourgh’s footstool , that she said , ‘mr .
the heat even would be danger .
very soon to compose .
how could his will be disregarded ?
, to supply to her the place of the mother she had taken her from ; and elinor found her
accidental meeting , most eager to preserve the acquaintance , and without any indelicate display of regard , or any
having assured herself with some anxiety , that there had been no fall in the case ; that anne had
” “i am the less surprised at what has happened , ” replied sir william , “from that knowledge of
” “my opinion !
” and so saying , he was hurrying away , before fanny , overpowered by a thousand feelings of pain
to speak with you , ma ' am , in his own room .
nobody doubts her right to have precedence of mamma , but it would be more becoming in her not to
they agreed that mrs .
she never misses , i know ; and you must have seen her .
but his gaiety did not meet hers .
what could induce you to come into this set , when you knew i was in the other ?
she is absolutely charming !
this was fanny ' s most frequent expectation .
announced a happy state of mind , but whose gentle hint of sympathetic early rising did not advance her composure
the aunt , still they were all to hope the best , and to be able to part and eat
weston has done very well for himself ; but he must have knocked up every body else .
really said only to relieve his own feelings , and not meant to provoke ; and therefore she let it
” “if it were admissible to contradict a lady , ” said the gallant mr .
rushworth ; and when , after a little time , the others began to form into parties , these three
” and then , to prevent farther outrage and indignation , changed the subject directly .
she was soon more softened and sorrowful .
my friend has an excellent understanding—though i am not certain that i consider her marrying mr .
but why would not you let us come for you ?
say it will be well to-morrow .
“you will hurt yourself , miss bertram , ” she cried ; “you will certainly hurt yourself against those spikes
of the first quarter .
and miss tilney walking with her .
—i am so glad to hear such a good account .
but now several minutes elapsed without bringing the sound of his voice ; and when occasionally , unable to resist
” “yes—i have some right to that knowledge ; though i have never been at the place in my life
she talked on , therefore , without interruption from any of them , till they were joined by mr .
woodhouse ; “and always did .
perry , that it had not made him ill .
—so you say ; but i cannot believe it .
” “my dear , do not give way to such gloomy thoughts .
being known , by report , to the admiral , as a model of good breeding .
not wish to see your sister make such an exhibition .
only think !
to night—my poor girls will appear quite to disadvantage by you—i only hope your mother may not have distressed herself
and nancy , she was almost as bad .
want to make her mind as captivating as her person .
if they persist in the scheme , they will find something .
resigned to her having the use of what nobody else wanted , though the terms in which she sometimes spoke
we certainly do not forget you as soon as you forget us .
i have been quite wretched without you .
to be peculiarly interesting to them all .
and so , is it quite certain he is coming ?
“i am perfectly serious , ” he replied , “as you perfectly know .
with woeful countenances they looked at each other .
it would be almost beginning their life of civility again .
not know which it was , but we shall see presently in jane ' s letter—wrote in mr .
her ; yet both feeling that it could not be .
sweetness !
she was persuaded to believe the engagement a wrong thing : indiscreet , improper , hardly capable of success ,
for your agreable letter , which beleive me i should not have deferred doing , had not every moment of
him judge and feel better , he allowed himself great latitude on such points .
brandon was very well i hope ?
owen had sisters ; he might find them attractive .
you will be able to talk of bath , and of all that you did here .
he was not very solid ; but there was a hope of his becoming less trifling , of his being
imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters would be unpardonable in me .
some grandeur .
the setting always casts a different shade on it , you know .
do not pity me till i saw her wan , sick looks .
, it will always find something to support its doubts , if i had not , when the servant let
he is not at all liked in hertfordshire .
how concerned sir john and my daughters will be when they hear it !
“i admire all my three sons-in-law highly , ” said he .
yes , miss bennet , interest ; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or friends ,
and is not that the commonest infirmity of declining life ?
about a mile and a half from the cottage , along the narrow winding valley of allenham , which issued
port or another , after our husbands , if everybody had your feelings ?
had made so little difference , circumstances should have made so much , and that her mother , as handsome
the meadows beyond what will be the garden , as well as what now is , sweeping round from the
i dare say we shall have nothing to distress us .
, her very confidence was a proof .
you have been studying novels i suspect .
it is so d—uncomfortable , living at an inn .
” and again , on emma ' s merely turning her head to look at mrs .
when coffee was over , colonel fitzwilliam reminded elizabeth of having promised to play to him ; and she sat
have been delighted with her dear catherine , and would therefore shortly return .
rushworth was young enough to improve .
” she had never spoken so much at once to him in her life before , and never so angrily
being most happy to join the party .
but he will be very much surprised that mrs .
it was only necessary to mention any favourite amusement to engage her to talk .
propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of resentment or any unnecessary complaisance .
i told you that your suspicions would guide mine .
) “nay , (said i) , i know nothing of that .
her tour to the lakes was now the object of her happiest thoughts ; it was her best consolation for
i could see it in her eyes , when he was mentioned .
" [ _num_ ] " i have found you out in spite of all your tricks .
for her to be quite certain that she ought to have held her tongue .
" " thank you , " cried lucy warmly , " for breaking the ice ; you have set my
cold pork bones and mustard in william ' s plate might but divide her feelings with the broken egg-shells in
her figure is as neat as her brother ' s .
an enormous roll of green baize had arrived from northampton , and been cut out by mrs .
the ball proceeded pleasantly .
she asked after their mutual friends ; they were all well .
” but that would not do .
do you recommend this side ?
: i put it down as simply being his way , and was as far from supposing as from wishing
she still screamed and sobbed lustily , kicked her two brothers for offering to touch her , and all their
the first wish of her heart was to improve her acquaintance with miss tilney , and almost her first resolution
myself , for in my situation in life—” mrs .
why should i subject you to entreaties which i refused to attend to myself ?
could not avoid censure , we must not rashly condemn those who , living in the world and surrounded with
—they had reached the house .
and then , you know , when once they get together , there is no end of it .
promise of spending five or six months with us on their return .
had only two thousand pounds in the world .
sands , make it the happiest spot for watching the flow of the tide , for sitting in unwearied contemplation
“such a home , indeed !
together up the great staircase .
i cannot remember the time when i did not love eliza ; and my affection for her , as we
been her cure ; but to have them all standing or waiting around her was distracting , and in desperation
" said captain harville .
lubberly fellow of ten years old , you know , who ought to be ashamed of himself) , ' i
him , that she dared not trust herself to speak , lest she might wound marianne still deeper by treating
up with her , for she would not allow mrs .
hour , when their dining-room , spacious as it was , seemed more than half filled : a party of
so low and wan and trembling a condition , as no mother , not unkind , except mrs .
i have no doubt that i was biased , but i think it was blamelessly .
' it is only mrs .
she did not think that any material objection ; —and mrs .
" " i want no proof of their affection , " said elinor ; " but of their engagement i
but it was possible to part with her , because susan remained to supply her place .
in a man .
elinor ' s security sunk ; but her self-command did not sink with it .
bennet’s being quite unable to sit alone .
their lodgings were not long a secret , and at length they began to know the officers themselves .
the matter before .
directed towards longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood , where i can assure you there are many amiable young women
' perhaps a little singular in his taste—he is in love with matilda— .
—you are wise—but i cannot be wise .
—the true hazle eye—and so brilliant !
” this bold surmise , however , she soon learnt comprehended but half the fact .
” so saying , she passed on without hearing my repeated assurance of being engaged , and leaving me very
every rant of lord ravenshaw ' s , and been forced to re-rant it all in his own room .
as they passed into other rooms these objects were taking different positions ; but from every window there were beauties
dashwood , how excessively comfortable your mother-in-law and her daughters may live on the interest of seven thousand pounds ,
, most unfortunately) were cousins of the elliots ; and the agony was how to introduce themselves properly .
—such a suspicion could never have entered her head !
she has a great desire to get as far as mansfield common : mrs .
there is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings !
george ' s , hanover square .
a room or two can easily be added ; and if my friends find no difficulty in travelling so far
well , and so you guessed it the moment you had my note ?
i came to try you .
her friends leading her astray for years !
she was in high spirits , and surrounded by those who were giving all the support of their own bad
her at delaford , was all that foretold any meeting in the country .
was it the part of a friend thus to expose her feelings to the notice of others ?
do you think her pretty ?
“it is a long time , mr .
knightley was then obliged to say that he should be glad to see him ; and mr .
does she live near you , sir ?
he has been only an hour in the house , and i have not been able to learn particulars ,
for asking it , without resorting to invention .
i never could comprehend how mr .
“miss fairfax was not well enough to write ; ” and when mr .
gardiner was standing a little behind ; and on her pausing , he asked her if she would do him
you could make it into two parcels , mrs .
" to see you , " cried he , " in the midst of those who could not be my
[ _num_ ] elinor for a few moments remained silent .
i would not have the shadow of a coolness arise , ” he repeated , his voice sinking a little
about a year ago , she was taken from school , and an establishment formed for her in london ;
was an income of independence and comfort , and under every pecuniary view , it was a match beyond the
rushworth , who was always answered for by maria as willing to do anything ; when julia , meaning ,
door was agitated , as if by the attempt of somebody to enter .
who would have thought of my meeting with , perhaps , a nephew of lady catherine de bourgh in this
he never said a great deal , nor did she give herself the trouble of talking or of listening much
if we make haste , we shall pass by them presently , and i am dying to show you my
it is a family living , miss morland ; and the property in the place being chiefly my own ,
few minutes as nearly settled as this necessary reference to fullerton would allow .
it will be very disagreeable , and by no means what i expected .
as fearful of notice and praise as other women were of neglect .
yes”—he replied ; “i was just going to mention it .
nothing ever happened on either side that was not announced immediately .
i have seen people—and if one comes to compare them , person and manners , there is no comparison at
but , however , he did not .
two such she did not want .
” had she doubted his meaning while she listened , the glow in his face , when she looked up
begging her to stop .
, i hope , improved in civility .
when the admiral (captain croft then) was in the north seas .
observation , that he had not heard his carriage announced , and was first called to the knowledge of it
be pardoned the youthful infatuation which made her lady elliot , had never required indulgence afterwards .
she boldly acknowledged herself flattered , and continued her enquiries .
” “no , ” replied her friend very placidly , “i know you never mind dirt .
' s family , were soon offended by what they termed “airs” ; for , as she neither played on
elinor , unable herself to determine whether it were better for marianne to be in london or at barton ,
emma was not sorry to have such an opportunity of survey ; and walking a few yards forward , while
her heart was overflowing with tenderness .
should i dress here , since there is not a creature in the house whom i have any wish to
to his daughter , rather than postpone his own walk a few minutes .
i suppose he was afraid of finding it dull ; but upon my word i should have thought we were
be answerable for the event .
look about , for heaven ' s sake !
the long illness of her dear father prevented my paying her that attention which duty and affection equally dictated ,
truly anxious to see you well settled ; fanny particularly , for she has your interest very much at heart
—it would be a degradation .
you know my mother’s ideas as to the necessity of constant company for her friends .
martin looked as if he did not know what manner was .
the whole party have left netherfield by this time , and are on their way to town—and without any intention
could do him good : it rather sank than raised his comfort ; and afterwards , for he found himself
and her little cousins are all very fond of her .
—it is elinor of whom we think and speak .
introduction of a character not connected with my fable—that this was the very gentleman whose negligent servant left behind him
but if you do not like it , there is no more to be said .
edward was not entirely without hopes of some favourable change in his mother towards him ; and on that he
always some little objection , some little doubt , some little anxiety to be got over .
" the tenderest caresses followed this confession .
be from a circulating library) , he started back , and begging pardon , protested that he never read novels
a tale .
the next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the entrance of servants with cold meat , cake ,
had not a real regard for her .
it would be something so very unceremonious , so bordering on disrespect for mrs .
be so distressed .
even the greatest , she could never have been easy in joining a scheme which , considering only her uncle
frank churchill hardly knows what to say when you speak of miss fairfax ' s situation in life .
chapter xvi the hair was curled , and the maid sent away , and emma sat down to think and
i wanted her to be delighted at seeing me .
" " quite the contrary , " replied elinor , looking expressively at marianne .
letters of business , too !
” (answered she .
i could not , when the scheme was first mentioned the other day , understand why a visit from the
to take orders and preach myself .
serious meaning .
the house would close with the greatest eclat .
, and so fearful was she of not doing exactly what was right , and of not being able to
was it not enough to make the fool of me which i appeared ?
an almost perfect insensibility .
” “i must hope better things .
to be so hard to persuade ; you once were the kindest , best-tempered of my sisters .
” “yes ; if you and mr .
when this had lasted some time , the division of the party was completed by tom bertram and mr .
" the last time i saw her she had a red nose , but i hope that may not happen
" so my daughter middleton told me , for it seems sir john met him somewhere in the street this
he remained with them some time , and was only too agreeable for catherine to be contented when he went
the situation of your mother’s family , though objectionable , was nothing in comparison to that total want of propriety
she speedily comprehended all his merits ; the persuasion of his regard for elinor perhaps assisted her penetration ; but
—but i never have .
i[ _num_ ] did not recollect that i had omitted to give her my direction ; and common sense might
but how came you to tell me that he was so disagreeable ?
emma sat with her as long as she could , to attend her in mrs .
it is on her account that attention to randalls is doubly due , and she must doubly feel the omission
” “i am very much obliged to you , ” said emma , laughing again .
i care not who knows that i am wretched .
them would allow , alighted , ascended the stairs , heard their names announced from one landing-place to another in
bennet , with great politeness and cordiality , said how happy they should be to see him at longbourn again
theirs .
darcy , who continued , however , imperturbably grave .
exacted her promise of transmitting the character of every new acquaintance , nor a detail of every interesting conversation that
with this spirit she sprang forward , and her confidence did not deceive her .
the hall , the dining-room , and all its furniture , were examined and praised ; and his commendation of
estate away from a family of five daughters , in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about .
he was to leave bath at nine this morning , and does not come back till to-morrow .
john thorpe , in the meanwhile , had walked away ; and catherine , ever willing to give mr .
anne drew a little back , while the others received his compliments , and her sister his apologies for calling
saturday , and having no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the moment , he
" when they were seated in the dining room , sir john observed with regret that they were only eight
after they had been assembled about an hour , mr .
i was most kindly pressed , and had nearly consented .
come .
and ascertained the fact ; to have doubted a moment longer then would have been equally inconceivable , incredible ,
they were relieved by it from all restraint ; and without aiming at one gratification that would probably have been
once used to think i might be with you ; but i scorn to accept a hand while the heart
had best retract , when mr .
chapter _num_ though charles and mary had remained at lyme much longer after mr and mrs musgrove ' s going
silence ; it was all in unison ; words , conduct , discretion , and indiscretion , told the same
the rich foliage of summer , was enough to catch any man ' s heart .
” and though he exclaimed at the term , she found that it had been pretty much the case .
well , if left quite to his own powers , and yet it is not the style of a woman
desperate situation in which affairs then stood with the young people .
she expressed her gratitude again , but it was too painful a subject to each , to be dwelt on
" " yes , i saw every note that passed .
the doubts and alarms as to her own conduct , which had previously distressed her , and which had all
your own virtues .
allen , you mean .
perry was talked of , and harriet herself was too ill and low to resist the authority which excluded her
distinguished by henry crawford without trusting that it would create jealousy , and bring a public disturbance at last .
palmer ' s acting so simply , with good abilities , and at the strange unsuitableness which often existed between
and especially was she anxious to be assured of isabella ' s having matched some fine netting-cotton , on which
miles beyond the walls of the abbey before she raised her head ; and the highest point of ground within
the last to pay her respects ; and she made a point of harriet ' s going with her ,
those vile sea-breezes are the ruin of beauty and health .
but the question is not , whether it would be a bad connexion for him , but whether he wishes
is always so much comfort , so much elegance about them .
seven shillings , and was charged as a moor park .
she was a widow and poor .
" [ _num_ ] " how can that be done ?
within the first five minutes i said , ' i will be at bath on wednesday , ' and i
either in the morning or evening of every day , excepting one , have we seen either mr .
how tired you must both be !
says , as you will hear presently ; mr .
ways of either , he repeated to them very comfortably all the articles of news he had received from mr
do you find bath as agreeable as when i had the honour of making the inquiry before ?
its being absolutely said .
will approve .
my friend sneyd—you have heard me speak of sneyd , edmund—his father , and mother , and sisters , were
, when my thoughts are an hundred miles off .
other advantage ; and when he came to be contrasted with gentlemen , she thought he must lose all the
she was nobody when he married her , barely the daughter of a gentleman ; but ever since her being
you , miss dashwood , would give a general commission for every new print of merit to be sent you—and
other preparations were also in hand .
" he cried , in the same eager tone .
she would do her best .
there is nobody in highbury who deserves him—and he has been here a whole year , and has fitted up
” “if you please .
she was very angry with him .
, was in a very ill humour , and seemed intent only on lessening her niece ' s pleasure ,
well ; but the quiet prosings of three such women made her feel that every evening so spent was indeed
life ; he supposed , however , “that she must have been used to much better-sized apartments at mr .
their general fare bore a very different character ; and could he have suspected how many privations , besides that
if i had such a memory as benwick , i could bring you fifty quotations in a moment on my
provision for well-educated young women of small fortune , and however uncertain of giving happiness , must be their pleasantest
yet she thought it would not have been so at mansfield .
at mansfield park mr .
be an heroine .
in knowing herself admired ; and she was happy in having the two dances with edmund still to look forward
end it .
had she left her where she ought , and where he had told her she ought !
came into mamma ' s head , when they were gone , that wentworth , or something very like it
rushworth , and mr .
rushworth had asked her opinion ; and her spirits were in as happy a flutter as vanity and pride could
woman however obdurate it may naturally be ; and could the divine henrietta but hear your generous wishes for her
disdain of harriet , he had done nothing .
ferrars is a very headstrong proud woman , and in her first fit of anger upon hearing it , would
they walked slowly up the gallery .
it appeared from one of her aunt ' s letters that julia had offered to return if wanted , but
to such anxious attention was the general ' s civility carried , that not aware of her extraordinary swiftness in
" she soon afterwards left the room .
rushworth there .
the idea of being the complete picture of grown-up health .
father ' s room ?
“well , lizzy , ” said mrs .
poor miss taylor .
she talks vastly well ; i am afraid of being ungenerous , or i should say , too well to
" elinor had not needed this to be assured of the injustice to which her sister was often led in
; a simple style of dress is so infinitely preferable to finery .
streph : ) you drove me from staines to this place , from whence i mean to go to town
her spirits still continued very high ; but there was a flutter in them which prevented their giving much pleasure
“my beloved laura (said she to me a few hours before she died) take warning from my unhappy end and
be a little more nice , and i am sure the good campbells will be quite on my side ;
now it seems nothing ; yet it is an heavy aggravation .
“and i do believe she can say every word of it , ” added maria , “for she could put
she looked at her father to entreat his interference , lest mary should be singing all night .
she was all alive again directly , and among the most active in being useful to fanny , in detecting
and what inclines one less to bear , she has no fair pretence of family or blood .
her mother ' s expected arrival , threw her altogether into an agitation of spirits which kept off every indication
but the sight of mr .
knightley really wished to marry , you would not have him refrain on henry ' s account , a boy
everingham , as it used to be , was perfect in my estimation : such a happy fall of ground
very uncomfortable she was , and must continue , till she heard from miss crawford again .
morning because she thought she had prevailed .
his own house , in the centre of his family , after such a separation , made him communicative and
were going to examine her again in french and english .
my object—my wish—my sole wish in desiring it—i hope , i believe it is—is to be a means of giving
i guessed how it would end .
he had seen you indeed , before he came to bath , and admired you , but without knowing it
darcy had at first scarcely allowed her to be pretty ; he had looked at her without admiration at the
her influence would have been enough .
sloop thrush being made out was spreading general joy through a wide circle of great people .
opportunity of doing ere long .
, but a captain frederick wentworth , his brother , who being made commander in consequence of the action off
things should take their course ; she cared not how it ended .
a particularity in mr .
no—pray let her have time to look about her .
pressed on her by the rest .
at length , returning day enabled me to behold the unprincipled scoundrel who had so violently disturbed my feelings .
mode of life which she led with them from that to which she must now submit , i can only
" cried captain wentworth , instantly , and with half a glance at anne , " it is the very
it was several days before willoughby ' s name was mentioned before marianne by any of her family ; sir
were found in busy consultation on the terrace by edmund , miss crawford , and fanny , who seemed as
insipid pages with disgust .
words , just articulate , “my fanny , my only sister ; my only comfort now !
i am glad that we are to meet no one , for my girls sake , as it would be
—such a host of friends !
my wishes that the name might never change .
you must forgive the liberty , and oblige me .
i doubt whether he will return the compliment , and discover her to be a lady .
said it , every former frown or cold address might have been forgotten .
no second attachment , the only thoroughly natural , happy , and sufficient cure , at her time of life
was a young man whom she had never seen before .
he had himself experienced from lady catherine .
of the place are very agreeable .
how many a time have we talked over her little errors !
the admiral wound it up summarily by exclaiming-- " ay , a very bad business indeed .
, and by exertions which had never cost her half so much before .
a chair between herself and tom , ask the latter in an undervoice whether there were any plans for resuming
children of the same family , the same blood , with the same first associations and habits , have some
this morning i had fully intended to call on you , if i could possibly find a spare half hour
a more unobjectionable tenant , in all essentials , than admiral croft bid fair to be , could hardly offer
towards him , and said in a conscious , low , yet steady voice , “how you can bear such
she had been taken to charmouth too , and she had bathed , and she had gone to church ,
“men commonly take so little notice of those things , ” said she ; “i can never get mr .
but rejoice in the kind caution with which henry had saved her from the necessity of a conscientious rejection ,
” she stopt to blush and laugh at her own relapse , and then resumed a more serious , more
" she really left nothing for mary to do .
you were not six yards from your own door when i had the pleasure of meeting you ; and henry
—it is very odd , but i cannot recollect .
the cold insolence of mrs .
” “no , i have not ; i know nothing ; pray tell me .
kiss the dear children for me .
the families would never be connected if you did not connect them !
—yours ever , mary .
of tunbridge , its fashions with the fashions of london ; could rectify the opinions of her new friend in
that when these inquiries were answered , she was hardly more assured than before , of northanger abbey having been
my dear sir , how are you this morning ?
resentment could not have been more plainly spoken than in a civility to her father , from which she was
and when farther pressed , had added , that in her opinion their dispositions were so totally dissimilar as to
she had passed _num_ years at one of the first boarding-schools in london ; had spent a fortnight in bath
own room .
that colonel forster was going to be married .
" he could not then avoid it , but her touch seemed painful to him , and he held her
that girl who looked at you so hard as she went by ?
people do not die of little trifling colds .
we are not talking about you .
no wonder her head aches .
he came to ask me whether i thought it would be imprudent in him to settle so early ; whether
and soon commanded a full view of the latter , at the foot of the hill on the other side
weston begs you to put on your tippet .
him for having dared to unite himself to me without his knowledge .
she wished he could love a ballroom better , and could like frank churchill better .
perhaps it was not fair to expect him to feel how very much he was her inferior in talent ,
—there is something very pompous in his style .
there were no habits of utility abroad , no talents or accomplishments for home , to occupy .
she would have given the world to be able to speak—and to make them understand that she hoped no coolness
to find out his name from the latter , when they both came towards her , and mr .
virtue .
they chose for the celebration of their nuptials , in preference to any other place although it was at a
the sun was yet an hour and half above the horizon .
—the rivet came out , you know , this morning .
norris , “she has good reason to look well with all her advantages : brought up in this family as
i am not fond of the idea of my shrubberies being always approachable ; and i should recommend miss elliot
for a few minutes .
you thought nobody could dance because a certain person that shall be nameless is gone !
long promised to introduce him .
her that she was not ill-used by anybody ; which mary , well amused as she generally was , in
when the hour of departure drew near , the maternal anxiety of mrs .
” “and i hope , madam , that mr .
every word you say more deeply convinces me that your minds are actuated by the invisible power of simpathy ,
i should say , one of her ladyship’s carriages , for she has several .
you have got your answer ready .
dashwood introduced him	frontispiece his son ' s son , a child of four years old	 _num_ " i cannot imagine
it was sir edward the father of my deceased husband .
” elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal , and felt persuaded of her sister’s ready acquiescence .
exactly as he could have wished , but dared not depend on .
anne could only feel that charles hayter was wise .
my situation is as much altered as my income .
to follow them to cleveland in a day or two , completed the intercourse of the brother and sisters in
” “nay , do not distress me .
when the westons arrived , the kindest looks of love , the strongest of admiration were for her , from
great deal to say ; and the reversion of mansfield park , and a baronetcy , did no harm to
steeles , as he had been already boasting of the miss steeles to them .
when they all quitted it together , that miss thorpe should accompany miss morland to the very door of mr
i wish sarah was here to doctor you , but i am no doctor myself .
be attached ; and that she was perfectly free from any tendency to being attached to me , was as
and as to laughter , we will not expose ourselves , if you please , by attempting to laugh without
for some time it had no place .
tilney , from some odd fancy or other , all of a sudden grew tired of having her there ,
” “my poor aunt had certainly little cause to love the state ; but , however , speaking from my
such a place as sotherton court deserves everything that taste and money can do .
manners !
could not but dispose them all to a reconciliation .
more than begin upon the last naval regulations , or settle the number of three-deckers now in commission , their
preparing to come down , politely drew back , and stopped to give them way .
and friends .
they would eat .
but she was so wholly unused to confer favours , except on the very poor , so unpractised in removing
think it is so very small .
it was the abode of noise , disorder , and impropriety .
no second visit there .
knightley , i am going to do so-and-so ; papa says i may , or i have miss taylor '
that his two sisters and mr .
ferrars ' s name by miss steele when alluded to , or even openly mentioned by sir john .
i require so much !
if the effect of his behaviour does not justify him with you , we had better not seek after the
mary and kitty were both with mrs .
" " did you observe the woman who opened the door to you when you called yesterday ?
it is not that i did not think of it , or desire it , as what could alone crown
crossing the street to the house .
will come home to us again ; but she is still so fond of her husband , and frets so
well pleased when she found who had been his choice—she was determined to mortify me , and accordingly when we
on her measures depended those of her two friends ; mrs .
ask him to your house occasionally , and talk to him of frederica , that he may not forget her
a principality contiguous to england and gives the title to the prince of wales .
phillips , the lucases , and all their other neighbours , and to hear herself called “mrs .
he had been lucky in his profession ; but spending freely , what had come freely , had realized nothing
, encore , da capo , allegretto , con expressione , and poco presto with many other such outlandish words
“but what is to be done about pemberley ?
the approach of september brought tidings of mr .
grant in the room , then ?
taylor !
i advise you to go out : the air will do you good ; go out for an hour on
he can have no true regard for me , or he would not have listened to her ; and she
nothing new was heard by them , for a day or two afterwards , of affairs in harley street ,
such a man could come from no place , no society , without importing something to amuse ; his journeys
” “did upon my soul ; knew him again directly , and he seemed to have got some very pretty
on his going so suddenly away , which mrs .
appeared so to me .
grant ' s wasteful doings to overlook , left her very little occasion to be occupied in fears for the
i would as soon have been run up to the yard-arm .
emma could not have a better companion than harriet .
i dare say the colonel will leave her all his fortune .
to make a most important discovery .
" " no ; my feelings are not often shared , not often understood .
i am convinced of it by the manner in which he spoke of her .
her voice was sweet , and when she spoke her countenance was pretty .
” “well then , i will not .
colonel brandon came in while the party were at tea , and by his manner of looking round the room
unthinkingly throwing away a fair opportunity of considering him lost to her forever , by being married already .
they seem very agreeable people .
of their pay , and their bickerings and jealousies .
she hesitated .
yes , yes , if you please , no reference to examples in books .
he would not speak another word to him , meet him where he might , for all the world !
we must not be nice and ask for all the virtues into the bargain .
of us .
jennings , though forced , on examination , to acknowledge a temporary revival , tried to keep her young friend
” elizabeth honoured him for such feelings , and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them .
the clock struck twelve , and it still rained .
more comfortable for them to be together ; because , if they got tired of me , they might talk
she could think of nothing but of mr .
on this subject i have nothing more to say , no other apology to offer .
she thought it would be an excellent match ; and only too palpably desirable , natural , and probable ,
of some use , and obliging her aunt : it is all her fault .
casements ; but upon the marriage of the young ' squire , it had received the improvement of a farm-house
his air , his coat , his horse .
” catherine had never heard mrs .
often as they liked .
she was small of her age , with no glow of complexion , nor any other striking beauty ; exceedingly
i am very sorry for mr .
an arch reference to the character of the building they inhabited , was rather distressing .
they were , in fact , a necessitous family ; numerous , too , almost beyond example ; by no
she felt his powers : he was entertaining ; and his manners were so improved , so polite , so
explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked to dine at rosings the next day .
—has he set up his carriage ?
that he had been partly governed by this worst kind of pride , and partly by the wish of retaining
harder than she deserved ; for although there doubtless are such unconquerable young ladies of eighteen (or one should not
one corner of the newspapers ; and being lost in only a sloop , nobody would have thought about me
they were young people of fortune .
" elinor hardly knew whether to smile or sigh at this assertion .
" did you tell her that you should soon return ?
at six o ' clock , the general having taken his coffee , the carriage again received them ; and
she was attractive , she was modest , she was sir thomas ' s niece , and she was soon
elliot ' s manners had precisely pleased her in their propriety and correctness , their general politeness and suavity ,
must be a saint .
so much affected .
must it not have been so , marianne ?
you have no idea how he pressed me .
obliged to receive her .
she could not endure the idea of it .
—i shall try for it with a zeal !
wish to go on .
have a little mercy on the poor men .
” as elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue , she turned her attention almost entirely
could they be perpetrated without being known , in a country like this , where social and literary intercourse is
i will trust to your own kindness of heart when i am at a distance from you .
than to elinor , for it was spent in all the anxiety of expectation and the pain of disappointment .
it for granted that she had been present than remembered anything about her .
idea occur to me .
of very opposite feelings .
by ten ; so , about a quarter before one on wednesday , you may look for us .
chapter xii as elinor and marianne were walking together the next morning the latter communicated a piece of news to
and as for dancing , do not mention it , i beg ; that is quite out of the question
” said edmund .
he acquiesced in all her decisions , caught all her enthusiasm ; and long before his visit concluded , they
i doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself , mr .
emma ' s confusion , and the acknowledged intimacy , seemed to declare her affection engaged .
fetch miss bates .
i thought maria and mr .
“what is mr .
which excites my own anxiety , or requires very solicitous explanation .
charles vernon , and yet , in spite of his generous endeavours to excuse her , we know that she
if he is satisfied with only regretting me , when he might have obtained my affections and hand , i
" " oh—he did not say much ; but he looked as if he knew it to be true ,
frederica looked so shy , so confused , when we entered the room , that i felt for her exceedingly
she looked again .
the end of it , as i am in the habit of seeing almost every day of my life at
i can not say success , for alas !
what an unworthy attachment !
her complexion is delicate , but neither so fair nor so blooming as lady susan ' s , and she
to marry chloe .
poor sir thomas will feel it dreadfully .
morland had been always kindly disposed towards each , and instantly , pleased by his appearance , received him with
the evening , and might now come to inquire particularly after her .
harriet ' s fortune , than to be labouring to enlarge her comprehension or exercise it on sober facts ;
the best fitted for a beginner that either stable could furnish .
" she looked down as she said this , amiably bashful , with only one side glance at her companion
stables and his gardens , and nearest plantations ; but active and methodical , he had not only done all
vexed .
she was almost vexed into displeasure and anger against edmund .
in execution ; at last however more by force than entreaty we prevailed on her to go into her room
sister author ; and to her treatment of the subject i will only add , in justice to men ,
” “yes , the profession is well enough under two circumstances : if it make the fortune , and there
struck her beyond her imagination .
bitter philippic , " miss morton is lord morton ' s daughter .
i do suspect that he is not really necessary to my happiness .
if she survived him .
liberality of a man of fortune , without display ; he judged for himself in everything essential , without defying
she left it all behind her , all but the recollection that such things had been .
i can talk of it now , i hope , as i ought to do .
—after a little thinking , and a very tender sigh , he added , “ah !
anne , must not it be our mr elliot ?
colonel brandon was now as happy , as all those who best loved him , believed he deserved to be
have jumped with joy and envy .
any of his family had yet been attempted by him .
" 	 _num_ offered him one of folly ' s puppies	 _num_ a very smart beau	 _num_ introduced to mrs
jennings directly gave her the gratifying assurance that she certainly would not , and miss steele was made completely happy
, as a first meeting , occur again , and therefore you need not think about it .
appearance , the former of whom was set in the stocks , took shelter in beaulieu abbey , and was
lady susan , to a young man of his age , and high expectations .
" poor soul !
or is her heart constant to him only when unsolicited by anyone else ?
to say , and had courage and leisure for saying it .
” “very ; and does eleanor leave you to find your way into all the rooms in the house by
did see him every day as it was .
regularly through—and very good lists they were—very well chosen , and very neatly arranged—sometimes alphabetically , and sometimes by some
myself of some consequence .
“whoever colonel campbell might employ , ” said frank churchill , with a smile at emma , “the person has
louisa was much the same .
what time would you have the carriage come round ?
own , because the friends of captain wentworth , or more kindly hospitable than their entreaties for their all promising
but , when it burst on her , it could not anger , though a slight blush shewed that it
” “that is impossible , fanny .
from hers , and all that had passed of good in her feelings were at once caught and honoured .
vernon ' s generous temper .
dixon or miss fairfax , but i cannot help suspecting either that , after making his proposals to her friend
you must be a great comfort to your sister , sir .
darcy could not have .
their engagements at exeter instantly gave way before such an invitation , and lady middleton was thrown into no little
” “besides , ” said maria , “i know that mr .
of his life , and whose attachments were strong .
she had bright dark eyes , good teeth , and altogether an agreeable face ; though her reddened and weather-beaten
remained for bingley’s salutation .
not wanting for impudence when i have any end in veiw .
him the power of sending to inquire after harriet every hour of the evening .
i should certainly have staid ; but i knew nothing that had happened here for a fortnight , and felt
for it was a great deal too far off to visit ; she hated him so much that she was
they had looked forward and arranged everything before the others began to reflect .
she would rather die than own the truth ; and she hoped , by a little reflection , to fortify
elton , if not towards william larkins .
back again directly .
makes one know one ' s species better .
she would catch a dreadful cold .
" he answered rather hesitatingly , " yes , i believe i do ; very much recovered ; but she
time of year .
and upon the whole , it would certainly have gone off wonderfully .
the idea of grieving and offending a brother whom she almost looked up to as a father , acknowledged the
” “she did , indeed , louisa .
of the way .
” “then we are on very unequal terms , for i understand you perfectly well .
every way been proved , it was not at the time an unnatural or an inexcusable piece of folly .
sake ; and who consequently was now most nervously and apprehensively happy in forestalling this too short visit .
she had some difficulty in saving her own new writing-desk from being thrown out into the street .
i am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you , and will save all the best of the
at the head of them she was met by mr .
it was not so very bad .
wickham walked into the room , elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before , nor thinking of
but we are not all born , you know , with the same powers , —the same address .
her mother stepped forwards , embraced her , and welcomed her with rapture ; gave her hand , with an
the most melancholy order of disastrous love .
elton detained him , to gratify him by her opinion of his son ; and so briskly did she begin
“how i pity the poor creatures that are going there !
at all altered .
a lively imagination soon settled it all .
maria thought speaking out of the question , and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire .
who having acquired a very handsome fortune , was wishing to settle in his own country , and had come
absolutely would not walk away from them ; and at any crossing or any crowd , when mr .
you have shown him off now much more than he did himself .
don’t think me angry , however , for i only mean to let you know that i had not imagined
“this is insufferably hot , ” said miss crawford , when they had taken one turn on the terrace ,
and , “i really have not patience with the general , ” was uttered twice after mr .
this is a connexion which offers nothing but good .
she said all that was reasonable and proper on the business ; felt the claims of dr shirley to repose
appeared , that though edward was now her only son , he was by no means her eldest ; for
during the life , and since the death of mr .
together at their own hasty pace .
” “nay , i am sure you cannot have a better ; for if i do not know anybody ,
she looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all her chance of pleasure for the evening must
as it was , however , she only hazarded a hint , and the hint was lost .
had he begun as he ought , there would have been no difficulty now .
me , and nothing but a persuasion of my being indifferent would have prevented his coming down again !
collins , you must marry .
, in the first place , that she had done right : that her judgment had not misled her .
i see him now—his toil and his despair .
indies .
she only looked her increased ill-will .
there are some charming little villas about richmond .
” “emma never thinks of herself , if she can do good to others , ” rejoined mr .
feeling , and seriousness on serious subjects .
the most striking .
knightley will be happy .
” he smiled , and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be said .
, and glancing over it , said , in a colder voice : “are you pleased with kent ?
clement’s , because wickham’s lodgings were in that parish .
” “how much his business engrosses him already is very plain from the circumstance of his forgetting to inquire for
dread , bingley , who wanted to be alone with jane , proposed their all walking out .
a moment .
they have been acting .
at one door , mrs .
we should be always her friends .
" marianne ' s countenance sunk .
change his mind and not have her .
our neighbourhood cannot spare such a pleasant family .
there was little sympathy to be spared for any body else .
a glass of wine , which elinor procured for her directly , made her more comfortable , and she was
to refuse mr .
twice was his card found on the table , when they returned from their morning ' s engagements .
some pretensions to expect a fortune with you .
he was to go to town as soon as some business relative to thornton lacey were completed—perhaps within a fortnight
” “it is as much as should be said of anyone .
it was a letter , in short , which she would not but have had for the world , and
—of what are you thinking ?
with any certainty .
elton as she seemed to do .
" your first was the asp , i remember ; we will look for the asp .
it was painful to her to disappoint and displease them , particularly to displease her brother ; but she could
to her pretended not to hear him .
the difference of harriet at mrs .
” she saw nothing more of her uncle , nor of her aunt norris , till they met at dinner
“pray , pray stop , mr .
bingley is come .
destination of every acre for wheat , turnips , or spring corn , was entered into with as much equality
now she was angry .
it was frightful to think , how long miss musgrove ' s recovery might yet be doubtful , and how
do not let him injure his own cause by interference .
the case admitted no difference of opinion : they must go to the drawing-room directly .
this state of swelling resentment , and mutually deep mortification , they had to continue together a few minutes longer
how much i shall have to tell !
been more than a furlong in length .
“oh , lizzy !
she returned it with pleasure , and then advancing still nearer , he spoke both to her and mrs .
sir thomas ' s ideas into a happier channel .
" she surprised elinor very much as they returned into the drawing-room , by asking her whether she did not
churchill was better than could be expected ; and their first removal , on the departure of the funeral for
you will join with me i am certain my dear charlotte , in prayers for the recovery of the unhappy
well , said i , all i can say is , that if this be true , he has used
” “i cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these .
thanks so ungraciously delivered as mine were on the occasion , he must think i have never forgiven him for
then what a pleasure it will be !
were not we all out ?
cole told us of it at dinner .
" " no , ma ' am , only they two .
holborn to-day .
she sometimes endeavoured for a few minutes to read ; but the book was soon thrown aside , and she
goddard ' s to-day ; and she may be detained by a visitor , without thinking him at all a
voice “to let him go , ” and off they went in the quietest manner imaginable , without a plunge
yes , it was delightful to be really in an abbey !
” elizabeth said no more—but her mind could not acquiesce .
” “i certainly have not the talent which some people possess , ” said darcy , “of conversing easily with
" " i do not understand you , " replied he , colouring .
disappointed a heart was near her , how much might at that moment , and at a little distance ,
idea of her merit , and excited the warmest curiosity to know her .
—but how to break it to her father at last !
the early habit of reading was wanting .
bennet could certainly spare you for another fortnight .
and that the business had been compromised accordingly .
elton ' s return , as to allow them all to meet again in the common routine of acquaintance ,
have sir john and lady middleton in town by the end of next week .
be in the country , it would be taken exceedingly amiss ; and it is a rule with me ,
refusal ; that in both , it is an engagement between man and woman , formed for the advantage of
the streets , the shops , and the children .
" i felt myself , " she added , " to be as solemnly engaged to him , as if
” “i advise !
” darcy only smiled ; and the general pause which ensued made elizabeth tremble lest her mother should be exposing
i have suspected it some time , but i am now convinced .
no , no , you will proceed into this small vaulted room , and through this into several others ,
you have taken charlotte off my hands , and cannot give her back again .
i go to lady stornaway after easter ; she seems in high spirits , and very happy .
they would be estimated very differently by others as well as myself ; mr .
so collectedly or methodically as i have repeated it to you .
than sought ; all this together most grievously convinced me that i had never understood her before , and that
; but after a short time they would burst out , and for the rest of the day , she
apologies for her seemingly ungracious silence in their first reception , and the warmest expressions of the gratitude she was
allen , did not—oh !
” said she .
the soft monotony of lady bertram ' s , only worn into fretfulness) .
how acutely did she now feel it !
' he has thrown away , ' said she , ' such a woman as he will never see again
had she known how little offence it had given her sister .
i shall see no one half so amiable where i am going .
had she not imagined herself consulting his good , even more than her own , she could hardly have given
can she be ignorant of what you and jane seem so well to understand ?
spoke some of her feelings , by observing audibly to her partner , “knightley has taken pity on poor little
, too young to die .
grow tall and womanly : and their father saw them becoming in person , manner , and accomplishments , everything
—she wished him happy .
elton ' s acknowledging herself the inferior in thought , word , or deed ; or in her being under
elton appeared to her on this second interview , such she appeared whenever they met again , —self-important , presuming
i will not open the window here ; it would give you all cold ; but i can go into
hartfield .
poor old sir archibald !
gardiner meanwhile having settled his account at the inn , nothing remained to be done but to go ; and
by the by , though i have thought of it a hundred times , i have always forgot to ask
affairs , and every review has served to convince me that they require a delicacy and cautiousness of conduct to
—why not say upon your honour , that it has nothing to do with any of them ?
in , as must be universally striking .
my feelings are at present in a state of dreadful indecision ; i wish to acquit you , but certainty
dear mrs .
i suppose you know all about the wars between him and the duke of york who was of the right
you are chilly .
they must now rehearse together .
the remembrance of all her earliest pleasures , and of what she had suffered in being torn from them ,
mrs musgrove had got mrs harville ' s children away as much as she could , every possible supply from
he writes in a most chearfull manner , says that the air of france has greatly recovered both his health
both on his account and my niece’s .
to us about it , for mrs .
can his most intimate friends be so excessively deceived in him ?
him again .
either because he did not dance himself , or because the plan had been formed without his being consulted ,
i wish there were a better prospect than now appears of the match which the conclusion of your letter declares
was such an affability in her behaviour as really should seem to say , she had quite took a[ _num_
martin , and contained a direct proposal of marriage .
i who am doomed to waste my days of youth and beauty in an humble cottage in the vale of
all that mrs .
elizabeth , for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother’s thoughts , now asked her if charlotte
his society bestowed on her present home .
collins , she thought with equal certainty , and with considerable , though not equal , pleasure .
and as to my father , i really should not have thought that he , who has kept himself single
left to follow , and keep up with them or not , as they could , while they walked on
passed at table , did not evince the least disapprobation .
his was an involuntary confidence , an irrepressible effusion to a soothing friend , not an application to a parent
her own thoughts were employing her .
, had never yet led to more than a few first chapters , and the intention of going on to-morrow
ay , this comes of the peace .
“what does all that signify ?
all her alarms were regularly sent off to her husband ; and julia ' s elopement , the additional blow
to encourage her , and then looked too serious , and said too decidedly , “it must be so ,
but it was natural to suppose that he thought much higher of her ladyship than she could do ; and
relatives and intimate friends , and some of these latter—if one may trust a little anthology which she herself collected
jennings , without attending to her daughter ' s reproof .
this is a cursed shabby trick !
bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match .
have you seen any pleasant men ?
maria had destroyed her own character , and he would not , by a vain attempt to restore what never
claims of their daughter .
shown .
to reason , coax , or trick him into marrying , is inconceivable !
she was born to overcome an affection formed so late in life as at seventeen , and with no sentiment
she was the first object of his love , but it was a love which his stronger spirits , and
“it falls as naturally , as necessarily to her , ” said he , “as agatha does to one or
has she run away because we are come ?
he repeated the inquiry with yet greater eagerness .
time when you found fault with her for being so pale ?
her father was growing nervous , and could not understand her .
tilney there before the morning were over , and ready to meet him with a smile ; but no smile
” “if mrs .
' i could not answer , but i believe my looks spoke .
ladies , during his absence in london , the engagements of his curate at woodston obliging him to leave them
at last ready to escort them .
this was an evil omen .
the night was stormy ; the wind had been rising at intervals the whole afternoon ; and by the time
solitary female walking , and in mr .
—emma felt her foot pressed by mrs .
the vanity of many a young lady by insinuations of her power over such a young man ; and this
bought at weymouth , you know—mr .
asked to make the eighth : —but this invitation was not given with equal satisfaction , and on many accounts
god bless you , for your goodness to me and my girl , and continue to you all your present
no , ” said he ; “it would be the extreme of imprudence .
friends attended her into the house , and miss tilney , before they parted , addressing herself with respectful form
catherine was very well pleased to have it dropped for a while , she could not avoid a little suspicion
” “i do think it is , without exception , the best charade i ever read .
and she would neither believe her own watch , nor her brother ' s , nor the servant ' s
weston ' s fears were justified in the arrival of a letter of excuse .
i had not a suspicion that i could be doing anything wrong .
i believe it would be generally thought the favourite seat .
” elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase , and listened with all her heart ; but the delicacy
that need be told by letter ; that it would be inexpressibly desirable to have her removed just now for
entire scenes , did she thus watch henry tilney , without being once able to catch his eye .
girl so ill !
prepare , my dear mother , for the worst !
been joyfully and proudly communicative ; and being at that time not only in daily expectation of morland ' s
it would have looked so particular ; and you know how i abhor doing that .
—very far from it , i assure you .
the sky , and the sun frequently appeared .
i endeavoured to consult the simplicity of your taste ; but , at any rate , i know you will
the comfort to her of the regiment’s approaching removal was indeed beyond expression .
p .
she was to be their chosen visitor , she was to be for weeks under the same roof with the
at length a groan from the hapless edward (who alone retained any share of life) restored us to ourselves .
she was previously disposed , i believe , to doubt the morality of my conduct in general , and was
i have no pleasure in seeing my friends , unless i can believe myself fit to be seen .
“i have been watching them .
xxxvi mr .
work , and the fresh made path spoke the farmer counteracting the sweets of poetical despondence , and meaning to
this was a subject which ensured marianne ' s attention , and she was beginning to describe her own admiration
lutterell to miss m .
her mother only scolded her for being nonsensical .
he was certainly better pleased to hand her into the barouche than to assist her in ascending the box ,
it would be too ridiculous for me to attempt anything where i am now , with my little half acre
” chapter xiv mrs .
” “yes ; that is , it was the fault of my own mind if i did not .
the parties arranged by her husband , provided every thing were conducted in style and her two eldest children attended
a cold stormy rain set in , and nothing of july appeared but in the trees and shrubs , which
remember to be in time , for i shant wait—i hate my victuals over-done—but you need not come before the
betty ' s sister would never do for them now .
crawford ?
miss darcy was tall , and on a larger scale than elizabeth ; and , though little more than sixteen
with red eyes , set her down as a hypocrite .
elton was spoken of .
ferrars ' s conduct , the dashwoods ' , and edward ' s .
but , as it was , she only learned , from some very significant looks , how far their penetration
of his brother-in-law , and he was determined , if possible , to find out the extent of his assistance
she was certainly not a woman of family , but well educated , accomplished , rich , and excessively in
bingley and his sister pressed them to stay longer , she could spare them very well .
the play will be given up , and your delicacy honoured as it ought .
than it is .
it makes you look like an old witch .
the enmity which they dared not shew in open disrespect to her , found a broader vent in contemptuous treatment
he was going , and , if not voluntarily going , voluntarily intending to stay away ; for , excepting
, had given birth to the hope , that , in time , he might gain her affection himself ;
she longed to see the crofts ; but when the meeting took place , it was evident that no rumour
—such a happy little circle as you find us here .
wondered at because she does not accept the first offer she receives ?
letters , observed to her that they contained nothing but what any one would have written in the same situation
at home till one .
unequal to company , there was scarcely an evening in the week in which emma could not make up a
distant civility .
, if not of being really in love with her , of being at least very near it , and
“you may see the house from this window , sir , ” was information on sarah ' s side ,
been alienable , it would have made no difference .
she attended to all that mrs .
she allowed him to talk , and arranged the glasses , and wrapped herself up , without opening her lips
every one concerned was looking forward with eagerness .
“a gentleman and a stranger !
allen ' s bosom , catherine sat erect , in the perfect use of her senses , and with cheeks
to approach marianne , though he could not but see her ; and then continued his discourse with the same
but there is no time fixed ; perhaps to-morrow , or whenever your spirits are composed enough .
what will he be doing , in fact , but what very many of our first families have done ,
the sincerest gratitude .
festivity before her .
”—and as clearly heard emma opposing it with eager laughing warmth .
and what can he have to say ?
it was the last thing i would willingly have done .
but , at the same time , it is not for me to suffer such a sacrifice as it must
her story began ; and fanny immediately slipped out of the room ; for to hear herself the subject of
early implanted .
you do not dine out , ” was not quite sufficient .
having taken her into every division , and led her under every wall , till she was heartily weary of
the first was from the admiral to inform his nephew , in a few words , of his having succeeded
the world , and to excite her jealousy , in miss crawford ' s apprehension , if she heard it
minute of sending for mr .
almost immediately afterwards say to himself , over a newspaper he held in his hand , “hum !
—a most deplorable want of complexion .
knightley had once told her it was because she saw in her the really accomplished young woman , which she
comparisons would occur—regrets would arise ; —and her joy , though sincere as her love for her sister , was
but i hope your friend ' s accounts have been exaggerated ; and if such a design is known beforehand
saying , in a tone of great sensibility , speaking low , “time , my dearest emma , time will
table , which sir john observed with great contentment .
honour of calling patroness .
_num_ ] behaviour to him by the past rather than the present , she avoided every appearance of resentment or
we shall know more about them all , in half an hour , from you , than miss fairfax would
so many months ' acquaintance !
i am sure they will be married very soon , for he has got a lock of her hair .
deal and always with animation—but she is not often really merry .
the house of sophia ' s relation , unwilling to intrude our society on him unexpected and unthought of ,
morland ' s disappointment .
heavily on my spirits ?
were so shy and reluctant that he could not advance in any .
you are very ill .
was its mistress .
" and after a moment ' s pause , " but you have never asked me one word about our
it would be a compact of convenience , and the world would be satisfied .
i have changed my religion so often that at present i have not an idea of any left .
i believe in a true analogy between our bodily frames and our mental ; and that as our bodies are
it was as follows : " bartlett ' s building , march .
my mind is entirely made up .
now , an attachment to harriet smith would have nothing to encounter .
a note or two from lyme , which found their way to anne , she could not tell how ,
everything was by that time public beyond a hope .
the contrast between this and her last breakfast in that room gave her fresh misery , and strengthened her distaste
[ _num_ ] " and see how the children go on .
—is she really not ill ?
she blessed the favouring blindness .
jennings , sagaciously smiling , as soon as the gentleman had withdrawn , " i do not ask you what
your tenderest affection ?
be allowed an early establishment .
” “i am very sensible , madam , of the hardship to my fair cousins , and could say much
she had not foreseen anything of this , and her feelings could seldom withstand the melancholy influence of the word
you to be right rather than myself , and i am very much obliged to you for trying to reconcile
; and it is quite a shame for such ill-natured reports to be spread abroad .
there are on both sides good principles and good temper .
" well , my dear penelope , you need not be so alarmed about him .
them , so easily forgets her , that these sort of inconsistencies are very frequent .
listen , and almost forgetting where she was ; till , roused by the voice of isabella , she looked
the possibility of being able to write , to speak , to you of my lost henry will be a
i wish you would not be so quarrelsome .
gardiner was a sensible , gentlemanlike man , greatly superior to his sister , as well by nature as education
eye made her mother trust that this good-natured visit would at least set her heart at ease for a time
room before ; and they conversed with so much spirit and flow , as to draw the attention of lady
on the sweetness of my temper .
“not at all .
harriet smith marries robert martin .
you will get very tired when tea is over .
i am sure you will agree with me in saying that they can none of them be of a proper
" " i shall not attempt it .
and grow fat .
she feared she had been doing wrong : saying too much , overacting the caution which she had been fancying
“i never look at it , ” said catherine , as they walked along the side of the river ,
this passage is at least as extraordinary a road from the breakfast-parlour to your apartment , as that staircase can
our difficulties .
quite thick shoes .
her reception of him was of a sort which he could not have hoped for , had he expected to
assistance is impossible ; condolence insufferable .
elizabeth took up some needlework , and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between darcy and his companion
" a degree of unexpected cordiality , however , in the welcome she received , did her good .
the next morning produced a little more .
manner in the world , fastening in the rivet of my mother ' s spectacles .
” “you are a very close questioner .
elizabeth had heard soon after her arrival that mr .
” and he looked so conscious , that fanny could think but of one errand , which turned her too
i am very sure myself , that had willoughby turned out as really amiable , as he has proved himself
catherine ' s resolution of endeavouring to meet miss tilney again continued in full force the next morning ; and
" but , " continued anne , presently , " though there is no truth in my having this claim
up one ' s family circle grievously .
had his choice been less unexceptionable , i should have condemned his persevering .
, though irregular , main street of the place ; and , as may be inferred , containing the blessed
connections , and probably inferior in fortune to herself .
as she walked , she reflected on what had passed .
” “i dislike it very much , ” he replied ; “but it must be done .
beneath them .
dashwood , " i believe you are perfectly right .
in something new .
trust of both so well that the king died and the kingdom was left to his daughter in law the
every thing was too recent for gaiety , but the evening passed tranquilly away ; there was no longer anything
rushworth ' s cloak without sending for any more satin ; and now i think you may give me your
my dear little creature , do not stay at portsmouth to lose your pretty looks .
not offensive to his patron .
perpetually .
no greater harm or danger to any of us in conversing in the elegant written language of some respectable author
" cried mary , her eyes brightening .
i came only for willoughby ' s sake—and now who cares for me ?
how well you put it on !
his intelligence must come from herself , and i am less disposed to believe it than to lament the degree
same style of open-hearted communication : minutiae which , even with every advantage of taste and delicacy , which good
marianne looked again ; her heart sunk within her ; and abruptly turning round , she was hurrying back ,
i was three weeks in london , and saw her (for london) very often .
his reception , however , was of the most flattering kind .
the purity of her life , the formality of her notions , her ignorance of the world , —every thing
we lived for enjoyment .
, to be endangered by the society or hurt by the character of mrs .
now , for instance , it was reckoned a remarkable thing , at the last party in my rooms ,
" this , as every thing else would have been , was too much for marianne , who could only
great misconduct , it is particularly consoling to me to know that those of my friends , whose good opinion
marianne , few as had been her hours of comfort in london , and eager as she had long been
edward ferrars and the stiff-jointed colonel brandon .
poor young man !
bingley before , expressed to her sister just how very much she admired him .
—the charm of her own name was not wanting .
she comes to us to-day .
merely for himself .
young could feel it , i did not , i could not , then know what a loss it was
compassion all alive for this ill-used girl , this heroine in distress !
it must be done directly ; it must be done in london ; the order must go through the hands
here comes your beau , nancy , ' my cousin said t ' other day , when she saw him
crewkherne , in his way to bath and london .
his ideas seemed more moderate—his feelings warmer .
persuasion of having given him at least an evening ' s indulgence in the discussion of subjects , which his
i cannot believe his prospects so blighted for ever .
, or looking at his page .
fanny was out of spirits all the rest of the day .
history ; never were amiable men so scarce .
he had never knowingly given her pain , but he now felt that she required more positive kindness ; and
—why could not they go on as they had done ?
, but she was not right in supposing that such an interval would be felt a great relief to herself
“it is very charming indeed , ” said isabella , with a grave face .
yet time and her aunt moved slowly—and her patience and her ideas were nearly worn out before the tête-à-tête was
and receiving a few , very few hints .
it was necessary for him to step forward , too , and assist the introduction , and with many awkward
and only added more seriously— “your uncle is disposed to be pleased with you in every respect ; and i
is a man of fortune , it was easy to see her views extended to marriage .
soon found some accommodating business to call him thither .
churchill , whose health seemed every day to supply a different report , and the situation of mrs .
no proxy can be capable of satisfying to the same extent .
my good qualities are under your protection , and you are to exaggerate them as much as possible ; and
time of year , by being up before they can begin ?
things in the autumn , to what they had all been to each other when once dancing in that house
on edward ' s side , more particularly , there was a deficiency of all that a lover ought to
so much the man of fashion !
for mr .
" and such being the case , " continued mrs smith , after a short pause , " i hope
something so droll—all about any thing in the world .
he had by that time reached it also , and , holding out a letter , which she instinctively took
” miss tilney , to whom this was chiefly addressed , was startled , and hastily replied , “indeed !
you have had a very fine day for your ride .
" elinor was alternately diverted and pained ; but marianne persevered , and saw every night in the brightness of
this time , that she soon felt the necessity of a little consolation , and resolved on going home by
, and frederica at peace .
the following spring he was seen again in town , found equally agreeable , again encouraged , invited , and
a better written letter , harriet (returning it , ) than i had expected .
she had nothing to say one day that she had not said the day before .
preparatory to their now daily drive to randalls ; and she had , therefore , an immediate excuse for disappearing
with my head and heart full of your sister , i was forced to play the happy lover to another
never left the poor fellow for a week .
it is all very bad !
he has told me so with a warmth of manner which spoke his regret at having believed the contrary himself
” “and the staircase—you know , as i came in , i observed how very like the staircase was ;
valuable family living might be his as soon as it became vacant .
i could not bear it for emma !
he might be able to join them in the evening , but certainly not to dinner .
i thought i should have broken my heart .
elsewhere .
“it keeps him in good humour , ” said she , “and i am more obliged to you than i
but with william and fanny price it was still a sentiment in all its prime and freshness , wounded by
fanny was ready and waiting , and mrs .
a trunk , directed to the rev .
her arrival , and expected them impatiently the whole evening .
—emma , i had not thought it possible .
elton sauntering about .
the vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had produced of what mr .
i could not do it .
bates—we passed her house—i saw miss bates at the window .
i am very much afraid that it will all end in nothing .
catherine ' s complaisance was no longer what it had been in their former airing .
dinner , to do away any little resentment of the other two , and restore general good-humour .
yates felt it as acutely as might be supposed .
now there is no one to regard them .
he might even have harriet in his thoughts at the moment ; who could say ?
and the next half-hour saw her as anxious and restless about the eltons as before .
the gentleman experienced some change of feeling ; he drew back his chair , took a newspaper from the table
his visits to her had been at stated times , and of equal and settled duration ; but on her
—the blunders , the blindness of her own head and heart !
" " has she ?
grant , there is not one in a hundred of either sex who is not taken in when they marry
lay me open to unpleasant conjectures , but i have no other reason to regret that i was not in
mamma , how shall we do without her ?
likely to do her good as a little quiet cheerfulness at home .
to sir william or lady lucas without being rude , and many months were gone before she could at all
“i am going to open the instrument , eliza , and you know what follows .
at lyme , he had received lessons of more than one sort .
her legal allowance was not adequate to her fortune , nor sufficient for her comfortable maintenance , and i learnt
to the world in general , for she is , in fact , a beautiful girl , and must be
received with gratitude ; and the other—what was she ?
personally known to the family , to have a nearer view of their characters and her own difficulties , and
, last spring twelve-month .
crawford ' s quicker hand , and she was obliged to be indebted to his more prominent attention .
, no tastes so similar , no feelings so in unison , no countenances so beloved .
however , as they are so very desirous to have dear emma dine with them , and as you will
, and two sisters fond of each other , made that mutual regard inevitable and immediate , which might otherwise
—“in not one of all my clever replies , my delicate negatives , is there any allusion to making a
harriet ' s sweet easy temper will not mind it .
allen ; and after looking about them in vain for a more eligible situation , were obliged to sit down
the great nation not having much improved our condition .
" i do not know ; but i can hardly suppose that , at admiral croft ' s time of
; but whether she should make her distress known to them was another consideration .
regret—nothing but my own folly .
—but you knew what a dutiful creature you had to deal with .
where shall you change horses ?
you had it from himself , had you ?
i have no notion of treating men with such respect .
turned round and moved away from each other , would have told it all .
miss crawford , herself , edmund ; but it was dangerous , perhaps , to tread such ground .
” while they were dressing , he came two or three times to their different doors , to recommend their
just returned from the altar , and are now on our way to dawlish for a few weeks , which
must come to the coach-door , as she wanted to speak to her , and that she must make haste
weston ' s letters .
anguish , but whose affection they have never been able to gain .
she was more silent than ever .
campbells from ireland was again delayed , and august , instead of midsummer , fixed for it , she was
its writer to be deep in hardened villainy .
have rendered her , to the advice which would have saved her from the worst of all her womanly follies—her
my dearest musgrove— .
to be lett a neat cottage on the borders of an extensive forest and about three miles from the sea
; when behold !
mind as every thing had so long been , and was very much pleased with all that she had said
" that such letters , so full of affection and confidence , could have been so answered , elinor ,
ought to be .
joyous to talk as usual , had been a gratifying , yet almost an affecting , scene .
to be deriving support from the commendations of mrs .
and a quick taste could allow .
what can be the matter ?
they had not been here a twelvemonth when he left england .
late .
a few years before , anne elliot had been a very pretty girl , but her bloom had vanished early
letter the _num_ th laura in continuation arm yourself my amiable young freind with all the philosophy you are mistress
another twenty years ' absence , perhaps , begun .
delightful , and she found herself well matched in a partner .
open on the table near her , had she closed it , with averted eyes , and pushed it away
—satisfied that it was so , and feeling it her due , she had enjoyed it without reflection ; and
her continual disagreements with her mother , her rash squabbles with tom and charles , and petulance with betsey ,
to be compared with miss fairfax .
tilney while she talked to miss thorpe .
at school (chap , xxvi .
he sees difficulties nowhere : and his pleasantness and gaiety will be a constant support to you .
makes me think it right to give you a hint , fanny , now that you are going into company
i expected you to stay two months .
in short , when a person is always to deceive , it is impossible to be consistent .
[ _num_ ] " she put in the feather last night .
was in frightful conformity with it .
letter the second from a young lady crossed in love to her freind why should this last disappointment hang so
it was but a card party , it was but a mixture of those who had never met before ,
you can do nothing but what you do already : be plagued very often , and never lose your temper
—and her salary !
” it was the answer to the communication of his intended marriage .
this information , however , startled mrs .
we will provide ourselves with tablets and a pencil .
this is precisely what i wanted .
“you know pretty well , i suppose , what has been done for the young people .
he staid an hour with them .
she fills the whole paper and crosses half .
tilney , must be , as certainly as her memory could guide her , exactly over this suspected range of
" " no , marianne , never .
was , earlier than i could have anticipated , wholly reconciled and complying ; and could say at last ,
“we are sorry for him , ” said she ; “but otherwise there is no harm done in the match
she remained there at least an hour , in the greatest agitation , deeply commiserating the state of her poor
only think if anything should happen ?
if they had forgotten the conversation of yesterday .
crawford sat down likewise .
“this is not my idea of a chapel .
“it must make you better satisfied that your other four are single .
and now she could reproach her only by the tears which streamed from her eyes with passionate violence—a reproach ,
harriet was a little distressed—did look a little foolish at first : but having once owned that she had been
we both loved reading .
i am to see you so much in love !
the evergreen !
miniatures , half-lengths , whole-lengths , pencil , crayon , and water-colours had been all tried in turn .
it had been most valuable .
“the churchills are very likely in fault , ” said mr .
she often heaved a sigh at the remembrance of all her books and boxes , and various comforts there .
it would not be fair to inquire into a young lady ' s exact estimate of her own perfections .
she must not wonder at all this ; what could be more natural than that edmund should be making himself
for their completion , after experiencing , as usual , a thousand disappointments and delays from the unaccountable dilatoriness of
i never listened to a distinguished preacher in my life without a sort of envy .
“if , therefore , an excuse for not keeping his promise should come to his friend within a few days
; but as harry only was present , it was all conjectural assertion on both sides ; and every body
" " aye , to be sure .
i shall be glad to have the library to myself as soon as may be .
protested against every thought of dancing himself , but even laughed openly at henry for finding it possible .
he did trace them easily to clapham , but no further ; for on entering that place , they removed
fanny would have had quite as good a walk there , i assure you , with the advantage of being
my dear creature , ” she replied , “do not think me such a simpleton as to be always wanting
chapter _num_ the allens had now entered on the sixth week of their stay in bath ; and whether it
” “lady bertram , i do not complain .
being suspected .
of her opinion of me , i think i may defy her .
the dinner , already ordered at the inn , was at last , though unwillingly , accepted as a excuse
at kellynch hall ; and who had made herself so acceptable to miss elliot , as to have been already
i condition for nothing else ; but without music , life would be a blank to me .
and sinking into the chair which he had occupied , succeeding to the very spot where he had leaned and
, or attempting to divide , two young people[ _num_ ] long attached to each other , is terrible .
” “that may be , and i may have seen him fifty times , but without having any idea of
was vain , and till the disappointment and wretchedness arising from the conviction rendered her temper so bad , and
cole , ' said i , ' depend upon it .
bennet would have been very miserable ; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was not alarming ,
i could not go .
she felt that he had been very ill-used , and was quite unhappy in having to communicate what had passed
knees before him and besought him to acknowledge me as his grand child .
i am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character , in a part
" " did mrs .
anne herself was become hardened to such affronts ; but she felt the imprudence of the arrangement quite as keenly
but i can assure the young ladies that i come prepared to admire them .
me my beloved children that if you do—i shall be very sorry for it .
" said she to the footman who then entered with the parcels .
i long to be made known to your dear little children , in whose hearts i shall be very eager
“but why not do it civilly ?
to lose .
winter .
what manner we should inform m ' kenrie of the favourable opinion janetta entertained of him .
) on this subject ; and it was but the very saturday night before i left hunsford—between our pools at
them—something of the annuity kind i mean .
william does come to mansfield , i hope you may be able to convince him that the many years which
let us wait , therefore , for this letter .
the most important and applicable nature must of course flow from her wise lips in their parting conference in her
do you think it is a good one ?
, they could not be supposed to meet for the sake of conversation .
” this part of his intelligence , though unheard by lydia , was caught by elizabeth , and , as
there had been at one moment a slight murmur in the drawing-room at mansfield park about sending her a prayer-book
crawford must not be kept longer waiting .
her for a few months , i should very soon have outgrown the fancied attachment , especially by mixing more
would be afraid of the inconvenience and disgrace they might be involved in , when the mystery of her parentage
the expense would be nothing , the inconvenience not more ; and it was altogether an attention which the delicacy
visit should begin a few days before the party took place .
” “but she does help him on , as much as her nature will allow .
took her up in his arms without farther delay , and carried her down the hill .
i have nothing more to shew you , or to say—except that i am now going to throw them both
till that hour .
i am only resolved to act in that manner , which will , in my own opinion , constitute my
i will send nanny to london on purpose , and she may have a bed at her cousin the saddler
that said emma woodhouse , whom i regard with so much brotherly affection , as to long to have her
” “they went towards the church-yard .
of the instrument ' s coming to hand .
use your own discretion , however , in communicating to her what i have told you .
uncertainty of situation in which any advice can be wanted .
she immediately felt how reasonable it was , that mrs croft should be thinking and speaking of edward , and
could be said to make her happy , before the disappointment inseparable from the alteration of person had vanished ,
laura .
has to give—for another half-hour .
who stood among the lookers-on , immediately behind her partner .
elton , as her brother and sister had failed her , that the two parties should unite , and go
" " in town !
be denied her confidence now ; he hoped to be of service to her , he thought he must be
she is fair and her face is expressive sometimes of softness the most bewitching , and at others of vivacity
" " shall i tell you .
he went away , the whole family returned to their usual employments , and elizabeth was thankful to find that
“not yet , ” replied jane .
eighty-seven women go by , one after another , without there being a tolerable face among them .
however , we may as well go and sit with them a little while , and when we have that
was suffering from consciousness .
as she ought ; saw how very desirable it was that he should have some active , respectable young man
declaration .
elton was still talking , still engaged in some interesting detail ; and emma experienced some disappointment when she found
, and then i bowed and smiled like anything .
” “and did colonel forster appear to think well of wickham himself ?
it need not detain us long .
we do not suffer by accident .
she was speaking only as she had been used to hear others speak , as she imagined everybody else would
but i have an aunt , too , who must not be longer neglected .
as for marianne , on the pangs which so unhappy a meeting must already have given her , and on
—but i hope she is pretty well , sir .
” “and then , he saved her life .
what was to become of her ?
there was no longer anything to disturb them in their darling project , and they congratulated each other in private
crawford ' s good company and good fortune , he would probably have feared to push his experiment farther ,
as they passed through the hall , lady catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and drawing-room , and pronouncing
look at it , and sighed out his half sentences of admiration just as he ought ; and as for
that nature had given it in feature could not be unseen by the young woman , nor could her higher
and am going to attach myself with the greatest sensibility to one in particular , a young frederic , whom
the rain was a mere trifle , and anne was most sincere in preferring a walk with mr elliot .
through difficulties of walking which she had deemed unconquerable a week before , for the chance of hearing a little
that , perhaps , so unfortunately circumstanced as he is now , it may be nonsense to appear to doubt
day ' s party , which it might very possibly have done , for mr .
see it , ” etc .
if you are i will begin directly .
“i have no doubt of its being our carriage with miss bates and jane .
not to go out to-day—and dissuade my father from venturing ; but as he has made up his mind ,
hesitated what to say , her brother again interposed with miss crawford ' s better claim .
” “yes , she would be , but that she thinks there will be another put-off .
may be open for tea and other refreshments ; and let the supper be set out in the saloon .
charlotte herself was tolerably composed .
s throw of the said knoll and church .
i had not , miss crawford , been an inattentive observer of what was passing between him and some part
vernon ' s giving him any .
my friend , mrs .
than anybody can conceive .
, his own had often produced the perfection wanted .
on one side was a table occupied by some chattering girls , cutting up silk and gold paper ; and
the ill state of health into which his loss has thrown her makes her so weak , and so unable
admiral , i hope there is nothing in the style of captain wentworth ' s letter to make you and
" " perhaps , " said marianne , " i may consider it with some surprise .
knightley called , and sat some time with mr .
often wish it , i am sure .
i want to consult you .
” “you would not have encouraged me , then , if you had understood me ?
its being very disagreeable , —a waste of time—tiresome women—and all the horror of being in danger of falling in
when he first became acquainted with louisa which was little more than three years ago , he was one of
" it would be something remarkable , now , " he continued , " something droll , if fanny should
i am delighted with the book !
she was your governess , i think ?
by the pride of some , and the delicacy of others , to the smallest knowledge of it afterwards .
had it been ten , elinor would have been convinced that at that moment she heard a carriage driving up
i am not at all afraid .
but you have more good nature and all that , than anybody living , i believe .
" for me !
my sweet catherine , do support me ; persuade your brother how impossible it is .
it is a dreadful thing to have you forced to live there !
" miss elliot , " said he , speaking rather low , " you have done a good deed in
i shall have many fellow-mourners for the ball , if not for frank churchill ; but mr .
ever condescend to anticipate enjoyment , she would foresee it there from a variety of sources ; she would ,
the dear colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last ; but darcy seemed to feel it most acutely
—oh no !
if you think he will come , i shall think so too ; for you know enscombe .
” “and really , i do not think the impression will soon be over , ” said emma , as
crawford and the beauty of the weather would soon have been knocked up now .
“signify !
she felt all the force of that comparison ; but not as her sister had hoped , to urge her
de courcy to sir reginald churchhill .
come be quick , be quick !
to be told that she did not forbid his attempt to attach her .
there were not fewer smiles at the parsonage than at the park on this change in edmund ; miss crawford
, it had not produced the smallest effect on her in that point to which it principally tended .
was to take place within a few days , and captain tilney ' s removal would at least restore peace
elton , no doubt ; accomplished enough for highbury—handsome enough—to look plain , probably , by harriet ' s side
elinor ; and mrs .
subject , and began directly to speak of his pleasure at seeing them in london , making the usual inquiries
chapter _num_ elizabeth , as they drove along , watched for the first appearance of pemberley woods with some perturbation
elton hardly waited for the affirmative before she went on .
“my dear child , ” said she , laughing , “what are you afraid of ?
it is a period , indeed !
him to have any serious thoughts of me .
he was universally liked .
he coloured very deeply , and giving a momentary glance at elinor , replied , " yes ; it is
did he know of their intending to go off ?
weston than by herself—but even he had never been able to finish the subject better than by saying—“those matters will
emma thanked him , but could not allow of his disappointing his friend on their account ; her father was
—how could he tell that he might not be making me in love with him ?
“lizzy , ” said he , “what are you doing ?
the church .
her the explanation .
they will stay a good while when they do come , and he will be half his time with us
unfrequently called for by one or the other , she was never able to give any , from not having
, that the young man himself , though by no means moving slowly , could hardly be out of hearing
crawford ' s views , and make the performance , not the theatre , our object .
when he did return , he sought out the child and took notice of her .
to fasten it to ; and though she had worn it in that manner once , would it be allowable
” “and quite alone ?
such a strain of shallow artifice could not impose even upon catherine .
marianne was restored to her from a danger in which , as she now began to feel , her own
drinking to her best affections .
an effort even yet lighter might have made her their friend .
assembly !
for a few painful minutes , she believed it to be no more than friendship .
steady old friends were seated around mrs musgrove , and charles came back with captains harville and wentworth .
marianne lifted up her eyes in astonishment , and elinor conjectured that she might as well have held her tongue
my father , however , is partial to mr .
he had caught both substance and shadow—both fortune and affection , and was just the happy man he ought to
yes , yes , i will go and see her , sure enough .
” “was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to jane while she was ill at netherfield ?
on his return from woodston , two days before , he had been met near the abbey by his impatient
the admiral .
of a renewal of lovers ' vows , he should hold himself positively engaged , he should break through every
do not think i shall grant) , it does not apply to benwick .
elton and miss fairfax , who were standing a little way behind her .
emma could not speak .
" i am delighted with the plan , " she cried , " it is exactly what i could wish
they will then join his regiment , unless they are first invited to longbourn ; and i understand from mrs
i am determined i will not look up .
” it now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened
, with great satisfaction , a message from her ladyship , importing that she felt herself so dull as to
with each that she could wish .
his attachment to rosings certainly increases .
if frank churchill had wanted to see his father , he would have contrived it between september and january .
which led by it ' s side down a steep hill over which ten rivulets meandered , they reached the
he knew her illnesses ; they never occurred but for her own convenience .
fanny found herself obliged to yield , that she might not be accused of pride or indifference , or some
public places , if she can get it—she will certainly not endeavour to reclaim sir george from the manner of
time , however , she thought , would tell him that they ought to be friends again .
while each of the miss bertrams were meditating how best , and with the most appearance of obliging the others
weston was afraid of draughts for the young people in that passage ; and neither emma nor the gentlemen could
find the grants and their young inmates really worth visiting ; and though infinitely above scheming or contriving for any
on saturday for a couple of nights .
[ _num_ ] that she would not on any account make farther opposition .
the good lady had not given me the possibility of escape before .
her adversary ' s wrong , as mr .
it was in her power to offer him any attention , or mark her deference for his opinion .
” catherine replied only by a look of wondering ignorance .
thorpe , however , would see her to her chair , and , till she entered it , continued the
the truth of this representation there was no denying .
chapter _num_ within a short walk of longbourn lived a family with whom the bennets were particularly intimate .
some letters had passed between her and her brother , in consequence of marianne ' s illness ; and in
this gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers ; but mrs .
bear no more .
and emma .
i shall write again as soon as anything more is determined on .
bennet could hardly contain herself .
for any change of weather during their stay at cleveland .
i really am ashamed of always leading the way .
he is the most horrible flirt that can be imagined .
he would soon be always gone ; and she was thankful that she could now sit in the same room
as soon as they had driven from the door , elizabeth was called on by her cousin to give her
not disposed to talk , she could not avoid hearing many undesirable particulars ; such as , " how mr
of mind , and an inclination for usefulness , as fanny had been by sweetness of temper , and strong
“i only wish i could do as much .
collins as the wisest thing she ever did .
" elinor smiled , and shook her head .
to-morrow if you can come ; for i begin to have a foreboding that i may not have many more
yours as unchanged as your dwelling ; and that you will always consider me with the kindness which has made
in a few minutes he approached the table where she was sitting with kitty ; and , while pretending to
, which she plainly read in the fair heroine ' s countenance .
their means were as different as their objects , and equally suited to the advancement of each .
" this hint was enough , lucy recollected herself instantly and[ _num_ ] replied , " indeed you are very
do seem peculiarly past finding out .
for our family , but we will make ourselves tolerably comfortable for the present , as it is too late
to her own care , and ready to give so exact , so minute a detail of her situation ,
have never known a cross word from him in my life , and i have known him ever since he
i happened to overhear the gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of the house the
repulsive as were his manners , she had never , in the whole course of their acquaintance—an acquaintance which had
but the truth is , that my father hardly knows them .
to make the few slight differences , resulting principally from situation , no reasonable hindrance to a perfect friendship .
they were obliged to move .
yes , that i do indeed .
” the friends were not able to get together for any confidential discourse till all the dancing was over ;
why should not we make a little party ?
” “nay my love replied she , now you confirm my suspicions .
churchill of enscombe .
i knew that mr .
he has broken no faith with me .
bingley was by no means deficient , but darcy was clever .
trouble , did not admit a doubt .
exception of lady bertram , mrs .
" it might have been a very sad accident .
little really easy as could be .
—i really do not think there will .
i always think that no mutual-- " " oh !
" he longed to see her .
within the room all was tranquil enough , for susan having disappeared with the others , there were soon only
nor was it under many , many minutes that she could comprehend what she heard ; though not in general
i concluded , of course , that she and reginald had been quarrelling ; and looked with anxious curiosity for
apricot marmalade had been successfully applied for a bruised temple , the same remedy was eagerly proposed for this unfortunate
miss price , than to be the wife of a man whose amiableness depends upon his own sermons ; for
there is always some talent in it .
she inquired after his sister , but could do no more .
” “true , true , ” he answered , warmly .
than those of any other set of beings in the world .
fear , from a return of her own insensibility .
of numbers , was a circumstance to strike him deeply .
he had no concealments with me .
" this , and marianne ' s blushing , gave new suspicions to edward .
with her own kindness in sending chapman to her , that she could not get it out of her head
perhaps he had been civil only because he felt himself at ease ; yet there had been that in his
” was the immediate answer ; “that could not be , for thorpe did not know that he might not
i know what it is , for mr musgrove always attends the assizes , and i am so glad when
succeeded in any point which she wanted to carry , against previous inclination .
“i cannot think well of a man who sports with any woman ' s feelings ; and there may often
i wish you may not be fatigued by so much exercise .
and the laugh of miss crawford once more caught her ear ; the sound approached , and a few more
one of our most admired performances was macbeth , in which we were truly great .
as little as possible of mr .
probable cause .
engaging isabella , but likewise pretty well resolved upon marrying catherine himself , his vanity induced him to represent the
“you must have been aware , ” continued sir thomas presently , “you must have been some time aware of
elton , (feeling the indignity as a wife ought to do , ) “i cannot imagine how he could do
“when i wear this necklace i shall always think of you , ” said she , “and feel how very
” this charming sentiment , recommended as much by sense as novelty , gave catherine a most pleasing remembrance of
your idea of the ponies is delightful .
now they seemed in pleasant conversation .
throw blame on the memory of one whose name is sacred with me .
, foresee any occasion for writing .
bertha (the mother of philander) and agatha (my own mother) always lived together .
in the house should share with you in the first knowledge of the news i now bring .
morland was from home—and being thus without any support , at the end of a quarter of an hour she
though i was almost afraid of him at first : the odds were five to four against me ; and
refined sensibility , of which augusta was one .
what is to become of that ?
her sentiments towards him were compounded of all that was respectful , grateful , confiding , and tender .
a few words , said , that if his consent and approbation could be obtained—which , she trusted , would
we must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect .
upon my honour , i never met with so many pleasant girls in my life as i have this evening
short gravel walk to the house , amidst the nods and smiles of the whole party .
i would present him to the living in question—of which he trusted there could be little doubt , as he
she gave her card .
" have you an agreeable neighbourhood here ?
” “there is hardly any desiring to refresh such a memory as that , ”—said mr .
” “well , well , we do not think quite alike here .
” “oh , dear , ” cried harriet , “now i recollect what you mean ; but i was thinking
his sister , too , is , i hope , convinced how little the ungenerous representations of anyone to the
whatever he proposed was immediately approved , first by her , and then by mr .
knightley , as i told you before .
occasion offered—“ah !
“she should always send for perry , if the child appeared in the slightest degree disordered , were it only
elton , “what can be the meaning of this ?
but now i must be satisfied about miss price .
there are very few people i am sorry to see .
she had good reason to believe that some property of her husband in the west indies , which had been
hurst and her sister allowed it to be so—but still they admired her and liked her , and pronounced her
there is something about him which rather interests me , a sort of sauciness and familiarity which i shall teach
the young man , though he might and did sigh , could not but agree , to take leave .
one is so fenced and guarded from the weather , that not a breath of air can find its way
do ?
elton emphatically , “which i should not have thought myself privileged to inquire into .
the female part of the thorpe family , attended by james morland , appeared among the crowd in less than
lady susan means nothing but her good , but she will not make a friend of her .
you saw i did not all dinner time .
when i went away , i am sure i had no more idea of being married till i came back
elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all , but she could see it and write of it without material
and , perhaps , to remind the latter of all the follies and absurdities by which some part of her
family which sunday produced , she learned that he had actually written home to defer his return , having promised
dashwood to stay longer ; but , as if he were bent only on self-mortification , he seemed resolved to
determine whether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share .
” edmund found himself obliged to speak and fill up the blanks in his mother ' s story .
assistance being wanted , it was in fact given in the formation of every sentence .
the intimacy had been formed before our marriage .
into her father and sister ' s solicitudes on a subject which she thought unworthy to excite them .
the harvilles silenced all scruples ; and , as much as they could , all gratitude .
of elinor ' s distress , she was too busily employed in measuring lengths of worsted for her rug ,
us all a large fortune a-piece !
; for , after the miss musgroves had returned and finished their visit at the cottage she had this spontaneous
that i was desirous of believing her indifferent is certain—but i will venture to say that my investigation and decisions
edward ferrars , " said elinor , with resolution , " going to be married ?
, they might procure a tolerable composure of mind by driving about the country .
you have been an improver yourself , and from what i hear of everingham , it may vie with any
poor young lady !
he without a shilling : one title , i know , she might have had , besides baronets .
but i will shew her greater attention than i have done .
“we have not determined how far it shall carry us , ” said mrs .
collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure , and elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming when she
accompanied by violent agitation , nor impetuous grief .
it on his cousin ?
and ambitious enough .
she blamed herself for the extent of her fears , and resolved never to think so seriously on the subject
it was every day implied , but never professedly declared .
it was a fine arrangement for henry crawford , who was close to fanny , and with his hands full
she mentioned nothing of what she had heard , or what she intended , at home .
he little surmised that it was a subject acting now exactly against his interest , bringing immediately to her thoughts
so far it was decided ; and henrietta at first declared the same .
that any man should not be estimated beyond their deserts ; but with him i believe it does not often
you think you carry it off very well , i dare say , but with you it is a sort
gardiner would be prevented by business from setting out till a fortnight later in july , and must be in
began directly to justify it , by saying— " lord !
” said jane , faintly smiling .
of the world cannot atone for .
” thus i did all in my power to console her , but without any effect , and at last
i thought little of his illness at first .
the affability with which miss woodhouse had treated her all the evening , and actually shaken hands with her at
in any other place sir walter might judge for himself ; and would be looked up to , as regulating
you as i ought , for thinking so well of me .
him , she thought it must happen .
—marriage , in fact , would not do for her .
but can we wonder that , with such a husband to provoke inconstancy , and without a friend to advise
you are determined to ruin him in the opinion of all his friends , and make him the contempt of
” jane did not look round .
do not be afraid of my running into any excess , of my encroaching on your privilege of universal good-will
alas !
well , i wish them happy with all my heart .
have a most delightful party .
whether anything had been said on the subject at the other house , where the crofts had previously been calling
very well satisfied with what she did say , and soon moved away to make the rest of his friends
; and colonel campbell ' s residence being in london , every lighter talent had been done full justice to
" " i am extremely glad , indeed , " cried anne , " particularly glad that this should happen
what could i do !
be increased to emma , it was by knowing her to be the mother of a little girl .
” “three-and-twenty !
another road , a mile or two beyond highbury—and happening to have borrowed a pair of scissors the night before
before the rain increased ; and in another moment they walked off together , her arm under his , a
but it would have been more like willoughby to acknowledge them at once .
” “insolent girl !
smith ' s grounds , or in seeing her house .
opportunities of improving it .
she was herself whisked into the marketplace .
it is such an abominable trick to be ill here instead of at bath that i can scarcely command myself
he was delighted with him .
they are as fine healthy children as ever were seen , poor little dears !
which she wished he had not said , she thought him altogether improved since she had seen him ; he
your thinking better and better of him as you know him more .
everything united in him ; good understanding , correct opinions , knowledge of the world , and a warm heart
i have been acting contrary to all my sense of right ; and the fortunate turn that every thing has
moment delay the happiness you are so impatient to enjoy .
” “but people themselves alter so much , that there is something new to be observed in them for ever
we know , on the contrary , that he has so much of both , that he is glad to
if jane does not get well soon , we will call in mr .
that a girl so capable of being made everything good should be left in such hands , distressed her more
elizabeth had mentioned her name to her mother on her ladyship’s entrance , though no request of introduction had been
an injunction of secresy had been among mr .
him (you having due notice of his intentions) must have very uphill work , for there are all your early
she should then have heard more : mrs .
but alas !
all the sensibility and spirit which edward had unfortunately wanted .
darcy asked him why he had not married your sister at once .
always together there or here ; for i consider my promise to mr .
she knew him ; she saw disdain in his eye , and could not venture to believe that he had
" " you consider the matter , " said elinor , " exactly as a good mind and a sound
elizabeth’s mind was too full for conversation , but she saw and admired every remarkable spot and point of view
elton , who wants to be wiser and wittier than all the world !
edmund ; when saturday came and still no edmund ; and when , through the slight communication with the other
being so thin and so small .
the scheme was soon repeated to henry .
does our education prepare us for such atrocities ?
“if i must say what i think , ” continued mr .
rushworth looks !
i was only confused for the moment , because i felt that i should be looked at .
westminster , which , as affording an occasion for leaving mansfield , an excuse for residence in london , and
distance from mansfield , when his horse being found to have flung a shoe , henry crawford had been obliged
you know not what you are about .
and depend on my diligence and care .
her friends evidently thought this good enough for her ; and it was good enough .
” “but then you know , madam , muslin always turns to some account or other ; miss morland will
my emma , does not every thing serve to prove more and more the beauty of truth and sincerity in
i was kept there from day to day in the hope of it , for nothing less dear to me
” “you take up an idea , mrs .
cole does not know how to shew her kindness enough ; and i must say that jane deserves it as
he came , and in such very good time that the ladies were none of them dressed .
a hundred a year would make them all perfectly comfortable .
i hope you are quite well .
i am quite uneasy about your dear brother , not having heard from him since he went to oxford ;
little annamaria ' s basket this evening ; for i am sure it must hurt your eyes to work filigree
the advantage or disadvantage of your family , of your parents , your brothers and sisters , never seems to
he thought much of the evils of the journey for her , and not a little of the fatigues of
bad connexion for him .
better decision themselves ; but they were young ; and , excepting edmund , he believed , of unsteady characters
of their unsafe amusements , than that such measures and such amusements should have been suggested .
walk , and the view which closed it extremely pretty .
country beyond .
who could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine there (an invitation , moreover , including the
, and with the least suspicion .
that the bride must be as clever and as agreeable as she professed herself , were very well satisfied ;
" " and the bulk of your fortune would be laid out in annuities on the authors or their heirs
resentment had not made him think really ill of her .
” this was of course vehemently talked down as no reason at all ; mrs .
tell me whatever you like .
“i hope , ” said she , as they were walking together in the shrubbery the next day , “you
just the trifling , silly fellow i took him for .
; who will not stir a finger for the convenience of any one ; and who , moreover , if
have given up her own more elegant and cultivated mind for all their enjoyments ; and envied them nothing but
adeiu my dear girl—yrs affectionately susan l .
” she had hoped for an answer here—for a few words to say that her conduct was at least intelligible
' ” sir thomas gave up the point , foiled by her evasions , disarmed by her flattery ; and
” the surprise was now complete ; for , in spite of whatever his consciousness might suggest , a suspicion
this must not be .
would either of them only have given her a full and minute account of the whole affair between marianne and
herself as for them , and would have been a great deal happier if she had spent all the rest
catherine knew all this very well ; her great aunt had read her a lecture on the subject only the
” “a degradation to illegitimacy and ignorance , to be married to a respectable , intelligent gentleman-farmer !
” “very , very much indeed : isabella particularly .
regardless however of anything concerning them , i gave myself up to my own sad reflections .
she could not flatter herself with any idea of blindness in his attachment to her .
exercise , the children , and every domestic pleasure in my power to procure her , will , i trust
a heroine returning , at the close of her career , to her native village , in all the triumph
“three and twenty !
to their former station , by the stile , felt some comfort in their whole party being immediately afterwards collected
her love of dirt gave way to an inclination for finery , and she grew clean as she grew smart
crawford ' s steadiness was honoured , and fanny was praised , and the connexion was still the most desirable
but how sad it is that he should not live at home with his father !
—she wished to see the whole extent .
she merely observed that he was perfectly good humoured and friendly .
well , at last , as i need not tell you , you were forced on me ; and what
leave little charles to my care .
; —which poor isabella , passing her life with those she doated on , full of their merits , blind
account ; so you must make up your mind to what may happen , and take your things accordingly .
for none of them , had only the appearance of civilly listening , while fanny , to whom everything was
he is made .
—she did not think it in harriet ' s nature to escape being benefited by novelty and variety , by
not to think of their expectations : the question is , what you can afford to do .
elton , rather mortified .
how dared he believe what she told him in my disfavour !
as to myself , i am very sorry that you should have been giving way to any feelings—nothing could be
t talk of it , don ' t talk of it , " he cried .
am rather better acquainted with her sentiments than you can be , i can assure you , that upon the
" after waiting another moment-- " you mean mr wentworth , i suppose ?
and then when we came away it was such fun !
his memory for me to be on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased him to be
fell a victim to it .
oh , mr .
she had not been used to feel alarm from wind , but now every blast seemed fraught with awful intelligence
have you not received my letters ?
” “indeed , but you must , for we cannot excuse you .
i am not so fond of acting as i was at first .
to contend , however , for a moment that the present volume is miss austen ' s greatest , as
i do not exactly know the distance , but when you get back to portsmouth , if it is not
their substance was great anger at the folly of each .
the more unkind in my father , because , otherwise , the money would have been entirely at my mother
a while , till another suspension brought mrs .
the most simple and self-evident sensations , while in the actions and words of marianne she persuaded herself to think
as to believe him capable of the attempt .
, and the privilege of true solicitude for him by a sound intellect and an honest heart .
in fact , it is not that i consider the ball as ill-timed ; what does it signify ?
' my dearest fanny , i am giving you , i hope , more pleasure than pain by this retrospect
darcy was here when you sent for us ; was it so ?
jennings should want company , i am sure we should be very glad to come and stay with her for
” darcy shook his head in silent acquiescence .
when my niece georgiana went to ramsgate last summer , i made a point of her having two men-servants go
on their being joined by mr .
what an ill-natured woman his mother is , an ' t she ?
at his and mrs .
“she will never forgive me , i am sure ; but , you know , how could i help it
, must not be applied to , because it was december , and mr .
i do not like to boast of my own child , but to be sure , jane—one does not often
” “i do not cough for my own amusement , ” replied kitty fretfully .
great point of it ; said he sometimes took out a gun , but never killed ; quite the gentleman
provoking me to it every moment .
lady mary grierson and her daughters .
i told my sister phillips so the other day .
acquaintance , and she was decidedly in favour of mr .
the bath paper one morning announced the arrival of the dowager viscountess dalrymple , and her daughter , the honourable
wickham , who had returned with him the day before from town , and he was happy to say had
" " marianne is as steadfast as ever , you see , " said elinor , " she is not
forward to .
the power of doing anything with quickness is always prized much by the possessor , and often without any attention
i know not in what manner , under what form of falsehood he had imposed on you ; but his
family as yet more wealthy than his vanity and avarice had made him believe them .
heart of henrietta halton , and if you are deceived yourself , do not attempt deceiving me .
there is nothing frightful in such a picture , is there , miss price ?
which had been large , and half of which devolved on him on his coming of age .
” elizabeth felt that they had entirely misunderstood his character , but said nothing .
" cried he , catching the same tone ; " i honour you !
in addition to every other delight , she had now that of listening to her own praise ; of being
” “i may , perhaps , get as far as banbury to-day .
it had not been forgotten before , but it had been soon acknowledged vain to attempt to fix a day
fanny was indeed the daughter that he wanted .
adeiu my dear charlotte yrs faithful margaret lesley .
" — " i mean , " —said he , with serious energy— " if i can , to make
caught a violent cold , and that they must endeavour to get the better of it ; advised her to
up it ?
” “let me be rightly understood .
without apprehension .
the assistance of the law .
“do you wonder ?
seemed to judge properly and as a man of principle , this was all clear enough .
than the woman herself .
, poor mr .
of solemnity , and a few words spoken too low to reach her ear , hurried into the carriage .
“will mr .
it was the very thing of all others to be wished , it was the best , it was the
sufficiently before them .
but there is one comfort , my dear miss marianne ; he is not the only young man in the
woodhouse ' s first exclamation , and all that he could say for some time .
but really i never understood that you were at all connected with that family , and therefore i am a
as for dr .
hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again .
player , to absent himself , and tried very much to persuade him to put off his journey only one
xxiv from the same to the same churchhill .
jennings ' s maid with her sister , she hurried down stairs .
there was a very general distress and disturbance on miss fairfax ' s disappearance being explained .
thorpe only laughed , smacked his whip , encouraged his horse , made odd noises , and drove on ;
lodge .
agreeable among the rest ; and having satisfied the inquiries of his wife as to his dinner , convincing her
come out as will shock your relations to hear .
i should not wonder , if he was to be in the greatest passion !
i did invite him , you know .
no other society .
but i shall want the ribbon directly—so it had better go to hartfield—at least the ribbon .
she was so amazingly tired , and it was so odious to parade about the pump-room ; and if she
in another minute , mr .
she had done everything ; and no one would have supposed , from her confident triumph , that she had
was communicated to elinor .
returning through the large and lofty hall , they ascended a broad staircase of shining oak , which , after
i lost the blessing of knowing you .
he could not help giving mrs .
consider , " she added , " that when the money is once parted with , it never can return
" " the whole history , " repeated anne , laughing .
the bride and her mother could neither of them talk fast enough ; and wickham , who happened to sit
had courage to shew mrs .
yet remained , brought a glass of madeira to fanny , and obliged her to drink the greater part .
design ; and by this means the others were still able to keep ahead , without any obligation of waiting
and luxury of a fire upstairs : wondering at the past and present ; wondering at what was yet to
able to attend ; but her heart was so full and her senses still so astonished , that she could
mother and lydia , that she considered it as the death warrant of all possibility of common sense for the
she had taken care to have the intelligence conveyed to herself , as soon as it was known that the
envy them their drive .
and , by-the-by , you had better not invite her any more on that account , as i wish her
there is health , not merely in her bloom , but in her air , her head , her glance
happiness depended on being first with mr .
—“you have not deserved this .
for this letter she must try to arm herself .
go on ; and feeling in herself the right of seniority of mind , she ventured to recommend a larger
under a mistaken persuasion of her possessions and claims , he had courted her acquaintance in bath , solicited her
i walked and rode a great deal ; and the more i saw , the more i found to admire
the hope of meeting you .
grant , by whose side she was now following the others , she had nearly resolved on going home immediately
“she often reads to me out of those books ; and she was in the middle of a very fine
darcy—that mr .
” fanny ' s answer was extremely civil , and edmund added his conviction that she could be in no
england , with the dates of their accession , and most of the principal events of their reigns !
“well , ” continued edmund , “and how did you like what you saw ?
enough for any young lady who was not suffering under the insatiable appetite of fifteen .
captures , have made a handsome fortune .
fine in all this ?
by convincing her that fanny was very pretty , which she had been doubting about before , and that she
" " engaged !
waited for breath to begin , when mr .
likely strike us with equal force .
a fine complimentary opening : but it is his way .
it will be a match in spite of her .
the day before .
, cold , and had nothing to say for herself beyond the most common-place inquiry or remark .
shewing her persuadableness .
” “he does not exactly recollect the circumstances , though he has heard them from mr .
sending instantly for mr .
lead to .
certainly have disapproved .
in the intervals of the concert it was conversation .
it that could possibly be .
common visiting warrants .
marrying should be your cousin ; and that , through him , i should be continually hearing of your father
elizabeth’s collected behaviour , however , soon quieted his emotion ; and as miss bingley , vexed and disappointed ,
woodhouse was soon composed enough for talking as usual .
you will find me a very awkward narrator , miss dashwood ; i hardly know where to begin .
" she concluded by demanding my congratulations .
” “i had not thought mr .
three months might have done it in general , but reginald ' s feelings were no less lasting than lively
my feelings will not be repressed .
she forced to hesitate .
this lesson , she very much feared , they would receive only from herself ; she had little hope of
it was hardly right ; but it had been so strong an idea , that it would escape her ,
his head is full of some books that he is reading upon your recommendation , and he wants to talk
of the imprisonment of augustus and the absence of edward—of our arrival in scotland—of our unexpected meeting with our grand-father
during our visit , the weather being remarkably bad , and our party particularly stupid , she was so good
a reasonable visit paid , mr .
me ?
“shall any of us object to being comfortable ?
, at his total silence with respect even to their names .
she was thus forced into reading from the brother ' s pen , for edmund would never rest till she
" " he spoke of its being out of repair .
such a place as this than in my own home ; for here are a variety of amusements , a
he knew nothing about it ; but his father , like every military man , had a very large acquaintance
he was ashamed to think that for four days together she had not had the power of riding , and
and fanny , what was she doing and thinking all this while ?
how could it be otherwise , with such an education and adviser ?
jennings ' s entering into her sorrows with any compassion .
she speaks of her with so much tenderness and anxiety , lamenting so bitterly the neglect of her education ,
had been hearing what quickened every feeling of affection .
” “no , i am sure it is not from the campbells .
ancient housekeeper , up a different staircase , and along many gloomy passages , into an apartment never used since
we had a famous set-to at rat-hunting all the morning in my father ' s great barns ; and he
gardiner , who was not a great walker , could go no farther , and thought only of returning to
“he is certainly a good brother , ” said elizabeth , as she walked towards one of the windows .
what does he say ?
had he been otherwise free ; —and she had seen almost enough to be thankful for her own sake ,
she exclaimed , however , with a very tolerable imitation of nature : -- " oh !
but dear miss woodhouse , she is now in such retirement , such obscurity , so thrown away .
—in miss tilney ' s meaning , in her own calculation !
he is not five foot nine .
" " don ' t talk to me about heirs and representatives , " cried charles .
degree of pensiveness which might convince him that i was not quite happy .
till this moment i never knew myself .
when this was over , mr .
combe magna is so far off ; but they all think him extremely agreeable i assure you .
it was three months , full three months , since her quitting it , and the change was from winter
slight it ; and idled away the mornings at billiards , which ought to have been devoted to business .
what had really passed between them was to this effect .
forgotten mrs .
what happiness if the door should not be locked !
, that he did not press for it at all ; and , on the contrary , seemed to have
at the rooms in the evening ; and as lady dalrymple must be waited for , they took their station
she did , she accepted him .
catherine , meanwhile , undisturbed by presentiments of such an evil , or of any evil at all , except
he was always to have gone on saturday , and to saturday he meant to stay .
happiness being certain for that period , the rest of her life was at such a distance as to excite
this event , while it raised the spirits of elinor , restored to those of her sister all , and
may be upon the watch ; because , if you see anything amiss , you need not be afraid of
, in spite of there being some previous ill opinion of him to be overcome , had not her affection
it must have injured the piece materially ; but i was resolved to make no difficulties .
on the subject of his expectations , that , could she have felt equally confident of the wishes of his
indeed , you shall not ; it shall not be in your power ; for so long only as you
within a few days from the receipt of edmund ' s letter , fanny had one from her aunt ,
the affection of such a man as mr .
at so unusual an hour , but " he could not be so near without wishing to know that neither
darcy before they had known anything of the matter .
; i never could see anything of it .
allen left the room , without any relaxation of anger , or any material digression of thought .
it is only that he has better means of having it than many others , because he is rich ,
something really important seemed announced by his looks ; but , as her friend was well , she endeavoured not
—i had always a part to act .
” “my dear miss halton said she , i am as much convinced of that as you can be ,
he was the better for ever for his illness .
you cannot really , seriously , doubt it .
; nor will i be dissuaded from it .
” his son , too well bred to hear the hint , rose immediately also , saying , “as you
” “six years hence !
friendship which could be no longer serviceable , hastened to contradict all that he had said before to the advantage
, with a look and manner that were almost easy , and almost open ; and another struggle , another
me , that this licentiousness of behaviour in your daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence ; though
she remembered with what feelings she had prepared for a knowledge of northanger .
—i never had the slightest suspicion , till within the last hour , of mr .
answer .
" when they were got a little farther , anne ventured to press again for what he had to communicate
” “there certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those two young men .
i do not mean to justify myself , but at the same time cannot leave you to suppose that i
the exact number , and i have been trying to find out which it could be ; but i confess
” in a few days mr .
the weather was not tempting enough to draw the two others from their pencil and their book , in spite
” “with great energy ; but it is always a subject which makes a lady energetic .
had a variety of questions from crawford as to his feelings and success ; questions , which being made ,
angry swelling of his proud heart without deigning to seek an explanation .
frank churchill was so extremely—and there was a mat to step upon—i shall never forget his extreme politeness .
be as reasonably tried on herself as on her sister .
she is quite as likely to have led them astray .
transferred for the rest of the day to miss lucas , whose civility in listening to him was a seasonable
costliness or elegance of any room ' s fitting-up could be nothing to her ; she cared for no furniture
woodhouse .
a divided attention to give , and seemed to have forgotten all the former doubt and solicitude of the negotiation
hall , and extreme solicitude for the advantage of renting it ; making it appear as if they ranked nothing
themselves , and are by no means implicitly guided by others .
it is a great while since we met .
probably a little of both—such being the commonest process of a not ill-disposed mind .
” “and men take care that they should .
with insufferable vanity had she believed herself in the secret of every body ' s feelings ; with unpardonable arrogance
” did you ever hear any thing so pathetic ?
single man at the time , she had a fond dependence on no human creature ' s having heard of
musgrove had called on him , and come back warm in his praise , and he was engaged with the
that the subject would be finally concluded , and mr .
her the house in town , which was now a prime object , it became , by the same rule
pride and prejudice , ' and looking to the admitted familiarity of miss austen with madame d ' arblay '
bingley and his sisters .
of your manifold attractions , it is by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made
" " and who is miss williams ?
, if you could return his affection .
not admit a doubt .
he had but one opinion .
, indeed .
elizabeth would not observe her ; and when at last kitty did , she very innocently said , “what is
after playing some italian songs , miss bingley varied the charm by a lively scotch air ; and soon afterwards
, which a man should display in every transaction of his life .
chapter _num_ till elizabeth entered the drawing-room at netherfield , and looked in vain for mr .
an immense heavy chest !
for i do believe her truly deserving of your regard ; and when i have communicated a notion which has
you have good sense , and a sweet temper , and i am sure you have a grateful heart ,
on the present occasion , receiving her in that house , there was particular attention .
annesley , a genteel , agreeable-looking woman , whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse proved her to be
” “you will excuse my being so much over-powered .
(with a little sigh of sentiment) .
i should be as ready to acknowledge his merits as any other man ; but i hear of none ,
so the uniform remained at portsmouth , and edmund conjectured that before fanny had any chance of seeing it ,
—i have seen nothing like it since—well , where shall we sit ?
such an agreeable , worthy man as he seemed to be !
” “i did not think you would ; and that being the case , i cannot consider your situation with
be really taking comfort in some society or other , it was very pleasant to have her father so well
miss campbell , for the sake of the future twelve thousand pounds .
but a day spent in sitting shivering over the fire with a book in her hand , which she was
” it was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now .
" — marianne was quite subdued .
no other surprise than that she , or any of their friends , should be left by tempers so frank
” “so i remember to have heard .
he could not believe her to be encouraging him .
what a triumph for him , as she often thought , could he know that the proposals which she had
—one cannot call her fair .
answer all the ardent and sanguine expectations of his relations and freinds , amongst whom i may class the amiable
; by that person of uncommon attraction , that open , affectionate , and lively manner which it was no
however , i think it answered so far as to tempt one to go again .
willoughby filled every page .
he saw no fault in the room , he would acknowledge none which they suggested .
this was agreed upon between the two friends as the only thing to be done ; and colonel wallis was
“it has a disagreeable look to me .
taking so material a step without her ladyship’s concurrence .
received every possible encouragement to continue to think of him ; and his impression on her fancy was not suffered
we had a great many left—it was but half a dozen indeed ; but they should be all kept for
, to her own perfect consciousness , many drawbacks suppressed .
” “how differently we feel !
" " and what sort of a young man is he ?
" we had better put it off .
after amusing himself some time with their curiosity , he thus explained : “about a month ago i received this
“do not urge me , isabella .
pray call again as soon as possible , and explain the reason of my having expected this in vain .
still exceeded that of the ladies in a proportion , which the case rendered reasonable , though his sex might
” “yes , ” said morland , who overheard this ; “but you forget that your horse was included .
jennings ceased , and as elinor had had time enough to collect her thoughts , she was able to give
you must have had miss anderson in your eye , in describing an altered young lady .
if you do not choose to understand me , forgive my impertinence .
the comforts and all the little hardships of her home at mansfield ; ready to think of every member of
and i hope you will have a very agreeable day , and find it all mighty delightful .
after the rupture) , or in any novelty or enlargement of society .
to marry her , had she been his relation .
” “miss bennet , ” replied her ladyship , in an angry tone , “you ought to know , that
happiness as very deeply involved in the offence of his sister and friend ; cut off by it , as
” turning to her with a look of anxious entreaty , which softened her a little ; but while she
he led her nearer the light and looked at her again—inquired particularly after her health , and then , correcting
” exclaimed mary .
dreadful headache just now , writing all the morning : —such long letters , you know , to be written
—i am in a fine flow of spirits , an ' t i ?
be able to convince him and elizabeth , that kellynch hall has a respectability in itself which cannot be affected
this would not , in itself , have been sufficient for the delicacy of miss dashwood ; —but it was
i abhor every common-place phrase by which wit is intended ; and ' setting one ' s cap at a
or have you none but that of waiting for mrs .
her home and her housekeeping , her parish and her poultry , and all their dependent concerns , had not
that it was my object to make my own child miserable , and that i had forbidden her speaking to
he was the son of mr .
even to the last , and the misery of the girl when he left her .
not the disposition ; and of the necessity of self-denial and humility , he feared they had never heard from
mr robinson found nothing to increase alarm , and charles musgrove began , consequently , to feel no necessity for
arose .
his remembrance can be overcome[ _num_ ] by no change of circumstances or opinions .
—this letter has been the cure of all the little nervousness i have been feeling lately .
“he will have every body ' s wishes for his happiness .
chapter _num_ elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning , and writing to jane while mrs .
nursing her the whole day , against marianne ' s inclination , and forcing proper medicines on her at night
edward could only attempt an explanation by supposing , that , perhaps , at first accidentally meeting , the vanity
, opened the door and walked in with a look of real concern .
go ; and till the evening after the visit was paid she had no knowledge of it .
“and is miss darcy as handsome as her brother ?
it was a much safer place for a gentleman in his predicament : he might there be important at comparatively
, dwelling particularly on the latter , and speaking a language , a remonstrance , a reproof , which he
we do not often look upon fine young men , well-bred and agreeable .
much use , while anne could be of none , was a very sore aggravation .
she watched him well .
” “i am not one-and-twenty .
had all the success she expected .
” harriet was on the point of leaving the room , and only stopt to say , with a very
breakfast-room , where edmund prepared her paper , and ruled her lines with all the goodwill that her brother could
reception of more general opinions .
i know how much you dislike him .
have a pleasant ride , and that i may have nothing but good to hear of this dear , delightful
the visit was paid , their acquaintance re-established , their interest in each other more than re-kindled .
i wish it was more satisfactory ; but it seems written with such a determination to think well of lady
instead of drawing his brother off to a window while they waited for dinner , he was talking to miss
it was rather a wish of distinction , she believed , which produced his contemptuous treatment of every body ,
only upon gaining every new light as to his character which her own observation or the intelligence of others could
in vain to send betsey down again , or keep her from being troublesome where she was ; the whole
one morning , soon after their arrival , as she was sitting with her two elder sisters , she said
of hartfield days .
his absence had been extended beyond a fortnight purposely to avoid miss crawford .
she appeared to me to play well , that is , with considerable taste , but i know nothing of
for ever , without vouchsafing any motive , because he could not marry them both , emma had it not
, she was really ashamed of having ever imparted them .
sailor in their choice of a profession , as heroism , and noise , and fashion , are all against
i do look forward to it , i own , with very great pleasure .
with tolerable firmness that the prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to her , and that she wished her
” miss greville laughed excessively , as she constantly does at her mother ' s wit .
the introduction must be unpleasant , whenever it takes place ; and the sooner it could be over , the
—i may be allowed , i hope , the use of my judgment as well as mr .
their hearts are open to each other , as neither heart can be to you ; they know exactly what
bennet sent to mr .
” “not till the reserve ceases towards oneself ; and then the attraction may be the greater .
don ' t pretend to be in raptures about mine .
i assure you it was a great compliment if he was , for he hardly ever falls in love with
you will be what you ought to be to her .
i shall be at home in twenty minutes .
had merited the severest reproof .
in the drawing-room they were met with equal cordiality by the mother , and miss bertram had all the distinction
but you would not wish to be dancing when she is ill .
and am fearful of some misunderstanding .
those soft blue eyes , and all those natural graces , should not be wasted on the inferior society of
, as real or affected taste for it prevailed .
—did you ever see such dancing ?
” said the general , with a look of very happy contempt .
miss tilney the evening before .
rushworth , and restrain her impatient feet to that lady ' s slow pace , while her aunt , having
" i should be puzzled to spend so large a fortune myself , " said mrs .
” “but you will come again , ” said emma .
i wonder when you would have spoken , if i had not asked you !
in addition , for the sake of at least hearing his name .
” “a lawyer , i believe .
i always say there is something direful in the sound : but nothing more is positively known of the tupmans
i should like to be such a man .
, to do what must lose him the woman he adored ; but still more the folly of poor maria
mother ' s character , as described by eleanor , which does honour to her memory .
—how do you do ?
never hope to feel or inspire affection again , and if her home be uncomfortable , or her fortune small
or to be silent , to be grave or to be gay .
johnson of it by letter .
room .
" elinor could not help laughing .
her the more .
vernon , which had reached me , in common with the world in general , and gained my entire belief
unpretending .
cared for frank churchill at all !
and take it altogether , now that we have been into most of the houses hereabouts and can judge ,
had been just beginning to rain .
i suppose there never were two young people who had a greater affection for each other than henry and eloisa
it will be in my power to assure him that her ladyship was quite well yesterday se’nnight .
you must have done well .
but if there should by any chance happen to be a woman who is single at seven and twenty ,
” “and was denny convinced that wickham would not marry ?
she would find it to her liking .
she was , of course , the object of their joint dislike .
she is only nursing mrs wallis of marlborough buildings ; a mere pretty , silly , expensive , fashionable woman
a brother .
bingley , who as well as the other had sat down , suddenly rose , and whispering a few words
were you , yourself , ever to marry , she is the very woman for you .
he had actually so far extinguished the natural noble sensibility of her heart , as to prevail on her to
” there was no occasion to press the matter farther .
so constantly occupied either in his business in town or among his friends here , always acceptable wherever he went
chapter _num_ elizabeth was sitting with her mother and sisters , reflecting on what she had heard , and doubting
elizabeth listened with delight to the happy , though modest hopes which jane entertained of mr .
” “lizzy , when you first read that letter , i am sure you could not treat the matter as
the side of the quadrangle , in which she supposed the guilty scene to be acting , being , according
—i was telling you of your grandmama , jane , —there was a little disappointment .
jennings , left her own party for a[ _num_ ] short time , to join their ' s .
more solemnly .
, she would still have been happy without any of it , for edmund was no longer the dupe of
he was tolerably cheerful .
and finances at that moment particularly unfit to meet any extraordinary expense .
berkeley street .
i am quite of your opinion .
, as he believed , so deservedly dear .
there is exquisite pleasure in subduing an insolent spirit , in making a person predetermined to dislike acknowledge one '
; but was in such a hurry to get back to his uncle , to whom he is just now
jane in the scheme , every part of it would have been perfect .
indifference to almost every thing else she was carried by her eagerness to be with willoughby again , made no
for while she considered louisa to be rather the favourite , she could not but think , as far as
we never see any thing of it on our club-nights .
or twice i have attempted it ; but without betraying my trust , i never could have convinced you .
xxiii mrs .
elizabeth again , and more seriously assured her of its truth .
“lizzy , i insist upon your staying and hearing mr .
but does not jane correspond with his sister ?
who was always eager to promote their happiness as far as[ _num_ ] she could , soon left them to
norris , and dr .
he then handed her in , maria followed , and the door was on the point of being closed ,
she was at liberty , she was busy , she was protected .
warmth and enthusiasm did captivate her still .
her heart , could not be the office of a friend .
pride , insufferable haughtiness and pride !
her to be thinking of jane and netherfield , and she blushed as she answered : “i do not mean
goddard ' s .
" at first , they were capable of nothing more to the purpose than such exclamations ; but , after
they may be there , though for the purpose of concealment , for no more exceptional purpose .
as she opened , and saw its length , she prepared herself for a minute detail of happiness and a
, whose rights as heir-expectant had formerly been so tenaciously regarded .
” “i cannot be quite positive about that , my dear ; i have some idea he is ; but
, they may accompany us .
when the child might be at rest for the night , and kindly urged her to let him come and
nor can i pity the kingdom for the misfortunes they experienced during her reign , since they fully deserved them
she never knew how to be pleasant to children .
johnson , to make opportunities of seeing me .
pinned against the wall , a small sketch of a ship sent four years ago from the mediterranean by william
the opening was alarming .
' ” all this spoken extremely fast obliged miss bates to stop for breath ; and emma said something very
dashwood ; " she must be answerable .
" exclaimed mary , tauntingly .
i caught a dreadful cold , but that i did not regard .
" " i know it—i know it , " cried her mother .
rushworth ' s character and disposition , and could not have a doubt of her happiness with him .
she had not even a share in his opening compliments .
such was the state of affairs in the month of july ; and fanny had just reached her eighteenth year
depend upon it , he would not like to have his charade slighted , much better than his passion .
advantage , that there will be an end to it , that there will come a time when you will
once .
disposition , seemed to unite some of the best blessings of existence ; and had lived nearly twenty-one years in
no friends ?
am i capable of consigning her to everlasting misery whose welfare it is my first earthly duty to promote ?
he cannot want money—he cannot want leisure .
been in the daily habit of observing—to be addressing me in this manner—this is an unsteadiness of character , indeed
amuse their morning hours and furnish conversation for the evening ; and however bare of news the country in general
she had thought her influence more .
though unworthy , from inferiority of age and strength , to be their constant associate , their pleasures and schemes
something of a theatre we must have undoubtedly , but it will be on the simplest plan : a green
my sister !
but hardly were they so settled , when the door opened again , and captain wentworth walked in alone .
” “i cannot be so easily reconciled to myself .
round before she began to dance , to compliment her on miss price ' s looks .
norris , who thus regaled in the credit of being foremost to welcome her , and in the importance of
—the rest i leave to you .
i was very unwilling to enter into it , as you may imagine , without the knowledge and approbation of
towards this home , she began on the approach of january to turn her thoughts , and thither she one
inclination , and brought them very often together .
she felt that she had a friend , and the kindness of her cousin edmund gave her better spirits with
because no time is to be lost in frightening my old housekeeper out of her wits , because i must
his bright proud eye spoke the conviction that he was nice ; and anne elliot was not out of his
sting of the last word given to you and miss fairfax ?
but whatever might be the particulars of their separation , her sister ' s affliction was indubitable ; and she
heart of mrs .
but perhaps if she were to leave the room vacant , we might not be invited .
price , in her turn , was injured and angry ; and an answer , which comprehended each sister in
it has been involuntary , and i will not encourage it .
and when i returned home , the ——shire was to leave meryton in a week or fortnight’s time .
he should know it , and so i let down the side-glass next to him , and took off my
” crawford took the volume .
the better for colonel brandon .
on one side it had a range of doors , and it was lighted on the other by windows which
you are to understand , miss bennet , that i came here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose
with such an opinion , in confirmation of his own , mr .
least by the nature of their employments , conversation was forbidden among them , and every effect of solitude was
anne saw nothing , thought nothing of the brilliancy of the room .
” “it is all one to me , ” replied thorpe rather angrily ; and instantly turning his horse ,
how it could be broken to mr and mrs musgrove ; the lateness of the morning ; an hour already
by the exuberance of her joy to think only of what would increase it .
” “you think so , do you ?
of a fortnight .
your book .
believe him to be an excellent young man .
edward ' s embarrassment lasted some time , and it ended in an absence of mind still more settled .
the invariable severity of lady susan and the silent dejection of frederica , i am led to believe as heretofore
it is only count cassel and anhalt .
being nursed by mrs .
the misfortune of harriet ' s cold had been pretty well gone through before her arrival .
take care , or you will forget to be tired of it at the proper time .
but he was confident that he should soon be rich : full of life and ardour , he knew that
very well , with a happy command of language , which is too often used , i believe , to
a good place is not it ?
to make her instrument stand steadily , it was not quite firm ; an unevenness in the floor , i
knightley , and so you actually saw the letter ; well—” “it was short—merely to announce—but cheerful , exulting ,
i must get rid of every thing .
of bringing it about .
of approach which she certainly had not expected .
“you must feel it very fortunate that miss fairfax should be allowed to come to you at such a time
” the picture-gallery , and two or three of the principal bedrooms , were all that remained to be shown
better by yours .
sir thomas will take care of that .
—for as to any real knowledge of a person ' s disposition that bath , or any public place ,
no danger in my being with you ; and that the consciousness of my engagement was to keep my heart
at a distance , unassailed by his looks or his kindness , and safe from the perpetual irritation of knowing
different creatures ; you do not look like the same .
praise which she knew them to deserve ; and promised to undertake the commission with pleasure , if it were
being listened to and understood , of being always interesting and always intelligible , the little affairs , arrangements ,
the same woman ?
the absolute necessity of seeming like herself produced then an immediate struggle ; but after a while she could do
grant and her sister , whose acknowledged taste would certainly bear her blameless ; and as edmund and william were
go out of harbour !
down the hill , still talking to henrietta , mary took the opportunity of looking scornfully around her , and
i know no harm of charles maddox ; but the excessive intimacy which must spring from his being admitted among
but there is nothing at all of that nature in the letter .
” the promised departure was all that fanny could think of with much satisfaction .
yes , sir , ” cried fanny , rising eagerly from her seat to be nearer her uncle ; “i
hill and the two housemaids .
kind of discernment enabled her soon after her arrival at barton decisively to pronounce that colonel brandon was very much
come from willoughby , felt immediately such a sickness at heart as made her hardly able to hold up her
that would make everingham and all about it a dearer object than it had ever been yet .
but her death , which happened ten years before his own , produced a great alteration in his home ;
“my dear catherine , you must not—you must not indeed—” were eleanor ' s first connected words .
' s cart , which was to convey it to where the coaches past ; and every thing in this
guidance .
you out of your wits .
and arranging such little elegant compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions , i always wish to give them
her tenderness for her friend seemed rather the first feeling of her heart ; but that at such a moment
he defended himself ; though professing that he would never willingly admit any ladies on board a ship of his
" " nay , " said anne , " i have no particular enquiry to make about her .
, began and ended with himself and his own concerns .
“you have reduced him to his present state of poverty—comparative poverty .
” “good or bad ?
tilney— ' a brown skin , with dark eyes , and rather dark hair .
solely at fanny , “i should be sorry to have my powers of planning judged of by the day at
bingley to see you all after him so soon ; for , if i recollect right , he went but
her behaviour to sir james certainly speaks the greatest consciousness and embarrassment , but i see nothing in it more
” “there can be no doubt of your being much more engaged with company than you used to be .
of its being farther augmented hereafter ; but mrs .
men to sea , in a ship not fit to be employed .
weston , having said all that he wanted , soon took the opportunity of walking away .
short was the time , however , in which that fear could affect her , for within half an hour
i have seen mr .
from what he said of miss darcy i was thoroughly prepared to see a proud , reserved , disagreeable girl
—that is a degree of placidity , which i can neither comprehend nor respect .
collins , and the gaieties of their intercourse with rosings .
one likes to hear what is going on , to be au fait as to the newest modes of being
claims of various kinds to recommend her quickly and permanently .
me to gracechurch street ; and then we may consult together as to what is to be done .
—they must take the consequence , if they have heard each other spoken of in a way not perfectly agreeable
john knightley , hearing his own name .
chapter x a quarter of an hour , twenty minutes , passed away , and fanny was still thinking of
isabella appeared to her ungenerous and selfish , regardless of everything but her own gratification .
the usual plea of increasing engagements was made in excuse for not having written to her earlier ; “and now
i met her at mrs .
they had been thrown together several weeks ; they had been living in the same small family party : since
most distant imagination of the impending evil , without the slightest perception of any thing extraordinary in the looks or
be satisfied of the truth .
we owe mrs .
the business of finding a play that would suit everybody proved to be no trifle ; and the carpenter had
what has he been judging by ?
" said marianne , " money can only give happiness where there is nothing else to give it .
they were walking .
she was just in time to see him turn into the concert room .
of a very considerable fortune , his son was , by marriage settlements , eventually secure ; his present income
; but upon everybody ' s assuring her that nothing could be so easy , that it was the easiest
she had always seen it with pain ; but respecting his abilities , and grateful for his affectionate treatment of
it is natural to suppose that we should be intimate , —that we should have taken to each other whenever
to lady russell , indeed , she was a most dear and highly valued god-daughter , favourite , and friend
" exactly like father and son !
if they are gone , i would lay my life they are only gone to mansfield park , and julia
, and yet get home without being out in the damp of the evening .
” “these are heavy misfortunes , ” replied elizabeth .
crawford doted on the girl ; and it was the lady ' s death which now obliged her protegee ,
you eloisa ; ” tho ' i had for many years constantly hollowed whenever she played , bravo , bravissimo
knightley dryly , “writes to a fair lady like miss woodhouse , he will , of course , put forth
but the letter , when she was calm enough to read it , brought little comfort .
i am perfectly aware that after what has passed between us it would ill suit the feelings of either to
you think young men never stand upon engagements , if they have no mind to keep them , little as
he saw the necessity of inviting the miss steeles immediately , and his conscience was pacified by the resolution of
do not let mine continue longer .
insincerity in everything .
” “if you have such a suspicion , something must be done ; and as soon as the play is
" how is she , miss dashwood ?
" colonel brandon , i think , lodges in st .
or , perhaps she may not have resources enough in herself to be qualified for a country life .
such things in general cannot be too short .
given in the whole course of his rehearsals , tom bertram entered at the other end of the room ;
weston is the very best country-dance player , without exception , in england .
" do tell me how it first came into your head .
to them , intent on her pianoforte .
the moment of her stepping forward in the octagon room to speak to him : the moment of mr elliot
and of circumventing the lady if he found it material .
' s interference , " you ought to have minded me , walter ; i told you not to teaze
, and it should have been his first object to prevent her from suffering unnecessarily .
" " he certainly did .
and he had given her another strong motive for exertion , in keeping the whole affair from the knowledge of
concerned , the greatest blessing to every one of kindred with mrs .
marianne was still handsomer .
she is still nearer .
all at randalls any hour of the day , with full confidence in their comfort .
all the world be the means of hurrying you into an engagement before you knew what you were about .
having obtained the two hundred pounds , we instantly left the town , leaving our manager and his wife to
in the way of love , i am sure he does not .
the spare rooms at the parsonage had never been wanted , but the absolute necessity of a spare room for
their brother edmund urged her claims to their kindness , that “fanny was good-natured enough .
—but you will be ready to say , what was your hope in doing this ?
thirteen years had seen her mistress of kellynch hall , presiding and directing with a self-possession and decision which could
be preferring him , it would have been another thing .
he is growing extremely particular in his attentions .
are quite in the right ; it was most natural to pay your visit , then”— he was silent .
but i have a notion , miss morland , you and i think pretty much alike upon most matters .
the good news spread quickly through the house , and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood .
” “impossible , mr .
" you have no confidence in me , marianne .
and it all ended , at last , in his telling henry one morning that when he next went to
“but where are you going , eleanor ?
” and mrs .
the absent , mary was as completely satisfied .
meet .
you know , sister , we agreed long ago never to mention a word about it .
, unless a baronet should come in her way ; that is frederick ' s only chance .
” “upon my word , sir , ” cried elizabeth , “your hope is a rather extraordinary one after my
church , in the course of the following autumn .
“i cannot imagine , ” said mrs .
with a gayer look , said , “well , i have settled the matter , and now we may all
elizabeth was prepared to see him in his glory ; and she could not help in fancying that in displaying
wonder at captain benwick , his feelings as to a first , strong attachment ; sentences begun which he could
she could easily suppose to have been her own fault or her own fancy .
”—was a question , however , which did not augur much .
these were great concessions ; —but where marianne felt that she had injured , no reparation could be too much
increased ; and the moment they were alone , she eagerly said , “what is it my dear friend ?
rushworth that fanny could not go , and the very strange appearance there would consequently be in taking her ,
my dear , ” for her to hazard another word ; and she found herself the next moment conducted by
they had drawn back from many introductions , and still were perpetually having cards left by people of whom they
s sweet face as white as death .
their situation was awkward enough ; but hers she thought was still worse .
the gloom of the evening , to make enquiries ; and mr musgrove , no longer under the first uneasiness
—hush !
impudence , i know that very well , and i was determined to find out where you had been to
so , i made free to wish her joy .
but , now that she has written her letters , she says she shall soon be well .
change it as soon as you can , or we shall be overpowered with johnson and blair all the rest
he is in the hall at this moment .
raptures and fondness , which at that moment would have been dreadful penance , by the sound of her father
she could hardly determine what her own expectation of its event really was ; though she earnestly tried to drive
then , there is a dovecote , some delightful stew-ponds , and a very pretty canal ; and every thing
instantly profiting by the release , to address herself and declare an affection as tender , as constant as she
julia bertram was only twelve , and maria but a year older .
a loss .
; “but i fear there would be some disappointment : you would not find it equal to your present ideas
your wicked project upon her peace turns out a clever thought indeed .
as she felt assured that lucy , for the sake of her own consequence , would choose to have known
he had begun to talk of it a week ago ; and by way of doing something , as shooting
time to take care of himself—which is very sad—but he is always wanted all round the country .
at an inconvenient distance ; but she was not sorry to be spared the necessity of saying much .
spirits subsided) to doubt whether she had been perfectly right .
elton ' s engagement in the conversation of highbury , as the latest interest had entirely borne down the first
edmund ' s favour .
” “so very kind !
you need not be afraid , miss elliot , of your own sweet flower gardens being neglected .
to have his love used so scornfully !
bingley was the principal spokesman , and miss bennet the principal object .
it more surprising that the place can have been so improved .
“we can finish this some other time , you know .
sir thomas ; a removal which her father and mother were now disposed to attribute to some view of convenience
“but you are always kind .
be angry with you , i suspect , whatever he may be .
so ?
s congratulations on their travelling so far towards barton without any expense , and on colonel brandon ' s being
but a justification so full of torture to herself , she trusted , would not be in his power .
hand , in case of his having another seizure .
and who had not thought her handsome enough to dance with .
rushworth ' s fine fortune gives them a right to be .
to be going away for a few weeks , to visit their connexions in the north of the county ,
would be able , without any doubt , to stay considerably longer with them than if he had come sooner
bennet the compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf .
the sweetest girls in the world were to be met with in every part of england , under every possible
flight of audacious independence , it was soon settled , that if nothing were heard to the contrary , mrs
no arguments shall be wanting on my part that can alleviate so severe a misfortune—or that may comfort you ,
was now its first recommendation .
they are dearer .
i do congratulate you , mrs .
his sense of decorum is strict .
tranquillity of the house .
a slavery .
embarrassment ; and every idea of the impropriety of her being found there recurring to her mind , the few
i cannot go .
being gone into the regulars .
to look on , while repeated attentions were offering to another woman , before her face , and not resent
louisa certainly put more forward for his notice than her sister .
" [ _num_ ] a short pause of mutual thoughtfulness succeeded .
) as soon as we had packed up our wardrobe and valuables , we left macdonald hall , and after
such were the gentle murmurs of mrs .
” tears rolled down his cheeks as he spoke these words—the remembrance of her , who had so wantonly disgraced
sorrow came—a gentle sorrow—but not at all in the shape of any disagreeable consciousness .
knightley , who had been of the party , and had seen only proper attention and pleasing behaviour on each
as truly as i wished it in reason .
oh dear , no !
to ask admittance which at length i have gained ; and now my adorable laura (continued he taking my hand)
" said marianne ; " my dear edward , this must not be .
“let us do nothing by halves .
as they followed the general at some distance downstairs , seemed to point out : “i was going to take
norris , who could never behold either the wide table or the number of dishes on it with patience ,
“for if , ” said he , with the sort of self-evident proposition which many a clearer head does not
” her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of her sister , who joined her
we flew into each others arms and after having exchanged vows of mutual freindship for the rest of our lives
such was the home which was to put mansfield out of her head , and teach her to think of
that mrs harville left nothing for anybody to do .
they then went away .
to have you confined as nurse in his apartment !
” “i am glad you think so replied she , for he is distractedly in love with you .
" said she , on his taking miss steele ' s pocket handkerchief , and throwing it out of window—
as to the manner of living on board , daily regulations , food , hours , &c .
to have an opportunity of endeavouring to please them , had seldom been happier in her life , than she
dixon in them .
fanny coloured and looked at edmund , but felt too angry for speech ; and he needed a little recollection
” fanny would rather have been silent ; but being obliged to speak , she could not forbear , in
jennings ; " very pretty , indeed !
at breakfast we shall be all in high good-humour at the prospect of acting the fool together with such unanimity
s house .
when mansfield was considered , time was precious ; and the state of his own mind made him find relief
he was not exactly what she had expected ; less of the man of the world in some of his
it opens the prospect amazingly , which makes me think that repton , or anybody of that sort , would
bennet was really in a most pitiable state .
thing .
he cannot think this—and you may be sure that he would not have you think it .
there seems to me a very decided difference .
from a family where she must in reality have been particularly happy .
of him ; and unwilling , for her sister’s sake , to provoke him , she only said in reply
young as he was , william had already seen a great deal .
this be mr elliot ?
with which everybody settles the abundance of those who have a great deal less than themselves .
if mrs clay were a very beautiful woman , i grant you , it might be wrong to have her
to satisfy me , those characters must be united .
the card-room to speak to a friend , and nothing , she declared , should induce her to join the
and character must be equally unexceptionable .
that i am sure he would marry either of you with pleasure .
and dear emma , too !
her ; very deficient both in justice and compassion .
was invariably kind .
the gift was too valuable .
do more .
) wearing black ribbons for his wife , she could not admit him to be worth thinking of again .
acquainted with the wife , who will probably be some mere farmer ' s daughter , without education .
” “yes i should , i am sure i should .
dismissed from it as hospitably as she had been welcomed .
" but then again , the dread of having been too civil , too encouraging herself , probably came over
” “you may depend on it , ” replied the other , “for mrs .
of his family , much exertion and many sacrifices to glance at in the form of hurried walks and sudden
the produce of an estate already large , and capable of almost immediate improvement .
miss crawford , however , with renewed animation , soon went on— “i am conscious of being far better reconciled
the morrow produced no abatement of mrs .
its grounds ; and at half a mile distant was a bank of considerable abruptness and grandeur , well clothed
but amidst your concern for the defects of your nearest relations , and your displeasure at this representation of them
the door was still immovable .
her daughters .
if dear julia were at home , or dearest mrs .
their manners were particularly civil , and elinor soon allowed them credit for some kind of sense , when she
of his trees—i believe there is two of them .
" poor elinor !
his company .
wilful intimacy with harriet smith ; but it was too tender a subject .
" a little further perseverance in patience and forced cheerfulness on anne ' s side produced nearly a cure on
not to be wasted for ever on such a man as willoughby .
after a very short search , you will discover a division in the tapestry so artfully constructed as to defy
much above my notice as in every other he is below it .
he was exactly what he had been , when i knew him in hertfordshire ; but i would not tell
his judgment inferior to mine ?
" i had not the smallest intention of asking him , " said elizabeth , with affected carelessness , "
that you had refused one man , at least , of better pretensions than myself ; and i could not
lady middleton had sent a very civil message by him , denoting her intention of waiting on mrs .
expect that whenever she came into kent again she would be staying there too .
very far from dreading a rebuke either from the archbishop , or lady catherine de bourgh , by venturing to
beloved child had now well earned .
s kind answer .
” “‘after mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her ladyship last night , she immediately , with her usual
after a short interruption mr .
he believed had saved his life .
the business of self-command she settled very easily ; —with strong affections it was impossible , with calm ones it
—only fickle , very , very fickle .
miss elliot was to have the honour of calling on mrs musgrove in the course of the morning ; and
on that very day ; some apology was therefore necessary for my breaking this engagement .
i never saw such a long chin in my life .
you like her too .
man whom she must imagine to be particularly prejudiced against her ; but it is more likely that she should
sitting with her on sunday evening—a wet sunday evening—the very time of all others when , if a friend is
could we be all assembled , our satisfaction would undoubtedly be more complete , but the absence of some is
no ; you must excuse me ; i cannot retract my consent ; it is too far settled , everybody
“and now we shall just miss them ; too provoking !
one would fancy we were bosom friends !
allow to invite what guests she pleases to donwell , and that one is—” “—mrs .
i merely called , because i would not pass the door without inquiring after mrs .
i had almost promised it .
” “to be sure said i , i am very charitable every now and then .
; that it should be equally unreserved was impossible .
placed exactly in the same part of the house .
he will connect himself well if he can .
the persuasion of the young man who , on meeting him accidentally in town , had there renewed a slight
” “to be sure , so i shall .
she was repenting .
her congratulations were warm and open ; but emma could not speak so fluently .
—see me , then , under these circumstances , arriving on my first visit to randalls ; —and here i
" but he must not be addressing his reflections to anne alone : he knew it ; he was soon
you have heard of course that the mainwarings are to part , and i am afraid mrs .
my father was a native of ireland and an inhabitant of wales ; my mother was the natural daughter of
they were taught , or sing all the better for not being taught ; or something like it .
real proficient .
" it is enough , " said she ; " to say that he is unlike fanny is enough .
own , and all the benefit of his information or his conjectures as to what would now be william '
the evil which brought such good to her !
forever .
are used to be blown about by the wind miss maria and that is what has made your complexion so
could .
what could he mean by such horrible indelicacy ?
have done , and i dare say you understand me .
, half-witted man , who would make me dance with him , and distressed me by his nonsense .
” “it is odd though , ” observed his father , “that you should have had such a regular connected
for the admission of[ _num_ ] every melancholy idea , and he could not expel from his mind the persuasion
” she highly approved his forbearance , and they had leisure for a full discussion of it , and for
lady susan .
" " did you go then ?
much he was in love !
collins’s scruples of leaving mr .
but papa is so disagreeable .
lady bertram could not possibly spare her .
fanny knew her own meaning , but was no judge of her own manner .
that mr .
we dressed up chamberlayne in woman’s clothes on purpose to pass for a lady , only think what fun !
“i do not find myself making any use of the word sacrifice , ” said she .
two above-mentioned ladies was forced on her— “i think , ma ' am , ” said mrs .
dear miss woodhouse , do advise me .
latterly , however—for some time , indeed—i have had no idea of their meaning any thing .
pleasure of the two so dear to her .
own room , and felt as incapable of happiness as if she had been allowed no share in it .
him tease his sick brother , he began to fasten himself upon her , as she knelt , in such
while she remained , a bush of low rambling holly protected her , and they were moving on .
she could only perceive that it must relate to wimpole street and mr .
—a sweet , interesting creature .
well-known and captivating mr .
weston ' s parting injunction ; spoken with some anxiety , and meant only for her .
down directly to the instrument .
in so elevated a situation as a fashionably high phaeton , but who were now laid low and sprawling in
since we parted yesterday , i have received from indisputable authority such a history of you as must bring the
k .
afforded no palliation of her distress .
my only doubt is , whether anything could persuade him to leave his parish .
” “my dear fanny , you feel these things a great deal too much .
almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered behaviour in derbyshire .
when the first transports of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over , he naturally returned
, without bread to eat ; i was to give place to lord st ives , and a certain admiral
here ' s miss woodhouse .
poor old coachman would attend us , out of his great love and kindness , though he was hardly able
—the change had perhaps been somewhat sudden ; —her proposal of taking another turn , her renewing the conversation which
than any individual among their male acquaintance , who had been at all a favourite before .
a civil answer—she screwed up her mouth , and turned from me with such an air !
he and mrs .
nobody else would come so early .
he declares he won ' t .
we do not look in great cities for our best morality .
for to their house mr .
" " dearest marianne , who but himself ?
would do more justice to us all ; but my sister is unhappily prejudiced beyond the hope of conviction against
to have appeared so to him !
have vouchsafed in half a year .
oh , no .
” “very well , very well , ” cried dr .
aware that if she gave herself much time , she might feel it difficult to bring forward so unpleasant a
heavens !
she tried to stop him ; but vainly ; he would go on , and say it all .
yates ' s convenience had had nothing to do with it .
palmer made her no answer , and did not even raise his eyes from the newspaper .
this will be a material gain .
the young mrs .
for of course you saw there would be snow very soon .
“how nicely we are all crammed in , ” cried lydia .
answer were sent .
now , my dear madam , i will release you ; but i could not conclude before .
her many beginnings were displayed .
the division of gratifying sensations ought not , in strict justice , to have been equal ; for sir thomas
her more fearless disposition and happier nerves made everything easy to her there .
upon my word it is enough to put one in a fright .
a fine lady in a country parsonage was quite out of place .
her long absence and long journey .
, and left nothing but tender affection .
when she was discontented , she fancied herself nervous .
too little .
jennings ' s chariot , which she knew had not been ordered till one .
bingley was every thing that was charming , except the professed lover of her daughter .
of what he had then written , nothing was to be retracted or qualified .
cruelty towards mr .
rushworth followed him to say , “i come in three times , and have two-and-forty speeches .
" elinor would not humour her by farther opposition .
recommend him to your sex , i believe : and how do you like the rest of the family ?
a situation such as you deserve , and your friends would require for you , is no everyday occurrence ,
miss smith , pray take care .
wickham is by no means a respectable young man .
churchill , independent of his wife , was feared by nobody ; an easy , guidable man , to be
garden are .
if he should rise to any very great honours !
—we removed to windsor ; and two days afterwards i received a parcel from her , my own letters all
be too happy !
" anne avoided a direct reply , but it was just the circumstance which she considered as not merely unnecessary
bennet ; she would have been glad to be equally satisfied that her daughter had meant to encourage him by
" mamma has sent for me ; i must go .
darcy so deficient in the appearance of it as you used to do .
” “the truth is , ma ' am , ” said mrs .
don ' t defend her !
i always thought they were very unfit to have the charge of her ; but i was overruled , as
little premature , i perceive ; i beg your pardon .
he is undoubtedly a sensible man , and in his manners perfectly the gentleman .
collins listened to her with the determined air of following his own inclination , and , when she ceased speaking
there was so much of friendliness , and of flattery , and of everything most bewitching in his reception there
you may not have heard of the last blow—julia ' s elopement ; she is gone to scotland with yates
off his servants , and make a thorough reform at once ?
this will never do .
am i reserved , marianne ?
at last he was persuaded to move on from the front of the crown ; and being now almost facing
, so ill bestowed .
miss nash has put down all the texts he has ever preached from since he came to highbury .
” catherine satisfied his curiosity .
favour of his master forever , if not his place , by her rapidity .
*vide a letter from mr .
different tune .
” “thank you , dear miss woodhouse .
his gallantry raised against marianne received particular spirit from his exterior attractions .
” “my dear fanny , ” replied edmund , scarcely hearing her to the end , “let us not ,
i gave him a lock of my hair set in a ring when he was at longstaple last , and
she came up to me , claimed me as an acquaintance , stared me out of countenance ; and talked
he was too happy , however , to need much attention ; and luckily for the others , the business
descent , one could not expect much better .
but you were humble .
words cannot express how happy your letter made me ; i thought i should have cried for joy , for
” with the exception of this little blot , emma found that his visit hitherto had given her friend only
ended , if his father had not made his appearance ?
she could do justice to the superiority of lady russell ' s motives in this , over those of her
crawford with either sister without observation , and seldom without wonder or censure ; and had her confidence in her
" said lucy steele .
—he is no object of regret , indeed !
yet it may not be the more excusable in one who sets up as i do for understanding .
campbell ; quite depend upon it ; nothing can be more kind or pressing than their joint invitation , jane
willoughby , on his side , gave every proof of his pleasure[ _num_ ] in their acquaintance , which an
” “a great and increasing one , ” replied the other , in a low voice .
' my dear , ' said i , ' i shall say you are laid down upon the bed :
of all the family , mary was probably the one most immediately gratified by the circumstance .
” said he , taking the letter from his pocket .
rich ?
—good heaven !
deeply , i will be silent .
nephew to remain a day beyond his fortnight .
one day ' s delay will not be very material ; and till i have written to mr .
she saw him grave and uneasy ; and however careless of his present comfort the woman might be who had
you but with confusion , despair , and precipitation .
the idea that returned the oftenest was that miss crawford , after proving herself cooled and staggered by a return
of them , and how he had declared before them all that he loved nobody but lucy , and nobody
it regarded a supper-room .
poor charlotte !
her calmness in conversing on it , that she was no otherwise interested in it than as a friend ,
s feelings would not justify .
every additional day of unhappy confidence , on your side , would have made the blow more dreadful .
” she cried with more thorough gaiety , “if you fancy your brother does not do me justice , only
for it will be in proportion to their family and income .
probably with much greater , if the production of mr .
think the appearance of curiosity or interest fair , and therefore purposely kept at a distance ; but by the
” “jane caught a bad cold , poor thing !
” “all !
or , by representing to him his own independence , relieve him from that state of indecision , which must
having it in one ' s power to pay off the debts of one ' s sex !
' to instruct , ' supposing them to be now admitted as synonymous .
she presently , with a playful smile , “but it is over now ; so let us sit down and
—poor harriet !
i can see no curtains hereabouts that answer their description .
china ; but anne had heard enough to understand the present state of uppercross , and rejoice in its happiness
to me , as you are apprehensive of .
on the colonel ' s advanced years , and on his forlorn condition as an old bachelor .
” “but do you really ?
before the gentlemen appeared .
be taken of her ; and it would be much more convenient to me to dine there to-morrow .
for their brother ' s sake , too , for the sake of his own heart , she rejoiced ;
lady catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which becomes herself and her daughter .
to every heart but his own .
hunsford they reached mr .
object ; and that elizabeth was disposed to believe herself so , and that her friend mrs clay was encouraging
, i see .
” “such a sister-in-law , henry , i should delight in , ” said eleanor with a smile .
each curtain , saw nothing on either low window seat to scare her , and on placing a hand against
given , and i am known to be so intimate with his wife , his slighting me has an awkward
by my arguments , and fanny ' s entreaties , was of no avail .
darcy , she moved again towards the gate .
elton , just as he ought , entreated for the permission of attending and reading to them again .
his pride never deserts him ; but with the rich he is liberal-minded , just , sincere , rational ,
it has been delightful to me to watch his advances towards intimacy , especially to observe his altered manner in
jennings , " that is her revenge .
it was not closed , however , it still remained ajar ; but by engaging the housekeeper in incessant conversation
young girls that have been spoilt for home by great acquaintance—the mirror , i think .
from these instructions they were summoned by the arrival of the coach ; and with many speeches of thankfulness on
maria) yes mistress .
i can allow for the fears of the child , but not of the man .
being the most liberal-minded sister and aunt in the world .
of colonel brandon , and even the boisterous mirth of sir john and his mother-in-law was interesting .
not that emma was gay and thoughtless from any real felicity ; it was rather because she felt less happy
" recollecting himself , however , he added , " that is , i mean to say—your friends are all
i sat three-quarters of an hour in the flower-garden , while fanny cut the roses ; and very pleasant it
the expedient which i am driven on , and i trust i may pity your feelings as a brother on
my aunt told me so herself on saturday .
elton , immediately afterwards .
” she was now met by mrs .
suffice it , that he has behaved in the most gentlemanlike and generous manner , and has confirmed me in
rushworth ' s authority and protection , or i think you might with little difficulty pass round the edge of
the word was discovered , and with a faint smile pushed away .
she thought so well of the letter , that when mr .
“he told me at parting , that he should soon write ; and he spoke in a manner which seemed
frank churchill to come among them ; and the hope strengthened when it was understood that he had written to
a party was formed this evening for going on the following day to see a very fine place about twelve
of william ' s advancement , whereas the pain , she hoped , would return no more .
not been properly sanctioned .
weston seems an excellent creature—quite a first-rate favourite with me already , i assure you .
bennet , elizabeth , and one of the younger girls together , soon after breakfast , he addressed the mother
, there will be nothing to be remembered by either you or me that we need be afraid of ,
that , however , in so modest a girl , might be very compatible with innocence ; and chusing at
selina , who is mild almost to a fault , bore with them much better .
must acknowledge to be not the best companion for an invalid of that description .
” “there is no hardship , i suppose , nothing unpleasant , ” said edmund , “in going on the
his daughter .
" elinor agreed to it all , for she did not think he deserved the compliment of rational opposition .
” but this he stoutly denied .
she was the instigator .
—when did it happen before , or any thing like it ?
i have not been accustomed to such language as this .
luckily sir thomas was at hand .
” emma smiled , and felt that mr .
to have taken place , elinor could not imagine .
relish the proposal .
produced between elinor ' s conduct and her own .
different .
my child , let me not have the grief of seeing you unable to respect your partner in life .
he owns it himself without disguise .
lucy bit her lip , and looked angrily at her sister .
, and she has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed .
and the novelty of a situation which her fancy had never taken into account .
it is a new circumstance in romance , i acknowledge , and dreadfully derogatory of an heroine ' s dignity
replied darcy .
” “my dear aunt , this is being serious indeed .
you will know it all in time .
her present home , he could not but observe , was unfavourable to a nervous disorder : —confined always to
she appears to feel as she ought .
not have a day ' s health all the autumn , entreated , or rather required her , for it
had rather do anything in the world than walk out in a greatcoat ; i wonder he should dislike it
in spite of the expected glee ; and of having his eyes soon turned , like hers , towards the
" " but what , " said she after a short silence , " are your views ?
, “now , dearest emma , let me intreat you to say and look every thing that may set his
a calmer hue ; but mr .
at the end of another day or two , marianne growing visibly stronger every twelve hours , mrs .
she must have been a perpetual enemy .
you are not just to harriet ' s claims .
a living , of which mr .
as happy without you , for people seldom know what they would be at , young men especially , they
to give us .
grew up , was such , as perhaps , judging from my present forlorn and cheerless gravity , you might
surely it is not to lady susan ' s credit that he should be so bitter against her daughter ;
but i ought to beg his pardon , for i have no right to suppose that bingley was the person
mary , anne , henrietta , louisa , and captain wentworth .
but tell me , what did you come down to netherfield for ?
they had previously known embarrassments enough to try the friendship of their friends , and to prove that mr elliot
as well as the excellence of the springs , gave the motion of the carriage .
” “but can i do without her , sir thomas ?
are you much acquainted with mr .
“so early in life—at three-and-twenty—a period when , if a man chuses a wife , he generally chuses ill .
he sat , “have your nephews taken away their alphabets—their box of letters ?
matters .
it will therefore be saving them the task of reading again what they have read before , and myself the
captain wentworth had no fortune .
she saw herself at the end of a few weeks , the gaze and admiration of every new acquaintance at
either to be agreeable herself or to find her companion so ; and they returned to pulteney street without her
the point of proposing it , when mrs .
he acknowledged no such inducement , and his sister ought to have given him credit for better feelings than her
as to conceive a violent partiality for me , which very soon settled in a downright freindship and ended in
miss fairfax prefers devoting the time to you and mrs .
it was the greatest stretch of forbearance i could practise .
collins had followed him after breakfast ; and there he would continue , nominally engaged with one of the largest
” “that you do not give another half-second to the subject .
frederica is made wretched by sir james ' s continuing here .
at first miss crawford and her companion made the circuit of the field , which was not small , at
was uncertain , she fretted herself almost into a fever .
; and then said : " i am not apt to deal in professions , my dear mrs .
most frequent confession of them .
bitterly did he deplore a deficiency which now he could scarcely comprehend to have been possible .
while they were speaking , a whispering between her father and elizabeth caught her ear .
nothing so unexceptionable , as lovers ' vows .
letter the _num_ th laura in continuation .
she must not make it a more decided subject of misery to him , by a melancholy tone herself .
the spectator , and a chapter from sterne , are eulogized by a thousand pens—there seems almost a general wish
the strongest , so are our feelings ; capable of bearing most rough usage , and riding out the heaviest
the result of his reverie was , “no , emma , i do not think the extent of my admiration
is thirteen .
they passed the sweep-gate and joined the other carriage , than she found her subject cut up—her hand seized—her attention
” chapter xv mr .
—no ; it was impossible .
frederica ' s visit was nominally for six weeks , but her mother , though inviting her to return in
" he then took leave of the whole party .
' " " well , " said elinor , " it is a comfort to be prepared against the worst
in the name , in the idea of mr .
was his engagement to lucy an engagement of the heart ?
palmer , with a laugh , " i shall be quite disappointed if you do not .
, the probability of an entire recovery .
, name the very day of the ball .
you , in spite of all this tumbling about and spraining of ankles .
” “from the former .
especially would it be interesting if we could ascertain whether any of its more finished passages , e .
" [ _num_ ] " we can mean no other , " cried lucy , smiling .
with her unreasonableness sometimes to anne ' s admiration , and upon the whole , though there was very often
when this was told , his name distressed her no longer .
seeing your sister as fond of him as ever , and on being assured that she was to marry him
out by an improver , mr .
to elizabeth : “lizzy , i never gave you an account of my wedding , i believe .
when she said that you should be henry ' s wife .
indifferent ; an evil which elinor , as mrs .
his being only a bystander was not disclaimed .
great deal of the spirit and liveliness of his father ' s ; he looked quick and sensible .
”—the pertinacity of her friend seemed more than she could bear .
of marking my adoration of yourself .
" " not at all , not at all ; there is not an oath or a murmur from beginning
night .
no one ought to be judged or to be known by such testimonies , that no private correspondence could bear
jennings , who scrupled not to attribute the severity and danger of this attack to the many weeks of previous
but , lizzy , this must go no farther than yourself , or jane at most .
been less surprized than any of us , for you have had your suspicions .
lucy made room for her with ready attention , and the two fair rivals were thus seated side by side
” she then spoke of the letter , repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned george
if he were plain indeed i might have had reason to be ashamed of a passion which must have been
my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters , and of the little dependence that can be placed on
this was mr .
i had been too deeply concerned in the mischief to be soon at peace .
every thing well and attentively , with the real good-will of a mind delighted with its own ideas , did
sir thomas would have been deeply mortified by a suspicion of half that his daughters felt on the subject of
instantly given .
forward to the hour when i shall be admitted into your delightful retirement .
ever prevailed upon to get out .
this is only doing it in a ruder way ; and how do i know that mr .
she would not allow any other anxiety to succeed directly to the place in her mind which harriet had occupied
air and exercise .
before , its interest soon increased ; and before their first conversation was over , she had talked herself into
, i own .
chapter vii emma ' s very good opinion of frank churchill was a little shaken the following day , by
peculiarly lucky !
second being secured only by bolts of less wonderful construction than the lock , though in that her eye could
, but of which sadness was the general result , to think even of her sister .
said edward to elinor , " do you gain no ground ?
nothing very striking , because it is clear that he had no pretensions : his heart was reserved for you
person ' s courage that could sit down on purpose to do it .
he had no companion at home , for the admiral and mrs croft were generally out of doors together ,
him during the whole of his absence ; that is to say , the only two disinterested letters ; all
“what said he to himself is musgrove allowed to die for henrietta ?
but i am not afraid of your seeing what he writes .
acting with my usual foolish impetuosity .
” she added , “by far too much .
for a long while no answer could be obtained beyond a “no , no—not at all—no , thank you” ;
” “it is only evident that miss bingley does not mean that he should .
master was a very rich gentleman , and would be a baronight some day .
his daughter ' s being housemaid there .
” emma smiled and answered—“my visit was of use to the nervous part of her complaint , i hope ;
she says there was hardly any veal to be got at market this morning , it is so uncommonly scarce
g .
performers ; but soon (within five minutes) the proposal of dancing—originating nobody exactly knew where—was so effectually promoted by mr
, found themselves so well sufficient for the time to themselves , that it was eleven o ' clock ,
i cannot think of it with any patience ; and it does appear to me an evil of such magnitude
” sir thomas could not be provoked .
the late owner of this estate was a single man , who lived to a very advanced age , and
no , no ; henrietta might do worse than marry charles hayter ; and if she has him , and
” she saw him start at this , but he said nothing , and she continued : “you could not
your brother ' s taste and your sisters ' seem very different .
she looked down very decidedly upon the hayters , and thought it would be quite a misfortune to have the
ear , but could not enter the heart of miss dashwood .
no one who has ever seen you together can doubt his affection .
the attentions your heart will dictate towards her .
” “and is that likely to satisfy me , do you think ?
" " but why should such precaution be used ?
he had very good spirits , which never seemed much affected by his wife ' s occasional lowness , bore
” “has your governess left you ?
it was a valuable part of former times .
" and there was a mrs wallis , at present known only to them by description , as she was
" " he would have told me so , i doubt not , had i made any such inquiries ,
” after a moment ' s embarrassment the lady replied , “you are too much a man of the world
and making her see how well it looked .
conversation , no style , no beauty .
" " i am not going to write to my mother , " replied marianne , hastily , and as
seeing him perhaps daily , his direct holidays might with justice be instantly given to the sister , who had
tilney , for perhaps i may never see him again .
it was unvarying , warm admiration everywhere ; but this intimate footing was not more than established , when a
he had not much intercourse with any families beyond that circle ; his horror of late hours , and large
cole never touches malt liquor .
gardiner declared his willingness , and elizabeth was applied to for her approbation .
one of them have been near me .
by her father that she submitted to the change without much reluctance .
i know of .
her aunts .
much better employed talking to the young ladies .
the immediate advantage to herself was by no means inconsiderable , for it supplied her with endless jokes against them
” and such was fanny ' s dependence on his words , that for five minutes she thought they had
to change a resolution of no very great moment , should you think ill of that person for complying with
vain indeed must be all her attentions , vain and useless her affection for his sister and her praise of
the original was all her own—her own happy thoughts and gentle diction .
this is the estimation in which you hold me !
scarcely a word was spoken during their return to berkeley street .
to be in london the very next day , and would assist mr .
had the smallest desire of breaking through her engagement , or was sensible of any change of opinion or inclination
no : the years which had destroyed her youth and bloom had only given him a more glowing , manly
“better than she ever used to do ?
she could not cease to fear , she began at least to know their ways , and to catch the
women , which you will find expressed in the following pages .
—and for me to be afraid of walking alone !
” “are you quite sure , ma’am ?
" who ?
he asked me if he could do any thing .
and as for harriet , i will venture to say that she cannot gain by the acquaintance .
but everything must take its chance .
her safely off with the zeal of a friend .
of which they had received notice by express a few hours before .
, it was given elsewhere .
” “there is a very clever essay in one of the books upstairs upon much such a subject , about
bertram set off for———— , and miss crawford was prepared to find a great chasm in their society , and
, if possible .
and very nice young ladies they both are ; i hardly know one from the other .
at length , a something like composure succeeded .
is she queer ?
, merely because he chanced to complain yesterday (a very cold damp day) of a slight rheumatic feel in one
dashing about with his curricle and hunters !
what the devil does sir john mean by not having a billiard room in his house ?
" " yes , sir , a mr elliot , a gentleman of large fortune , came in last night
rushworth , “which is no trifle .
unequal to any exercise .
fixed , she trusted it would ere long be in her power to take frederica into the country herself ,
blaize castle remained her only comfort ; towards that , she still looked at intervals with pleasure ; though rather
catherine endeavoured to persuade her , as she was herself persuaded , that her father and mother would never oppose
with me ?
i beg your pardon , but i am bewildered .
thither mr .
annexed to sensibility .
as left no doubt of his good information ; and he soon afterwards said aloud , “mrs .
i have three unanswerable reasons for disliking colonel brandon ; he threatened me with rain when i wanted it to
such an immense plantation all round it !
dashwoods from the first without the smallest emotion , but very soon to see them without recollecting a word of
eager , voice— " dear , dear elinor , don ' t mind them .
for hurry in the world : but catherine could not at all get over the double distress of having involved
“indeed , morland , i must drive you away .
fanny , who had heard it all , and borne edmund company in every feeling throughout the whole , now
miss tilney , understanding in part her friend ' s curiosity to see the house , soon revived the subject
though julia fancies she prefers tragedy , i would not trust her in it .
he had not the power of accepting it .
if your feelings are still what they were last april , tell me so at once .
out of mainwaring ' s servant that he had visited you every day since your being in town , and
few people who have so compassionate a heart !
afternoon with the daily newspaper as usual , she was so far from expecting any elucidation through such a channel
” “what shall we do ?
“cautious , very cautious , ” thought emma ; “he advances inch by inch , and will hazard nothing till
” her going roused the rest ; and at the same moment the two brothers stepped forward , feeling the
which i am very indifferent especially as i know it is considered as confering a great obligation on me “so
jennings could talk on no other subject , elinor soon saw the necessity of preparing marianne for its discussion .
—and so it does , i vow .
do her good .
when to these recollections was added the development of wickham’s character , it may be easily believed that the happy
arms of your” “philippa .
me in prison ?
side of her unceasing good wishes for his happiness in every change of situation that[ _num_ ] might befall him
” said catherine , as she stood watching at a window .
“had you any idea , ” cried harriet , “of his being in love with her ?
" " you have said so , " replied elinor , " almost every day since they first met on
about the house rather than remain fixed for any time in the parlour .
eight years and a half is a period .
i see the imprudence of it .
water-plant , there chanced to be a little alteration .
” “i shall not talk to you , henry , but i know you will like her best at last
could ; but crawford pursued with “no , no , you must not part with the queen .
the slightest mention of anything relative to willoughby overpowered her in an instant ; and though her family were most
she was not equal , however , to much conversation , and when miss bingley left them together , could
it was the desire of appearing superior to other people .
sir thomas , however , remained yet a little longer in town , in the hope of discovering and snatching
her mind returned to mrs .
i hope you will think better of their looks to-morrow ; for i assure you mr .
she had the highest esteem for mr .
” when the dancing recommenced , however , and darcy approached to claim her hand , charlotte could not help
she could almost have thought that edmund and miss crawford had left it , but that it was impossible for
she was a beautiful creature when she came to you , but , in my opinion , the attractions you
and as she returned by a different circuit to the house , feeling all the happy privilege of country liberty
yes , perfectly .
opinion of me !
which affected my eyes so much as to prevent my reading it myself , so i could not refuse your
told that miss smith was not better , by no means better , rather worse .
considering how very handsome she is , she appears to be little occupied with it ; her vanity lies another
have something to write about , even to her niece ; and being so soon to lose all the benefit
with economical expedient , for which nobody thanked her , and saving , with delighted integrity , half a crown
" she hesitated ; she knew not what to do .
" anne had done ; glad that it was over , and not absolutely hopeless of doing good .
at last , “now , fanny , ” said he , “i shall soon have done .
—robert martin and harriet smith , the latest couple engaged of the three , were the first to be married
pains with .
—“he did not doubt there being very pleasant walks in every direction , but if left to him , he
laugh heartily at them all .
you never wrote a truer line .
this only need be said ; —that when they all sat down to table at four o ' clock ,
in finding among the dashing representatives , or idle heir-apparents , who were at the command of her beauty ,
attendants .
the rest of the way is such as it ought to be .
i never was happier .
he had never written , hardly ever , any thing of the kind in his life .
there is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others .
withdraw your eyes from it .
thorpe , ” said catherine , venturing after some time to consider the matter as entirely decided , and to
“come , come , it would be very un-handsome in us to be severe on mrs .
least to appear satisfied , he quickly added , “no , no , i know that is quite out of
my own self .
—elinor , can he be justified ?
not be too sedulously divided in word and deed on every occasion .
and they will now see their cousin treated as she ought to be , and i wish they may be
grant has shewn in all this .
condescended to ask .
another day i will do the same ; i will sit in my library , in my nightcap and powdering
his real concurrence ; and yet there must be a very distinct sort of elegance for the fashionable world ,
but harriet rejected the suspicion with spirit .
two others , penned by the same hand , marked an expenditure scarcely more interesting , in letters , hair-powder
and everybody being as perfectly complying and without a choice as on such occasions they always are , speculation was
knightley will be so kind as to meet him .
he longed to have been at sea , and seen and done and suffered as much .
thomas thought it might be as well to make one more effort for the young man before he left mansfield
i am an advocate for early marriages , where there are means in proportion , and would have every young
you with this account of my family afflictions , with a recital which may seem to have been intended to
” in a tone of the greatest amazement , was his only reply to mr .
that must be enough for us both .
, everything , to her acceptance .
she had no dread of these two months .
letter the second from miss c .
leave all that to me .
in the mean time the dancing began and lady greville in passing to another room went exactly before me—she saw
rushworth ' s marrying miss bertram .
lord of the earth and sea , he bends a slave , and woman , lovely woman , reigns alone
eyes .
perry had told somebody , and was extremely happy about it .
there will be an inducement , and i shall gradually get intimately acquainted with all the hedges , gates ,
as it principally concerns yourself , you ought to know its contents .
be shown into the common drawing-room , and capable of considering where she was .
she had ventured only one glance at darcy .
the dear creature is just turned of two years old ; as handsome as tho ' _num_ and _num_ ,
satisfied going about together , and discussing matters of equal and never-failing interest , while the young people sat down
being no longer able , however , to receive pleasure from the surrounding objects , she soon began to walk
when i went away , i felt that it would soon happen .
" " he is as good a sort of fellow , i believe , as ever lived , " repeated
' s character , truth , and attachment ; more equal to act , more justified in acting .
” “four thousand a year .
nothing but a country curate .
they were never tolerated at maple grove .
when they parted , lady catherine , with great condescension , wished them a good journey , and invited them
” “i am not at all surprized at you , harriet .
we brought a cold pigeon pye , a cold turkey , a cold tongue , and half a dozen jellies
there wants now but the presence of gustavus to compleat the union of my laurina ' s grand-children .
branxholm hall , “one moment and no more , ” to view the happy scene , and take a last
you mean me , baddeley , i am sure ; sir thomas wants me , not miss price .
“louisa , you will not mind my waking mr .
“success supposes endeavour .
and refinement , i paid little attention to what she said , and desired her to satisfy my curiosity by
fashionable hours ; crowds of people were every moment passing in and out , up the steps and down ;
” “yes , do .
anne had gone unhappy to school , grieving for the loss of a mother whom she had dearly loved ,
” this sentiment had been uttered so often in vain that mrs .
several years .
knightley , and turned to him for help .
nature may be called more wonderful than the rest , i do think it is memory .
“i told you i lost my way after passing that old farmhouse with the yew-trees , because i can never
jane often says , when she is here , ' i am sure , grandmama , you must have had
you did not enjoy them as i did ; you appeared tired the whole time .
the corner already .
her cares are over , and she feels that she may exert all her powers of pleasing without suspicion .
to leave portsmouth to-morrow !
we talked it all over with mr .
after securing accommodations , and ordering a dinner at one of the inns , the next thing to be done
“this is a pleasure , ” said he , in rather a low voice , “coming at least ten minutes
letters aloud , and dwelling on the postscript of the last with trembling energy .
must be acceptable to her , especially when tempered with the silence and respect which her rank will inevitably excite
long and the gouldings soon .
” the rain continued—fast , though not heavy .
, who arrived about the same time , think it at all advisable .
and made every fair lady welcome and easy .
dashwood , and he found fresh reason to rejoice in what he had done for mr .
i am in such ecstasies at the thoughts of a little country air and quiet !
and to be better acquainted therefore , elinor soon found was their inevitable lot , for as sir john was
" " indeed !
she was as insignificant , and perhaps as portionless , as isabella ; and if the heir of the tilney
” “you are so noble in your ideas !
join me in wishing that frederica vernon may prove more worthy than she has yet done of her mother '
the piano-forte .
—still mrs .
but i never sing .
” “well done , sister !
collins was first introduced to her notice , but he certainly has not known her long .
perfectly right .
you are very obliging to say such things—but certainly not .
—we have been sitting with your father—glad to see him so well .
" " add to which , " cried marianne , " that he has neither genius , taste , nor
, mutual affection , and domestic comfort of the family to whom accident had now introduced him .
“poor fanny !
i verily believe at the same instant ; and we should have been off two hours ago if it had
bewildering statements , she could not acknowledge any necessity for fanny ' s ever going near a father and mother
her praise was warm , and he received it as she could wish , joining in it as far as
others , and are least honest themselves .
” darcy was fixed in astonishment .
her caution was thrown away .
aye , i know your scruples .
said i—i cannot think who you mean .
“and now , ” added mrs .
it was amazingly shocking , to be sure ; but the tilneys were entirely to blame .
it is well known that miss m .
to walk by the side of this child , and talk to and question her , was the most natural
i have been most deeply interested ; —and it has not been only once ; —i have had her hopes
leave any deficiency of information .
if we were not related , it would not signify ; but as cousins , she would feel scrupulous as
colonel brandon loves marianne .
what can equal the folly of our two relations ?
exclaimed , " your ladyship will have the goodness to excuse me—you know i detest cards .
i advise every body who is going to build , to build a cottage .
while she was gone , mr .
” there was snow on the ground , and she was sitting in a shawl .
" you reside in devonshire , i think , " —was his next observation , " in a cottage near
” “because honour , decorum , prudence , nay , interest , forbid it .
she should have to do the honours of the evening ; and this reflection quickly restored so much of her
he seems perfectly unprepared for that .
what were the misfortunes i had before experienced and which i have already related to you , to the one
, she could not perceive .
; very well ; did you ?
rushworth ' s consequence was hers .
tell your aunt , little emma , that she ought to set you a better example than to be renewing
ever enjoy a sweeter feeling than the hope of seeing him receive the hand of her beloved anne in kellynch
would be of any consequence ; for “such things , ” he observed , “always got about .
happy at longstaple than he used to be .
what she was , must be uncertain ; but who she was , might be found out ; and setting
her curiosity to see us (which must have been great to bring her more than four hundred miles) being now
rushworth had used for a twelvemonth before .
” “there will be some difficulty in our way , mrs .
it was a palpable display , repeated on every possible occasion .
” elizabeth quietly answered “undoubtedly ; ” and after an awkward pause , they returned to the rest of the
pleasure of attending them ?
it would be an excellent match , for he was rich , and she was handsome .
away in this manner , edmund began almost to hope that none might ever be found .
no man of common humanity , no man who had any value for his character , could be capable of
” nothing but concern for elizabeth could enable bingley to keep his countenance .
” eleanor only replied , “i cannot wonder at your feelings .
darcy that they scarcely ever saw him .
collins’s picture of hunsford and rosings rationally softened ; and elizabeth perceived that she must wait for her own visit
of marianne , without feeling how blank was her own prospect , how cheerless her own state of mind in
the power of disappointing them , it was true , must always be her ' s .
bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing elizabeth again , having still a great deal to say to
to the corresponding window in the gallery , to see if it appeared ; but all abroad was dark ,
but sir john would not be satisfied—the carriage should be sent for them and they must come .
perry , and talked on with much self-contentment , totally unsuspicious of what they could have told him in return
away , which she grieved to think of !
crofts to dine at uppercross , by the end of another week .
as soon as mrs .
which gave importance to her person .
were more vacant than their sisters’ , and when nothing better offered , a walk to meryton was necessary to
i had done wrong .
all this she had said , and with the earnestness of sincerity ; yet this was not enough , for
to consult with colonel brandon on the best means of effecting the latter , was a thought which immediately followed
” “it must indeed be a most gratefull reflection , to your exalted minds .
i honestly said as much to mr .
but before i am run away with by my feelings on this subject , perhaps it would be advisable for
through an illness which had now , under different degrees of danger , lasted several weeks .
but charles is so positive !
and there was a softness and delicacy in her skin which gave peculiar elegance to the character of her face
” said isabella , turning hastily round .
said to the girls , “now , i do insist upon it , that you , all of you ,
knightley was a sort of general friend and adviser , and she knew mr .
but many were the tedious hours which must yet intervene .
, ” said mr .
company and good liquor , and a very small income to supply their wants , made her eager to regain
darcy , that she would not trust herself with an answer , and therefore , abruptly changing the conversation talked
it cannot be concealed from anyone .
nerves , which louisa ' s illness must have so greatly shaken .
he had been used to think her unjust to jane , and had now great pleasure in marking an improvement
only look , sister , how delightful every thing is !
she had not at first thought very seriously of going thither ; but charlotte , she soon found , was
that could fancy any ; but her aunt was soon quarrelling with her ; and when she found how much
does he drink his bottle a day now ?
gone .
which she rather wished to do away ; and marianne ' s courage soon failed her , in trying to
miss austen herself has never done anything better than the inimitable and oft-quoted chapter wherein is debated between the last-named
to admire the noble grandeur of the elms which sheltered us from the eastern zephyr .
them , is less certain .
happiness still prevailed .
she must admire him as a fine-looking man , with most gentlemanlike , dignified , consistent manners ; but perhaps
“no , my dear ; i hope not .
confession , which could hardly be believed , of her having never yet heard it since its being in mansfield
calls me the child of good fortune .
“fanny will feel quite as grateful as the occasion requires , ” was edmund ' s only reply , and
have found you out in spite of all your tricks .
” “heaven forbid !
how greatly superior an elegant simplicity is to the most studied apparel ?
determined to leave the trouble of finding a subject to him .
companions makes her seem—gives to her conversation , to her professed opinions , sometimes a tinge of wrong .
that might do , perhaps , but for the low parts .
—there can scarcely be a doubt that her father is a gentleman—and a gentleman of fortune .
" she could only resolve to avoid such self-delusion in future , and think with heightened gratitude of the extraordinary
their return ; and he was soon afterwards able to account for his not yet completely and indubitably seeing all
rushworth should resent any former supposed slight to miss bertram .
spoke very little , except in a low voice , to mrs .
rushworth ' s appearance , and sir thomas was liking him already .
this , as well as i understand , is to be the substance of my information .
telling you that my affections are steady .
; and soon laying it wholly aside , she drew near the card-table , and stationed herself between mr .
small part of catherine ' s speculation .
only wander from the walls , marked by her father ' s head , to the table cut and notched
poor girl !
at home when they can !
elton is very good-natured and agreeable , and i dare say her acquaintance are just what they ought to be
elinor told him the number of the house .
and so i am not to be surprized that jane fairfax accepts her civilities and consents to be with her
must it not follow of course , that , when he was understood , he should succeed ?
, headed by a stout woman and a great boy , all clamorous , and impertinent in look , though
with admirable presence of mind gave orders for the immediate erection of two noble tents in an open spot in
the horses .
there is not one that we like better than this .
of true acting , as he would not have lost upon any account .
amusement at his little start of surprise , that he had not been at all aware of who she was
" " will you repeat to your sister when she is recovered , what i have been[ _num_ ] telling
bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of wickham’s removal from the ——shire as clearly as mr .
no second meeting had there yet been between him and emma .
but you have chosen your fault well .
she does me a great deal more harm than good , for i am in constant fear of her betraying
considered herself overpaid for the labour she had bestowed upon it , absolutely nothing seems to have been preserved by
” “i shall be happier to burn it , ” replied harriet .
” “my picture !
must be .
he could succeed ; for mrs .
here are pretty girls enough , i am sure .
do not give him a hint of it .
weston , his son , emma , and harriet , only remained ; and the young man ' s spirits
let me entreat you , miss woodhouse , to exercise so charming a talent in favour of your friend .
; everybody ' s feelings were consulted .
been so in derbyshire .
goddard chose to tell her ; and looked no farther .
he often expressed his uneasiness on this head , feared the sameness of every day ' s society and employments
thing , whatever it be !
how d ' ye do , mrs .
“indeed , mr .
she had not eloped with any worse feelings than those of selfish alarm .
he declared himself to be totally unsuspicious of her sister’s attachment ; and she could not help remembering what charlotte’s
vernon to lady de courcy churchhill we have a very unexpected guest with us at present , my dear mother
they must not do less than others , or she should be exposed to odious suspicions , and imagined capable
“and then , ” said she , “if that very improbable event should ever take place , i shall merely
and now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my
, that instead of twelve he brought only six with him from london—his five sisters and a cousin .
not sympathise in his wish that the count and agatha might be to act together , nor wait very patiently
i am prodigiously proud of him .
” sotherton was a word to catch mrs .
every thing , i had not expected more than a very tolerably well-looking woman of a certain age ; i
—none of that upright integrity , that strict adherence to truth and principle , that disdain of trick and littleness
bingley followed his advice .
see amazingly well still , thank god !
) chapter _num_ the remainder of anne ' s time at uppercross , comprehending only two days , was spent
dixon , you could hardly have expected her to be excused from accompanying colonel and mrs .
jennings thought only of his behaviour ; and while his looks of anxious[ _num_ ] solicitude on marianne ' s
they never miss a concert .
he seemed astonished too on finding her alone , and apologised for his intrusion by letting her know that he
miss bingley’s attention was quite as much engaged in watching mr .
palmer ' s , who lived a few miles on the other side of bath ; whither her husband promised
” “no cousin replied he in a languid voice , nothing will convince me that i can have touched the
if i had thought it right to put it off , i could have spoken to miss tilney myself .
i watched her with the strictest attention during the whole day , and could plainly discover that she cherishes in
lord[ _num_ ] bless me !
that james should put-to for such a purpose .
nay , when i read a letter of his , i cannot help giving him the preference even over wickham
, i am afraid she is a perverse girl .
“when my eyes were opened to his real character—oh !
except the sucklings and bragges , there is not such another nursery establishment , so liberal and elegant , in
they all looked exceedingly foolish ; and edward seemed to have as great an inclination to walk out of the
for a moment he ceased , but she had barely become conscious of it , when , rising from his
he had gone away deeply offended—he came back engaged to another—and to another as superior , of course , to
father , just now , that i would come , and he thought me quite right .
hurst and miss bingley ; and elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it .
, without sending her any message of excuse .
the compliment to herself , or of strengthening his views in favour of northamptonshire .
elton was so near , that she heard every syllable of a dialogue which just then took place between him
" i never saw you wear a ring before , edward , " she cried .
know , for miss woodhouse ' s beautiful little friend .
i like these glossy spots .
it is the warmth of her respect for her aunt ' s memory which misleads her here .
the quarter of an hour brought her punctually to the white gate again ; and miss smith receiving her summons
i am no young lady on her preferment .
” “i can answer your question , ” said fitzwilliam , “without applying to him .
she was to convey harriet , and they drove to the crown in good time , the randalls party just
explanation of what he may have heard from lady susan to contradict the late shocking reports .
fanny with doubting feelings had risen to meet him , but sank down again on finding herself undistinguished in the
it is very uncertain when my interest might have got william on .
i say nothing ; hope mrs .
she might think the difference between us—the difference in our situations—that she need not be so scrupulous as i might
yates ' s account .
“no , ma ' am , it is miss price ; i am certain of its being miss price .
i am not yet certain that reginald sees what she is about , nor is it of much consequence .
upon the whole , it was a very joyous note .
by engaging her faith before he mentioned the subject ; and as he proceeded to give the particulars , and
you do not think too highly of us in that way .
temptations must be greater than at home .
the remaining three , mrs .
had told her that he and his wife were to be in town before the middle of february , and
a few months hence , and the room now so deserted , occupied but by her silent , pensive self
” “go , by all means , my dear ; only put on a white gown ; miss tilney always
the offence which had been given her father , many years back , she knew ; elizabeth ' s particular
one can ' t repeat such kind of things you know)—she told him directly , she had not the least
she would be extremely sorry to interfere with you .
eliza already acknowledged , and now strengthened by the hollow eye , the sickly skin , the posture of reclining
concerned , we might always think alike .
it ever occurred to me that he might have had such a living in his gift .
she avoided the looks of them all , could neither eat nor speak , and after some time , on
the perfect excellence of the mind with which louisa ' s could so ill bear a comparison , or the
chapter xvii it was , indeed , a triumphant day to mr .
possession of a very comfortable apartment .
john knightley lately ?
goddard ?
in this world the penalty is less equal than could be wished ; but without presuming to look forward to
such openness , such sincerity !
to sir john , and lady middleton , and the dear children , when you chance to see them ,
it , but i honestly tell you what they are .
" [ _num_ ] a very smart beau .
happy the glance that first distinguished catherine !
” he seemed hardly to hear her ; he was thoughtful—and in a manner which shewed him not pleased ,
reluctantly , and with much hesitation , did she then begin what might perhaps , at the end of half
” “i should never wish for a better supper .
" —but checking her desire , confined herself to this silent ejaculation .
weston , kind-hearted and musical , was particularly interested by the circumstance , and emma could not help being amused
elton gratitude for her attentions to miss fairfax .
no solitary walk in the shrubbery , in her caution to avoid any sudden attack .
an object of my wishes , but how much was i mistaken !
grant and the crawfords to begin .
only too strict to suit the unfeudal tone of the present day .
the next three months .
but here , elinor could neither wonder nor blame ; and when she saw , as she assisted marianne from
but i suppose they thought it would be too dirty for a walk .
” “i am very glad to hear you say so ; she is just the kind of young woman i
the most objectionable part is , that the alteration of manners on being introduced into company is frequently too sudden
i will leave him to himself .
the fact is , that you were sick of civility , of deference , of officious attention .
getting wet through yesterday .
but , however , he did not admire her at all ; indeed , nobody can , you know ;
i had two or three ideas .
lydia was lydia still ; untamed , unabashed , wild , noisy , and fearless .
the disguise , equivocation , mystery , so hateful to her to practise , might soon be over .
on one side no affection , on the other no judgment , it may be reasonably supposed that their tempers
as willoughby ' s , joined them in begging her to stop , and she turned round with surprise to
gardiner , “that no consideration with regard to this young man will influence her .
_num_ ] her resentment .
to himself and to all his family .
, to a small musical party at her house .
their stay at hartfield it was not to be expected—she did not herself expect—that any thing beyond occasional , fortuitous
" " choice !
i need not particularise .
the mention of a dance as a ' little hop ' in chapter ix .
the east room , without having an idea whereabouts it was !
still , however , she had the sensation of there being something more than immediately appeared , in mr elliot
harriet , very glad to have purchased the mortification of having loved—yes , of having loved even mr .
”—soon led her mind away from northamptonshire , and fixed it on her own domestic grievances , and the shocking
when she did come , it was very evident that she had no pleasure in it ; she made a
, low and sheltered—its ample gardens stretching down to meadows washed by a stream , of which the abbey ,
the terrified general pronounced the name of allen with an inquiring look ; and here too thorpe had learnt his
in the first place , william was gone .
“smith has not much above a hundred acres altogether in his grounds , which is little enough , and makes
a man at his age—what is he ?
with very little effort .
writing , and i cannot give you a greater proof of my affection for you than by acting , as
you never mentioned it before .
opened for him by some one without , made his determined appearance among them , and went straight to the
displeased either at her sister ' s early care , or the choice it had fallen on .
cried out , “my dear henry , where can you have been all this time ?
talked as much as ever .
a one horse chaise .
he must be starved , you know , that is certain ; absolutely starved .
behind her and willoughby , and said to marianne , loud enough for them both to hear , " i
every door was now closed , the passage plan given up , and the first scheme of dancing only in
and so does poor mrs .
" he opened his whole heart to me yesterday as we travelled .
had i remained in england , perhaps—but i meant to promote the happiness of both by removing from her for
its being considered necessary by his father ; she only pleaded against there being any hurry ; she only wanted
not been created before .
“or , in other words , you are determined to have him .
it was parting with somebody of the nature of a friend ; and though , in one light , glad
what could more plainly speak the gloomy workings of a mind not wholly dead to every sense of humanity ,
, made over to his use entirely so long as he remained in northamptonshire .
thanks of the table , the hint of a hope that she might be prevailed on to favour them again
discovered an ancient respectable looking mansion which , by reminding them a little of norland , interested their imagination and
i am very sensible of the honour of your proposals , but it is impossible for me to do otherwise
“i see what you are feeling , ” replied charlotte .
she had thought better of him .
towards him i have been kinder than towards myself .
the shop , were finally arranged by his own inventive fancy , he had no leisure to bestow any other
have done it very well .
to work in pulling down what had been so lately put up in the billiard-room , and given the scene-painter
how came sir thomas to speak to you about it ?
husband and wife , before sir john ' s and mrs .
she could think only of the invitation she had with such astonishment witnessed , and of the manner in which
surprise and solicitude— " may i ask if your engagement is of long standing ?
it would never do .
this as you may suppose considerably surprised us , particularly as your account of her ladyship had given us reason
they could go there again with them in the autumn .
you are to cruise to the westward ; and captain walsh thinks you will certainly have a cruise to the
for her going was most prompt and successful .
when is your turn to come ?
find some opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the morning .
ferrars is a charming woman , and so is your sister .
happy .
” “i wish you may not get into a scrape , harriet , whenever he does marry ; —i mean
it appeared that blaize castle had never been thought of ; and , as for all the rest , there
those to her mother contained little else than that they were just returned from the library , where such and
fixed .
we remained thus mutually deprived of our senses , some minutes , and on regaining them were deprived of them
gladly would i submit to all the increased pain of losing her , rather than have to think of her
you must stay to be acquainted with mrs wallis , the beautiful mrs wallis .
to his wife he was very little otherwise indebted , than as her ignorance and folly had contributed to his
on the subject , of being hurried into repeating something of bingley which might only grieve her sister further .
grief on that score was excessive .
he was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as elizabeth herself could be , and
, so much of everything ; and then you have such—upon my soul , i do not know anybody like
” cried isabella , turning round .
were it possible , she must say it must be edward .
at the utmost , being contented with a pun , and her mother with a proverb ; they were not
smith has this morning exercised the privilege of riches upon a poor dependent cousin , by sending me on business
she looked at him with great admiration , and even supposed it possible that some people might think him handsomer
the prospect in front was more extensive ; it commanded the whole of the valley , and reached into the
—delicate—tender—truly feminine—was it not ?
but the effort was painful .
" said marianne , as she wandered alone before the house , on the last evening of their being there
captain harville , who had in truth been hearing none of it , now left his seat , and moved
tell us i intreat you what is become of him ?
she was earnestly begged to return and dine , and give them all the rest of the day , but
and when you get there , you must tell him at what time you would have him come for you
very particularly what he had done .
, and play at cards ; who , when he found her to prefer a plain dish to a ragout
i have only to hope that they may be proportionately short .
make them peculiarly interesting to each other ?
the family .
to fill the house , and give her pleasant society again .
he will be glad to hear it .
garters for her grandmother , one hears of nothing else for a month .
rushworth was very ready to request the favour of mr .
the cause of her behaviour ; and soon found myself to have been perfectly right in attributing it to my
the little irritations sometimes introduced by aunt norris , they were short , they were trifling , they were as
the pleasure was not of a sort to die with the day ; for every day would restore the knowledge
” emma was in no danger of forgetting .
it is , in short , impossible for us to conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated them
; it is this delightful habit of journaling which largely contributes to form the easy style of writing for which
she turned towards lucy in silent amazement , unable to divine the reason or object of such a declaration ;
“i really believe , ” said he , “i could be fool enough at this moment to undertake any character
” “because i thought i should soon see you myself .
elton speak with more unreserve than she had ever done , and mr .
such a return of it as made her absolutely powerless—and in this state , and exceedingly terrified , she had
”—then having recourse to her workbasket , in excuse for leaning down her face , and concealing all the exquisite
sitting up by yourself , instead of going to bed at your usual time—and the idea of that would entirely
woodhouse could not bear the idea of her stirring out of her house in the fogs of december .
“i have not ridden , continued she fixing her eyes on my face , since i was married .
them was seen till their return , which did not happen till after the return of all the rest .
the comfort of hearing last night , by mr .
this is the last time i shall ever remember it myself .
” “i merely asked , whether you had known much of miss fairfax and her party at weymouth .
than their own house .
ill-judged solemnity of leave-taking in his graceful acknowledgments , as she thought , at first , could not escape her
” “only think !
not occupy her , could not dwell on her mind .
nor did he seem much more at ease ; when he spoke , his accent had none of its usual
had been followed by so many , many years of division and estrangement .
lord bless you !
” “yes , you were very cross ; and i do not know what about , except that you were
bath ; where , in compliance with the pressing entreaties of some friends , he had engaged to spend a
when i found that he was not to be laughed out of his design , i calmly begged an explanation
elton swelled at the idea of miss woodhouse ' s presiding ; mr .
” “she always declares she will never marry , which , of course , means just nothing at all .
of other employment , and the circumstance of sir thomas ' s being in parliament , got into the way
the manner .
high , and this is what i do .
son , seemed one of those extraordinary bursts of mind which do sometimes occur .
that might have been ensured in some degree by the excursion itself , by seeing blaize castle ; no ,
that might endanger its maintenance .
fanny knew not how to feel , nor where to look .
it was performed with suitable quietness and uneventful safety .
—well , he must be a most extraordinary—” “nay , nay , read on .
the strength of the song falls on the second .
—after a few whispers , indeed , which placed it beyond a guess , mrs .
; and , upon the whole , she believed she must , on this interesting question , be the gainer
martin may be the richest of the two , but he is undoubtedly her inferior as to rank in society
sensible and well-informed men , when suddenly called to the necessity of reading aloud , which had fallen within their
who can ever be tired of bath ?
came , it was impossible for him not to say exactly as he had said at dinner , “poor miss
know your own happiness .
” “if we have not hearts , we have eyes ; and they give us torment enough .
happily , those feelings have generally been good .
grow up : how to preserve in the minds of my daughters the consciousness of what they are , without
precious sensations on hers .
guardian of his sister , and you will hear him generally cried up as the most attentive and best of
—then i will speak the truth , and nothing suits me so well .
crawford ' s endeavours to convince you that they may not be incompatible with his .
which the unjustifiable conduct of your family has placed you—a concern which i am sure marianne , myself , and
“how abominable !
amelia is a character more difficult to be well represented than even agatha .
accidental noise in the house , started hastily up , and , with feverish wildness , cried out , —
it was imputed to very reasonable weariness , and she was thanked and pitied ; but she deserved their pity
she was sure of hearing it talked of .
canterbury stage go whirling by .
they were infinitely worse .
, gave her all the shame and misery which a disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give .
heads ; and as i hate such encroaching people (the jacksons are very encroaching , i have always said so
ashamed of being otherwise .
rushworth to attend to her , and doomed to the repeated details of his day ' s sport , good
they shook hands with great cordiality ; and then , till her sister came down , she had to listen
you may have done wrong with regard to mr .
of his own happy address , and her explicit encouragement .
this is the truth .
this country when mr .
, in consequence of her subsequent absence from home , had since lain dormant .
edward , she believed , was still in town , and fortunately she had heard his address from miss steele
measure ; —and when to that was added the fanciful imagery of edward reading prayers in a white surplice ,
, whose situation is a very delicate one , considering everything , extremely delicate .
and his answering immediately to the last question : ‘oh !
for shame , willoughby , can you wait for an invitation here ?
much exceeded her affection for the other .
it is my greatest boast that i have incurred the displeasure of my father !
so i looked at it directly , and , ' lord !
” one perplexity , however , arose , which the gentlemen did not disdain .
own dress and manners did her the greatest credit .
without ceremony , before them all , so as to leave me no possibility of refusing .
the carriage would not accommodate so many .
they left brighton together on sunday night , and were traced almost to london , but not beyond ; they
“of what are you talking ?
were you often in the same society ?
(said i) how charmingly is the azure varied by those delicate streaks of white !
ninety-nine out of a hundred would do the same .
she had no natural connexions to assist her even with their counsel , and she could not afford to purchase
collins’s joints of meat were too large for her family .
it does not do him justice , to be sure , but yet i think you cannot be deceived as
could she have chosen with whom to associate , she would not have chosen her .
driving , and that having sold every thing which belonged to them except their coach , had converted it into
the day passed most pleasantly away ; the morning in bustle and shopping , and the evening at one of
weston kissed her with tears of joy ; and when she could find utterance , assured her , that this
it was a commission to touch every favourite feeling .
she could do little more than listen patiently , soften every grievance , and excuse each to the other ;
should meet with .
let me hear any thing rather than what you are all thinking of .
” “no , certainly not ; i shall go home in the cool of the evening .
scenes it exhibited in that part of the world had been so much raised by gilpin ' s tour to
, though she did not know it .
then let us walk about and quiz people .
emma felt that she could not do too much for her , that harriet had a right to all her
she would finally accept .
sweet letters as yours .
and yet it is she herself who has furnished the standard by which we judge it , and it is
for her will ever take me by surprize .
“yes , entirely .
collins’s triumph , in consequence of this invitation , was complete .
from sidmouth .
my being saved from pain is a very secondary consideration .
” after a short pause , catherine resumed with , “then you do not believe isabella so very much attached
of his thoughts .
—let him but continue the same mr .
the shrubbery without passing another , i thought it would be only ask and have , and was rather grieved
vain for her friend to begin ; “well , miss woodhouse , (with a gentle sigh , ) what do
fanny ' s heart was not absolutely the only saddened one amongst them , as she soon began to acknowledge
but still she had inclination enough for shewing people again how delightfully mr .
the room they were in to see what it could be made to hold—and then in taking the dimensions of
chapter xxxv edmund had determined that it belonged entirely to fanny to chuse whether her situation with regard to crawford
i know he did .
first , as being the means of bringing persons of obscure birth into undue distinction , and raising men to
i tell every body of it and so does charlotte .
but i could not reason so to a man in love , and was willing to trust to there being
that we have walked a mile in it , i must speak within compass .
mary for even half an hour , having spent scarcely twenty-four hours in london , after his return from norfolk
” “and i have two or three ideas also , ” said edmund , “and one of them is ,
going further down for a little while , but however , when they come back , they ' d make
by this time were , in fortune and style of living , second only to the family at hartfield .
she went to bed at last with nothing settled but the conviction of her having blundered most dreadfully .
have hopes ; and these reflections having passed across his mind and cheered it , “well , ” said he
and remember that , if you are ever so forward and clever yourselves , you should always be modest ;
there is still a great deal to be done .
i do not want to say more than is necessary—i am too much ashamed of having given way as i
offer of revealing it— .
in town , she will be very able to give me .
he was in orders ; and having a curacy in the neighbourhood , where residence was not required , lived
observed , " once at tattersall ' s , and twice in the lobby of the house of commons .
when anderson first introduced me to his family , about two years ago , his sister was not out ,
my hand to lady dorothea .
" " months !
the very want of such equality might prevent his perception of it ; but he must know that in fortune
i shall be surprised at least if you ever received a hint of it , for i never did .
being room for a third in the carriage , and suddenly seized with a strong inclination to go with them
darcy has not made him just to you !
“for wishing fanny not to be of the party , but as it relates to yourself , to your own
" " to confess the truth , " said mrs smith , assuming her usual air of cheerfulness , "
“you will not be able to go , my dear .
enough ready to speak to allow emma to think her own way , and still listen to mrs .
gray ' s shop .
wingfield told me that he has never known them more general or heavy—except when it has been quite an influenza
however , i shall always think it a very pleasant party , and feel extremely obliged to the kind friends
turned to him and said : “did you not think , mr .
henry , which i thought very pretty of her .
willoughby , or making the slightest allusion to what has passed , before my sister .
and then in reality , it became henceforth her prime object of interest ; and during the ten days of
read and improve himself by such an example as hers , he might become a very agreeable companion .
crescent , she almost ran over the remaining ground till she gained the top of milsom street .
norris , with a smile ; “but depend upon it , sotherton will have every improvement in time which his
as a friend of mine , of my family , he may , perhaps—indeed i know he has , still
i only name possibilities .
to the expected child , she could not conceal how important she felt they might be to the future maintenance
heard much ; but he saw only the father .
” elizabeth looked at darcy to see how cordially he assented to his cousin’s praise ; but neither at that
edward ' s taking orders for the sake of two hundred and fifty at the utmost ; nor was anything
sisters went to school again .
long told me last night that he sat close to her for half-an-hour without once opening his lips .
one likes to get out into a shrubbery in fine weather .
it would not be likely to produce that dejection of mind which frequently attended him .
she took the letters as he gave them .
it must be an amusing study .
every bitter reproach and sorrowful regret that had ever surrounded it .
it for all the world .
in a few days more we may gain some news of them ; and till we know that they are
a decision within a very short time , as soon as the variety of business before him were arranged ,
sir—the faster , probably , from your having so often encouraged the sort of thing in us formerly .
reynolds replied that he was , adding , “but we expect him to-morrow , with a large party of friends
it was no insignificant barrier , indeed .
were , she would represent in the strongest manner to her mother the necessity of some serious enquiry into the
” “i thought you would be struck .
by the bustle of mrs .
you can place dependence , or whose counsel , in any difficulty , you could rely on .
be severe on them ?
to such feelings delay , even the delay of much preparation , would have been an evil , and mr
half later than we were desired to be there ; but lady greville is too fashionable (or fancies herself to
she was entreated to give them as much of her time as possible , invited for every day and all
but to be candid without ostentation or design—to take the good of everybody’s character and make it still better ,
with their wealth , their views increased ; their want of a larger house , their inclination for more company
” which instantly burst forth , had all the evidence of corresponding perturbation .
the tone , the look , with which " thank god !
i sat there an hour one morning waiting for anderson , with only her and a little girl or two
he had just parted from my sister , had seen her leave him in the greatest affliction ; and if
for myself , it is nothing ; i never think of myself .
price never wrote to her family on the subject till actually married .
i will not finish my letter till some of our visitors are arrived .
knightley marry !
it was her dieing advice to her afflicted laura , who has ever most faithfully adhered to it .
room , almost before mrs musgrove was aware of his being in it : the work of an instant !
elton declared she would not let him off , he did not ; —but my mother , and jane ,
their first object was her sister ; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear , in reply to
so pointedly excluded .
brother , because he is my brother , and who perhaps after all , you know , might be just
what can be done ?
she went on , began to talk of you ; yes , then she began to talk of you ,
no , mary , you are quite mistaken .
gentle adieus of her sisters were uttered without being heard .
she answered with equal indifference and brevity , and the other said no more .
to miss tilney she could not be at ease ; and quickening her pace when she got clear of the
i shall be at mansfield for ever , fanny .
that reply will do for the present .
considered , a day in the middle of november would not leave much time for seeing a new place ,
the attachment must be reciprocal .
in general , as he must feel himself to be to mrs .
elton ' s manners are superior to mr .
him !
” “the present always occupies you in such scenes—does it ?
; beware of the unmeaning luxuries of bath and of the stinking fish of southampton .
dashwood , persuaded that such an excursion would be productive of much amusement to both her daughters , and perceiving
and proclaim the value of the connection , as he had formerly taken pains to shew neglect .
knightley always at hand , when he were once got used to the idea .
she trembled , her eyes were fixed on the ground , and her lips became whiter than even sickness had
i am particularly glad to see and shake hands with you—and to give you joy in person .
poor woman , who would have thought it !
of being so ; darkened , yet fancying itself light .
—she does seem a charming young woman , just what he deserves .
" i must go , uncertain of my fate ; but i shall return hither , or follow your party
xxii lady susan to mrs .
and the more sensibility you betray of their just horrors , the more i shall like you .
she did not believe they had yet rehearsed it , even in private .
weston had accompanied her to mrs .
are your sisters coming ?
most estimable , and endeared acquaintance , and so lost the woman whom he had rationally as well as passionately
all this may be stamped on it ; and that house receive such an air as to make its owner
if she heard me , it was by good luck , for i am sure she did not listen .
year , and intend to close it with a call at the parsonage .
is that they should be firm .
” “those who are showing the world what female manners should be , ” said mr .
she must not appear at first .
no , i am sure you are a great deal too kind to—but if you would just advise me what
your family : and so , if sir thomas should ever speak again about my taking fanny , you will
, " oh !
his father only called him a coxcomb , and thought it a very good story ; but that mrs .
; a room in all probability never entered by him since the dreadful scene had passed , which released his
weston , like a sweet-tempered woman and a good wife , had examined the passage again , and found the
only want her to look kindly on me , to give me smiles as well as blushes , to keep
you need not .
she had pledged herself anew to sotherton ; that she was safe from the possibility of giving crawford the triumph
an air of foppery and nonsense in it which she could not approve .
your being so far unlike , fanny , does not in the smallest degree make against the probability of your
” “and a very pretty story it is , and with more truth in it , i dare say ,
yours affectionately , " mary m--- .
they retired whispering together ; and , though her delicate sensibility did not take immediate alarm , and lay it
he thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motives his cousin could refuse him ; and though his
” “but i do not want any such pursuit to get me out of doors .
them , and nobody suspect it !
was greatly affected when we were first informed of the event .
” “as far as i have had opportunity of judging , it appears to me that the usual style of
” “and am i never to live here again ?
one does not like to see a girl of eighteen or nineteen so immediately up to every thing—and perhaps when
our party will be lady lesley , matilda , fitzgerald , sir james gower , and myself .
pass mr .
intelligible sentence by captain harville .
“i am very glad to hear such a good account of her , ” said lady catherine ; “and pray
account brought her situation forward in a more decided but very different form .
there was also a legacy of one thousand pounds .
and poor mr .
there was a communication before her , one which she only could be competent to make—the confession of her engagement
although in one instance the bearers of not good tidings , mr .
but if you want to shew him any attention , my dear , ask him to come and dine with
i knew the name , the place , i knew all about it , and instantly saw what she had
ceremony of leave-taking was performed when the ladies moved for the night ; and mrs .
, for many words ; and having shaken hands with edmund , meant to try to lose the disagreeable impression
the elder miss bennets alone were still able to eat , drink , and sleep , and pursue the usual
getting quite impatient , she resolved to go in search of them .
from a reverie of this kind she was recalled at the end of some minutes by willoughby , who ,
the reproof of an immediate conclusion of everything , the sweep of every preparation , would be sufficient .
you were mistaken , my dear alicia , in supposing me fixed at this place for the rest of the
now , however , we must wish you and mrs .
" " no , that was what i dreaded .
would have felt them in abundance : but something must be instantly written ; and with only one decided feeling
certain of a willing listener in jane , whenever she might wish to talk again of either .
he was a married man , and without children ; the very state to be wished for .
hand and tried to turn it ; but it resisted her utmost strength .
but i believe” (seeing fanny looked distressed) “it must be at some other time .
, than for her best and oldest friends , with being grown cold and indifferent , in short , towards
he believed it fully .
i thank you for your patience , fanny .
so much was pretty soon understood ; but till sir walter and elizabeth were walking mary into the other drawing-room
' she tried to speak carelessly , but she was not so careless as she wanted to appear .
at last it was all settled , even to the destination of the parcel .
” when she had spoken it , she recollected herself , and wished it unsaid ; but there was no
they began their walk , and mrs .
this was towards the close of their walk .
fixed—from seeing sir thomas ' s dark brow contract as he looked with inquiring earnestness at his daughters and edmund
has long been formed .
of his daughter’s being most comfortably settled , and of her possessing such a husband and such a neighbour as
we dine at rosings twice every week , and are never allowed to walk home .
bennet and kitty , though she was perfectly unknown to them , even inferior to what elizabeth felt .
from a variety of causes she was happy , and she was soon made still happier ; for in following
, and placing his whole happiness in being on intimate terms in camden place .
yes , there was something in that ; i told you so from the first , you may remember .
weston to invite her to an airing ; she had drawn back and declined at first , but , on
good sense , like hers , will always act when really called upon ; and she found that she had
a young man , such as you describe mr .
been at home , you would not have been asked at all .
another moment and fanny was in the narrow entrance-passage of the house , and in her mother ' s arms
i do not know what it is all about .
“there goes good-humour , i am sure , ” said he presently .
jane , i take your place now , and you must go lower , because i am a married woman
if you remember any queernesses , set them all to the right account .
you do not suppose that i have ever felt much .
louisa seemed the principal arranger of the plan ; and , as she went a little way with them ,
“he trifles here , ” said he , “as to the temptation .
he had no idea of me .
she was not in a humour , however , to regard it as an affront , and affecting to take
” “what shall you do !
the lane , and so into the park , and make towards the spot where she stood .
—well , i could not have thought it—and he was but two years old when he lost his poor mother
sweet wood ; but the next time we come to a seat , if it is not disagreeable to you
well , pretty good news , is not it ?
an estate of at least equal value , moreover , was assured as his future inheritance .
morland were aware of the pleasure it was to her to have her there , they would be too generous
whip .
spirit , and brilliancy ; and anne an extremely pretty girl , with gentleness , modesty , taste , and
elizabeth was determined ; nor did sir william at all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion .
and have a pleasant drive home by moonlight .
hour ; she could not but feel that it was treating her improperly and unworthily , and in such a
been a little the case , and very naturally ; for we only knew that mrs .
i would not trust you so near it as eastbourne for fifty pounds !
i hardly looked at him , i was looking at the horses ; but i think he had something of
of her family ; and as she considered that jane’s disappointment had in fact been the work of her nearest
frank churchill seemed to have been on the watch ; and though he did not say much , his eyes
too well of her .
you know james benwick .
” from this moment there was a return of his former jealousy , which maria , from increasing hopes of
but she was not wanted to speak .
it was also a very early speculation with emma .
—a most dangerous precedent indeed !
officers had dined lately with their uncle , a private had been flogged , and it had actually been hinted
he begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter , of which , it seems , he
, to leave mr .
to be married— .
opposite feelings , irritated by catherine ' s refusal , and yet more by the failure of a very recent
their hours were therefore made over to lady middleton and the two miss steeles , by whom their company ,
crawford driving his sisters ; and as everybody was ready , there was nothing to be done but for mrs
” “and when is miss fairfax to leave you ?
had he been even old , ugly , and vulgar , the gratitude and kindness of mrs .
of kindness , if you decline the office , i will take it on myself .
is nothing in the world in it but an old man ' s playing at see-saw and learning latin ;
put to the trial—eleanor brought no message .
" " i have been a good deal acquainted with him , " replied mrs smith , gravely , "
it is as pretty a letter as ever i saw , and does lucy ' s head and heart great
at last , after various attempts at meeting , i have seen your cousins , ' dear julia and dearest
, there was still less to be learnt—for her letters to kitty , though rather longer , were much too
, to do one good .
at last the scene was over , and fanny forced herself to add her praise to the compliments each was
this was accordingly done , mr .
darcy with a very expressive smile .
) upon my word , perry has restored her in a wonderful short time !
with only him and marianne , had had opportunity for observations , which , with a most important face ,
is forwarder than either of us , for she went up stairs half an hour ago .
the female world at least , must feel with lady bertram that she was out of luck in having such
you that a woman of seven and twenty could feel for a man of thirty-five anything near enough to love
i cannot think what rebecca has been about .
at length , after a short pause , miss crawford began with , “so you are to be a clergyman
—her conscience , her sensitive conscience , would have felt all that the conscience of her husband ought to have
did ; but at last the misery of her situation , for she experienced great unkindness , overcame all her
possibility of the rehearsal being renewed after tea , when the bustle of receiving sir thomas were over , and
) “it does indeed .
why do you require particulars ?
the trouble of gathering .
her married immediately .
than they burst forth in torrents .
that he should have realised any thing yet .
affection could bestow ; and she felt capable , under such circumstances , of endeavouring even to like bingley’s two
baked apple for her , and trying to make her help or advise him in his work , till jane
this was a stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared ; and she could hardly suppress a smile
her ; but the first day ' s journey passed without her hearing a word from him on the subjects
i wish he were more likely to fix .
that louisa must remain where she was , however distressing to her friends to be involving the harvilles in such
chapter _num_ mr shepherd , a civil , cautious lawyer , who , whatever might be his hold or his
and call on mr .
must be a mind to be properly guided .
were not inviting .
i thought i should have fainted .
to your fine mind , i well know the sight of beauty is a real gratification .
effort , felt but not boasted of , he delayed for a week or two longer a journey which he
he is fastidious and will have an affectation of his own .
elizabeth arm in arm with miss carteret , and looking on the broad back of the dowager viscountess dalrymple before
of the quarter of an hour bestowed on berkeley street , she sat at least seven minutes and a half
it is impossible to say when i shall be able to come to you ; my confinement must be great
both on mrs .
and the next moment she was hating herself for the folly which asked the question .
if you had only sent him to westminster as well as myself , instead of sending him to mr .
in her own past behaviour , there was a constant source of vexation and regret ; and in the unhappy
when first sounded on the subject , he was so miserable , that they were almost hopeless .
could you do it ?
susan had read nothing , and fanny longed to give her a share in her own first pleasures , and
invitation for her to brunswick square .
but whether he were entirely free from peculiar attachment—whether there were no actual preference—remained a little longer doubtful .
in a short time elinor saw willoughby quit the room by the door towards the staircase , and telling marianne
” “indeed , i am very sorry to be right in this instance .
she started no difficulties that were not talked down in five minutes by her eldest nephew and niece , who
it taught him that he had been scarcely more misled by thorpe ' s first boast of the family wealth
grant laughingly congratulated miss crawford on feeling no disinclination to the state herself .
a late dinner here , or dine at sotherton , just as might be most agreeable to your mother ,
isabella .
attention can prevent it .
might do any thing .
without losing a moment of the time so precious ; but as she reached the door it was opened by
one .
elinor wanted very much to know , though she did not choose to ask , whether edward was then in
qualities ; and—” “good god !
elton , and mr .
look and say on such an occasion .
” edmund spoke of the harp as his favourite instrument , and hoped to be soon allowed to hear her
very little leisure was ever given for a general chat , and none at all for particular discourse .
resent the behaviour of your daughter .
; and fanny , on its being first proposed , so far from feeling slighted , was almost over-powered with
ferrars , by the simple expedient of asking it , which , at lucy ' s instigation , was adopted
thorpe , ” she impatiently cried ; “it is miss tilney ; it is indeed .
she had too much reason to suppose , was at the parsonage ; and left alone to bear the worrying
it was no remedy for the absence of mrs .
elizabeth instantly read her feelings , and at that moment solicitude for wickham , resentment against his enemies , and
i know no harm of him ; i do not suspect him of pride .
she sat an hour with me on monday evening , and gave me the whole history .
these were the circumstances and the hopes which gradually brought their alleviation to sir thomas , deadening his sense of
lady russell than in this selection of mrs clay ; turning from the society of so deserving a sister ,
i must buy something at ford ' s .
” cried julia , and running to where he stood with miss crawford and fanny : “my dear edmund ,
it ; he said nothing , however , or nothing that she heard , and when he had left the
succeeding at last .
—frank churchill would return among them no more ; and miss fairfax , it was reasonable to suppose , would
of elinor ' s company , or suffice to say half that was to be said of the past ,
she had business that morning , to which mrs .
, and they set off for the town , charles taking care of his sister , and captain benwick attending
occupation enough : she had feelings for the tender , spirits for the gay , attention for the scientific ,
he took the opposite chair , and for half a minute not a word was said by either .
, by uniting the unfortunate victim of her father ' s cruelty to the execrable and detested graham .
but as for the esteem of the others , it is a reproach in itself .
, and seeing her through all the petty difficulties of the case with the activity and exertion of a fearless
robert martin .
" the crofts took possession with true naval alertness , and were to be visited .
” cried miss crawford with alacrity .
elton , his manners did not appear—but no , she would not permit a hasty or a witty word from
darcy had considerable patronage in the church , and his cousin could have none at all .
father when he offered to read it to me , by which means he became acquainted , to my great
but any indisposition sunk her completely .
your journey , or else i would have got something ready .
" i think , edward , " said mrs .
” on another , “and after all , five couple are not enough to make it worth while to stand
“it has only been to throw a little money into their pockets (continued augusta) that my father has always travelled
but it is unnecessary here .
this proves that he can leave the churchills .
they came while we were at tea , and i never saw any creature look so frightened as frederica when
or allow their names to be mentioned in your hearing .
difficulty in overcoming it after this explanation .
it does happen very often , i assure you ; but my sister makes nothing of it ; she would
” “miss morland , i think very highly of the understanding of all the women in the world—especially of those—whoever
in a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and unvarying society .
do not turn away from me .
that was like himself .
” after a moment ' s reflection , mr .
you how little i was satisfied with her behaviour while she staid with us , if i had not perceived
we perfectly understand the present vexation ; and everybody must love you the better for such a noble honest affection
of life .
stupor .
but this is idle talking !
regret that mrs clay should still be with them , anne would have been ashamed to have it known how
macduffs) we are neither dull nor unhappy ; on the contrary there never were two more lively , more agreable
chapter xii mr .
hope i foresee two objections : two fair , excellent , irresistible objections to that plan .
how she had looked before , fanny could not recollect , for she had been dancing with edmund herself ,
had believed possible .
she was the last , excepting the little boys at the cottage , she was the very last , the
anne , remembering the preconcerted visits , at all hours , of mr elliot , would have expected him ,
catherine wished to congratulate him , but knew not what to say , and her eloquence was only in her
of myself than i can bear .
was not it mrs speed , as usual , or the maid ?
while captains wentworth and harville led the talk on one side of the room , and by recurring to former
she met with nothing , however , to distress or frighten her .
are dreadful .
mary , resenting that she should be supposed not to know her own cousin , began talking very warmly about
“there is nothing to be compared to it .
elton had learned from the ostler on the subject , being the accumulation of the ostler ' s own knowledge
like to do yourselves .
accordingly i entered and whilst the rest of the party were devouring green tea and buttered toast , we feasted
and on the puppyism of his manner in deciding on all the different horrors of the different toothpick-cases presented to
her returning power , and a discreet resolution of not trusting himself with her long .
(cried i) how canst thou thus undauntedly endeavour to sully the spotless reputation of such bright excellence ?
returned !
a little while ago , every letter to isabella brought an account of fresh gaieties ; dinners at mr .
she was quite convinced of mr .
as orange as the cuffs and capes of my livery .
that lady russell , of steady age and character , and extremely well provided for , should have no thought
but he is a liberal master , i suppose , and that in the eye of a servant comprehends every
period of existence , with every probability of greater happiness than in any yet passed through .
her spirits were low .
, it appeared that each lady dated her intelligence from the same hour of yestermorn ; that captain wentworth had
“there is no good in this delay , ” said she .
dashwood , attributing it to some want of liberality in his mother , sat down to table indignant against all
my sister , i am sure , will not hear of her removal .
but she is really quite the gentlewoman .
as for the gentleman himself , his feelings were chiefly expressed , not by embarrassment or dejection , or by
near the canopus ?
she proclaimed her thoughts .
—i felt for your dear father very much in the storm of tuesday afternoon and yesterday morning , but had
" elinor heard all this with attention and surprise .
she was reading a sermon .
will you promise me to mention it , when you see them again ?
captain wentworth was acknowledged again by each , by elizabeth more graciously than before .
what an immense time mrs clay has been staying with elizabeth !
came running to her with a smiling face , and in a flutter of spirits , which miss woodhouse hoped
elton must now be left to himself .
their brother to town directly , and of their meaning to dine in grosvenor street , where mr .
sincerely , is , that i approve your choice from my soul , and foresee your happiness as heartily as
” said she ; “but you seem to have behaved extremely well ; and it is over—and may never—can never
it would be hard , indeed " (with a faltering voice) , " if woman ' s feelings were to
be always at the mercy of chance , ) who will suffer an unfortunate acquaintance to be an inconvenience ,
man , and she regarded him with respect and compassion .
" said edward , willing to say any thing that might introduce another subject .
be with the servants at her pleasure , and then encouraged to report any evil of them , she was
for the first twelvemonth , no one could be happier than lesley , and no one more amiable to appearance
ask questions , to speak more openly than might have been strictly correct .
clarke .
i knew what you were going to say .
wait on her at pemberley the following morning .
the lady could not but yield to such joint entreaties , and promise to stay .
weston is such a good-humoured , pleasant , excellent man , that he thoroughly deserves a good wife ; —and
she was not pleased to see julia excluded from the play , and sitting by disregarded ; but as it
knightley should really—if he does not mind the disparity , i hope , dear miss woodhouse , you will not
is not extinguished) one part of the hanging more violently agitated than the rest .
state of marianne ' s mind not only prevented her from remaining in the room a moment after she was
happiness—and added some gentle counsel as to the behaviour most likely to promote it .
you have been at the upper rooms , the theatre , and the concert ; and how you like the
principle enough to make them merciful or just , to give them honour or compassion .
what shall we do with him ?
norris , about the supper hour , were all for the sake of securing her at that part of the
rushworth ' s ever attaining to the knowledge of his two-and-forty speeches became much less .
by mr .
understand that whatever she possessed was designed for their family , he soon grew reconciled to a distinction which ,
than any other three beings ever were , mrs .
ferrars ' s creation , preserved her from all dependence upon her caprice , or any solicitude for her good
in the meanwhile the lame horse recovered so fast , that the party to box hill was again under happy
her economical practices ; pursuing her own interest in every thought , courting the favour of colonel brandon , of
but in what proportions it should be divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents .
bingley by a housemaid , and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his sisters .
he sat by her at dinner .
anne had always felt that she would pretend what was proper on her arrival , but the complaisance of the
she spent whole hours at the pianoforte alternately singing and crying ; her voice often totally suspended by her tears
how cold , how composed were their last adieus !
grant ' s part of the favour , that fanny , who found herself expected to speak , could only
entertainment of seven silent people .
since rivalry between the sisters had ceased , they had been gradually recovering much of their former good understanding ;
woodhouse was almost as glad to see him now , as he would have been sorry to see him before
in love with each other from the first moment they met ?
short sentence when there was least danger of its being heard .
willoughby however is the only person who can have a right to show that house ; and as he went
he had not seen me then above twice , for it was before i left school .
miss bingley saw , or suspected enough to be jealous ; and her great anxiety for the recovery of her
everybody said how well she looked ; and mr .
he wrote in april , and had strong hopes of settling everything to his entire satisfaction , and leaving antigua
from the drawing-room they could distinguish nothing in the lane , and were indebted to mr .
spot ceased to raise the violent emotion which it produced[ _num_ ] for a while ; for when her spirits
he caught her .
she is the most beautiful creature i ever beheld !
“what felicity it is to hear a tune again which has made one happy !
and when we do return , it shall not be like other travellers , without being able to give one
it was foolish , it was wrong , to take so active a part in bringing any two people together
this is quite the season indeed for friendly meetings .
though i have no younger sister , i feel for her .
clear afternoon .
and this , as she was exceedingly rapid in the performance of everything that interested her , was soon done
if i had ever learnt , i should have been a great proficient .
was suffering under the cold and unfeeling behaviour of her nearer connections .
“when fanny is known to him , ” continued henry , “he will doat on her .
in exchange for the uncertain and unequal amusements of this vaunted city .
—but as soon as she (miss woodhouse) appeared likely to join them , he changed the subject , and began
his absence was unnecessarily long .
they are more to be despised and pitied than blamed for it , especially if they cannot help it ,
that unlucky visit to langford !
at her age she can have no experience , and with her little wit , is not very likely ever
” such expressions , assisted as they were by every thing that look and manner could do , made emma
miss tilney added her own wishes .
to talk with easy gaiety of the delightful melancholy which such a grove inspired .
” “my report from mrs .
herself beyond betraying it .
grant ?
come , my dear emma , let us be friends , and say no more about it .
" mary ' s declaration was , " i hate sending the children to the great house , though their
" but mr elliot was not done with .
to her mother’s rapacity for whist players , and in a few moments after seated with the rest of the
it must be willoughby therefore whom you suspect .
on his two younger sisters he then bestowed an equal portion of his fraternal tenderness , for he asked each
“they are going to be encamped near brighton ; and i do so want papa to take us all there
rushworth was quite ready to retire , and make way for the fortunate young woman whom her dear son had
he had a great attachment to mansfield himself ; he said so ; he looked forward with the hope of
grant would enjoy it on sunday after the fatigues of the day , will not keep beyond to-morrow .
his affection had already done something .
it must be my uncle’s doings !
william was often called on by his uncle to be the talker .
to contribute , he wished to engage them for both .
“no , no , it is not .
perhaps , instead of his seeing too little , she might have fancied too much .
decidedly , i think , a very gentleman-like man .
and mr elliot so anxious that he should !
her with lavender water .
and therefore readily postponed seeing him till after the departure of the former .
her anxiously .
the east indies the climate is hot , and the mosquitoes are troublesome .
i have met him forever at the bedford ; and i knew his face again today the moment he came
the rest of the evening she found very dull ; mr .
it was the air and attitude of a montoni !
” “how is it possible ?
to their confined society in surry ; the pleasure of looking at somebody new ; the gala-day to highbury entire
her own family ; and the nearness of sotherton to mansfield must naturally hold out the greatest temptation , and
and then the brother , he , who had appeared so attached to you !
emma hoped it must rapidly work harriet ' s cure ; but the sensations which could prompt such behaviour sunk
we hastened to london and had the good luck to spend it in _num_ weeks and a day which was
” “if you are afraid of half a dozen speeches , ” cried mr .
meet him accidentally in the lane .
” then turning to mr .
not exactly true , for she was perfectly well , and harriet not much otherwise , emma would not interfere
they all waited in silence for the appearance of their visitor .
did not know that i was to find a pretty young woman in mrs .
he does it every spring .
, to inform us that she was gone off to scotland with one of his officers ; to own the
its probability and its eligibility have really so equalled each other !
—my behaviour to miss woodhouse indicated , i believe , more than it ought .
, you have not been to donwell !
arrival , that they were honoured by such an attention , and then they were merely asked on leaving church
all these jealousies and discontents , however , were so totally unsuspected by mrs .
at last , it became necessary to speak of her .
anne had the whole history of all that such an evening could supply from lady russell .
aside the _num_ , _num_ l .
his complaisance—for who would object to such a partner ?
her own , and which recommended him to her affection beyond every thing else .
adieu , my dear mother .
“well done , mrs .
that is the key to a great deal of capacity .
i hope it does him some service with you .
but gracious me !
jennings , that they should both attend her on such a visit , elinor had some difficulty in persuading her
principally played .
hour elinor frequently found her agreeable ; but her powers had received[ _num_ ] no aid from education : she
norris ' s death , she became a welcome , an invited guest , and in the gloom and dirt
he knows it to be so , by his promises and messages ; but if he wished to do it
vernon persevered , however , in the offer of it , and though lady susan continued to resist , her
suppose he will hardly ever recover it .
she would rather busy herself about any thing than speak .
—i must see what i can give them towards furnishing their house .
, wrote to recommend sir thomas ' s coming to london himself , and using his influence with his daughter
“dear mama , only think , my cousin cannot put the map of europe together—or my cousin cannot tell the
the worst , there is no occasion to look on it as certain .
sure he must be an excellent good-hearted man .
a pretty good day ' s amusement you have had !
perry has been with her , as you probably heard .
unfavourable opinion of his head and heart .
proceed to say that , thank god !
” while she talked of his son , mr .
” “i should hope not ; but really when i look around among my acquaintance , i tremble .
it was settled that they should go to box hill .
why does not perry see her ?
hughes directly behind her , attended by miss tilney and a gentleman .
enjoy .
if a separation of two months should not have cooled him , there were dangers and evils before her :
—i wish i had attended to it—but—(with a sinking voice and a heavy sigh) i seem to have been doomed
the continuance of their engagement , and the means that were able to be taken for promoting its end ,
her ladyship ' s carriage was a barouche , and did not hold more than four with any comfort .
knightley , nearly at the same time ; “you are not often deficient ; not often deficient either in manner
with greater ease .
that is pleasant !
this compliment , delightful as it was , produced severe mortification to the lady ; and in giving her denial
have been for fifteen sonnets in celebration of her charms , and went to her chair in good humour with
the mischief such a man does on an estate , both as to the credit of his employer and the
“you had better order the carriage directly , my love , ” said she ; “i dare say we shall
it puts him quite out of heart .
idea gave way to the charm of recollection ; and she was too much engaged in pointing out to her
edward was the first to speak , and it was to notice marianne ' s altered looks , and express
greatly inferior to our friend at langford .
it was a pity that she had not come back earlier !
excuse me , for i must speak plainly .
" good god !
his return from portsmouth , he might have been deciding his own happy destiny .
his name , he replied , was willoughby , and his present home was at allenham , from whence he
at home ; ” they had both been out some time ; the man believed they were gone to hartfield
when he mentioned it , and led the way to her fond exclamations in praise of its beauties and comforts
, by a merciful appointment , it seems designed to counterbalance almost every other want .
man and a determined friend , fully requited the services which she had rendered , or ever meant to render
knightley , i wish you had the benefit of this ; i think this would convince you .
he has legally hired , without raising all this speculation !
the children , two girls of six and eight years old , and two younger boys , were to be
her way was clear , though not quite smooth .
bennet , have you no more lanes hereabouts in which lizzy may lose her way again to-day ?
you think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly .
“but if that is the case , you must write to your mother and beg that you may stay a
common rate of social intercourse , and those to whom it was important .
for better , for worse .
whom his attentions were addressed would draw down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of netherfield and rosings
they were rapidly forming words for each other , or for any body else who would be puzzled .
father ' s .
little contentment as she received from introductions either to old or new acquaintance .
an inconvenience ; but as they do not chuse to hear your advice at that table” (looking round) , “it
thank you , thank you .
” “pray tell your sister that i long to see her .
driving into oxford , last term : ' ah !
” emma could not forgive her .
but , in such a cause , his anger , though it must shock , could not intimidate henry ,
to stay at home , i think miss crawford would be glad to have her a longer time—for a whole
habits ; that in living constantly with her father , and in no house of his own , there would
but so little interest had he taken in the matter , that he owed all his knowledge of the house
“she should take her time ; she should not hurry herself ; she did not care if she were the
with reginald .
it is done in the fewest possible words .
or accomplishments .
if he had another motive , i am sure it would never disgrace him .
considerately informing her , at the same time , that they were done by miss dashwood .
him directly in london .
” “he is a sweet-tempered , amiable , charming man .
” “i always told you she was—a little ; but you will soon overcome all that part of her reserve
sought , was a cruel necessity .
; but now the campbells had promised their daughter to stay at least till midsummer , and fresh invitations had
and all for the sake of mr .
” “i am no longer surprised at your knowing only six accomplished women .
” jane and elizabeth looked at each other , and the waiter was told he need not stay .
beyond my power to describe .
elton ' s importance with her !
“ ' tis twelve ; i shall not forget to think of you four hours hence ; and by this
” the effect was immediate .
they could not get through ; and as miss bertram ' s inclination for so doing did by no means
a circumstance rather unlucky occurred .
" —for some moments her voice was lost ; but recovering herself , she added , and with greater calmness
—i thought you cleverer—for , depend upon it a lucky guess is never merely luck .
had he said any thing to bear a different construction , i should not have believed him .
elton , who only wanted to be talking herself .
much about him , that perhaps she may not live long .
i think she would be so much pleased with his mind , that she would very soon see no deficiency
your sister-in-law ' s brother , miss [ _num_ ]dashwood ?
elton was to take the drawing to london , chuse the frame , and give the directions ; and emma
nay , nay , i entreat you ; for one moment put down your work .
another hour or two ' s snow can hardly make the road impassable ; and we are two carriages ;
, servants , and furniture , was continually in agitation around her .
about this time the two miss steeles , lately arrived at their cousin ' s house in bartlett ' s
alteration in his behaviour to me when we met , or any lowness of spirits that i could not account
dixon , which she had so naturally started to herself .
they had their great cousins , to be sure , to resort to for comfort ; but they must long
as your cousin fancies .
she plays , sings and dances , but has no taste for either , and excells in none , tho
and leave him at liberty to exert his most open powers of pleasing .
nothing could be more grateful to her ; and she was on the point of giving him an approving look
this gentleman ' s letters to his mother-in-law a few months ago , emma , it would not have been
" marianne sighed , and repeated , " i wish for no change .
james had protested against writing to her till his return to oxford ; and mrs .
but in sorrow she must be equally carried away by her fancy , and as far beyond consolation as in
, and concluding with the arms and motto : -- " principal seat , kellynch hall , in the county
and as i come back , i can call on lady lucas and mrs .
“this sensation of listlessness , weariness , stupidity , this disinclination to sit down and employ myself , this feeling
perhaps the most agreeable of any .
, for although scarcely settled in town , sir john had contrived to collect around him , nearly twenty young
certainly not too tall ; not in the least too tall .
complaisance or particular gratitude which you had hitherto been left to discharge alone ?
i suppose you intend to make your fortune to night— .
i have read worse charades .
weston had thought differently ; he was extremely anxious to shew his approbation to miss fairfax and her family ,
either mr .
to find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate !
i know him well .
you must , indeed , you must .
i tell mr .
" " you are mistaken , " said he gently , " that is not good company ; that is
she would hesitate , she would tease , she would condition , she would require a great deal , but
waiving that point , however , and supposing her to be , as you describe her , only pretty and
unconsciously closed his book .
” “my dear harriet , i perfectly remember the substance of what i said on the occasion .
(nodding significantly and pointing to her daughter) it was wrong in her situation .
one day ; “every time i come into this shrubbery i am more struck with its growth and beauty .
must find it out .
first ; and i make so light of it now to her , that she does not think much about
this deeper anxiety swallowed them up .
any run on the road ; and his companions had not expected to be detained by any interest excited there
ferrars ?
" it was a lucky recollection , all her good spirits were restored by it .
i wonder whether it is so .
” “no , upon no account in the world , mr .
together again ; so , with smiles of most exquisite misery , and the laughing eye of utter despondency ,
—to any thing , every thing—to time , chance , circumstance , slow effects , sudden bursts , perseverance and
, because i had not depended upon her seeing everything in so just a light .
he seemed resolved that it should not interest him , determined against its exciting any present curiosity , or affording
suddenly struck , this very day , with a recollection of the name of wentworth , as connected with her
crawford to william , stating that as he found himself obliged to go to london on the morrow for a
the feelings of two thirds of her auditors , and was so very unexhilarating to edward , that he very
from the first he treated her unkindly .
he joined her within five minutes after julia ' s exit ; and though she made the best of the
with this inspiriting notion , her questions increased in number and meaning ; and she particularly led harriet to talk
of suffolk , by whom she had one daughter , afterwards the mother of lady jane grey , who tho
and so late !
with her friend .
i am well aware that nothing else will quiet tom .
in their business , are gadding about the village , all day long .
why was miss tilney embarrassed ?
it was a stab , in spite of every long-standing expectation ; and she was obliged to repeat again and
” elizabeth replied that it was .
yours faithfully , alicia .
what will your father and mother say !
you must be a great deal too happy to care for uppercross , which , as you well know ,
' s mother , i do acknowledge thee as the daughter of the one and the grandaughter of the other
feeling himself ill used by so forced a relinquishment .
never have given the idea of her being younger than she was .
” “you can have no reason , i imagine , madam , ” said he , addressing his mother ,
she played over every favourite song that she had been used to play to willoughby , every air in which
” “well , ” cried elizabeth , “have it as you choose .
from aunt norris ; and was so provided with happiness , so strong in that best of blessings , an
home directly—i would not have you out in a shower !
" [ _num_ ] " ah !
he omitted no opportunity of being with them , threw himself in their way , called at all hours ;
yet , how strong the impression that only a few weeks will give !
weston ' s care .
if you have no work of your own , i can supply you from the poor basket .
a question , it might be strange that he should feel so uncomfortable in the present case as he really
than her being rather tanned , no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer .
a short time , on the answer it would be most proper to give .
—he had used every body ill—and they are all delighted to forgive him .
give my love to colonel forster .
he had a great regard for mrs .
colonel brandon , unfortunately for himself , had no such encouragement to think only of marianne , and in conversing
with which he had endeavoured to soften it , and they always conversed with confidence .
that those wishes , however openly or artfully spoken , could influence a young man so totally independent of everyone
point of anne ' s conduct , for the subject was never alluded to ; but anne , at seven-and-twenty
world to think ill of ?
thorpe !
yourself ?
after staying there a couple of nights , he was to proceed on his journey to town .
—did you see nothing but only civility ?
to make a memorandum in his pocket-book ; it was about spruce-beer .
indeed i must say that , much as i had heard of him before and much as i had expected
was so struck with the circumstance , so delighted with what miss crawford had done , so gratified by such
he would not be actuated by any such degrading curiosity .
it cannot be long , i think , before she comes .
than most people .
nothing can stand more retired from the road than maple grove .
” “service !
herself to any other creature , and that she had herself been the stupidest of beings in not having thought
i assure you , miss woodhouse , it is very delightful to me , to be reminded of a place
she must not be left to her own complaisance .
there , such as were not as spotless as an angel might have the dispositions of a fiend .
a lost man .
she says i fidget her to death ; and miss woodhouse looks as if she could almost say the same
after another short silence-- " pray , " said mrs smith , " is mr elliot aware of your acquaintance
“my dear emma , ” said he at last , with earnest kindness , “do you think you perfectly understand
soon as possible .
time ceased to be repugnant to her feeling ; and it was now heightened into somewhat of a friendlier nature
” “perhaps it may , but then , my dear , it will be so dirty .
you have found us out at last , have you , in our seclusion ?
whom he had been used to think tolerably sensible , was as foolish as his wife , and more foolish
cole , and since she went away , i was reading it again to my mother , for it is
it is possible her behaviour may arise only from vanity , or the wish of gaining the admiration of a
i understand that mr .
" more air than one often sees in bath .
we each begin , probably , with a little bias towards our own sex ; and upon that bias build
we have reason to imagine that his aunt , lady catherine de bourgh , does not look on the match
was heard three times to say , " yes , ma ' am .
am sure you would judge differently in the affair .
one says those sort of things , of course , without any idea of a serious meaning .
till he were the husband of some other woman .
at present i will say nothing about it .
his circumstances , he assured me , and i had no difficulty in believing it , were exceedingly bad .
this was the occurrence : —the coles had been settled some years in highbury , and were very good sort
new gown , and you never saw her so well dressed before .
come and hear more of the harp , that she felt it necessary to be done , if no objection
churchills were also in town ; and they were only waiting for november .
” thought fanny .
i happened to look up as i went by the chaise , and so i see directly it was the
“i have sent for you on an affair of importance .
—he has only to speak .
right in any man ' s eyes as i am in my father ' s .
think of mr .
keep up his resentment , therefore , i charge you .
could matters have been so arranged as to prevent the necessity of our leaving the castle , could we have
“well , miss morland , ” said he , on finding her alone in the parlour , “i am come
and himself the best coachman .
but i will pawn to you an undirected letter that i received from chloe .
more meaning , or even quite all the meaning which may be affixed to it .
on her father , her confidence had not been sanguine , but he was more negligent of his family ,
in the house , and to be amused by the relation of all the news of the day .
” “but still , you will be an old maid !
his last journey to london had been undertaken with no other view than that of introducing her brother in hill
the present crisis , indeed , seemed to be brought on by them ; and those misunderstandings might very possibly
it will be a comfort to me to tell you how things now are , and what are my present
nearer aspect of the house , all her apprehension of meeting its owner returned .
let it fall ; it is a cream cheese , just like the excellent one we had at dinner .
“spunging , my dear !
william , you are quite out of luck ; but the next time you come , i hope dear mr
ferrars , were on the best terms imaginable with the dashwoods ; and setting aside the jealousies and ill-will continually
” “we were unlucky , miss price , ” he continued , in a lower tone , to avoid the
dashwood was prudent enough to remain at the cottage , without attempting a removal to delaford ; and fortunately for
but whether her brother had still exceeded her in resentment , catherine , though she instinctively addressed herself as much
description .
they are both delightful women , indeed !
behaviour as her own , which made her so angry with him .
elinor attempted no more .
he was standing by himself at a printshop window , with his hands behind him , in earnest contemplation of
any proposals of reconciliation that might be offered them by their fathers—to this farther tryal of their noble independance however
established ideas of what a young man ' s address ought to be , was no longer uninteresting when she
i am sure i am not extravagant in my demands .
knightley meant to marry ; by which means hartfield would receive the constant addition of that person ' s company
i dare say .
you do not know how much we have been suffering , nor what chills we have felt !
” “that is to say , you had given your permission .
handed over the word to miss fairfax , and with a particular degree of sedate civility entreated her to study
, striking three , made her feel that she had really been much longer absent than usual , and brought
knightley came in , and distressing thoughts were put by .
deprive me of her favour , of an affair , a connection—but i need not explain myself farther , "
, with regard to any attendance on miss musgrove , there need not be the least uneasiness in leaving her
her , in my present visit .
jennings talked of edward ' s affection , it cost her only a spasm in her throat .
, it would be a different matter : she should then be glad to take her turn , and think
degree of personal compliment could have made her regardless of that greatest fault of all in her eyes which he
it related to her own and her son ' s concerns , had not yet given over pressing lady bertram
—tell me , then , have i no chance of ever succeeding ?
" " it cannot be generally known , " returned elinor , " for her own family do not know
” “oh , charlotte says she hardly ever does .
she learnt a year , and could not bear it ; and mrs .
" " perhaps , then , you would bestow it as a reward on that person who wrote the ablest
they were visited on their first settling by almost all their relations and friends .
young people will be young people , as your good mother says herself .
her taste , her opinions—i believe they are better known to me than my own , and i am sure
or a fool ?
attended the affair ; and for some time she refused to submit to them .
de courcy hurt me particularly .
—i see it in your countenance .
our situation , and with those lively feelings which i know you to possess .
am not at all afraid for her , after such a proof as she has given that her feelings are
neither could anything be urged against my father , who , though with some peculiarities , has abilities mr .
such thing .
brandon will be jealous , if she does not take care .
their acquaintance was exceedingly sought after .
poor woman !
john desired me to speak to you on the subject , and therefore i have .
miss grey herself , else i am sure i should not have believed it ; and i was almost ready
marianne could speak her happiness only by tears .
his own account it appeared that the perusal of them , had neither drawn from him a single sigh ,
i see it in your eye .
but this is what we all come to .
it was as much , however , as was desired , and more than was expected , by edward and
nature or affectation .
much to be said for him altogether , she found she must not judge him harshly .
there is no occasion for spreading the disappointment ; say nothing about it yourself .
, till her father awoke , and made it necessary to be cheerful .
the attic stairs .
question ; but i am sure , without exaggeration , that her upper house-maid and laundry-maid , instead of being
bennet coolly observed : “from all that i can collect by your manner of talking , you must be two
forming a very bold wish .
they were not the only objects of mr .
women in england for your daughter .
he plainly proved that he thought his own right inferior to hers , tho ' he pretended to the contrary
she hardly spoke to her , and on frederica ' s bursting into tears as soon as we were seated
he was devoted to henrietta ; always turning towards her ; and when he spoke at all , always with
of what is right .
i cannot deny it .
can say that she may not have some flying visions of attending the next lady elliot , through mrs wallis
weston would not be blind to folly , though in his own son ; but he is very likely to
to be , was such a counterpoise of good as might console her for almost anything .
do you play and sing , miss bennet ?
secure while she holds her present influence .
in her power to avoid edward entirely , comforted herself by thinking , that though their longer stay would therefore
—why did you not come ?
i can hardly keep my hands warm even in my muff .
of what sort ?
perhaps i may sometimes have felt that harriet would not forget what was due—or rather what would be kind by
there he had talked to her friends , when he could not to herself .
she would not speak to anne with half the certainty she felt on the subject , she would venture on
man we passed .
desire to know , what it really is , i am sure it must be a good one .
she was returned to mansfield park , she was useful , she was beloved ; she was safe from mr
that she should be noticed on her marriage by her parents , urged him so earnestly yet so rationally and
" she could have said more on the subject ; for she had in fact so high an opinion of
—you would not have little henry cut out from donwell ?
i should not wonder if you had your orders to-morrow : but you cannot sail with this wind , if
to be a sweet girl , and one whom they would not object to know more of .
was due ; a separation for the present ; an averting of the evil day , when they must all
” the cards were brought , and fanny played at cribbage with her aunt till bedtime ; and as sir
although our productions have afforded more extensive and unaffected pleasure than those of any other literary corporation in the world
did , from the most selfish motives , take all possible pains to prevent his marriage with catherine .
as soon as civility would allow ; for she felt such conversations to be an indulgence which lucy did not
she had not been withstanding them on selfish principles alone , she had not consulted merely her own gratification ;
you need not be prompted to write with the appearance of sorrow for his disappointment .
poor little thing , and always found her very handy and quick in carrying messages , and fetching what she
phaetons and false hangings , tilneys and trap-doors .
nothing but a thorough change of sentiment could account for it .
—and is he to be rewarded with that sweet young woman ?
these are the kind of little things which please her ladyship , and it is a sort of attention which
praise for her children , the most rapacious of human beings , is likewise the most credulous ; her demands
i need not say how rejoiced i shall be to hear there has been any mistake , but the report
if he had been so very agreeable , he would have talked to mrs .
soon vanish .
, “then she is a greater simpleton than i ever believed her .
i have no patience with him .
four fine mornings successively were spent in this manner , in shewing the crawfords the country , and doing the
how could such a thought occur to you ?
of the apartment herself .
mr and mrs marlowe are very agreable people ; the ill health of their little boy occasioned their arrival here
produced , but a look of indifference from the former , or of disgust in the latter .
the lower part of the house had been now entirely shewn , and mrs .
of her uncle .
of it prevented further inquiry .
of miss dashwood ' s communication , in such an instantaneous gaiety on colonel brandon ' s side , as
they attacked him in various ways—with barefaced questions , ingenious suppositions , and distant surmises ; but he eluded the
his wish of staying longer evidently did not please ; but it was not opposed .
the admiral , in having for many years taken in the paper esteemed to have the earliest naval intelligence .
it .
alarmed , but not discouraged , she tried it another way ; a bolt flew , and she believed herself
what particularly dignifies her character .
you will have nothing to fear , or to be agitated about .
her dying so suddenly” (slowly , and with hesitation it was spoken) , “and you—none of you being at home—and
“charming miss woodhouse !
i understand you—and a very proper plan it is for a person at your time of life , with such
and more .
” a day or two passed away and brought no tidings of captain tilney .
completely rational , was suffering most : captain wentworth , anne , or charles , who , really a very
fraternal love , sometimes almost everything , is at others worse than nothing .
for it is so valuable a fruit ; with a little assistance , and ours is such a remarkably large
every thing he said , was clever .
been as frivolous as the application was ill-judged .
he was satisfied of there being no present danger in returning home , but no assurances could convince him that
in a moment they were all out of the chaise , rejoicing at the sight of each other .
to her voluntary communications emma could get no more approving reply , than , “very well .
her parting look was grateful—and her parting words , “oh !
notion of what was principally meant by it , provoked her immediately to say with warmth— " this is admiration
a private dance , without sitting down to supper , was pronounced an infamous fraud upon the rights of men
really , never !
much like a ball .
they are destined for each other by the voice of every member of their respective houses ; and what is
mind which needed all the improvement in marianne ' s looks , all the kindness of her welcome , and
it seemed as if he could not think so ill of any two persons ' understanding as to suppose they
, and i then fancied she was not without suspicion ; but i have no doubt of her having since
—i am sure if jane is tired , you will be so kind as to give her your arm .
it had been begun several days back .
but she had not been there two minutes when she found that harriet ' s habits of dependence and imitation
admiration which made her at first shake her head over her own sensations , and think she had undervalued their
i hope whenever poor isabella ' s little ones have the measles , she will send for perry .
upon the whole , emma left her with such softened , charitable feelings , as made her look around in
” “no , ” said catherine , “he is not here ; i cannot see him anywhere .
' i cannot get out , ' as the starling said .
jennings , talked with her , laughed with her , and listened to her whenever she could ; and mrs
prepared to begin .
i never read so sweet a letter in my life .
” “i cannot agree with you , papa ; you know i cannot .
” “so obliging of you !
man ' s boasted power and freedom , all are flown .
but i am spoilt , fanny , for common female society .
elton bears the disappointment ?
i really think charles might as well have told his father we would all come .
darcy , if you suppose that the mode of your declaration affected me in any other way , than as
” “no , indeed , far otherwise .
and it was settled that mr .
weston , who were standing to speak to her .
no doubts of what to do ; without any approach to coarseness , however , or any want of good
till we may carry her northward .
anne , have you courage to go with me , and pay a visit in that house ?
intelligible .
the delightful emotions were a little subdued , when on stepping back from the group , to be joined again
incurred before any partiality arose , was removed when his feelings began really to call for the ridicule so justly
she had submitted the best to the disappointment in henry crawford .
invitation .
they are so very different .
of all restraint which mark lydia’s character .
my courage always rises at every attempt to intimidate me .
" " me , brother !
saw her spirits less violently irritated than before , she did not see her less wretched .
expected to see together—frank churchill , with harriet leaning on his arm—actually harriet !
good morning to you , my dear sir .
the storm through baron wildenheim was the height of his theatrical ambition ; and with the advantage of knowing half
—about half a mile beyond highbury , making a sudden turn , and deeply shaded by elms on each side
—but where is the advantage of a house of her own ?
“woodston will make but a sombre appearance today .
the table instead of looking just across , for it was not mixed ; and harriet , eager after every
his situation is an evil—but you must consider it as what satisfies your friend ; and i will answer for
with a renewal of tenderness , however , they returned to her room on leaving the dining-parlour , and sat
what strange creatures brothers are !
—it was all the service she could now render her poor friend ; for as to any of that heroism
the sotherton scheme was mentioned of course .
” “my dear brother , i will not believe this of you .
yates could talk of nothing else .
knightley ' s high superiority of character .
their arrival seemed to afford him real satisfaction , and their comfort to be an object of real solicitude to
being rather ill-natured , and suggested the suspicion of that lady ' s knowing , or fancying herself to know
he took care , however , that they should be allowed to go to the shops they came out expressly
, bordered too much on inelegance of mind .
he could hardly suppose i should neglect them .
and lovely as ever .
” darcy had walked away to another part of the room .
the holiday allowed to the miss bertrams the next day , on purpose to afford leisure for getting acquainted with
his mind was not very differently engaged .
played off to make her secure of tilney .
the time will never come .
” “nay , dear emma , now i must take his part ; for though he has been wrong in
it was raised by pleasantry on people or subjects which she wished to be respected .
" yes , he would give them three thousand pounds : it would be liberal and handsome !
" this was gaining something , something to look forward to .
we are not on friendly terms , and it always gives me pain to meet him , but i have
—in one respect , my good fortune is undoubted , that of being able to subscribe myself , your obliged
while braving his mother ' s threats , for a woman who could not reward him .
fanny felt that there must be a struggle in edmund ' s cheerfulness , but it was delightful to see
willoughby much known in your part of somersetshire ?
afterwards judiciously putting out her hand they neither fell into a rut , nor ran foul of a dung-cart ;
—i remember she said she was sorry we never met now ; which i thought almost too kind !
—yours ever , my dearest fanny .
she hoped it was not so .
[ _num_ ] chapter xxxii when the particulars of this conversation were repeated by miss dashwood to her sister ,
fanny , having been sent into the village on some errand by her aunt norris , was overtaken by a
the harp arrived , and rather added to her beauty , wit , and good-humour ; for she played with
” and “john , how are you ?
darcy and herself .
(returned i) no really !
the surprise of your refusal , fanny , seems to have been unbounded .
myself in town .
with such celerity .
eleanor , i suppose , has talked of her a great deal ?
i have always thought her pretty—not strikingly pretty—but ' pretty enough , ' as people say ; a sort of
darcy would never have come so soon to wait upon me .
here comes hill !
i see her instrument is open .
was miserable in considering how much unsuspected vexation was probably ready to burst on him .
" " upon the knoll behind the house .
[ _num_ ] marianne , to the surprise of her sister , determined on dining with them .
ungenerous , or set you against those you esteem ; but it is very difficult to know whom to trust
suspected that he was announcing an early visit from his son ; but before she could quiet mr .
” “if i know myself , harriet , mine is an active , busy mind , with a great many
fix , commit , condemn yourself .
whenever she had thought of the minutiae of the evening , it had been as a matter of course that
young lady to the dance .
grant ask fanny ?
i have a note of his .
we see nothing of them , and this is really an instance of gross inattention .
they were the principal inhabitants .
the wind shews your legs .
their favour ; their age , and number , and fortune ; the high idea they had formed of kellynch
—good-bye , good-bye .
meet with such another woman , before it began to strike him whether a very different kind of woman might
she was pleased , on taking leave , to find miss fairfax determined to attend her out of the room
, a good night ' s rest was to cure her entirely ; and it was with difficulty that elinor
miss bingley’s inattention .
they would go to one end of it , in the line they were then in—for there was a straight
“my uncle ' s gardener always says the soil here is better than his own , and so it appears
bingley never stirs without him .
for am i not certain of seeing or hearing something there to pain me ?
measure to become conversant with the world , my augusta is _num_ and her sister scarcely a twelvemonth younger .
window , as to make it hardly possible to speak at one without being heard at the other .
feeling and curiosity about her in his manner which must give her extreme agitation .
, and take care of her clothes , for i suppose you would not think it fair to expect ellis
of one hundred guineas on account of your humble servant .
necessary preparations to wait for ; and when he set out for bath again , there was a general expectation
to attract their notice , that she looked back at them only three times .
crawford , made no part of their conversation .
” “are you , indeed ?
smiles of the year upon the tawny leaves , and withered hedges , and from repeating to herself some few
" why should they ask us ?
as a friend .
beyond the reach of amendment .
, and especially by the two miss musgroves , who seemed hardly to have any eyes but for him ,
and yet i cannot help suspecting the truth of everything she says .
they had not intended to go over till the summer , but she is so impatient to see them again—for
lady susan behaved with great attention to her visitor ; and yet i thought i could perceive that she had
i do not recommend matrimony at present to emma , though i mean no slight to the state , i
to her person .
hasty departure , she observed : “how very suddenly you all quitted netherfield last november , mr .
all alone !
goddard had ever seen .
must follow then .
john knightley is easily alarmed , and might be made unhappy about her sister .
palmer ate their dinner , and no expectation of pleasure from them in any other way .
she would notice her ; she would improve her ; she would detach her from her bad acquaintance , and
the insipidity of the meeting was exactly such as elinor had expected ; it produced not one novelty of thought
, arms and motto , name and livery included ; but i will not pretend to repeat half that i
—was not it delightful ?
” “well—if you please , ” said mrs .
interference—fruitless interference .
from the paternal tree .
he seemed to me very well off as he was .
presence of her mother as heretofore , assured her aunt of her situation being uncomfortable , and confirmed her in
” she burst into tears as she alluded to it , and for a few minutes could not speak another
what is this but a take in ?
” but jane could think with certainty on only one point—that mr .
i suspect that in this comprehensive and (may i say) commonplace censure , you are not judging from yourself ,
” some of them were to dine with the phillipses the next day , and their aunt promised to make
most excessively offended the eldest .
" " he will not come in , as mrs .
arranging and injuring the noble fire which the butler had prepared .
gone to my house .
the door was thrown open and their visitor entered .
of disliking him as much as ever .
she said very well , tuesday was just as convenient to her ; so there is an end of all
forster , and the probability of her being yet more imprudent with such a companion at brighton , where the
the carriages were then ordered ; willoughby ' s was first , and marianne never looked happier than when she
i know the danger of indulging such speculations .
and it was entirely for her sake , and upon her account , that he said a word about being
age as they really were .
you will find margaret so improved when you come back again !
this has been my motive , my fair cousin , and i flatter myself it will not sink me in
” her niece thought it perfectly reasonable .
to , and daring not even to try to observe their effect .
she left to my care her only child , a little girl , the offspring of her first guilty connection
many were the people who fell martyrs to the protestant religion during her reign ; i suppose not fewer than
the difficulty was in maintaining the conviction quite so absolutely after mr .
far be it from me to say otherwise ; and anything in reason—a bow thrown out , perhaps—though , between
pleasant that she should go downstairs herself .
” “by moderation and economy , and bringing down your wants to your income , and all that .
you might not see one in a hundred with gentleman so plainly written as in mr .
not only beyond the reach of marianne , it was beyond her wish .
and so imperfectly have i discharged my trust !
” “my dear isabella , how was it possible for me to get at you ?
darcy , that you hardly ever forgave , that your resentment once created was unappeasable .
knightley ; ' and , from habit , it has not so very formal a sound .
of uppercross , of the musgroves , nay , even of louisa , and had even a momentary look of
they were evidently in excellent spirits , and she was soon to listen to the causes .
from the growth of the laurels and evergreens in general .
her , though i hope you will soon be able to form your own judgment .
how snug they might live in such another cottage as yours—or a little bigger—with two maids , and two men
i am happier even than jane ; she only smiles , i laugh .
alone .
raptures with the furniture , and they happened to be so doatingly fond of children that lady middleton ' s
—standing up in the middle of the room , i suppose , and speaking as loud as he could !
’ “have you any idea , lizzy , who this gentleman is ?
the respect which he felt for her high rank , and his veneration for her as his patroness , mingling
self-willed , obstinate , selfish , and ungrateful .
cannot you imagine , mr .
have seen enough of him to wish him well for his own sake , and as a friend of yours
there was too much to be thought , and felt , and said , for attention to any other objects
you have cured her of her school-girl ' s giggle ; she really does you credit .
the kings last wife contrived to survive him , but with difficulty effected it .
he could for the children of mrs .
it is early for bath .
mansfield .
which a man of any consequence in the world was beyond calculation exposed to , that he seemed rather to
it would be a great disappointment to mr .
” another entreaty that she would be serious , however , produced the desired effect ; and she soon satisfied
resign all his illgotten wealth .
a message to mr .
—miss woodhouse and mr .
elinor submitted to the arrangement which counteracted her wishes with less reluctance than she had expected to feel .
miss campbell always was absolutely plain—but extremely elegant and amiable .
” “you are very kind , you are all kindness , my dear madam , ” cried mrs .
fanny was her oracle .
evident wish of improving it could offer .
yet when i thought of her to-day as really dying , it was a kind of comfort to me to
darcy , with grave propriety , requested to be allowed the honour of her hand , but in vain .
others of the party were now applied to .
elinor thought she could distinguish a large w in the direction ; and no sooner was it complete than marianne
i wanted her to stay at home and rest this morning , but she would come with us ; she
allen !
the joy which miss darcy expressed on receiving similar information , was as sincere as her brother’s in sending it
do not say so .
would never receive any of such certain immediate wretchedness , such uncertain future good .
who can require it ?
this scheme .
in person , she was inferior to both sisters , and had , even in her bloom , only reached
bennet , delighted to speak to lady catherine .
" returned elinor in some confusion ; " indeed , marianne , i have nothing to tell .
when all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen , they returned downstairs , and
” “nonsense !
vernon ' s brother , a handsome young man , who promises me some amusement .
” “aye , i wonder which she will .
i am cruelly used , nobody feels for my poor nerves .
i went for only one night , and could not get away till that very day se ' nnight .
” fanny could with difficulty give the smile that was here asked for .
i do not mean to say , however , that you might not have made discoveries .
not that james ever complains ; but it is right to spare our horses when we can .
to have had him join their family dinner-party , and see all their deficiencies , would have been dreadful !
, that she could not be persuaded at first to believe , and afterwards to pardon , any former affection
chapter _num_ catherine ' s expectations of pleasure from her visit in milsom street were so very high that disappointment
any opinions that came in her way .
interest had succeeded , and she was now so little touched by mr elliot ' s conduct , except by
norris ' s continuing where she was , instead of rushing out into the hall as soon as the noises
—is miss fairfax going ?
rushworth , you know .
was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted , and forwarded as much as possible , every attempt
home--am i ?
, almost as certainly as in her change of domestic society , in leaving poor mary for lady russell .
—i will have the leg of beef and the partridge .
they must think it so strange , so rude of me !
—poor fellow !
this distinction appeared to increase , and there was one speech of louisa ' s which struck her .
how could she have exposed herself to such ill opinion in any one she valued !
when is a man to be safe from such wit , if age and infirmity will not protect him ?
i know she wishes it very much .
there was always a something , —if you remember , —in willoughby ' s eyes at times , which i
as soon as they returned to the carriage , mrs .
i have nearly determined on explaining myself by letter .
when we arrived at the last inn we were to stop at , which was but a few miles from
some hours—and he had quite given up every thought of coming , till very late ; —and had he known
” fanny , at once agitated and dejected , replied , “if you hear of it from everybody , cousin
john knightley , that in spite of maternal solicitude for the immediate enjoyment of her little ones , and for
could he have thought himself encouraged , his looks and language at parting would have been different .
“well my dear william what do you think of these girls ?
” “nay , but there is no such confounded hurry .
” “i am glad you think so ; and the good hands , i hope , may not be wanting
" " that is true , " cried marianne , in a cheerful voice , and walking to the window
there are his own two men pushing it back into its old quarters .
out and seen it pass by , the boy going a good pace , and driving very steady .
perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt of my positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with
those clouds look alarming .
all a mistake .
give me very great pleasure at any time to stand up with an old friend like mrs .
wonderful , quite wonderful !
i shall let everingham , and rent a place in this neighbourhood ; perhaps stanwix lodge .
, no fears of opposition of taste , no need of drawing new hopes of happiness from dissimilarity of temper
“and that , ” said mrs .
that i can look with so little pain on the spot !
what a bloom of full health , and such a pretty height and size ; such a firm and upright
they praised the morning ; gloried in the sea ; sympathized in the delight of the fresh-feeling breeze--and were silent
i do not say when , but perhaps you may guess where ; —in the building in which n .
cruel , cruel—nothing can acquit you .
be a wide difference between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity , and those which regulate the clergy
you have owed us a visit many long weeks ; i hope nothing will make it inconvenient to mr .
he certainly knew what was right , nor could she fix on any one article of moral duty evidently transgressed
away , seemed like a perfect cure ; and she was rather inclined to think it implied a dread of
i said what i could for you ; but in good truth , as they stated the case—you must prove
shall we ever talk on that subject , elinor ?
dashwood ' s estimation he was as faultless as in marianne ' s ; and elinor saw nothing to censure
s age .
i was startled and shocked .
jenkinson to make up her party .
have told her how to find it out .
my letter was from my brother at oxford .
" and this satisfied elizabeth : and when the invitation was given to the two present , and promised for
from thus listening and thinking , she was roused by a whisper of mrs musgrove ' s who , overcome
why did mr elliot draw back ?
indeed you should take care of yourself as well as of your friend .
i never could have been happy with him , after knowing , as sooner or later i must have known
i was young once , but i never was very handsome—worse luck for me .
she set off for the north , received at first an absolute negative .
to make it understood what this old schoolfellow was ; and elizabeth was disdainful , and sir walter severe .
and miss bates , mr .
” and with a bow to mr .
whenever i do see it , you will tell me how it has been altered .
, when i consider that it is , of all transactions , the one in which people expect most from
louisa had once opened her eyes , but soon closed them again , without apparent consciousness .
ours are all apple-tarts .
for a while , and when the violence of grief was comforted away , still remained powerful enough to prompt
“i cannot rate her beauty as you do , ” said he ; “but she is a pretty little creature
how to please—and of his certainly thinking it worth while to try to please her .
far as to speak a few words of calm approbation in reply to an eager appeal of mr .
john dashwood to visit her at barton ; and to edward she gave one with still greater affection .
natural enough !
to dance without much observation or any extraordinary fatigue , to have strength and partners for about half the evening
nervous irritability , not to speak to her for the world .
willoughby , where was your heart when you wrote those words ?
“he is just what a young man ought to be , ” said she , “sensible , good-humoured , lively
" " ay , you may abuse me as you please , " said the good-natured old lady , "
the little gardiners , attracted by the sight of a chaise , were standing on the steps of the house
miss darcy’s in coming to see them on the very day of her arrival at pemberley , for she had
” “you certainly will meet them if i can prevail ; and i shall call on miss bates in my
harriet could not very soon give an intelligible account .
with all the security which love of another and disesteem of him could give to the peace of mind he
perhaps it is best for me , since it leaves me so little to regret .
pair of female hands at the utmost .
nervous constitution allowed ; but the alarm that had been raised could not be appeased so as to admit of
than she had remembered ; it was not regular , but it was very pleasing beauty .
nay , in sober sadness , i believe i now love you all .
; and while she steadily repressed it , could not but feel the reproof contained in his believing , that
my freinds are all alarmed for me ; they fear my declining health ; they lament my want of spirits
advantage for having a couple of—or i may say , three—very silly sisters .
desirableness of the alliance , supposing such attachment to be real and returned .
i fancied you might be going to tell me i ought to be more attentive , and not allow my
there was not a dissentient voice on the subject , either when mrs .
good-humour as enabled her to join in with the others , before their happiness and thanks were all expressed .
by the time sense and sensibility left the press , miss austen was again domiciled at chawton cottage .
a degree or two lower , and a creditable appearance might interest me ; i might hope to be useful
notice and admire all the striking parts of his dress ; listening with reviving spirits to his cheerful hopes of
author .
will love better than you do now .
she was one of his two dearest—that must support her .
—you wrote her answer too .
putting away the letter immediately and forcing a smile , she said : “i did not know before that you
it is nothing but four of those beautiful pheasants ' eggs , which mrs .
of his conscience pointed out to be requisite to its complete enfranchisement from his promise to his father .
good clear understanding , made her a most attentive , profitable , thankful pupil .
perhaps the abilities of women are neither sound nor acute—neither vigorous nor keen .
“but now that my dear uncle is come , i hope everything will be well .
" " as to all that , " rejoined sir walter coolly , " supposing i were induced to let
no intelligence to him .
that i should like it after a little while , and feel how right you proved to be , i
table without saying a word .
" we came post all the way , and had a very smart beau to attend us .
i should not chuse to have the business brought on here , and canvassed by the wise heads of mr
" she put it into her hands as she spoke ; and when elinor saw the painting , whatever other
elizabeth thought this was going pretty far ; and she listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added , “i
that was some comfort to him , he said , but not equal to a picture .
weston , and had half a mind to take it up ; but she struggled , and let it pass
he answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet miss bennet .
all purity , her actions all innocence , and the misconduct of another the true source of her debasement ,
' said she ; ' well , that is quite unexpected .
” “he never comes to the pump-room , i suppose ?
dozen times ; have not i , betsey ?
john dashwood , without sending any notice of her intention to her mother-in-law , arrived with her child and their
i hope you will drink to our good journey .
—jane and i are both so shocked about the apples !
" for i wanted to see you of all things in the world .
, that his concession had been attended with such partial good as to make his judgment in it very doubtful
young woman and a spoiled child .
plymouth .
bennet , who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the affair as she wished , was excessively disappointed .
old-fashioned jewels of her mother .
a little disordered always the first twenty-four hours of going to sea , but never knew what sickness was afterwards
makes one more sensible of the disadvantages she has been under .
” “and such is your definition of matrimony and dancing .
pretty as you seem to consider her .
it was well that he took every body ' s joy for granted , or he might not have thought
ever be so interesting to her and all her family .
unless the elder brother is very sickly , i suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds .
but you had better change your mind .
her father had been an attorney in meryton , and had left her four thousand pounds .
not how to admire enough .
front door and quit the house .
bennet , “that is exactly what i could most wish for .
which might be of comfort to you .
” “it was very agreeable , was not it ?
, in fact , no trouble in the business .
in anticipating the happiness of bingley , which of course was to be inferior only to his own , he
and when you are settled in town and i come to see you , i dare say i shall find
seems the only improvement that could be .
” “nonsensical girl !
when does she try to avoid society , or appear restless and dissatisfied in it ?
i shall be with you very soon , and am ever , your affectionate brother , r .
here is a young man wishing to pay his addresses to you , with everything to recommend him : not
“my dear father , i congratulate you .
i could not help asking reginald if he intended being in london this winter , as soon as i found
which fanny had almost feared to be impossible .
she knew it was her way .
and lady middleton , is she angry ?
elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had , from the distress of the moment , been led to
by both .
as mrs .
her favour , was peculiarly gratifying .
lady middleton too , though she did not press their mother , pressed them .
oh that i had been with you !
“yes , when you have written the letter , i will take it to my father to frank .
of propriety on the side of the elliots .
that seemingly perfect good understanding and agreement together , that good-humoured mutual affection , of which she had known so
so on his .
but they always do , you know .
meets with nowadays , mrs .
" that is exactly what i said , my dear .
“nor , if you were , could i ever bear to part with you , my harriet .
this is all most kindly meant by my uncle and cousins ; but what can the presence of a dozen
weston ' s quick amendment ; and so ended a most satisfactory meeting .
—and i had plenty all the while in my pocket !
you are not to be judged by the same rule .
john and bella , from one end of the sheet to the other , and any one of them might
my dear william , how glad i am to see you .
” he turned back .
absolute nonsense !
hardly so intimate with her as before ; instead of seeing henry tilney to greater advantage than ever , in
she began her song .
though her being left to the solitary range of the house was the consequence .
she was nine years old , his daughter ' s great fondness for her , and his own wish of
succeed so ill !
parties succeed , how should a captain wentworth and an anne elliot , with the advantage of maturity of mind
not ?
the pump-room one morning , by mrs .
regard to henry and herself , had so spoken and so looked as to give her the most positive conviction
whenever i am however continued she brightening into a complaisant smile , i shall know where to apply .
chapter iii emma could not forgive her ; —but as neither provocation nor resentment were discerned by mr .
when you and the middletons are gone , we shall go on so quietly and happily together with our books
she was immediately told that the two gentlemen from rosings had each called during her absence ; mr .
his declining to be on cordial terms with the head of his family , has left a very strong impression
but i am afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by no means intend ; for
“fanny , ” said a voice at that moment near her .
meet them .
she was divided from captain wentworth .
” “yes , but if there should ever happen to be any rain in this part of the world ,
jennings ' manners , and invariably disgusted by them , should overlook every inconvenience of that kind , should disregard
there was marked coolness on her side .
emma , unless one could be sure of their making it into steaks , nicely fried , as ours are
” “she is a very fine-looking woman !
“she had been into the kitchen , ” she said , “to hurry sally and help make the toast ,
there are not many men who would act as he has done .
forestall you ; remember , i have forestalled you .
colonel forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at brighton .
” “yes , i have been reading it ever since i woke ; and i am got to the black
coming to randalls again .
grant , and fanny stays at home with her .
she thought it probable that as they lived in the same county , mrs .
it was the scrape which he had drawn her into on harriet ' s account , that gave the deepest
elton , laughing , “we shall see .
it sometimes happens that a woman is handsomer at twenty-nine than she was ten years before ; and , generally
even greater than elinor ' s .
no more .
so peculiarly the lady in it .
at liberty to think and be wretched .
thomas would probably have thought his introduction at mansfield by no means desirable .
old , of an age to require more attention than her poor mother could possibly give ?
the party did not break up without emma ' s being positively secured for the two first dances by the
i have a great value for benwick ; and when one can but get him to talk , he has
s refutation of the supposed engagement changed the face of everything ; and while it took from her the new-formed
her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what she did not believe herself , that his attentions to jane had
does he know that i am in bath ?
but , anne , only conceive how extraordinary !
the visit afforded her many pleasant recollections the next day ; and all that she might be supposed to have
" go to him , go to him , " cried anne , " for heaven ' s sake go
second it led to something farther .
told him , that in miss morton he would have a woman of higher rank and larger fortune ; and
the second meeting proved him not so very plain : he was plain , to be sure , but then
jennings , had leisure enough for thinking over the past .
no , no ; she has qualities which may be trusted ; she will never lead any one really wrong
in all the important preparations of the mind she was complete : being prepared for matrimony by an hatred of
i have subdued him entirely by sentiment and serious conversation , and made him , i may venture to say
lydia does not leave me because she is married , but only because her husband’s regiment happens to be so
but jane knows , as well as i do , what wickham really is .
[ _num_ ] mrs .
those whom he has been the chief cause of leading into ruin , he can neglect and desert without the
her an offer of his hand .
would she be pleased to send up her name ?
opened her lips before , observed , in a sarcastic manner , and with a glance first at maria and
darcy , she left elizabeth to walk by herself .
; but it was now too evident that she had not attained such a state of composure as could stand
i am sure you must have been struck by his awkward look and abrupt manner , and the uncouthness of
you know very well that my opinion would have no weight with you , unless it were on the side
own very superior performance .
but was obliged to leave off in a violent hurry , as mrs .
and sister ; but that seemed forgotten by mrs .
" in about five minutes he returned .
his countenance , as he entered the room , was not too happy , even for elinor .
john knightley was a tall , gentleman-like , and very clever man ; rising in his profession , domestic ,
edmund was not unwilling to be persuaded to engage in the business ; he wanted to know fanny ' s
they were called on to share in the awkwardness of a rather long interval between the courses , and obliged
anne ' s mind was in a most favourable state for the entertainment of the evening ; it was just
collins’s offer was now nearly at an end , and elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily
it was long before fanny could recover from the agitating happiness of such an hour as was formed by the
they had been all in lodgings together .
your sister loves to laugh .
the others were busily helping charlotte to show her child to the housekeeper , she quitted it again , stealing
by their method and style , they are perfectly well qualified to torment readers of the most advanced reason and
i have been all this morning : very unfit to be left alone , i am sure .
which had passed twenty years before , be minutely repeated .
her that she was valued only as she could be useful to louisa .
you can borrow mrs .
—emma and harriet professed very high expectations of pleasure from it ; and mr .
to her invitation , yet i know not how it was , but she was certainly capricious enough to be
any chance to be thrown into company with captain wentworth , her imperfect knowledge of the matter might add another
evenness of your writing , as another young lady once did .
of conceit of the one , put her out of all charity with the modesty and worth of the other
” “will you read the letter ?
had done , and all the unhappiness she had brought on her family .
consent to be of the party .
agreeable , she could not get the better of her embarrassment , heightened as it was by the idea of
” “go into the law !
when i am a wife , i mean to be just as staunch myself ; and i wish my friends
, sensible women , whose judgements had to work on ascertained events ; and it was perfectly decided that it
dashwood will go or not , only the more the merrier say i , and i thought it would be
down to her light and graceful tread .
the many volumes of plays that lay on the table , and turning it over , suddenly exclaimed—“lovers ' vows
a different tone-- " i do not suppose the situation my friend mrs rooke is in at present , will
” “yes , all of us ; mrs .
manners , and her frequent expressions of delight on this acquaintance with her , softened down every feeling of awe
can withstand .
” catherine , by some chance or other , found her spirits so very much relieved by this conversation that
what in a situation like mine , but a most shamefully unguarded affection could expose me to— " [ _num_
they are always acting upon motives of vanity , and there is no more real modesty in their behaviour before
she knows their ways best ; but i should not consider their silence as any reason for their not meaning
she sighed for the air , the liberty , the quiet of the country ; and fancied that if any
, of two figures passing near the window .
they travelled as expeditiously as possible , and , sleeping one night on the road , reached longbourn by dinner
pray dont mind me ; (replied i) every one knows sir george is horribly ugly , and i assure you
after the usual period of suspense , the usual sounds of approach were heard , and " mr and mrs
emma encouraged her talkativeness—amused by such a picture of another set of beings , and enjoying the youthful simplicity which
and again , as if nothing but motion was voluntary ; and it seemed as if she could even walk
there never were two people more dissimilar .
as for wickham and lydia , their characters suffered no revolution from the marriage of her sisters .
relations .
point of carrying it to his lips—when , from some fancy or other , he suddenly let it go .
help thinking of him continually when absent , dwelling on his merit and affection , and longing again for the
it was consequently necessary to name some other period for the commencement of actual felicity—to have some other point on
woodhouse came into the room ; her vanity had then a change of object , and emma heard her saying
—judge between us .
” she was stopped by a slight fit of coughing , and mr .
these were claims which he did not learn to overlook , though some years passed away from the death of
they did as they were desired ; and by the time she judged it reasonable to have done with her
his debts to be discharged , and something still to remain !
she had found some acquaintance , had been so lucky too as to find in them the family of a
abruptly , “old allen is as rich as a jew—is not he ?
" they all looked their assent ; it seemed too awful a moment for speech .
vernon , encouraging the doubt , directly proposed her niece ' s returning with them into the country .
” “thank you , thank you—but on no account .
knightley ' s coming and asking me to dance , when mr .
" " however it may have come about , " said elinor , after a pause , — " they
" " not so large , i dare say , as many people suppose .
[ _num_ ] colonel brandon ' s partiality for marianne , which had so early been discovered by his friends
he had gone , had done even more good than he had foreseen , had been useful to more than
chapter _num_ catherine was too wretched to be fearful .
” “i am glad of it ; i will drive you out in mine every day .
frederick will not be the first man who has chosen a wife with less sense than his family expected .
this was likely to be , more at liberty among themselves under the tranquil and well-bred direction of lady middleton
in pressing her frequent calls .
seated at table and taking up her spoon .
elton in particular ; but it seemed to her reasonable that at harriet ' s age , and with the
of delamere .
—very likely the worthy coles .
their spring excursions to london , when elizabeth was in her first bloom , mr elliot had been forced into
, for she will not know him herself .
and his sisters are charming women .
” “upon my word i never heard of it till this moment .
“lovers ' vows were at an end , and lord and lady ravenshaw left to act my grandmother by themselves
quite sufficient to do away with the pain of having been left a whole hour , when he had talked
“might not they use both rooms , and dance across the passage ?
what an agreeable man sir william is , mr .
have anything to do with mr .
all the heroines of her acquaintance ; and she thought her friend never looked more lovely than in uttering the
the prospect of it most sorrowful to her , independently , she believed , independently of self .
" hunters !
who have they got to meet us ?
" another pause ensued ; marianne was greatly agitated , and it ended thus : — " elinor , i
i consider him with great respect .
suckling , it was not with mrs .
[ _num_ ] " this is very unfortunate .
i wish we had been aware in time , who it was , that he might have been introduced to
” and soon afterwards , “jane fairfax is a very charming young woman—but not even jane fairfax is perfect .
thomas was reading to himself , no sounds were heard in the room for the next two hours beyond the
, as she viewed the respectable size and style of the building , its suitable , becoming , characteristic situation
” “i beg your pardon , i will try again .
she began immediately to determine , that edward who lived with his mother , must be asked as his mother
chapter xlv elinor , for some time after he left her , for some time even after the sound of
elton should really be in love with me , —me , of all people , who did not know him
had received from her the smallest support or attempt at support .
she could not understand his present feelings , whether he were really suffering much from disappointment or not ; and
chapter _num_ the bennets were engaged to dine with the lucases and again during the chief of the day was
too acute .
in a tone of great exultation-- " i mean to go with you , charles , for i am of
" but i was determined to be discreet , to bear in mind my being only four months a widow
that , brought up in the midst of negligence and error , she should have formed such proper opinions of
willoughby , in spite of all his faults , excited a degree of commiseration for the sufferings produced by them
might occasionally spend a morning with her , without any danger of seeing him .
jenkinson , who lives with them ; the other is miss de bourgh .
do not let us be too solemn on the business .
' but then patty came in , and said it was you .
she had nothing to dread from midnight assassins or drunken gallants .
but as no such delicacy restrained her mother , an hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of
by her , had it—oh !
he will see the rushworths , which own i am not sorry for—having a little curiosity , and so i
had something of real regret , that it “was a very long time since he had had the pleasure of
you may imagine how desirable !
and secretly she added to herself , “lord bless me !
she supposed , if he meant anything , he must mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter
she could thoroughly comprehend the sort of fascination he must possess over lady russell ' s mind , the difficulty
timid and shy , and shrinking from notice ; but her air , though awkward , was not vulgar ,
she would love her , than because elizabeth deserved it .
he gave this opinion as the result of the conversation to his father ; and recommended there being nothing more
maple grove has given me a thorough disgust to people of that sort ; for there is a family in
elinor repeated the particulars of it , as she had given them to john ; and their effect on robert
she had only to say in reply , that they had wandered about , till she was beyond her own
you must rehearse it with me , that i may fancy you him , and get on by degrees .
she could .
i venture to hint , that sir walter elliot cannot be half so jealous for his own , as john
elinor and marianne was originally written about _num_ .
my dear alicia , of what a mistake were you guilty in marrying a man of his age !
they talked much , and with much enjoyment ; but again was catherine disappointed in her hope of reseeing her
he seemed by this connexion between the families , quite to belong to her .
” “perhaps you mean what i overheard between him and mr .
" there is no quarrelling with you .
from my lodgings .
sure , standing under the colonnade , and a gentleman with her .
“you are much mistaken if you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as this .
from home at this distressing time , so very trying to my spirits .
every street , and there i can only go and call on mrs .
s too gentle reductions .
she put down the letter , weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be impartiality—deliberated on the probability of
at intervals on her startled ear .
so .
in harley street , where they had taken a very good house for three months .
he had been some time with mr .
let us be doing something .
in this state of her spirits , a letter was delivered to her from the post , which contained a
i shall trouble you meanwhile to prevent his forming any other attachment when he comes to town .
he tells us moreover that much the same sort of affair has befallen his first wife the worthless louisa who
she could consult with her brother , could receive her sister-in-law on her arrival , and treat her with proper
fatigues ; and of every thing to which she could decently attribute her sister ' s behaviour .
had gained a woman of _num_ , _num_ l .
i am sure i shan’t get a wink of sleep all night .
“you have been here a month , i think ?
” “pray , mr .
” “mermaids and sharks !
he hunted and shot , and she humoured her children ; and these were their only resources .
what am i to do ?
they speedily discovered that their enjoyment of dancing and music was mutual , and that it arose from a general
[ _num_ ] he was not an ill-disposed young man , unless to be rather cold hearted and rather selfish
what strength , or what constancy of affection he might be subject to , was another point ; but at
crawford again , and learn from him exactly how matters stand between you .
i must beg , therefore , to be importuned no farther on the subject .
over .
they hardly can satisfy a woman of her good sense and quick feelings : standing in a mother ' s
, inconsistency of action , and inequality of powers ; and it mortified her that she was given so little
he is more securely hers than ever .
” true enough , he had once seen fanny dance ; and it was equally true that he would now
she has only to fix on her number of thousands a year , and there can be no doubt of
surprise , consciousness , and pleasure appeared in each of the three on this unexpected meeting ; and as edmund
" elinor was quite of her opinion , as to the probability of their not waiting for any thing more
their power to delay it , are in their hearts not thinking the better of him for submitting to their
do not believe i have any thing more to say about the boys ; but you have your sister '
—it was his object to blind all about him ; and no one , i am sure , could be
this critical moment .
county .
he hoped they would all excuse the smallness of the party , and could assure them it should never happen
bingley does not know the whole of his history , and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have principally
supposing i should be wanted , left the nursery soon afterwards , and was half-way downstairs , when frederica ,
these were pleasant feelings , and she walked about and indulged them till it was necessary to do as the
her admiration and regard , even her sisterly regard , was all his own ; but he was a lover
elton were most desirable or most natural .
love such as his , in a man like himself , must with perseverance secure a return , and at
have you really—was it by your desire ?
pratt , i think , nay , i am sure , it would never have happened ; for though i
pleasant to allow either james or isabella to resent her resistance any longer .
a naval officer as tenant , had been gifted with foresight ; for the very first application for the house
a few more private interveiws , sophia and i experienced the satisfaction of seeing them depart for gretna-green , which
darcy , he stopped with a bow of superior courtesy to compliment him on his dancing and his partner .
had she been using any thing in particular ?
knightley , that there can be no use in canvassing it .
she had reason to believe her nearly recovered from her cold , and it was desirable that she should have
“you could not have visited me !
and his submission to all that she told , was a compliment to her penetration , which made it difficult
darcy’s eyes were fixed on her .
” “your power ma ' am replied she extremely surprised ; it is in no ones power to make me
he can go on horseback , you know .
“very true : we soon met with mrs .
” “if he means to be but little at netherfield , it would be better for the neighbourhood that he
step she had taken as opening the worst probabilities of a conclusion hereafter like her sister ' s .
in general he was judged , throughout the parishes of donwell and highbury , with great candour ; liberal allowances
a few presents .
found .
” here i was prevented from hearing the remainder of her speech , by the appearance of a very handsome
i do not know any body who draws so well as you do .
bennet was satisfied , and soon afterwards ordered her carriage .
having dick musgrove at all near his thoughts , looked rather in suspense , and as if waiting for more
equal my brother , mr .
chapter xviii “i hope i shall soon have the pleasure of introducing my son to you , ” said mr
never , since reading jane’s second letter , had she entertained a hope of wickham’s meaning to marry her .
pray do not talk of that odious man .
make haste , make haste .
with the title of seduction , had been extended into every tradesman’s family .
woman ; and many a rising beauty would be slighted by him in after-days as bearing no comparison with mrs
affectionate brother , hung over louisa with sobs of grief , and could only turn his eyes from one sister
” “why ?
willoughby , i advise you at present to return to combe—i am not at leisure to remain with you longer
attending and nursing him , my spirits still worse , all my peace in this world destroyed , with hardly
nothing would satisfy that good old mrs .
be it known then , that sir walter , like a good father , (having met with one or two
frederick wentworth had used such words , or something like them , but without an idea that they would be
she was even sensible of some pleasure , though mixed with regret , on finding how steadfastly both she and
however , you will think of all that at your leisure .
” “colonel and mrs .
drove near their house .
i never hear better sense from any one than robert martin .
rather than acceptance .
our prospect is most delightful , and since matters have now taken so favourable a turn , i am quite
catherine then ran directly upstairs , and watched miss thorpe ' s progress down the street from the drawing-room window
was a squabble between sam and rebecca about the manner of carrying up his sister ' s trunk , which
there was nothing to raise her spirits in the confined and scantily furnished chamber that she was to share with
obliged !
jennings sat on elinor ' s right hand ; and they had not been long seated , before she leant
emma had feelings , less of curiosity than of pride or propriety , to make her resolve on not being
seen how stupid they can be for a whole morning together , and how tired my poor mother is at
we were interrupted in the delightfull employment by the entrance of augustus , (edward ' s freind) who was just
” “did you see anybody else of our acquaintance ?
of isabella or james had crossed her during their walk .
no part of his plans or thoughts .
john , the second , is named after his father .
finding by whom he was observed , henry crawford addressed himself on the same subject to sir thomas , in
yates ' s having a pleasant journey , as he walked with him to the hall-door , were given with
the notice , which she excited herself , was to this effect .
then do tell me what he was at that time of life .
” his wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen ,
for i had , fanny , as i think my behaviour must have shewn , formed a very favourable opinion
knightley and harriet had arrived during her absence , and were sitting with her father .
side ; she was convinced that he was ready to be acknowledged as an acquaintance , expecting it , and
” the week which passed so quietly and peaceably at the great house in mansfield had a very different character
” “upon my word , caroline , i should think it more possible to get pemberley by purchase than by
it was the first time of her being decidedly in his company , and she had hoped to be now
her , had nothing to wish for which did not seem within her reach ; and anne--but it would be
between regret for the loss of one great pleasure , and the hope of soon enjoying another , almost its
they visited in laura place , they had the cards of dowager viscountess dalrymple , and the honourable miss carteret
we have been here two days , but there is nothing to be done .
as i am myself partial to the roman catholic religion , it is with infinite regret that i am obliged
and to the pang of a friend disgracing herself and sunk in her esteem , was added the distressing conviction
she felt truly for them all .
were evidently in want , first , of being listened to anew on this subject , and afterwards , of
at least , with a strong inclination for continuing the acquaintance .
present by a toilsome walk to camden place , there to spend the evening chiefly in listening to the busy
—she was most sorrowfully indignant ; ashamed of every sensation but the one revealed to her—her affection for mr .
must be in want of a wife .
it came out quite unawares , quite undesignedly .
she could not be deceived in that .
i remember one evening the poor boys saying , ' uncle seems always tired now .
” “pride , ” observed mary , who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections , “is a very
than half-ashamed of her own solicitude .
" i kept my letter open , that i might send you word how louisa bore her journey , and
i congratulate her .
the quietness of the game made it particularly eligible for mr .
gardiner began to wish to be at home , it was settled that she and the children should go to
to one another , and laugh at my old ways behind my back .
my love replied she , you were born for each other .
—it seemed as if there were an instantaneous impression in her favour , as if his eyes received the truth
she might do very well by herself .
at his being still able to pity ' poor miss taylor , ' when they left her at randalls in
—however , he is coming , i assure you : yes , indeed , on purpose to wait on you
to laugh , and asked him , in a tone not much louder , “if he would give her away
when her mother went up to her dressing-room at night , she followed her , and made the important communication
of the relators .
he had even refused one regular invitation to dinner ; and having been found on the occasion by mr musgrove
that account .
and do-nothingness would have been much more suited to her capacity than the exertions and self-denials of the one which
with robert , who , by the gay unconcern , the happy self-complacency of his manner while enjoying so unfair
there could be no doubt of his obtaining leave of absence immediately , for he was still only a midshipman
they seem to belong to us ; they seem to be part of ourselves .
solicitude , and the warmth which might excite general notice .
catherine ' s colour rose at the sight of it ; and the indignity with which she was treated ,
her ill-offices could alone enable her to perceive that i am actuated by any design in behaviour so gentle and
to the ball , and when sent off with a parting worry to dress , moved as languidly towards her
a man who had been in motion since eight o ' clock in the morning , and might now have
they travelled .
they will hear you .
large purchases of linen , china , &c .
but , really , i know not what to say .
rushworth and his fair bride are at brighton , i understand ; happy man !
to a window , and anne seeming to watch him , though it was from thorough absence of mind ,
” they combated the point some time longer in the same way ; emma rather gaining ground over the mind
—a companion whose judgment would guide , whose attendance must relieve , and whose friendship might soothe her !
" anne caught his eye , saw his cheeks glow , and his mouth form itself into a momentary expression
no one but jane , she thought , could flatter herself with such an expectation .
maria joined them with the same intent , just then the stoutest of the three ; for the very circumstance
could she have supposed willoughby capable of departing so far from the appearance of every honourable and delicate feeling—so far
i always forgot .
” miss bingley immediately fixed her eyes on his face , and desired he would tell her what lady had
“yes , mary , ” was henry ' s concluding assurance .
wickham’s intention to go into the regulars ; and among his former friends , there are still some who are
her thoughts , reproved herself , and grieved lest they should have been suspected .
" " perhaps , then , " he hesitatingly replied , " what i heard this morning may be—there may
he should have worked upon my plans .
you pierce my soul .
for to supply her loss , he invited and received into his house the family of his nephew mr .
” “knew of it !
her impatience was severe .
on a more interesting subject , and a warmer manner .
possession of an independent fortune , of so many thousands as would always be called ten ; a point of
" not go to town !
; and after taking privateers enough to be very entertaining , i had the good luck in my passage home
my dear catherine , we are to part .
he loved a garden .
” “there , papa !
” “to oblige you , i would try to believe almost anything , but no one else could be benefited
he did not mean to say that there were no pretty women , but the number of the plain was
when mrs .
like encouragement .
the idea soon reached to conviction , as she observed his increasing civilities toward herself , and heard his frequent
elton was in being in the same room at once with the woman he had just married , the woman
in the world , and of being so very early engaged as a partner ; and the consequence was that
i had depended on her fortitude too far , and the blow was a severe one , but had her
could not but indulge herself in dwelling on so beloved a theme .
three months will complete his ordination .
—but to speak with such civility , to inquire after her family !
” “they talked a great deal about him , especially anne cox .
this conviction .
vexation .
” “we think so very differently on this point , mr .
woodhouse could not be soon reconciled ; but the worst was overcome , the idea was given ; time and
james morland , before she remembered that her eldest brother had lately formed an intimacy with a young man of
perfectly revived , in excellent spirits , with fresh hopes and fresh schemes .
they are all remarkably clever ; and they have so many pretty ways .
case .
nor was her respect for him , though it made her more quiet , at all likely to make her
for that .
about three hours after his arrival , he had secured his lady , engaged her mother ' s consent ,
it was altogether very extraordinary ; flattering , but painful .
can the old lady ?
every person of sense , however , will know how to value and commend her well-directed affection , and will
—very odd !
of those bewitching powers which can do so much—engaging at the same time , and in the same house ,
jennings , " and then perhaps you may find out what his business is .
the usual share , had even more than the usual share of all such solicitudes and suspense been theirs ,
, it was impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the other ; and
oh yes , friday or saturday next .
as another daughter , in all the rational pleasures of an elegant society , and a judicious mixture of home
but were i to attempt to tell you of all the women whom i have known to be in love
their reach .
” while they talked , they were advancing towards the carriage ; it was ready ; and , before she
; —for the rest of the party none at all .
”— “i have none of the usual inducements of women to marry .
“i am very sure , ” said she , “that my father has promised to do as much as he
from my brother that the power of receiving it had been made over some months before to another person .
the grounds of hartfield were small , but neat and pretty ; and the house was modern and well-built .
norris ; “she was here a moment ago .
his pleasing manners and good sense were self-evident recommendations ; and having never heard evil of him , it was
i have heard him express himself so warmly on those points !
she could have made an inquiry or two , as to the expedition and the expense of the irish mails
a pleasure to increase with their approach to the capital freehold mansion , and ancient manorial residence of the family
deserved .
” “and the next news , i suppose , will be , that we are to lose you—just as i
” “sir , ” said mr .
but she had an almost instant doubt of his caring for her as he had done , of his feeling
but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is such a presumption !
how often do i pace it three times a day , early and late , ay , and in all
it is without a drawback .
old grievances , and that if she were not wrong before , she is now .
i must go and comfort mama .
the consideration of mrs .
you know what he thinks of cowper and scott ; you are certain of his estimating their beauties as he
the wonder , the reflections , the reproach that must attend it ; happy to secure a marriage which would
mine , it will unite us again in the same intimacy as ever .
woman as mrs .
ease of spirits .
; no , certainly , it is too strong and concise ; not diffuse enough for a woman .
is a great blessing .
she occupied her mind as much as possible in such like musings and quotations ; but it was not possible
sequel of an unnatural beginning .
and yet , when we talked about it in bath , you little thought of its ending so .
with which she felt it .
if you will , therefore , have the unspeakably great kindness of taking my part with her , and persuading
storm , been more attractive to her .
life has been spent on board a ship .
not so , indeed ; for , seriously speaking , i am very sure that conscience only kept edward from
had been such as could not be related without anguish of spirit , or listened to without corresponding indignation .
—but it had been no present hope—he had only , in the momentary conquest of eagerness over judgment , aspired
: " so , miss anne , sir walter and your sister are gone ; and what part of bath
the bride was elegantly dressed ; the two bridesmaids were duly inferior ; her father gave her away ; her
my courage rises while i write .
too late by those who feel like me .
, or any such expressions of tender gallantry as had blessed the morning .
to give you all the relief in my power , be assured that no such effect has followed his attentions
knightley in her way ; or , perhaps , he might come in while she were paying her visit .
the reasons for this alteration were at the same time related , and they were such as to make further
pain by any enquiry after his rival ; and at length , by way of saying something , she asked
calculated to interest and alarm ; and though she dared not waste a moment upon a second attempt , she
very pleasant party .
, and look upon verdure , is the most perfect refreshment .
” as i perfectly agreed with her in the justice of her sentiments the postilion was instantly directed to return
set of men but what lose something of their personableness when they cease to be quite young .
allen ' s , as well as her father ' s , including church-yard and orchard .
, was amazingly disposed to follow and tease me , before you went away .
—sir , you have been entirely mistaken in supposing it .
she would try to be more ambitious than her heart would allow .
jennings ' s conversation , she was herself left to quiet reflection .
he might have determined not to look , she was confident that he was often listening .
his regret increased as he listened .
“i beg your pardon , miss morland , ” said she , “for this liberty—but i cannot anyhow get to
how[ _num_ ] little did i then think that the very first news i should hear from mrs .
the contrivances of modern days indeed have rendered a gentleman ' s carriage perfectly complete .
” “yes , very indifferent indeed , ” said elizabeth , laughingly .
' s head , is not it , miss elliot ?
dennison ' s mistake , in supposing his sisters their guests , had suggested the propriety of their being really
if i could but see her again !
do you think it incredible that mr .
unprincipled fortune-hunter .
missed an opportunity of introducing it , and was particularly careful to inform her confidante , of her happiness whenever
thing but tea and quadrille .
he advised her against it , thought the jar too great ; but no , he reasoned and talked in
amiable and obliging .
if we do not outdo ecclesford , we do nothing .
—there was not a hint of mr .
i cannot approve of it .
” “yes , ” added miss tilney , “and i remember that you undertook to read it aloud to me
” happy julia !
it now became necessary for the party to consider what was best to be done , as to their general
” “oh no ; —and it is but a short letter too .
—the rest had been the work of the moment , the immediate effect of what he heard , on his
i know not what to think .
for him and for almost every one of the party on the development before him , with solicitude on edmund
“i cannot agree with you .
at four they were to dine , and at six to set off on their return .
crawford , without throwing a shade on the admiral .
“and did you then never feel the pleasing pangs of love , augusta ?
no respectable relations .
his daughters , he felt , while they retained the name of bertram , must be giving it new grace
i am convinced that she is not without a decided preference .
sometimes , indeed , i have thought you were half suspecting me of pleading poor martin ' s cause ,
, that anne felt her spirits not likely to be benefited by an increasing acquaintance among his brother-officers .
slight motion of the lock proved that some hand must be on it .
newspaper .
" and elizabeth , to do her justice , had , in the first ardour of female alarm , set
" oh , they are talking of their favourite beaux , i dare say .
lady susan ' s age is itself a material objection , but her want of character is one so much
the morning after our arrival at the cottage , sophia complained of a violent pain in her delicate limbs ,
his first object with her , he acknowledged , had been to persuade her to quit her present disgraceful situation
for me , and next to edward ' s love , it is the greatest comfort i have .
cole but yesterday , and he quite agreed with me ; only he is so particularly fond of music that
he professed himself extremely anxious about her fair friend—her fair , lovely , amiable friend .
they were totally preoccupied .
they were of course all intending to be surprised ; but their astonishment was beyond their expectation ; and on
rushworth too , but had nothing to say .
sweet child and after saluting matilda and me hastily broke from us and seating himself in his chaise , pursued
at first , it was a sort of stupefaction ; but every moment was quickening her perception of the horrible
his confusion at seeing me was very evident .
the necessity must be obeyed , and further apology would be absurd .
you will find , whenever the subject becomes freed from its present restraints , that it did not take her
what he really felt .
for all the others , they are the stupidest things in creation .
other alternative .
your kindness almost overpowers me .
never in her life had elinor found it so difficult to be calm , as at that moment .
must go and speak to dr .
whom would it not injure ?
vernon milkiness ; but on receiving the letter in which i declared my intention about sir james , she actually
i meet them wherever i go ; and i declare , i never go twice into my nursery without seeing
i talked to him about you and your daughter , and he is so far from having forgotten you ,
doing it should be given so soon , was such an instance of lady catherine’s condescension , as he knew
in the idea of their being coupled in their friends ' imaginations .
immediately said : “mr .
and so the letter that came today finished it !
his heart out .
this apartment , to which she had given a date so ancient , a position so awful , proved to
of amelia if well supported , that is , if everything went well , i shall be sorry to be
day , though a long day ' s journey ; and their mother ' s servant might easily come there
her awe of her uncle , and her dread of taking a liberty with him , made it instantly plain
chapter xxxii fanny had by no means forgotten mr .
only my pattern gown is at hartfield .
” as he spoke there was a sort of smile which elizabeth fancied she understood ; he must be supposing
" " to-morrow , marianne !
then—some time or other we shall be happy to hear you .
would be enjoyed—but it might have happened at a better time—and to have had longer notice of it , would
great enough to warrant any strength of language in which he could clothe it to her or to himself ;
you have liked many a stupider person .
" she could not immediately have uttered another sentence ; her heart was too full , her breath too much
” “no—i cannot talk of books in a ball-room ; my head is always full of something else .
weston ' s shall clear him and his next neighbour .
she is a woman that one may , that one must laugh at ; but that one would not wish
to be , in himself , a sensible , careful , discerning sort of character ; but colonel wallis has
she says lizzy had better have taken mr .
” catherine coloured , and disclaimed again .
of attending .
a street , and you are only a fly in the comparison .
that though to the larger and more trifling part of the sex , imbecility in females is a great enhancement
she gave a slight glance round the table , and applied herself to it .
“do you dare to suppose me so great a blockhead , as not to know what a man is talking
he had all the clearness and quickness of mind which she wanted , and he could sometimes act an ungracious
he ought to have opposed the first attempt on their side to make him slight his father .
oh , barbarously insolent !
being wasted in discontent .
the party at the great house was sometimes increased by other company .
myself , and as the two former were engaged in a whispering conversation , and the doctor fell asleep ,
the impatience of her curiosity might safely be indulged .
sure , in obliging the company with an air ; for i consider music as a very innocent diversion ,
" you know his hand , i dare say , a charming one it is ; but that is not
“my excellent father died about five years ago ; and his attachment to mr .
you are to thank your brother and me for the scheme ; it darted into our heads at breakfast-time ,
i never was so happy in my life !
letters ; on the contrary i intend to fill them with such lively wit and enlivening humour as shall even
elizabeth was pleased ; though when she asked herself the reason , she had very little to say in reply
their attention .
indulge .
marlowe who with her husband , brother and child are to leave bristol this morning .
fifty yards in mutual silence and abstraction .
” “you think it is all for ambition , then ?
unequal to his own , his aunt would address him on his weakest side .
i assure you i feel it none .
darcy walked off ; and elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings toward him .
by the report which he hastened over to kellynch to make , admiral croft was a native of somersetshire ,
me quite easy .
and for a few days they must be planning , proceeding and hoping in uncertainty—at the risk—in her opinion ,
weston ' s ball was to be a real thing .
you , at your age , alone , unattended !
anne mentioned the glimpses she had had of him at lyme , but without being much attended to .
you here sitting at this table at work ; and then your cousin ' s astonishment , when he opened
if we exert ourselves , i think we shall not be long in want of allies .
all the rest , in speculation at least , was perfectly smooth .
rest before he must have got into a portsmouth coach ; and though this offer of mr .
upon him which it may be very difficult to elude ; and therefore , thus much i venture upon ,
he merely added that he should not write again till he had something of importance to mention .
it mortifies me .
” “yes , ” said emma , “i hope i do .
she had never found it so difficult to listen to him , though nothing could exceed his solicitude and care
when the ladies were separating for the toilette , he said to elizabeth— “do not make yourself uneasy , my
miss crawford saw much of sir thomas ' s thoughts as he stood , and having , in spite of
“she did not choose it , ” said her daughter , “she would go .
“he has made me so happy , ” said she , one evening , “by telling me that he was
him as a very fine young man had made highbury feel a sort of pride in him too .
what a hard-hearted rascal i was !
” “that is a grand pianoforte , and he might think it too large for mrs .
happiest : she , in receiving his declarations and proposals , or he in having them accepted .
what do you think we have been sitting down for but to be talked to about it , and entreated
saw him .
to be called into notice in such a manner , to hear that it was but the prelude to something
could you have believed there had been such inconstancy and fickleness , and everything that is bad in the world
whatever must be most wounding to her irritable feelings , in her pursuit of one object , was such a
out when her cousin was married , miss crawford proceeded to inquire if she had heard lately from her brother
i have never been attached to him .
others had their hour ; and of lesser matters , none returned so often , or remained so long between
it is a great while since we have had any star-gazing .
either in the countenance or manner of miss crawford : nothing sharp , or loud , or coarse .
holla , you there !
he felt obliged , from a fear of offending mrs .
hear of it .
he who , she had been persuaded , would avoid her as his greatest enemy , seemed , on this
rushworth , senior , threatened alarmingly .
eyes , “that a sister’s sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt .
letter the eighth miss lutterell to mrs marlowe bristol april _num_ th i feel myself greatly obliged to you my
“his being so sure of succeeding was wrong , ” said she , “and certainly ought not to have appeared
” after another short hesitation , “i hope it does not proceed from—i hope it is not in compliment to
—absurd and insufferable !
more than could be told , that fanny could not have remained insensible of his drift , had she been
her from saying that she was happy to see him , and that she had very much regretted being from
it was not to be supposed that any other people could be meant than those with whom she was connected
where shall we sit ?
john thorpe was soon with them , and his voice was with them yet sooner , for on the stairs
that will be very bad .
he knows where we live .
my natural sensibility had already been greatly affected by the sufferings of the unfortunate stranger and no sooner did i
giving occasion of discontent to the others .
it makes me miserable ; but mr .
i am sure i do not know .
and been under the influence of his countenance and his manner , it is probable that her compassion would have
“where could you possibly hear it , mr .
that is all to be forgot .
of the lady , individually , emma thought very little .
so then he was monstrous happy , and talked on some time about what they should do , and they
” “have you never at any time had reason to think that he admired her , or that she admired
” “i do not know , my dear .
she had been very fond of her husband : she had buried him .
some are gone to the ponds , and some to the lime walk .
your home , country , friends , all quitted .
, she suspected , was all the conquest of prejudice which he was so ready to congratulate himself upon .
it must be the dullest thing in the world , for there is not a soul at clifton at this
” “but if i do not take your likeness now , i may never have another opportunity .
” “no , he does not know what he is about , ” cried catherine ; “he does not know
without exception , the sweetest temper i have ever met with .
her exertions did not stop here ; for she soon afterwards felt herself so heroically disposed as to determine ,
” “when i have seen mr .
“i must not dwell upon it , ” said she .
she never could learn or understand anything before she was taught ; and sometimes not even then , for she
bennet accepted the challenge , observing that he acted very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements
his own errors in the education of his daughters was never to be entirely done away .
i should be unwilling , i own , to live in any other part of the town ; —there is
” “i am not at all surprized that he should have fallen in love .
the part , we must not be surprised at the rest .
it is such a blessing !
depend upon it , that is a circumstance which his servants take care to publish , wherever he goes .
pity and contempt as he turned over the almost endless creations of the last century ; and there , if
were over , or he had reached the beginning of the joyful intelligence which his visitor came to communicate .
no , if you do not go , d—— me if i do .
had imagined .
try to understand the value of his preference , and the character of his temper ; but for all the
tilney , my partner , the only son ?
raised to the utmost ; and scarcely resolved to avail herself , at delaford , as far as she possibly
ferrars is one of the most affectionate mothers in the world .
susan was her only companion and listener on this , as on more common occasions .
they have known her much longer than they have known me ; no wonder if they love her better .
—that is—so very friendly ; i mean good mr .
, will be evident to you when you have considered our situation in the light in which i have found
—that , that is the worst of all .
—i had not observed .
so good-bye , my dear .
sole care , he may do what he likes with her .
lady lucas .
” and looking at her complacently , she added , “humph , we certainly are a handsome family !
ten thousand pounds .
sir walter thought much of mrs wallis ; she was said to be an excessively pretty woman , beautiful .
i am one of the exceptions , and being one , must do something for myself .
dear sister price to have them so well provided for .
who attended in the absence of her daughters .
ferrars could say to make him put an end to the engagement , assisted too as you may well suppose
disposes of my merchandise .
i passed off the letter as his wife ' s , to the vernons , and when i write to
had known her a month , he had married her .
miss fairfax , i dare say , would not have me if i were to ask her—and i am very
catherine ' s spirits revived as they drove from the door ; for with miss tilney she felt no restraint
i am afraid your new gown was put on for nothing .
interest with which she should attend to any thing jane might communicate .
walk for one day longer , and they would not hear of a refusal .
and had he not been perfectly without vanity of that kind , might have been tempted to order a new
till some of the rest began to think of them .
he thought it a very degrading alliance ; and lady russell , though with more tempered and pardonable pride ,
it was all your doing , " (turning to anne .
as a brother , a landlord , a master , she considered how many people’s happiness were in his guardianship
two days passed away from the time of mr .
that is quite—i suppose there never was a piece of news more generally interesting .
to the great surprise of all the party , when mr .
elton ' s conduct ; it had been unpardonable rudeness ; and mrs .
others did , and collect round the strawberry-beds .
prevented my forming any serious design .
reginald has long wished , i know , to see the captivating lady susan , and we shall depend on
elizabeth did all she could to shield him from the frequent notice of either , and was ever anxious to
a material drawback in leaving susan behind .
”— here was a sly glance at emma .
weston ' s manners , ” said emma , “were always particularly good .
and lydia , self-willed and careless , would scarcely give them a hearing .
” “my real purpose was to see you , and to judge , if i could , whether i might
of such a scheme—she owns it would be very agreable .
both gentlemen had a glance at fanny , to see if a word of accordant praise could be extorted from
" " my dear mrs smith , your authority is deficient .
feel that she had never loved harriet so well , nor valued her affection so highly before .
norris , “and what i was saying to my husband this morning .
allen agreed to it .
highly flattering .
for the true sentiments of a clever , cautious man , grown old enough to appreciate a fair character ?
am not to be allowed to stir ; and yet , i am sure , i am more unfit than
his leave of absence will soon expire , and he must return to his regiment .
one good thing was immediately brought to a certainty by this removal , —the ball at the crown .
for herself , she was left with as many sensations of comfort , as were , perhaps , ever likely
might be serviceable to her nieces .
beginning to feel myself rather an old married man , and that my dancing days are over , it would
new hat , that john thought her the most charming girl in the world , and by john ' s
though totally without accomplishments , she is by no means so ignorant as one might expect to find her ,
but you should not have taken it out , my dear , when i sent you to the drawer .
” “very well—very much .
he had placed near its summit , to oaks in general , to forests , the enclosure of them ,
he would walk round the ramparts , and join them with the carriage .
her perfect security in such a tete-a-tete from any sound of unkindness , was unspeakably welcome to a mind which
she had been always used to think herself a little inferior to maria .
west .
would have wanted for nothing .
thinking how it may be improved ; and nothing of that sort , you know , can be settled without
tom was engrossed by the concerns of his theatre , and saw nothing that did not immediately relate to it
she would probably repent it .
opposite the parsonage .
he heard her attentively , and then said : “lydia will never be easy until she has exposed herself in
thorpe would only have stopped , i would have jumped out and run after you .
the door the right way and never bangs it .
crawford , ” said her ladyship soon afterwards ; “and i will tell you what , i think you will
“oh , my dear , dear aunt , ” she rapturously cried , “what delight !
darcy was eyeing him with unrestrained wonder , and when at last mr .
i[ _num_ ] shall persuade her if i can to go early to bed , for i am sure she
—emma , i accept your offer—extraordinary as it may seem , i accept it , and refer myself to you
believe them to be stronger than i have declared ; believe them , in short , to be such as
affection would be his for ever .
miss fairfax must already have given her account .
not stirring from cleveland as long as marianne remained ill , and of endeavouring , by her own attentive care
knightley immediately got up , and in a manner decidedly graver than usual , said , “i would not go
” “but how will mr and mrs grenville bear your absence ?
dashwood which must generally have led to imprudence .
they may wish many things besides his happiness ; they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence ; they
wise to let the fancy touch it seldom ; for evil in that quarter was at hand .
must consider me as having a secret which was to be kept at all hazards .
bennet , and therefore , instead of making any answer , she went on as before .
by taking a circuitous route , and , as it appeared to her , very unreasonable direction to the knoll
that was all , i do assure you .
miss bates said a great deal ; mrs .
not , her face was like death .
miss price , known only by name to half the people invited , was now to make her first appearance
do look at it .
" " upon my word , " said mr .
always happy , she was reduced to the extremest indigence .
the violence of her feelings , which must wear her out , may be easily kept in irritation .
to slacken as a correspondent , it was for the sake of what had been , rather than what was
for him , while he hung about her and held down his head , to the great surprise of her
i hope you find a chair .
with more care for the safety of her new gown than for the comfort of her protegee , mrs .
and there , as they slowly paced the gradual ascent , heedless of every group around them , seeing neither
painful recollections will intrude which cannot , which ought not , to be repelled .
it was a right thing to do .
delight to me in my lonely hours to attend to them .
” “what can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation ?
this was the amount of the whole story , —of his communication and of harriet ' s as soon as
her first was to see anne happy .
a beloved home made over to others ; all the precious rooms and furniture , groves , and prospects ,
” “now you have given me a security worth having ; and i shall proceed with courage .
“no , no , no !
dear , miss woodhouse—well , at last , i fancy , he looked round and saw me ; for instead
nothing is wanting but to have you here , and it is our particular wish and entreaty that you would
but when it did come , where could distress be found ?
i shall do something to expose myself .
" i am no match-maker , as you well know , " said lady russell , " being much too
nothing , on the contrary , could be more natural ; and while able to suppose that it cost him
same time , than as she hoped by caroline’s not living in the same house with her brother , she
and not to be ' d , in this very room , for his amusement ?
not capable of being steadily attached to any one woman in the world , and shame him from persisting any
bennet as the carriage drove up to the door ; her husband looked impenetrably grave ; her daughters , alarmed
she fell asleep before she could answer the question , and found it quite as puzzling when she awoke the
given him her heart , to her it was always an object .
conservatory without having both his arm and his uncle ' s !
there she cannot be justified .
“this man is almost too gallant to be in love , ” thought emma .
nobody could tell .
” she then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each , and on which there could be no
; and if she does but send her aunt the pattern of a stomacher , or knit a pair of
" replied charles , " what ' s an evening party ?
, what a hardship we should deem it ; —and here are we , probably with rather thinner clothing than
, of my dear wickham .
its windows opening to the ground , admitted a most refreshing view of the high woody hills behind the house
how can two sermons a week , even supposing them worth hearing , supposing the preacher to have the sense
that they need not therefore be very uneasy about it , he went away ; leaving the three ladies unanimous
and that you must still fight your own battle .
rushworth is to act too , there can be no harm .
you must not judge of him , miss dashwood , from your slight acquaintance .
kind !
it is natural that obligation should be felt , and if i could feel gratitude , i would now thank
would advise you to do so and so”—and thought no more of it , till after a minute ' s
might have got some good news from town , so i took the liberty of coming to ask .
' you must all spend your evening with us , ' said she— ' i positively must have you all
how else could they come ?
and her brother to call on me to take a country walk .
strongly into the parlour , instead of cheering , made her still more melancholy , for sunshine appeared to her
we have heard nothing from town .
jennings soon came in .
rushworth and maria , standing side by side , exactly as if the ceremony were going to be performed .
pleasing it became .
and so delighted with mrs .
she paused over it , while harriet stood anxiously watching for her opinion , with a “well , well ,
she did not attribute guile to any .
i owed to my dearest friends—from openly showing that i was very unhappy .
darcy took her place by her niece , and they walked on together .
chapter xvi it was a very great relief to emma to find harriet as desirous as herself to avoid a
, and as the two boys chose to follow , though earnestly entreated by their mother to stay behind ,
elinor ' s happiness was not so great .
they were then , with no other delay than his pointing out the neatness of the entrance , taken into
wickham , and rejoiced in it .
” she was not deceived in her own expectation of pleasure ; the comedy so well suspended her care that
” emma was most happy to be called to such a council ; and her father , engaging to think
she ventured , when next alone with eleanor , to express her wish of being permitted to see it ,
, is bespoke by her cousin , the young parson .
places hardly enough to whiten the ground ; a very few flakes were falling at present , but the clouds
he could have no comfort but in edmund .
many returns of that delightful intercourse we have known , and in the meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation
she has been doing everything in her power by thinking and talking on the subject , to give greater—what shall
" " concealing it from us !
" elinor was half inclined to ask her reason for thinking so , because satisfied that none founded on an
darcy then was .
in silent despondence ; but her difficulties were instantly obviated , for with a readiness that seemed to speak the
, and only waited for courage to say so , when the sound of the great clock at mansfield park
palmer was so well at the end of a fortnight , that her mother felt it no longer necessary to
—at least you admire her except her complexion .
; but in the general amount of the day there was deficiency .
any attentions , and would be the very person for you to go into public with .
they returned , therefore , in good spirits to longbourn , the village where they lived , and of which
mrs croft always met her with a kindness which gave her the pleasure of fancying herself a favourite , and
bingley’s connections her brother was particularly anxious to conceal it , from the very wish which elizabeth had long ago
—i could never , i confess , from your manners , assure myself as to the degree of what you
herself at that moment the only speaker in the room , and to feel that almost every eye was upon
sedateness ; and he repeated his inquiries as to the time of her having left longbourn , and of her
it is more difficult to speak well than to compose well ; that is , the rules and trick of
, by the sound of a carriage ; and they perceived a chaise and four driving up the lawn .
bennet thought it possible they might have gone to one of them , on their first coming to london ,
in , he had said that he could not stay five minutes—and his having told her , during their conversation
one fatal swoon has cost me my life .
a regular way , in the country , choosing their own hours , following their own pursuits , and living
end of the affair , has been grounded on selfishness .
he was not calm ; his spirits were evidently fluttered ; there was restlessness about him .
lady ' s horse of her own , in the style of her cousins .
bingley would be soon down again and soon dining at longbourn , and the conclusion of all was the comfortable
“ah !
there was always such a great connexion between the dalrymples and ourselves .
attained , it would have quieted her ambition to see him driving a barouche .
he has very much at heart .
mary was in a state of mind to rejoice in a connexion with the bertram family , and to be
“in vain i have struggled .
to-morrow , if i could .
myself into the hands of an improver .
that woman they make such a fuss about , she who married the french emigrant .
attentions to her daughter .
people whom nobody cared about , and nobody wanted to see ; and he only was absent .
lord bless me !
“we miss our two young men , ” was sir thomas ' s observation on both the first and second
positively say , in every letter to mary , ' i am well , ' and i know you cannot
” “i am here on no business of my own , ” said emma ; “i am only waiting for
this , with such tenderness towards her , such affection for willoughby , and such a conviction of their future
“sir thomas would not like it .
he would then have suffered under the pecuniary distresses which , because they are removed , he now reckons as
i had known you were wanting an embrocation , i would have spoken to— “you seem to me to have
” miss greville laughed but i am sure ellen felt for me .
i do not want to add to anything you may now be feeling , by an account of what he
i would rather have an inferior degree of beauty , of my own choice , and acquired progressively .
been seen with mr elliot three hours after his being supposed to be out of bath , for having watched
i was exceedingly pleased to hear that mrs .
i question whether marianne now , will marry a man worth more than five or six hundred a-year , at
“oh , heavens !
may like me , it does not follow that i should—and certainly i must confess that since my visiting here
with a reasonable hope of its contributing to the comfort of a friend .
them the favour to eat a piece too .
scarcely any charm is lost .
” “with me , dear isabella !
to have any that can avail her .
dixon like mr .
" so wondered , so talked mrs .
[ _num_ ] chapter ii mrs .
' s being married .
her mother could even think of her being able to join their party at home , before her brothers and
" said elinor , " do you call colonel brandon infirm ?
we are handsome my dear charlotte , very handsome and the greatest of our perfections is , that we are
i think miss fairfax dances very well ; and mrs .
in hastily forming and giving his opinion of other people , in sacrificing general politeness to the enjoyment of undivided
integrity of mind , which her attentions , her assiduities , her flatteries at the park betrayed ; and she
do not forget your engagement .
long and unnatural estrangement , by a divorce which no subsequent connexion can justify , if such precious remains of
bennet wrote again to his brother , therefore , he sent his permission for them to come ; and it
your uncle and aunt will never allow you to leave england .
—too cheerful in my views to be captious .
but , dear mrs .
“i have not the pleasure of understanding you , ” said he , when she had finished her speech .
every day at longbourn was now a day of anxiety ; but the most anxious part of each was when
it used to stand here .
jennings recollected that there was a lady at the other end of the street on whom she ought to call
abroad or eating cold meat at home ; and great as was catherine ' s curiosity , her courage was
your little fidgets , going again and again into his room , to be sure that all is right .
, let it give you consolation to consider that , to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share
lady middleton seemed to be roused to enjoyment only by the entrance of her four noisy children after dinner ,
she expressed herself most willing , ready , happy to remain .
she is well married .
fetch her , but she was quite unpersuadable ; and this being the case , she had ere long the
to leave the house without some mention of one whose name had not yet been spoken by either , she
father without some help ; and so , when mr .
” “you are in luck .
of somerset , " and sir walter ' s handwriting again in this finale : -- " heir presumptive ,
earliest discussions of the lovers ; —and elinor ' s particular knowledge of each party made it appear to her
, yates , i think we must raise a little theatre at mansfield , and ask you to be our
you had rather take evil upon credit than good .
when my own resolution was taken i could not wish for the interference , however friendly , of another person
, for three or four hours , if that would content him .
let me hear from you soon—very soon .
wickham passed all his youth there , you know .
lively yet gentle— .
” “dining out , ” said mrs .
half the sum of attraction , on either side , might have been enough , for he had nothing to
from those she wants to be with ; but one cannot comprehend a young man ' s being under such
norris , unable to be longer deaf ; “unless i had gone myself , indeed ; but i cannot be
how can she find any appellation for them , deep enough in familiar vulgarity ?
” this availed nothing .
” she opened the parlour door , and saw two gentlemen sitting with her father—mr .
might in time relent .
to have his errors made public might ruin him for ever .
not do just as well , or a great deal better : whether fanny herself were not growing as dear
do not you think , anne , it is being over-scrupulous ?
" where is marianne ?
been cleared of every object enforcing the remembrance , and restored to its proper state .
into a certain mill , which i design for somebody else .
had been for some time my intention to re-establish my circumstances by marrying a woman of fortune .
and round their enormous great wide table , too , which fills up the room so dreadfully !
" elinor was silent .
she was disheartened by lady bertram ' s silence , awed by sir thomas ' s grave looks , and
” “why , as to that , my good friend , till i and my company have really acted there
elton ' s superiority had very ample acknowledgment .
” “it will , indeed , after such an absence ; an absence not only long , but including so
" " well , well ; whatever colonel brandon may be , edward is a very lucky man .
into an engagement while my circumstances were so greatly embarrassed .
of furniture .
a woman married only six months ago ; a man professing himself devoted , even engaged to another ; that
there was even pleasure with the surprise .
dare say .
it is a great deal too bad .
a very little , and it did not disturb me .
in vain ; mary would not understand them ; such an opportunity of exhibiting was delightful to her , and
frank churchill and miss woodhouse danced—for doing that in which she need not blush to compare herself with jane fairfax—and
no danger of her seeing either of them , to prevail on her sister , who had never yet left
—but you are miserably behindhand .
tender , at least as reasonable and just as what jane felt for bingley .
of renewed separation from mansfield ; and she could not think of his returning to town , and being frequently
" elinor , smiling at the grave and decisive importance of her brother ' s tone , calmly replied— "
surprise was the least of her feelings on this development .
“i am sure it is quite unnecessary upon your sister ' s account and mine .
by her sister .
he stood by her , however , for some minutes , in silence ; and , at last , on
i bring a new proposal on the subject : —a thought of my father ' s , which waits only
and then replied— " ay , you will make conquests enough , i dare say , one way or other
but she is too much like her brother—very , very proud .
" " oh , yes ; he had been staying a fortnight with us .
" " phoo !
“he meant i believe , ” replied jane , “to go to epsom , the place where they last changed
i am amazed that you should think of such a thing .
way , to be a renter , a chuser of books !
a very few days brought the party from london , and she had no sooner an opportunity of being one
crawford ' s willingness ; but why should not more of us go ?
" " well , she is to marry him .
with them .
" colonel wallis had been so impatient to be introduced to them !
house , such as one might suppose a respectable old country family had lived in from generation to generation ,
parlour at rosings ; a comparison that did not at first convey much gratification ; but when mrs .
her daughter ' s constitution !
very wild .
“but how did he account for it ?
picturesque beauty was .
" [ _num_ ] " then i must bid you farewell for a longer time than i should wish to
i think , emma , i shall try and persuade her to stay longer with us .
that i would thus betray his failings .
feelings , hopes which must , at any rate , have been torn from me now .
, such shameful , insolent neglect of her , and such apparent devotion to miss w .
sharers in their felicity ; and two “dears” at once before the name of isabella were not more than that
hughes saw all the clothes after they came from the warehouse .
the evening passed without any further disturbance , and , in the occasional absence of general tilney , with much
—she hardly knew how she could bear it !
” “i am sure i know none so handsome ; but in the gallery up stairs you will see a
, more liberality and candour on those points than formerly .
i dare not let my mother know how little she eats—so i say one thing and then i say another
it was impossible for her to have forgotten to feel that this arrival of their common friends must be soon
and to marry for money i think the wickedest thing in existence .
through the common drawing-room and one useless antechamber , into a room magnificent both in size and furniture—the real drawing-room
i have been a perjured witness in every public tryal for these last twelve years ; and i have forged
quite ridiculous , quite absurd , to make any further objection .
” “he knew nothing about it , emma .
he so near her , and in misery .
, and to tell willoughby when she saw him next , that it must be declined .
the window , the gratitude expressed by the latter on their parting , may perhaps appear in general , not
many a generation must have passed away since the first partial falling of the cliff prepared the ground for such
but certainly there is much more sameness in a country life than in a bath life .
julia did seem inclined to admit that maria ' s situation might require particular caution and delicacy—but that could not
palmer himself , as , joined to the very great amendment of his manners towards them since her sister had
it was fanny ' s first ball , though without the preparation or splendour of many a young lady '
in this unceasing recurrence of doubts and inquiries , on any one article of which her mind was incapable of
his attachment excited gratitude , his general character respect ; but she could not approve him ; nor could she
—there are the yellow curtains that miss nash admires so much .
knightley ' s claims on his brother , or any body ' s claims on isabella , except his own
we have carriages to fetch and convey her home , and we live in a style which could not make
" " it would be impossible to go to-morrow .
elton , how elegant she looks !
” “yes , it does give a notion , ” said catherine warmly , “and that is , that you
her face was averted from those who had made the attack , and turned towards her aunt .
” “it contained something worse than anybody could suppose !
weston had foreseen , before she had the power of forming some opinion of frank churchill ' s feelings .
i have quite as great an interest in being careful of his house as you can have ; and as
an agreeable drive of almost twenty miles , they entered woodston , a large and populous village , in a
how was she to bear the change ?
” for about the fifth time he then proposed the heir at law , doubting only whether to prefer lord
meanness of opinions , and very distressing vulgarity of manner ; but these are not incurable faults ; nor ,
thought so by ninety-nine people out of an hundred ; and till it appears that men are much more philosophic
better wait an hour or two , or even half a day for your letters , than run the risk
lizzy is not a bit better than the others ; and i am sure she is not half so handsome
she was as welcome to wish herself there as to be there .
do not be so shamefaced .
“you scarcely touch me , ” said he .
: a volume of shakespeare .
could not require you to wait for his emancipation .
she was an altered creature , quieted , stupefied , indifferent to everything that passed .
make haste , and come down this moment .
a slight inclination of the head , and sat down without saying a word .
by the bye , that is almost enough to put one out of conceit with a niece .
“we are wasting time most abominably .
for nine successive mornings , catherine wondered over the repetition of a disappointment , which each morning became more severe
dashwood ; " these objections are nonsensical .
— she came forward with an offered hand ; and said , in a low , but very feeling tone
company , and anxiously recommending the study of her comfort and amusement to his children as their chief object in
“i can hardly believe you , ” he replied ; “i know your looks too well .
—do you imagine it to be the consequence of an immediate commission from him , or that he may have
of mr elliot ; and she did not mean , whatever she might feel on lady russell ' s account
” “not half a mile , ” was his sturdy answer ; for he was not yet so much in
” elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment ; yet she tried to the utmost to speak with composure
every moment had brought a fresh surprize ; and every surprize must be matter of humiliation to her .
sir walter had resented it .
was impossible .
having no parent living , found a home for half a year at monkford .
but what can be the matter ?
guess my surprise , when i found that i had been asking the most unreasonable , most impossible thing in
sentiments on this subject so much the same .
a family nowadays ; and after all that romancers may say , there is no doing without money .
she desires the connexion as warmly as your uncle or myself .
it was in the highest spirits : “her view of the country was charming , she wished they could all
cry ; and the little girl who was spoken of in the drawing-room when she left it at night as
she deserved , for , with a most obstinate and ill-judged secrecy , she would tell nothing , would give
mentioning it .
entered his , without being vexed in some way or other , by its falling short of his plan .
already , ) and she only demands from each of you either one thing very clever , be it prose
” “it seems very odd , ” said maria , “that you should be staying at home instead of fanny
at last that he must know the carriage to be in fact perfectly safe , and therefore would alarm herself
i knew how it would be .
darcy , by coming in all this state to hear me ?
elinor answered in some distress that she was , and then talked of head-aches , low spirits , and over
i could have no right .
elton grew even worse than she had appeared at first .
he , who had married a daughter to mr .
" elinor could only smile .
her resentment of such behaviour , her indignation at having been its dupe , for a short time made her
“what have you got there , my love ?
i assure you , captain wentworth , we are very sorry he ever left you .
amiable and affectionate ; wrapt up in her family ; a devoted wife , a doating mother , and so
” “i know you do ; and it is that which makes the wonder .
but he did not ; he seemed in no hurry to leave her ; and presently with renewed spirit ,
we do not like our lodgings here the worse , i can tell you , for putting us in mind
with what sparkling eyes and ready motion she granted his request , and with how pleasing a flutter of heart
even your mother was out to-day for above an hour .
but still i am not without apprehensions of your being shortly obliged to degrade yourself in your own eyes by
” emma had not to listen to such paradings again—to any so exclusively addressed to herself—so disgustingly decorated with a
jennings at the door in her way to the carriage , as he came to leave his farewell card ;
to think that he had said too much , and by his countenance gave rise to conjectures , which might
lose no time , my dearest , sweetest catherine , in writing to him and to me , who ever
have you not heard me say that from his earliest hours he was destined for his cousin ?
” “but have you really heard of nothing ?
had lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her father , their indignation would hardly have
smallridge—charming woman—most superior—to have the charge of her three little girls—delightful children .
it does him the highest honour ; it shews his proper estimation of the blessing of domestic happiness and pure
recollection .
look so to all the others , but not to him !
but knew not why , and delicacy had kept him silent .
was aware of its being very impertinent , but he took the liberty of a relation ; and concluded by
brought fanny to life again , enabling her , as she found she was expected to speak , to utter
with so complete a satisfaction , as no remembrances , even connected with mr .
embarrassment which might have informed catherine , had she been more expert in the development of other people ' s
hours and hours to her amusement .
more than possible .
i know why you inquire about him , very well ; your sister is to marry him .
i had no great difficulty in convincing de courcy , when we were alone , that i was perfectly justified
” her aunt assured her that she was , and elizabeth having thanked her for the kindness of her hints
each ; and that when once entered into , they belong exclusively to each other till the moment of its
she could not help being vexed at the non-appearance of mr .
as i certainly would not accept again ; but i was determined to make no difficulties .
madam , i was used to it then , but when willoughby broke his engagements i had not been dissapointed
knightley , “she certainly is handsome ; she is better than handsome !
sir thomas , meanwhile , went on with his own hopes and his own observations , still feeling a right
a drawer in the kitchen , the small party of females were pretty well composed , and the mother having
were no other island in the world .
woodhouse , “i think there are few places with such society as highbury .
everybody said so .
thomas were present ; but the subject involving , as it did , her own evening ' s comfort for
extent to be proud of between two walls , perhaps thirty feet asunder .
a low phaeton , with a nice little pair of ponies , would be the very thing .
knightley was to come at such a time , and follow up the beginning she was to make .
sense , either natural or improved—want of elegance—want of spirits—or want of temper .
i dared not address her openly ; my difficulties in the then state of enscombe must be too well known
—“he must be going .
it is not so very likely he should be distressed in his circumstances now , for he is a very
every day added something to their knowledge of the officers’ names and connections .
” voices approached the shop—or rather one voice and two ladies : mrs .
" " do not be alarmed , " said miss dashwood , " nothing of the kind will be done
followed by matter-of-fact prose .
" said he , " and who is miss anne elliot to be visiting in westgate buildings ?
“hum—i do not know him .
, ” she so very soon proceeded to ask them what they advised her to do , that their advice
perry called at hartfield , the same morning , it appeared that she was so much indisposed as to have
“such a fortnight as it has been !
bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married ; and she called at longbourn rather oftener than usual to
there can be no love in all this .
, and then all were gone .
i am not equal to it .
john knightley was she indebted for her first idea on the subject , for the first start of its possibility
jennings rather disappointed .
she will grow just refined enough to be uncomfortable with those among whom birth and circumstances have placed her home
jennings is from home .
miss bertram began again .
she trusted he would never speak of miss thorpe ; and indeed , as he must by this time be
”—but , in spite of these deficiencies , the wishes , the hopes , the confidence , the predictions of
“matilda (said he at parting) you and margaret will i am certain take all the care of my dear little
village , without wondering whether she might see him or hear of him .
table , she returned it— “oh !
the interval in writing to her mother , and sat down for that purpose .
, gave them directions as to the best method of packing , and was so urgent on the necessity of
weston , to congratulate her , and a very proper , handsome letter it was .
i reflected that if by this second marriage sir george should have a second family , our fortunes must be
she is reserved , more reserved , i think , than she used to be—and i love an open temper
you will laugh at my warmth—but , upon my word , i talk of nothing but jane fairfax .
viii mrs .
known the regret and reluctance of her heart in quitting that chair , in preparing to quit the room ,
different marriages ; and why was he to ruin himself , and their poor little harry , by giving away
have a perfect stranger .
” “not those who bring such fresh feelings of every sort to it as you do .
said mrs .
i only know that i never yet heard her admit any instance of a second attachment ' s being pardonable
being formed into pictures , with all the eagerness of real taste .
less excusable than i now find it .
you chose to consult the admiral before you made up your mind .
to her happiness .
be discretion in spending it ; but , in short , it is not a favourite profession of mine .
my mother was in hysterics , and though i endeavoured to give her every assistance in my power , i
they were .
” emma felt that she could not do better than go home directly .
i thought it very well done of him indeed .
she said nothing ; and eleanor , endeavouring to collect herself and speak with firmness , but with eyes still
—the intimacy between her and emma must sink ; their friendship must change into a calmer sort of goodwill ;
of not being in love with her , that i should not wonder if it were to end in his
strangers filling their place !
ever in seeing mr .
she persisted in placing his scruples to her account , though sir thomas very solemnly assured her that , had
one of the least agreeable proofs of his growing attachment .
oh , for shame !
in addition to his eldest son ' s extravagance , it became not undesirable to himself to be relieved from
, and quiet rational conversation , even for an hour or two , might do her good ; and the
morland ' s assistance , as well in giving encouragement , as in finding conversation for her guest , whose
; “and storms and sleeplessness are nothing when they are over .
or dance anywhere ; and anne , very much preferring the office of musician to a more active post ,
oh , how fallen in their destination !
suddenly expires in the socket , and leaves you in total darkness .
let her go , then .
and miss crawford ' s having applied to her uncle and obtained his permission was giving her ease .
it ; and i think he does .
a single woman , with a very narrow income , must be a ridiculous , disagreeable old maid !
they lived together ; and when dr .
as he came off ; poor lucy in such a condition , he says , she could hardly walk ;
inferiority , the want of which is really the great evil to be avoided in not marrying , i shall
was glad to rest altogether for present ease and comfort .
of the ground being covered with snow , and of its still snowing fast , with a strong drifting wind
emma was ready for her visitor some time before he appeared ; but if this reflected at all upon his
we[ _num_ ] all wish her extremely happy ; and mrs .
(said i , with the greatest complacency , for i assure you my dearest charlotte i was not in the
but she said he seemed quite angry at being spoke to .
i have been a selfish being all my life , in practice , though not in principle .
but " they should meet again .
” “i am sure i shall be miserable if we do not .
the event has proved , that i was a cunning fool , providing with great circumspection for a possible opportunity
he had been to several families that morning in hopes of procuring some addition to their number , but it
not a soul suspected anything of the matter , not even nancy , who , poor soul !
there—very good school-room chairs , not made for a theatre , i dare say ; much more fitted for little
let us have no ranting tragedies .
—never happier than when behaving so dishonourably and unfeelingly !
such a circumstance could only exasperate farther , and , when he ceased , the colour rose into her cheeks
if he fears me , why come hither ?
i have half an idea of going into norfolk again soon .
catherine , supposing some uneasiness on captain tilney ' s account , could only express her concern by silent attention
quarrel with him for his wish of independence .
really serviceable to mrs .
we leave bath , as she has perhaps told you , on saturday se ' nnight .
i say , sir , ” turning to mr .
elizabeth could not help saying , “it is very much to his credit , i am sure , that you
, be deemed only half a fool , for thinking himself and elizabeth as blooming as ever , amidst the
but , however , he is very welcome to come to netherfield , if he likes it .
resist such high authority , and to distrust his powers of giving universal pleasure .
in the evening a few circumstances occurred which he thought more promising .
i am only sorry it was not recollected sooner , that i might have written home .
it would be so great a disappointment to mr .
of post their ready consent to her visit in gloucestershire .
and xxxiv .
but that it was so , had not only been declared by lucy ' s eyes at the time ,
but , poor things !
might be more than a temporary accommodation to yourself—such , in short , as might establish all your views of
the difference in that respect of richmond and london was enough to make the whole difference of seeing him always
she is a good-hearted girl as ever lived .
yes , quite a proposal of marriage ; and a very good letter , at least she thought so .
all getting forward ; but though no other great impediments arose , fanny found , before many days were past
you must go ; you cannot refuse going now .
norris , who was cross because the housekeeper would have her own way with the supper , and whom she
after wandering about and sitting under trees with fanny all the summer evenings , he had so well talked his
—i pity you .
and this dear parlour in which our acquaintance first began , and in which so many happy hours have been
meeting you again .
" " i would not wish to do any thing mean , " he replied .
“but , depend upon it , mr .
suckling ' s own family , and mrs .
—there it goes , and there is an end , thank heaven !
” catherine could almost have accused isabella of being wanting in tenderness towards herself and her sorrows , so very
but in such cases as these , a good memory is unpardonable .
i will go and tell charles , and get ready directly .
ferrars very well .
that she was to lead the way and open the ball ; an idea that had never occurred to her
his long residence at hartfield , and his good nature , from his fortune , his house , and his
and though in some points of pursuit or observation there was no positive merit , they shewed , altogether ,
woodhouse must not , under the specious pretence of a morning drive , and an hour or two spent at
she might have disdained him in all the dignity of angry virtue , in the grounds of sotherton , or
yates , “with only just a side wing or two run up , doors in flat , and three or
i could only take him by stealth ; neither of them very like therefore .
indeed i am quite of your opinion .
“to be sure , i had much rather she had stayed in harbour , that i might have sat a
the wedding over , and the bride-people gone , her father and herself were left to dine together , with
whomsoever they chose , without any feeling of humanity or remorse ; till a violent death or a religious retirement
“i do not want her at all for myself , ” said he ; “but whenever you are next inclined
honest to flatter , gave her instantly that praise and support which her frankness and her contrition so well deserved
cousins the excellency of its cooking was owing .
a more inviting accent , renewed the conversation ; for as to the subject which had first introduced it ,
tears so inexcusable in them as they would be in me .
sincerely wish you happy in your choice , and it shall not be my fault if we are not always
how am i ever to look him in the face and say such things ?
donwell lane is never dusty , and now it is perfectly dry .
weston ' s time of life ?
his life , without activity of mind or body , he was a much older man in ways than in
this was almost cruel .
is not obtained at a moment ' s notice ; indeed , indeed , we must begin inquiring directly .
french ; and when they perceived her to be little struck with the duet they were so good as to
” “you are expecting her again , you say , this morning ?
himself , whom he had chanced to meet again in town , and who , under the influence of exactly
in some circles , we know , she would never be admitted , but with good dinners , and large
fears , was , that he had perhaps been communicating his plans to his brother , and was pained by
you were perfectly right !
long before he reappeared , attending the short , neat , brisk-moving aunt , and her elegant niece , —mrs
the party before her were , mrs musgrove , talking to mrs croft , and captain harville to captain wentworth
but when my aunt has got a fancy in her head , nothing can stop her .
darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so little suited to recommend them ; but still more was
; but still more might be imputed to difference of circumstances .
of anybody else .
” “i am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation , ” replied elizabeth , “but it is
it might only drive harriet into asking her to hear too much ; and against any thing like such an
open , trusting liberality on the admiral ' s side , as could not but influence sir walter , who
—her days of insignificance and evil were over .
such a disappointment !
the worst of bath was the number of its plain women .
all that sounded extravagant or irrational in the progress of the reconciliation might have no origin but in the language
“i see how it is , ” said she .
own satisfaction in the year _num_ , after having prevailed on his cousin and predecessor richard the _num_ nd ,
other littleness ; and having with modest reluctance given her consent , proceeded to make the selection .
a few hours would take you there ; but a journey of seventy miles , to be taken post by
" cried anne eagerly , " i hope i do justice to all that is felt by you , and
—“if i loved you less , i might be able to talk about it more .
she is quite determined .
from saturday to wednesday , however , they were now to be without henry .
i mention no names ; but happy the man who changes emma for harriet !
at present , however , i consider myself as quite fixed here .
my having prevented it may perhaps have given his wife an unfavourable impression , but where there is a disposition
it was a sweet view—sweet to the eye and the mind .
if tenderness could be ever supposed wanting , good sense and good breeding supplied its place ; and as to
intended to your uncle and aunt and me .
you did not love him ; nothing could have justified your accepting him .
you will see her to advantage ; see her and hear her—no , i am afraid you will not hear
tea was carrying round , and mr .
where , for many generations , they had lived in so respectable a manner as to engage the general good
their intimate friends who live in hertfordshire are not much better .
be punctual , for there will be no kind sister to get up for me .
he could not be satisfied without a promise—would not she give him her influence in procuring it ?
but i begged mr .
and can have no expenses of any kind !
” elizabeth read on : “i have seen them both .
i expect we shall be all very much at sotherton another year .
and wanted miss bertram to direct him ; but upon being made to understand the different style of the characters
i absolutely cannot do without music .
, for the recovery of his daughter .
who for many years of his life , had a constant companion and housekeeper in his sister .
” “you have said quite enough , madam .
edward had two thousand pounds , and elinor one , which , with delaford living , was all that they
with amazement did she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power ; and steadfastly was
authority .
reservations which invariably beset the critical pioneer .
nor solicited the avowal of .
complaining to charles vernon or his wife , and they had therefore no pretence for interference ; though my impertinent
to be acting !
—i would not have missed this meeting for the world .
) was scarcely less warm than hers ; and whose mind—oh !
, and she particularly wanted to convince lucy , by her readiness to enter on the matter again , and
etc .
“believe me , ” &c .
from that period his penance had become severe .
and respectability .
it seemed as if the whole might be traced to the influence of that sort of reading which she had
his character and his marriage been exactly what they ought , his smiles and his easy address , while he
and in short , she said more than her husband could long withstand , and as none of the others
do not you know that mr .
, the remembrance of it often becomes a pleasure .
if one could ascertain what the chief of them—the coles , for instance .
fanny live with me !
before the carriage drove to the door , i called them into my dressing-room , and as soon as they
she was first called to observe and approve him farther , by a reflection[ _num_ ] which elinor chanced one
with constant employment within .
she felt that she could so much more depend upon the sincerity of those who sometimes looked or said a
, plate , and linen was saved , and is now left to your mother .
chapter ii the little girl performed her long journey in safety ; and at northampton was met by mrs .
first morning , to be less disposed for employment than usual ; she was still busy and cheerful ; and
he said much of his earnest desire of their living in the most sociable terms with his family , and
he is your godfather , is not he ?
but did you never see him ?
and the widow and younger children would by that means be provided for .
” “because every look , every word betrays it , answered she ; come my dear henrietta , consider me
as long as she stays there , it is all very well .
chapter _num_ every morning now brought its regular duties—shops were to be visited ; some new part of the town
” “so scrupulous for others , ” he continued , “and yet so careless for herself !
declared that he meant to have a delightful evening .
” cried the mother—and “i should have known her anywhere for his sister !
" anne did think on the question with perfect decision , and said as much in reply as her own
i like him very much .
she still cherished a very tender affection for bingley .
bows or smiles—mr .
how could you behave so unfairly by your sister ?
and lamenting it , without altering her ways ; wishing to be an economist , without contrivance or regularity ;
and inquiry , and congratulations on her side , and explanations on miss bates ' s , was , that
all the rooms above , if her son had not interposed with a doubt of there being time enough .
the fever was subdued ; the fever had been his complaint ; of course he would soon be well again
we are very good friends , and though she never opens her lips before her mother , she talks enough
the whole being explained , many obliging things were said by the miss thorpes of their wish of being better
the truth is , that she was the only girl in company for you to notice , and you must
she used to be all unreserve , and to you more especially .
but i do not think it is at all a likely thing for him to do .
well , if you say it , it was so , i dare say—but for the life of me ,
none within the circle of her father ' s and mother ' s acquaintance to afford her the smallest satisfaction
able to dispense .
jane was so admired , nothing could be like it .
mary never wrote to bath herself ; all the toil of keeping up a slow and unsatisfactory correspondence with elizabeth
” he would give them his particular attendance .
useful occupation and the pleasures of society , the next eighteen or twenty years of his life passed cheerfully away
i have more than half an expectation of our all going abroad .
learn your part , and we will teach you all the rest .
—was it new for any thing in this world to be unequal , inconsistent , incongruous—or for chance and circumstance
becoming the other night at sir william’s in his regimentals .
i have no doubt that he will .
for the next evening , although utterly unknown to her before .
had miss bingley known what pain she was then giving her beloved friend , she undoubtedly would have refrained from
rudely and coarse .
speedy issue .
a table near her , most deedily occupied about her spectacles , and jane fairfax , standing with her back
bennet’s leaving them together , after a longer irritation than usual about netherfield and its master , she could not
am so little at my ease among strangers of gentility !
” “but william will write to you , i dare say .
, frightened almost out of her senses , sat on the edge of her chair , not knowing which way
here is a friend of mine , sam fletcher , has got one to sell that would suit anybody .
the subject dropt .
she had heard , as soon as she got back to mrs .
i would not , therefore , on my account , have you encumber one moment of your precious time by
” “you are fond of history !
, till i saw them the other day in milsom street ; i am naturally indifferent about flowers .
what elinor said in reply she could not distinguish , but judged from the motion of her lips , that
be perfectly happy in one of them ; and i can safely say , that the happiest part of my
—you see how my father and mrs .
“i see what a life i am to lead among you .
they agreed to get down the steps to the lower , and all were contented to pass quietly and carefully
i have told miss bennet several times , that she will never play really well unless she practises more ;
” “i dare say you believed it ; but i am by no means convinced that you would be gone
” “the garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane from rosings park , her
darcy’s letter to lady catherine was in a different style ; and still different from either was what mr .
, and all that can be said of one ' s happiness depending entirely on any particular person , it
i am quite determined to refuse him .
: “oh god !
into her schemes , and absent himself from devonshire for a while .
neither her inclination nor her actions .
so seldom that a letter , among the thousands that are constantly passing about the kingdom , is even carried
—if it had not been for you , i should certainly have lost all the happiness of this party .
business followed business ; the day was hardly long enough .
, and that will give you an opportunity of seeing all the actors at once .
her head , and that , much as they had all done for her , she seemed to be wanting
you must get a brown gown , and a white apron , and a mob cap , and we must
i do not suppose he ever thinks of me .
i do not advise the custard .
jennings ' s intimate acquaintance , whom she had met and invited in the morning , dined with them .
i have been always used to a very small income , and could struggle with any poverty for him ;
crawford ' s going or staying : but his good wishes for mr .
” said i , and instantly fainted in each other ' s arms .
marianne was , of course , kept in ignorance of all these arrangements .
imaginary convenience of any single being in the family .
” they were permitted to go alone ; and with a cordial nod from one , and a graceful bow
“but there will not be the smallest difficulty in filling it , ” he added .
” emma was obliged to ask what they had told her , though fearful of its producing mr .
tolerable sport the first three days , but there has been no attempting anything since .
edward has drawn his own lot , and i fear it will be a bad one .
forced to go into the room and interrupt them , to ask lucy if she would like to go ,
—birth , abilities , and education , had been equally marking one as an associate for her , to be
he was decidedly improved .
is not she a sister ' s child ?
he meant to resign his commission immediately ; and as to his future situation , he could conjecture very little
throughout the year .
yet , in spite of all this , anne had reason to believe that she had moments only of languor
] windsor-july .
the possibility of a relapse would of course , in some moments , occur to remind her of what anxiety
feel only for herself ; but other ideas , other considerations , soon arose .
on the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls , whose eagerness for their cousin’s appearance would not
gardiner was so little to be trusted .
the general were waiting to welcome her , without feeling one awful foreboding of future misery to herself , or
and my poor aunt talking of me every hour !
wingfield says it is entirely a mistake to suppose the place unhealthy ; and i am sure he may be
objection again , he might have been excused in her eyes for not waiting till sir thomas ' s return
perceive that anything of the kind was necessary ; and therefore , thanking them , said , “he preferred remaining
highbury , which he had always longed for—enough to marry a woman as portionless even as miss taylor , and
it will not do .
” “i beg your pardon , ” replied miss bingley , turning away with a sneer .
gentleness— " marianne , may i ask— " " no , elinor , " she replied , " ask nothing
the hasty engagement she had entered into with that woman—here , my dear madam , i was obliged to leave
two or three years , they always are put off when it comes to the point .
harriet was remembered only from being her friend .
i know that it has by many people been asserted and beleived that lord burleigh , sir francis walsingham ,
" " yes , but i had only the credit of servilely copying such sentences as i was ashamed to
you had , somehow or other , broken bounds yesterday , and run away from your own management ; but
i charged her to write to me very often , and to remember that if she were in any distress
of the other ; consequence has its tax ; i , john shepherd , might conceal any family-matters that i
she would not , could not believe , that mr .
picture of a man .
” “but then , if they should only be gone out for an hour till it is dryer , and
” “before the play , i am much mistaken if julia did not think he was paying her attentions .
human nature could support no more .
” “i do not believe mrs .
lydia’s going to brighton was all that consoled her for her melancholy conviction of her husband’s never intending to go
; and to have it stop at the sweep-gate was a pleasure to brighten every eye and occupy every fancy—a
very part of derbyshire to which he belonged .
one of whom was a clerk in a public office in london , and the other midshipman on board an
consolation , beyond the consciousness of doing right , that could remain to him in the loss of friends and
it seemed like wilful ill-nature , or a voluntary penance , for on these occasions it was not merely a
been blameless .
to begin with frank churchill , she could not lose by the change .
goddard ' s door , which i did the very last thing before i returned to dress , i was
then might she again take up the book of books with as much enjoyment as in her early youth ,
elizabeth smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants .
, gave her a feeling of complacency , which prevented her from being very ungracious .
you are going to a very particular friend .
” “your best friend upon such an occasion , ” said miss bertram calmly , “would be mr .
“she never appeared more amiable than in her behaviour to you last night .
" for my own part , " said he , " i am excessively fond of a cottage ; there
some dignity , as well as some convenience : the story told well ; he had not thrown himself away—he
shelter at ford ' s .
he saw wickham , and afterwards insisted on seeing lydia .
when he questioned , sir walter and elizabeth began to question also , but the difference in their manner of
if therefore she actually persists in rejecting my suit , perhaps it were better not to force her into accepting
" only think of elizabeth ' s including everybody !
weston , who seemed to have walked there on purpose to be tired , and sit all the time with
she could neither sit still nor employ herself for ten minutes together , walking round the garden and orchard again
” and she coloured at the idea ; but , recovering herself , said in a lively tone , “and
he saw you then at lyme , and liked you so well as to be exceedingly pleased to meet with
would he thank you , either on his own account or miss thorpe ' s , for supposing that her
“a gamester !
to be repeated to you .
, an adviser may , in an unlucky moment , lead it to do what it may afterwards regret .
was rising in importance from his present schemes .
herself , that if her sister persisted in going , she would go likewise , as she did not think
there was little intercourse with the parsonage .
difference .
they had their faults , and mrs .
there was no comfort in having him in london ; he might as well be at enscombe ; but richmond
her brother , whose eye she feared to meet , scarcely recollected her interest in the affair , and the
he was steady , observant , moderate , candid ; never run away with by spirits or by selfishness ,
elinor , while she waited in silence and immovable gravity , the conclusion of such folly , could not restrain
sir thomas , poor sir thomas , a parent , and conscious of errors in his own conduct as a
she was vexed beyond what could have been expressed—almost beyond what she could conceal .
us some day .
but they were entirely ignorant of what had passed ; and their raptures continued , with little intermission , to
i knew nothing at all of lady catherine’s connections .
" oh , elinor !
” “oh , mrs .
his return , and would hardly have found consolation in a knowledge of the interest it excited in the breast
her goodwill in the cause , emma could feel no certainty of its being already formed .
goddard ' s , ma ' am ?
" he wished her a good morning , and , attended by sir john , left the room .
father , hastily informed in angry terms of miss morland ' s departure , and ordered to think of her
i am sure i had not .
morland , ” she cried , “i would not do such a thing for all the world .
the struggle was great , but it ended too soon .
loin of pork—” “as to who , or what miss hawkins is , or how long he has been acquainted
some circumstances which nothing but a very sincere regard—nothing but an earnest desire of being useful—i think i am justified—though
such confidence of success in the principal , sir thomas was soon able to depend on it himself .
he had been to her cousins : he wanted , she supposed , to cheat her of her tranquillity as
to mary it was every way painful .
that evening seemed to be made up of exquisite moments .
beef , broiled mutton , and stewed soup enough to last the new-married couple through the honey-moon , i had
" are you going ?
be recollecting too ; but she behaved very well , and was only rather pale and silent .
, " now , edward , " said she , calling his attention to the prospect , " here is
” “bath is a charming place , sir ; there are so many good shops here .
” “that is a question which mr .
” “and if i did , (which , however , i am far from allowing) i should not feel that
every thing that had befallen her since our separation (the particulars of which if you are not already acquainted with
seeing her there , but no one appeared at them .
i wish jane fairfax very well ; but she tires me to death .
he is such a charming man , that it is quite a pity he should be so grave and so
reflection , she added , with revived security of edward ' s honour and love , and her companion '
gained him in the mess .
bingley’s large fortune , the mention of which gave animation to their mother , was worthless in their eyes when
she ate for breakfast , and how small a slice of mutton for dinner , as well as to see
scarcely had he done regretting mary crawford , and observing to fanny how impossible it was that he should ever
was hardly understood by her .
" " none , i thank you , unless you will give me the pleasure of your company the little
carriage ; which they were ready to enter five minutes after it stopped at the door , a punctuality not
the difference which randalls , randalls alone makes in your goings-on , is very great .
how old-fashioned it is !
but i knew not—i was afraid of doing too much .
chapter x one morning , about ten days after mrs .
whom she had been used ; he had never mentioned a wife , and he had acknowledged a sister .
outward demonstrations of joy , no words , no smiles .
" i think every one must admire it , " replied elinor , " who ever saw the place ;
who is to fight wickham , and make him marry her , if he comes away ?
woodhouse , i wish you had heard his gallant speeches to me at dinner .
scenes had passed in uppercross which made it precious .
soon , that i could not help affronting them .
but though she had seen all the members of the family , she had not yet heard all the noise
handsome , knew nothing of their plans ; and it was an agreeable surprize to her , therefore , to
not above ten miles , i dare say .
in my bath life , i have seen such instances of it !
—“his feelings are natural .
i acquit edward of essential misconduct .
early .
gentleman presented himself at her side .
quite mistaken , for she would not dance upon any account in the world .
and to call in a couple of chairwomen to assist them .
of freindship .
i was too cross to write .
his lies about the whole pemberley family are endless .
did you think me speaking improperly , lightly , irreverently on the subject ?
; cabbage-beds would have been enough to tempt the lady , who only wanted to be going somewhere .
we must look to her one fault , and remember that she had done a wrong thing in consenting to
her partiality for this gentleman was not of recent origin ; and he had been long withheld only by inferiority
however , i am sure james does not drink so much .
before the canvas on which he was represented , and fixed his eyes upon herself , she thought of his
he stayed with you half a minute longer .
he is just what the head of such a family should be .
had i known it , i would have had the pleasure of talking to him about you .
you could scarcely escape discredit and misery .
to the point by the shrewdness of the relator , been constrained to acknowledge himself incapable of giving the young
or twice at delaford for a few days , but it has never been in my power to return to
: he heard so much of my misery about it .
" replied elinor .
and then before the ball , the necklace !
it would be a great deal better for her to remain single ; and told of poor isabella , and
” and so saying , he turned back with them , and walked towards the house .
since you were fifteen only !
passing in the room during these visits .
morland ; “they must have a sad time of it ; but as for anything else , it is no
my brother did not deserve her ; he did not even love her .
woodhouse , a long , civil , ceremonious note , to say , with mr .
had been able to speak one intelligible sentence , she had introduced the subject in a manner which he owned
if she had been riding before , i should not have asked it of her .
frederica was no more altered than lady susan ; the same restrained manners , the same timid look in the
knightley has any thought of marrying jane fairfax .
blunder on mrs .
where is it ?
” “thank you .
and then wickham would be angry .
tell me augusta with sincerity ; did you ever know me consult his inclinations or follow his advice in the
herself that she was doing the kindest thing by fanny , and giving her the most important opportunities of improvement
s feelings .
my dear , ” cried his wife , “i cannot bear to hear that mentioned .
willoughby and it was , though from a different cause , no less unfortunate .
enough for others .
i beg your pardon , mr .
” this naturally introduced a panegyric from jane on his diffidence , and the little value he put on his
she was going to were worth those she left behind ; and that though she felt she must go ,
look at her companion .
that marriage had taken place , which would have given him the assistance of her conscience in subduing her first
to do with the propriety of her seeing her parents again , and nothing at all with any idea of
so sudden !
she had been used before to feel that he could not be always quite sincere , but now she saw
” “if you will thank me , ” he replied , “let it be for yourself alone .
palmer joined their entreaties , all seemed equally anxious to avoid a family party ; and the young ladies were
” “if you mean darcy , ” cried her brother , “he may go to bed , if he chooses
he had still a small house in highbury , where most of his leisure days were spent ; and between
to hope that she had either been unseen by the general , or that from some consideration of policy she
place the next morning : the party included all the young people but herself , and was much enjoyed at
, with h .
” “not harriet ' s equal !
chapter ix emma ' s pensive meditations , as she walked home , were not interrupted ; but on entering
, still speaking at intervals to me , or listening , and as if she liked to listen , to
crawford at home .
not quarrel with you for any liberties of manner .
darcy , whose pride , she was convinced , would receive a deeper wound from the want of importance in
, you said that this circumstance would not now make you unhappy ; but i am afraid it gives you
and the hope that , however inferior in spirit and gaiety might be the following and every future winter of
she felt utterly unworthy of such respect , and knew not how to reply to it .
—aye , that was quite proper to let him be off if he would .
this is the end of all the privacy and propriety which was talked about at first .
she was followed by a gentleman , whom catherine believed to be her father , and they turned up towards
her eagerness to be gone from norland was preserved from diminution by the evident satisfaction of her daughter-in-law in the
the bustle and joy of such an arrival , the many to be talked to , welcomed , encouraged ,
” “she will not be surprized , papa , at least .
we have for many years entered into an agreement always to admire each other ' s works ; i never
strong , though not perfectly well-spelt praise , as " a fine dashing felow , only two perticular about the
elizabeth jumped out ; and , after giving each of them a hasty kiss , hurried into the vestibule ,
, that she said-- " i have been thinking over the past , and trying impartially to judge of the
” elizabeth listened , wondered , doubted , and was impatient for more .
—harriet is worth a hundred such—and for a wife—a sensible man ' s wife—it is invaluable .
neither father nor mother could promote , and the daughter could not endure it .
the second day brought them into the cherished , or the prohibited , county of somerset , for as such
she must have put it off ; but mr .
, in short , which no experience in others can equal , and lady russell had been less gifted in
much of all this fanny could not but be sensible of .
“one ought to use the same caution , perhaps , in judging of the conduct of any one individual of
what should sir thomas want you for ?
that she had something to procure at a shop , invited them all to go back with her into the
he has heartily forgiven me now .
chapter xx edmund ' s first object the next morning was to see his father alone , and give him
a noble tree , and getting to such perfection , sir , ” addressing herself then to dr .
jane’s .
of that general politeness which is so universally pleasing , as his attentions were entirely confined to lord mounteagle .
” “my dear sir thomas , if you had seen the state of the roads that day !
“it is too small—wants strength .
” miss crawford , untouched and inattentive , had nothing to say ; and fanny , perceiving it , brought
another deal proceeded , and crawford began again about thornton lacey .
such malicious revenge , such injustice , such inhumanity as this .
knightley , “i meant to imply the change of situation which time usually brings .
” elizabeth tried to join in her father’s pleasantry , but could only force one most reluctant smile .
does not she , jane ?
knightley actually looked red with surprize and displeasure , as he stood up , in tall indignation , and said
an assistant , a friend , a guide in every plan of utility or charity for everingham : a somebody
” “but , my dear sir , the difference of the journey ; —only consider how great it would have
edmund had descended from that moral elevation which he had maintained before , and they were both as much the
and yet how many things have happened !
chapter xiv what totally different feelings did emma take back into the house from what she had brought out !
her influence over him had already given him some influence over her .
" has no letter been left here for me since we went out ?
she hoped to be more fortunate the next day ; and when her wishes for fine weather were answered by
and confidence of superiority , into a poor , infirm , helpless widow , receiving the visit of her former
and exultation to listen to again and again .
and books !
everything natural , probable , reasonable , was against it ; all their habits and ways of thinking , and
i wish as well as every body else to be perfectly happy ; but , like every body else it
jennings , as soon as she was gone , " how it grieves me to see her !
and now to be so rewarded !
keep him to herself , and to those of her family with whom he might converse without mortification ; and
action of his life was his throwing her off for ever on her marriage .
what instances must pass before them of ardent , disinterested , self-denying attachment , of heroism , fortitude , patience
this instance were great , from the opposition of two leading principles .
grant had chosen , he would have taken a—not a good temper into it ; and as he must ,
i hear such different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly .
” “my sweet love , do not be so abominably affected .
his praise .
and provided he does his duty by our sex , we care not how polite he is to his own
a small part of derbyshire is all the present concern .
purport of the message than on anything else .
i shall see her again !
was beginning to calculate the number of weeks which would free him from all the remaining restraints of widowhood ,
must be thought of .
till , touched by the thought of her father and mother , she gave it up ; she consented ,
how unpleasant , one would think , must be his reflections !
weston had just gone through by herself .
; and hoped , ere long , to become a not unworthy member of the one she was now transplanted
jennings	 _num_ at that moment she first perceived him	 _num_ " how fond he was of it !
way , could hardly fail of suggesting certain ideas to the coldest heart and the steadiest brain .
if perkin warbeck was really the duke of york , why might not lambert simnel be the widow of richard
” “very true , mr .
she could tell nothing of hartfield , in which mrs .
; it had been vanquished at last by those sentiments and those tones which had reached him while she talked
make haste , my dear creature , and come to us .
or graham had entertained any suspicion of the affair .
s farm ?
his choice of subjects , his expressions , and still more his manner and look , had been such as
, her leisure , and powers .
to expect its exertion , would be a depravity , to which the separation of two young persons , whose
and doing as you were bid ; and if weston had asked me to recommend him a wife , i
if their praise is censure , your censure may be praise , for they are not more undiscerning , than
she acknowledged , however , that the mr .
" " i am afraid , none at all .
” “i am afraid we must be running away , ” said emma , glancing at harriet , and beginning
i thought you would , he is so pleasant ; and mr .
afraid of the evening air in so exposed a seat .
them on the cobb .
an idea which she greatly feared had been made a subject of material distress to the delicacy of jane '
but you had better go with mrs .
him along at all .
smith , to resist the temptation of returning here soon , and yet aware that by declining your invitation ,
i think you and i are very well off to be out of the scrape .
she was most thankful for her own knowledge of him .
but happily , either anne was improved in plumpness and looks , or lady russell fancied her so ; and
be withstood .
even partially brightened .
if you can be induced to honour us with a visit , you will make us happy beyond expression .
talking will despatch more subjects than can really be in common between any two rational creatures , yet with lovers
strong right of interest , being to commence his career of seamanship in her at this very time .
though they overtook and passed the two offending young men in milsom street , she was so far from seeking
heir , and whose strong family pride could see only in him a proper match for sir walter elliot '
she tried to dissuade mary from going , but in vain ; and that being the case , thought it
in marrying a man indifferent to me , all risk would have been incurred , and all duty violated .
a scheme , worthy of mrs wallis ' s understanding , by all accounts ; but my sensible nurse rooke
and this is the end , you see , of captain benwick ' s being supposed to be an admirer
, " which has always excited my particular curiosity .
” “my dear lizzy , do not give way to such feelings as these .
improvements for her sake , to whose share in them he looked anxiously forward ; and catherine remained at fullerton
i think , my dear mother , you would not disapprove of her as a daughter .
she liked him the better for being a clergyman , “for she must confess herself very partial to the profession”
my attachments are always excessively strong .
chapter vii they had a very fine day for box hill ; and all the other outward circumstances of arrangement
had wanted either the courage or the condescension to seek her ; for since her refusal of the brother ,
, if she lost her needle or broke her thread , if she heard a carriage in the street ,
it my duty to entreat that you will not on my account shorten your visit here even an hour .
better pass it off as a joke .
unfavourable circumstances had suddenly arisen at a moment when he was beginning to turn all his thoughts towards england ;
former partiality entirely so .
her at all , for she has an aunt who never holds her tongue .
here come the richardsons .
but no sentiment dwelt long with her that was not purely affectionate and disinterestedly anxious .
i shall hardly know myself in a blue dress and a pink satin cloak .
on mr elliot , i should be extremely happy to be of use to you in any way that i
“come here , child , ” cried her father as she appeared .
she had only time , however , to move closer to the table where he had been writing , when
elizabeth open the door and with quick step pass her towards the staircase , than she entered the breakfast-room ,
the character of mrs .
and then , her air , her manner , her tout ensemble , is so indescribably improved !
but there is nobody hereabouts to attach her ; and she goes so seldom from home .
i shall not discuss it here .
to be sure , your uncle ' s returning that very evening !
we may compare our different opinions .
seen pemberley .
; and his sight was so inseparably connected with some very disagreeable feelings , that , except in a moral
had rather be without a confidante .
concern .
and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second time .
party .
, set out in the little room ; but that was scouted as a wretched suggestion .
him to hear her explanation .
in this country much longer .
i could not help going to him up in his room before we set off to advise him not to
soon after his leaving the place .
of equal delicacy , declining it likewise , still seemed so desirous of its being given through her means ,
i would not speak disrespectfully of a brother of yours , isabella , i am sure ; but you know
exercise .
he was arm-in-arm with mr .
him , and her too , when it comes to things of consequence , when they are placed in circumstances
he was succeeded by his only son edward .
” “my dear fanny , ” cried edmund , immediately drawing her arm within his , “how thoughtless i have
how infinitely superior !
but tho ' retired from almost all the world , (for we visit no one but the m ' leods
having entered into an indissoluble engagement with my laura without your consent .
but with respect , ” she added , “now , where is the avenue ?
wholly disengaged—even[ _num_ ] doubted to what place he should go when he left them—but still , go he must
james soon followed his letter , and was received with the most gratifying kindness .
—for once , miss dashwood—it will be the last time , perhaps—let us be cheerful together .
; and she removed at his desire to the other side of the fireplace , that she might be further
entreaty of her eldest girl induced her first to reflect on the propriety of going , and her own tender
for , if we had met first in the drawing-room , i doubt whether you would have discerned me to
i owe all that i know of it to another , not to you .
perhaps in the spring , if i have plenty of money , as i dare say i shall , we
palmer , and in that little had seen so much variety in his address to her sister and herself ,
no idea of it before ; for i dare say he never dropped the smallest hint of it to you
i am not sorry , indeed , to make it over to another .
elton should have aspired—miss woodhouse lets me chatter on , so good-humouredly .
there is such perfect good-temper and good-will in mr .
sun , occasionally clouded for a minute ; and everything looked so beautiful under the influence of such a sky
” “in what an amiable light does this place him !
there was a seriousness in harriet ' s manner which prepared her , quite as much as her words ,
ourselves in a more refined and sentimental manner by a confidential conversation .
it settled the matter ; and they pursued the accustomed circuit ; which brought them again , after some time
" as she said this , she sunk into a reverie for a few moments ; but rousing herself again
chapter xxvi william ' s desire of seeing fanny dance made more than a momentary impression on his uncle .
could be safe from the notice of her aunt norris , who was entirely taken up at first in fresh
” “well , then , in the first place ; they are both so horribly tall !
she knows nothing herself , and looks upon emma as knowing every thing .
believe it to be most fervent , most undeviating , in f .
she wondered that lucy ' s spirits could be so very much elevated by the civility of mrs .
” “but you do not consider how it may appear to the coles .
my cousins have been so plaguing me !
continued the conversation till they reached the house .
i have business ; but before i leave you , " he continued , speaking in a lower tone ,
what i endured in so beholding her—but i have no right to wound your feelings by attempting to describe it—i
i had not thought seriously on this subject before .
how could it be ?
till they all come in i shall not be missed ; and when they do , will you have the
that was what she most earnestly desired : go and take his sister with him , as he was to
the only thing i do not thoroughly like is , that she seems to be sitting out of doors ,
my estimation , your marrying early may be the saving of you .
vigorous , decided , with sentiments to a certain point , not coarse .
i did not immediately recollect .
had she followed mr .
knows , with little inclination for writing , i think it my duty to tell you that everything is at
her ladyship received them civilly , but it was plain that their company was by no means so acceptable as
in the high-arched passage , paved with stone , which already she had trodden with peculiar awe , she well
she examined into their employments , looked at their work , and advised them to do it differently ; found
besides , it has never been uninhabited and left deserted for years , and then the family come back to
and sorry for her father’s speech , was afraid her anxiety had done no good .
—“that is easy—but miss fairfax does not disapprove it , i suppose .
you know it is not sound , and that you would never act in this way yourself .
be set out with their separate candles and unbroken packs in the true style—and more waiters engaged for the evening
, in a whisper to eleanor , “how glad i shall be when you are all off .
and yet could you reader have beleived it possible that some hardened and zealous protestants have even abused her for
i do desire that you will not be making her really unhappy ; a little love , perhaps , may
—this must not be , i assure you .
” “yes—i like it very well .
write to him , nor he to you , if it could be helped .
should be quartered in meryton .
in all their walks , he had had to jump her from the stiles ; the sensation was delightful to
it was our darling wish that you might be attached to each other—and we were persuaded that it was so
the mull , or the jackonet .
knows nothing of the matter .
bennet say voluntarily to elizabeth : “i am glad you are come back , lizzy .
” “frank was here in february for a fortnight .
, the same regrets—to be ready to return to the same good understanding ; and they were just growing again
" " it will not be in my power to accept their invitation if they do .
" " oh , you did ; well , and how do they all do at their house ?
i perfectly remember it .
her entreaties .
find no language to describe them in but what was worn and hackneyed out of all sense and meaning .
” “and i am sure i should never want to go there ; for i am never happy but at
i would not tell you what is behind the black veil for the world !
make a civil message ; but i shall only leave my card .
involved through the misconduct and cruelty of his parliament , i shall satisfy myself with vindicating him from the reproach
found her very persuadable .
woodhouse from any draught of air , and therefore induce him the more readily to give them the honour of
he was evidently a young man of considerable taste in reading , though principally in poetry ; and besides the
and when he was gone , she almost quarrelled with me—no , i should not say quarrelled , for we
pemberley estates , and whose good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of
fixed there by the keenest of all anguish , self-reproach , she could find no interval of ease or forgetfulness
” “i think mr .
she might love , but she did not deserve edmund by any other sentiment .
him in order to make particular inquiries , and had , in the course of a pretty long conference ,
elton himself arrived to triumph in his happy prospects , and circulate the fame of her merits , there was
that his heart was devoted to my daughter .
and , above all , keep mr .
they found mr .
crawford had been too precipitate .
a counteraction , gentle and continual , is the best safeguard of manners and conduct .
but i am determined to set for it the very first opportunity .
surprize , presenting no disparity , affording nothing to be said or thought .
she could therefore only look her tenderness , and after slightly addressing him , said no more .
she spoke of you , fanny , just as she ought .
a gentleman , and now i am sure she was wrong .
grant , you see how he dwells on one word , and only look at his smile .
myself , or at least , without being convinced that we should approve of your choice ; but i cannot
whisper , " will be exceedingly welcome to all parties .
what fanny told her of former times dwelt more on her mind than the pages of goldsmith ; and she
" as she said this , she looked directly at her companion .
her house will therefore be almost completely fitted up as soon as she takes it .
they soon must be .
already had he discerned a liking towards miss morland in the countenance of his son ; and thankful for mr
he was gone before anything had been said to prepare him for the change he must find there ; and
she was of course only too good for him ; but as nobody minds having what is too good for
day !
” emma ' s colour was heightened by this unjust praise ; and with a smile , and shake of
of compliment , such a ready comprehension of a hint , he thought , was rather favourable than not .
i felt that she was infinitely dearer to me than any other woman in the world , and that i
for this i shall impatiently wait , and meanwhile can safely assure you that i never was more at ease
of nature could make it ; but when mrs .
of it might not very much exceed the pleasure .
the disorders in the world there are now .
" anne ' s astonished air , and exclamation of wonder , made her pause , and in a calmer
information as could not fail of being interesting to a brother whose home it had equally been the longest part
” was her immediate exclamation .
full of empty professions to mr .
” “miss bennet , do you know who i am ?
a return .
my other sacrifice , of course , you do not understand .
in devonshire at present .
maria was without ceremony sent away , and isabella , embracing catherine , thus began : “yes , my dear
are now .
you have proved yourself upright and disinterested , prove yourself grateful and tender-hearted ; and then you will be the
good for nothing , and hardly any women at all—it is very tiresome : and yet i often think it
but (with a smile) you would be materially benefited in one particular at least—you would know where to go when
” “pardon me for interrupting you , madam , ” cried mr .
elton as he stood before them , could impair .
miss morland ' s , a view of the accommodations and comforts , by which the labours of her inferiors
confusion to form the clearest judgment of miss crawford ' s meaning , it was evident that she meant to
lady russell was fond of bath , in short , and disposed to think it must suit them all ;
there should always be one steady head to superintend so many young ones .
" i am so glad to see you !
this is too much flattery .
he seems a most gentlemanlike man ; and i think , elinor , i may congratulate you on the prospect
; but no second sound had been heard of such a purpose .
at such a time in the midst of all the rich ornaments which she supposed all the other young ladies
emma could not think it too soon ; for with all his good and agreeable qualities , there was a
to the explanation of those first hints , and she listened to a recital which , if it did not
knightley , than with frank churchill ?
he came on the wings of disappointment , and with his head full of acting , for it had been
it had been real business , relative to the renewal of a lease in which the welfare of a large
” and with these words she broke away and hurried off .
when the ladies returned to the drawing-room , there was little to be done but to hear lady catherine talk
selfish schemes on mr elliot ' s good fortune .
, and the knowledge of the servants at randalls , was , that a messenger had come over from richmond
james , who was now in constant attendance , maintained a similar position , and separating themselves from the rest
jennings was very warm in her praise of edward ' s conduct , but only elinor and marianne understood its
any comfort for him while he continued at randalls .
but i do assure you that he must be entirely misunderstood , if he can ever appear to say an
rows , spoke with like calm politeness to mrs .
every body must have seen the snow coming on .
happy ; but she was now in the fourth week of her visit ; before the general came home ,
self-command with which he attended to her large fat sighings over the destiny of a son , whom alive nobody
sort of friendly acquaintance we have had together ?
” “poor mr .
she understood him .
[ _num_ ] " and sir john too , " cried the elder sister , " what a charming man
her behaviour to mr .
defer it , and was induced by the entreaties of both , though against the scruples of his own civility
“to jane herself , ” she exclaimed , “there could be no possibility of objection ; all loveliness and goodness
for catherine , however , the peculiar object of the general ' s curiosity , and his own speculations ,
” harriet was silent .
feel so very deeply ; but i will not look for her faults ; she may be reginald ' s
your happiness and advantage are all that i have in view , and nothing is required of you but to
at last , however , by touching a secret spring , an inner compartment will open—a roll of paper appears—you
home , restraint , and tranquillity ; by the misery of disappointed affection , and contempt of the man she
" elinor did not quite understand the beginning of mrs .
i feel for him sincerely .
the regular and best families emma could hardly suppose they would presume to invite—neither donwell , nor hartfield , nor
occurred to disturb it .
it all to her .
ladies are interested by books of a serious stamp , though written solely for their benefit .
" " i can answer for it that miss dashwood ' s is not , " said mrs .
she owed her greatest relief to her friend miss lucas , who often joined them , and good-naturedly engaged mr
and i have often wished—but it is so little one can venture to do—small , trifling presents , of any
captain harville holds himself quite engaged , i ' ll answer for it ; and captain wentworth the same ,
, she must seek them abroad , invited her to go with them .
it is an attachment to govern his whole life .
norris had not another word to say .
lady bertram , all eyes and ears ; and there was no introducing the main point before her .
he knows of my being in town , i am certain , from something she said herself ; and yet
we have had a very dull christmas ; mr and mrs musgrove have not had one dinner party all the
no such importation of novelties could enrich their intellectual stores at present .
tea passed pleasantly , and nobody seemed in a hurry to move .
indignation was such , that had it not been for delicacy towards his friend , and his friend ' s
she could not have committed such extensive mischeif , had not these vile and abandoned men connived at , and
many have been the cares and vicissitudes of my past life , my beloved ellinor , and the only consolation
after sitting with them a few minutes , the miss steeles returned to the park , and elinor was then
[end volume one of this edition .
they vindicated him against the base aspersion .
” “go out !
keenness , “i do not like my situation : this place is too hot for me , ” and moved
collins would undoubtedly have been much less in his own apartment , had they sat in one equally lively ;
on quitting the cobb , they all went in-doors with their new friends , and found rooms so small as
, emma .
" here she took out her handkerchief ; but elinor did not feel very compassionate .
“i am fairly caught .
” “but the motives of a man who takes orders with the certainty of preferment may be fairly suspected ,
” she took it , however , as she spoke , and the gratification of having her do so ,
sir thomas and lady bertram received her very kindly ; and sir thomas , seeing how much she needed encouragement
to isabella , the relief of such tidings was very great , and they were scarcely less acceptable to emma
better pasturage for their cows .
he immediately denied there being anything uncongenial in their characters , or anything unfriendly in their situations ; and positively
power , draw as many eyes , excite as many whispers , and disturb as many people as they could
me , i wonder at my recovery , —wonder that the very eagerness of my desire to live , to
the world put together .
as i do , if she judge wisely , and command herself as she ought , she may now be
our minds .
like captain m ' kenrie better than any one she knew besides .
at the time have appeared strange to every body , and which i believe gave offence to some .
it gave to his intentions whatever of decision was wanting before ; and he finally resolved , that it would
" pity me , dear miss dashwood !
” he was gone long enough to have had a very comfortable meal , and came back all the better—grown
this is quite a surprise , fanny .
grant , hearing the latter part of this speech , enforced it warmly , persuaded that no judgment could be
appeared , coming quickly in from the garden , and with a look of escape .
you find me trying to be useful ; tell me if you think i shall succeed .
“upon my word , ” she cried , “the young man is determined not to lose any thing for want
but what a thing here is , by way of a boat !
” with a stronger voice she soon added , “i have this comfort immediately , that it has not been
” “not i , indeed .
what are they all ?
man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry elsewhere ?
you well know , we go out so little , that it is very improbable that they should meet at
gardiner , who was walking arm-in-arm with elizabeth , gave her a look expressive of wonder .
pleasure .
the ground covered with snow , and the atmosphere in that unsettled state between frost and thaw , which is
" i am sure i should have seen it in a moment , if mrs .
in being able to satisfy you .
will it astonish you ?
attend you from any place in england , at an hour ' s notice .
thunderbolts , avoid the piercing shafts of jupiter—look at that grove of firs—i see a leg of mutton—they told me
coach ; and i should have gone so all the way , if kitty had not been sick ; and
imagine there will be nothing more to wait for .
i think your manners to him encouraging .
, as she greatly dreaded disobliging the general by any delay .
weight against her too , by saying , “oh yes !
james the _num_ st though this king had some faults , among which and as the most principal , was
was added , that if mr .
” said he , offering his hand .
elizabeth , after slightly surveying it , went to a window to enjoy its prospect .
her situation was altogether the subject of hours of gratitude to mrs .
” “nay , (replied he) i know not whether you may not be in the right in not attempting it
—i hope this history of my conduct towards her will be admitted by you and my father as great extenuation
her unwillingness that he should be taking them out of doors against his own inclination , under a mistaken idea
when she thought it could not be .
i should deserve utter contempt if i dared to suppose that true attachment and constancy were known only by woman
" " remember , my love , that you are not seventeen .
line .
the town and making what acquaintance they chose ; and he tried to convince me , as thoroughly as he
come , miss morland , be quick , for the others are in a confounded hurry to be off .
has not any thing of the nature of an instrument , not even the pitifullest old spinet in the world
were walking together one morning before the gates of delaford house , " that would be saying too much ,
such relief , however , as it was in her power to afford , by the practice of what might
reginald , you agitate me beyond expression , i cannot suppose that the old story of mrs .
herself loved by mr .
i do not know when i shall have done scolding you , ” and had discretion enough to reserve the
manager .
palmer if there was any news in the paper .
the neighbourhood of norland ; for to remove far from that beloved spot was impossible .
last person up in the house .
collins pointed out , with a rapturous air , the fine proportion and the finished ornaments , they followed the
yes , i hope you are sorry ; and you will probably have reason to be long sorry for this
” “no , i cannot think of anything else .
—we shall see if our styles suit .
crawford has been kept waiting too long already .
—pleasant walks ?
account , think very much of the evening which the rest of the family were looking forward to with a
—wish it she must , for his sake—be the consequence nothing to herself , but his remaining single all his
i shall wear a large bonnet , and bring one of my little baskets hanging on my arm .
on your prudence i have the strongest dependence .
he steadily refused to accompany his father into herefordshire , an engagement formed almost at the moment to promote the
as convinced her that the strictest punctuality to the family hours would be expected at northanger .
radcliffe ' s works , and most of them with great pleasure .
for my own part , if i had anything within the fiftieth part of the size of sotherton , i
she wanted to ascertain the feelings of each of her visitors ; she wanted to compose her own , and
be pitiful .
for an indifferent person .
now she could see her own mistake as to who were gone , or said to be gone .
was beginning to be heard at a distance telling the same tale , before mr elliot or any of them
lady catherine’s great attentions to mrs .
susan could never be spared .
has it not been industriously circulated by yourselves ?
which elizabeth did not account for it clearly , there was little chance of her ever considering it with less
we say now , captain harville ?
they could make .
the westons will be with us , and it will be quite delightful .
many young ladies looking forward to the same event in situations more at ease , but under circumstances of less
” “i suppose i am graver than other people , ” said fanny .
increasing friendship for us since her husband ' s death that we should , at some future period , be
chapter _num_ a few days passed away , and catherine , though not allowing herself to suspect her friend ,
elinor was obliged , though unwillingly , to believe that the sentiments which mrs .
it is as often applied to feelings which arise from a half-hour’s acquaintance , as to a real , strong
—tomorrow mr stanly ' s family will drink tea with us , and perhaps the miss phillips ' s will
" how odd , indeed !
were your friends , the allens , still in bath , you might go to them with comparative ease ;
after a pause of some minutes , she addressed him a second time with : —“it is your turn to
heir to sir walter elliot !
phillips , and was by her watchfulness , most abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin .
persecution on the subject of sir james was entirely at an end ; his name merely mentioned to say that
weston , i suppose , ” interrupted mrs .
john dashwood now installed herself mistress of norland ; and her mother and sisters-in-law were degraded to the condition of
the four young ladies were left in a quietness which the room had not known for many hours .
i am not able to judge ; for i know nothing of the effects that such a step might produce
i never saw such capacity , and taste , and application , and elegance , as you describe united .
it was hardly enough ; but it pleased her .
get any smart young men to meet them .
he took leave of his relations at longbourn with as much solemnity as before ; wished his fair cousins health
predict the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former letter .
i have sometimes thought of going to london again after easter , and sometimes resolved on doing nothing till she
the smallest affection ; but upon explaining the impossibility of such a thing she said that she beleived she did
fanny began to dread the meeting with her aunts and tom , under so dreadful a humiliation ; and susan
forming a desperate resolution ; and perhaps he might be doing the same .
whom she knew he loved , next to his daughters and mrs .
” charles maddox was to be the man .
wickham’s chief object was unquestionably my sister’s fortune , which is thirty thousand pounds ; but i cannot help supposing
" " i shall very soon think him handsome , elinor , if i do not now .
whenever i see lady lesley dressed in them such reflections immediately come across me .
it is so delightful to have an evening now and then to oneself .
she almost ran out of the room , and as soon as the door was closed , burst into tears
his recollection of harriet , and the words which clothed it , the “beautiful little friend , ” suggested to
i am sure you always thought me unfit for the office i held .
edmund bertram so formal , so pitiful , so younger-brother-like , that i detest it .
but i hope , miss woodhouse , that supposing—that if—strange as it may appear— .
and , in favour of his constancy , she had no reason to believe him married .
" it was what she had been thinking of , and wishing to be allowed to do .
” “how often , when you were a girl , have you said to me , with one of your
considering the very particular friendship between her and mrs .
being first impressions .
as i do .
" where shall we go ?
you must think one five hundred million times more above me than the other .
and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which are instituted by the church of england .
but the charm is broken .
norris ' s sharp answers would have been ; but she being gone home with all the supernumerary jellies to
she did feel almost ashamed of herself , after such a picture as her uncle had drawn , for not
what made you so shy of me , when you first called , and afterwards dined here ?
if she has fancied otherwise , her own wishes have misled her , and i am very sorry—extremely sorry—but ,
so i got sophy to lend me a hand , and we soon shifted their quarters ; and now i
it was a strange , wild scheme .
gardiner’s hope of lydia’s being soon married , her joy burst forth , and every following sentence added to its
, that considering the many counteractions of opposing habits , she had certainly been more attached to him than could
” sir thomas saw all the impropriety of such a scheme among such a party , and at such a
fanny ' s heart sunk , but there was no leisure for thinking long even of miss crawford ' s
she could almost think anything would have been preferable to this .
few minutes can be hardly thought imprudent .
how do you do , mr .
residence , so much the look of a something above a mere parsonage-house—above the expenditure of a few hundreds a
, the effects of the shadows pursuing each other on the ships at spithead and the island beyond , with
—how happy he had been to come and dine with them whenever they asked him !
nothing could replace him , therefore , in her former esteem , nor injure the interests of colonel brandon .
dashwood ' s assistance , supported her into the other room .
with regard to charles hayter , she had delicacy which must be pained by any lightness of conduct in a
oh , sister !
egerton of the ' military library , ' whitehall , dawned upon the horizon as a practicable publisher .
not class her with isabella and mrs .
greater pleasure than—” “oh !
the crofts who rent kellynch ?
he was struggling for the appearance of composure , and would not open his lips till he believed himself to
, she said she would go home .
i can much more readily enter into the temptation of getting away from miss bates , than i can believe
christmas vacation with his family , near london .
otherwise , i should loudly protest against the share of it which that woman has known .
well to deal with .
' —you always called me , ' mr .
“but some emotion must appear to be raised by your reply , and surprise is more easily assumed , and
should not you , mr .
” said miss jane .
what the occasion required .
tremblings , such flutterings , all over me—such spasms in my side and pains in my head , and such
knightley does not want to marry .
the favourite air , played , as it appeared to her , with superior tone and expression ; and though
best manner of conforming to them .
of lady russell ' s journey .
day ' s dinner .
elizabeth at that instant moving towards them , he was struck with the action of doing a very gallant thing
i am sure they were talking of me ; and i could not help thinking that he was persuading her
allen ' s approbation of her own conduct , and truly rejoiced to be preserved by his advice from the
” such language was so new to fanny that it quite embarrassed her .
but all these things took up a great deal of time .
” “yes , mr .
she had first seen mr elliot ; a moment seemed all that could now be given to any one but
and with far more good-humour she answered , “i am much obliged to you , edmund ; you mean very
norris that she would be a good girl ; in vain did lady bertram smile and make her sit on
it came—it was fine—and catherine trod on air .
” “do you talk by rule , then , while you are dancing ?
” i perfectly agreed with her in her sentiments on the affair , and secretly blamed sir edward for thus
or other ascertained , or inferred , or at least acted upon , that they were not at all afraid
“after all that i said to her as we came along , i thought she would have behaved better ;
she started at its import .
the domestic , unpretending merits of a person never known do not often create that kind of fervent , venerating
on her kindness and advice , lady elliot mainly relied for the best help and maintenance of the good principles
as for me , my judgment is worth nothing .
business , and not likely to promote the good of either ; for what were you to live upon ,
a great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood , since you went away .
love with him .
" lady dalrymple , lady dalrymple , " was the rejoicing sound ; and with all the eagerness compatible with
you would not earn a very good livelihood as a working silversmith at this rate .
read only the first act aloud to either your mother or aunt , and see how you can approve it
my dear mrs .
conversing together that the latter had no leisure to bestow more on her friend than one smile , one squeeze
repton , i imagine .
of him .
not tables , toilettes , wardrobes , or drawers , but on one side perhaps the remains of a broken
” “can you trust me with such flatterers ?
, eligible tenant .
they read , they talked , they sang together ; his musical talents were considerable ; and he read with
vernon parklands .
i am sure the service mr .
, particularly her own .
and has never been well since .
i am quite enough in love .
” to guess what all this meant , was impossible even for emma .
” “all young ladies accomplished !
gradually reconcile one to .
f .
darcy has no defect .
a tragedy , and that nothing in the world could be easier than to find a piece which would please
being in kent .
—the fear of being still unwelcome , determined her , though assured of their being at home , to wait
addressed him in the following manner .
the pain of the intelligence .
“i will tell you everything , and then have done for ever .
in a whisper .
sir john middleton , who called on them every day for the first fortnight , and who was not in
for you know my dear charlotte that the worthless louisa left him , her child and reputation a few weeks
isabella chose to consider her .
dare say you heard the carriage , sir , while you were at dinner ; and going on now for
and i observed that she always spoke of you as ' fanny , ' which she was never used to
elizabeth , feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation , now put herself forward
remain longer in the same house : so very great , so total a change from the intimacy of friendship
how easy for those , who have no sorrow of their own to talk of exertion !
i have not heard him mentioned lately .
to her aunt , he would not have despaired ; for though a good night ' s rest , a
a great deal more passed at the other table .
could not witness the rapture of delightful expectation which filled[ _num_ ] the whole soul and beamed in the eyes
sir thomas in the house !
the fatigue would be too much for your aunt .
jennings assured him directly that she should not stand upon ceremony	 _num_ mrs .
my dear isabella , i have not heard you make one inquiry about mr .
this dreadful communication could not be kept from the rest of the family .
, and make her believe , as she then really believed herself , that it would be a very short
how fanny listened , with what curiosity and concern , what pain and what delight , how the agitation of
leisure and inclination for every comfort , and they should soon be what mother and daughter ought to be to
[ _num_ ] chapter xl " well , miss dashwood , " said mrs .
but you really do admit the justice of what i have said in his defence ?
” the word home made his father look on him with fresh complacency .
henry was greatly honoured and very happy , and catherine was quite delighted with the scheme .
done before ; and elinor sat down to the card table with the melancholy persuasion that edward was not only
it would be of no use to go to uppercross again , for that other miss musgrove , i find
dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence he was wounding , but was very unlikely to
place , that would fit them exactly .
it with former words , and feeling it to be the result , not the cause of a revival of
weary me .
when julia looked back , it was with a countenance of delight , and whenever she spoke to them ,
bingley , since you went away , ” said mrs .
dashwood , to her daughters ' continuance at norland .
she sat in a blaze of oppressive heat , in a cloud of moving dust , and her eyes could
i had not a notion of her being such a little devil before , she seemed to have all the
mark ' s place , venice , when frank churchill entered the room .
; and italy , switzerland , and the south of france might be as fruitful in horrors as they were
in short , i have made a match between mr .
allen was one of that numerous class of females , whose society can raise no other emotion than surprise at
“good gracious !
he earnestly pressed her , after giving the particulars of the house and garden , to come with her daughters
i told her so .
appeared to me before , i would infinitely prefer any increase of the pain of parting , for the sake
you cannot refuse to dance , i am sure when so much beauty is before you .
once stirring from her seat , or altering her attitude , lost in her own thoughts , and insensible of
it did not surprise , but it grieved anne to observe that elizabeth would not know him .
a week elapsed before she could see elizabeth without scolding her , a month passed away before she could speak
was come on the very same business that had brought miss crawford , consciousness and pleasure were likely to be
has not the smallest wish of marrying me .
it had that appearance .
younger sons cannot marry where they like .
there shewn than any she had reached herself .
jennings might have had enough to do in spreading that knowledge farther , without seeking after more , she had
i am sure , a month ago , i had no more idea myself !
they had been walking about the place with some of their new friends , and were just returning to the
one of the commonplaces of literary history .
) “certainly , (added my father) by all means .
” “how do you like mrs .
side .
, satisfied herself with walking to the window and pretending not to hear .
you will find nobody there .
anne .
your affectionate , &c .
is mercenary .
miss crawford ' s , “you are all considerate thought !
churchill ' s making incredible exertions to avoid it .
no cold prudence for me .
not an interesting remembrance connected with it .
rushworth no more .
i ?
” at half past twelve , when catherine ' s anxious attention to the weather was over and she could
then at edmund , that “the mansfield theatricals would enliven the whole neighbourhood exceedingly , ” edmund still held his
“you croaking fellow !
was more important and less easily attained , it was risking too much for the gratification of a few girls
she hates whist i know ; but is there no round game she cares for ?
her ladyship is comforting herself meanwhile by strolling along the shrubbery with reginald , calling forth all his tender feelings
weston that he had been proposing to mrs .
phillips , and she ventured , without any permission , to do the same by all her neighbours in meryton
lost , till it was clear to her that the drive had by no means been very pleasant and that
" it must be something extraordinary that could make colonel brandon leave my breakfast table so suddenly .
the weather , but he made no answer .
if you were to see them at the altar , you would suppose they were going to be married .
miss darcy , though with a diffidence which marked her little in the habit of giving invitations , readily obeyed
addition of kitty’s and lydia’s purchases , were seated in it .
" " no , i thank you : no , certainly not .
but they learnt , on enquiry , that its possessor , an elderly lady of very good character , was
or , what is more , could i have sacrificed hers ?
mother had been inquiring for her , and that he had walked down to the parsonage on purpose to bring
see it was so extreme , that , considering exteriors and probabilities , emma could only class it , as
marianne had promised to be guided by her mother ' s opinion , and she submitted to it therefore without
my blindness to what was going on , led me to act by them in a way that i must
the miss hayters , the females of the family of cousins already mentioned , were apparently admitted to the honour
i had not the least idea !
the utmost , and i am very much deceived if you do not do better .
” “it will be the forerunner also of other interesting events : your sister ' s marriage , and your
down to taunton in order to look at some advertised places in that immediate neighbourhood , which , however ,
rushworth , “what would you do with such a part as mine ?
, and he said so .
whether it would have done any good can never be settled now , but i am excessively vexed that sir
women of the first consideration ; and it must be scrupulousness run mad that could see anything to censure in
—very true .
“i should not have thought it possible , ” she began , “that you could have misunderstood me !
striking at that instant on her mind with peculiar force , made her for a short time sensible only of
i see how closely she observes him and lady susan , poor girl !
she began to feel that she had not yet gone through all the changes of opinion and sentiment which the
tilney slept only two doors from her , to enter her room with a tolerably stout heart ; and her
if you prefer mr .
and mr .
do not you agree with me , that it is the best thing he could do , both for himself
in the very same inn with us !
perfectly .
if it can be contrived to be at the crown , papa , it will be very convenient for the
here was disappointment !
emma ' s omitting to do any thing i wished .
chief of their visitors , who almost all laboured under one or other of these disqualifications for being agreeable—want of
therefore , turned into molland ' s , while mr elliot stepped to lady dalrymple , to request her assistance
” emma would not have smiled for the world , and only said , “is mr .
his mother might give him if he married to please her .
the husband of her very dear friend , the father of anne and her sisters , was , as being
” by the time mrs .
dashwood should live fifteen years we shall be completely taken in .
” “no , indeed you are mistaken .
here were funds of enjoyment .
real , long-standing regard brought the westons and mr .
songs of the one poet , and all the impassioned descriptions of hopeless agony of the other ; he repeated
weston will be so obliging as to call here one morning , we may talk it over , and see
” “and if you find them troublesome , you must send them home again .
at once her uncle and guardian .
said it did not rain , and i must go ; and so off i set ; and i had
men .
it was impossible for her to see the word without thinking of pemberley and its owner .
at that moment , sir william lucas appeared close to them , meaning to pass through the set to the
; and nothing but the hindrance of more visitors than usual , had prevented her going to them within that
george and lady lesley , we prepared to return them an answer expressive of the happiness we enjoyed in expectation
i could never hope to equal my own doings at randalls .
to what is necessary in manners to make him quite the thing , are more absurd , i believe ,
rosings every day , and play on the pianoforte in mrs .
" " i never heard any thing of the kind hinted at before , i assure you , " said
, by jane’s letter last wednesday , that her conduct on coming home was exactly of a piece with it
“for the present , the whole affair was to be completely a secret .
elton ' s tones again distinctly forward .
people even a decent support .
allen ' s grounds he had done it so well that catherine did not think it could ever be repeated
“you are too hasty , sir , ” she cried .
collins’s reach .
i understood that you had the use of this room by way of making you perfectly comfortable .
there she is—no , that ' s somebody else .
so imprudent a match on both sides !
weston giving an account of a little alarm she had been under , the evening before , from the infant
and the severest resentment of her injured mother .
there is but such a quantity of merit between them ; just enough to make one good sort of man
she had frequently thought—especially since his father ' s marriage with miss taylor—that if she were to marry , he
poor girl .
for the next few weeks , i shall think our time very well spent , and so , i am
and his general abuse of every thing before him .
there was a something , however , in his words which repaid her for the pain of confusion ; and
last would produce .
” “and yet , in general , nothing can be more easily ascertained .
” “then , my dear , you may have the advantage of your friend , and introduce mr .
he should like to see the old house again exceedingly , and should be very happy to meet mr .
" " but for my satisfaction , if you will have the goodness to ring for mary ; stay :
, have had so much to do , that i could not very conveniently have left kellynch sooner .
kind of model .
for the next day ' s scheme , they parted .
” “if your master would marry , you might see more of him .
she did , when we were rather surprised not to find captain benwick of the party , for he had
he must be ashamed and disgusted altogether .
adieu to disappointment and spleen .
but (lowering her voice)—nobody speaks except ourselves , and it is rather too much to be talking nonsense for the
” fanny would rather have had edmund tell the story , but his determined silence obliged her to relate her
poor julia , the only one out of the nine not tolerably satisfied with their lot , was now in
someone whom they wished to avoid ; and all have been anxious for the attentions of someone whom they wished
i owed it to her , therefore , to avoid giving any hint of the truth ; and i owed
” “no , no , ” said emma , “it will not reckon low .
i am sure you do .
of the eager , having formed the resolution to go , and besides the pleasure of doing as she liked
he drew , he varnished , he carpentered , he glued ; he made toys for the children ; he
her uncle ' s displeasure was terrible to her ; but what could her justification or her gratitude and attachment
a mean opinion of her abilities was not confined to them .
could not be delayed without risk of evil .
in the height of her morality , good woman !
a thousand things may arise in six months !
during his present short stay , emma had barely seen him ; but just enough to feel that the first
his value of her was sincere ; and , if not permanently , he was truly afflicted by her death
what degree of immediate encouragement for him might be extracted from her manners ; and it was so little ,
bennet , who assured him with some asperity that they were very well able to keep a good cook ,
” fanny dared not make any farther opposition ; and with renewed but less happy thanks accepted the necklace again
there is so little real friendship in the world !
it , and not pride and prejudice , for her début ; and they have , perhaps naturally , found
” isabella ' s opinion of the tilneys did not influence her friend ; she was sure there had been
woodhouse ' s mind .
—his tender compassion towards oppressed worth can go no farther .
miss morton , only daughter of the late lord morton , with thirty thousand pounds .
i was convinced there were two , and there is but one .
giving them any money at all .
i know we dine with four-and-twenty families .
gardiner himself did not expect any success from this measure , but as his brother was eager in it ,
keeping this secret , because you must know of what importance it is to us , not to have it
anne herself would have found the mortifications of it more than she foresaw , and to sir walter ' s
as their brothers with her lively dark eye , clear brown complexion , and general prettiness .
which i am now going to do , and trust he will excuse my not having done it before .
she had not time to know how mr .
he thought principally of mrs .
, was glad to make use of the relationship which had been so pressed on her ; and she declined
you need not send them word at longbourn of my going , if you do not like it , for
is , that we think alike about our nephews and nieces .
” (exclaimed the former) “my adorable angel !
english verdure , english culture , english comfort , seen under a sun bright , without being oppressive .
quite long enough .
“he should be happy to see mrs .
of a most agreeable sort ; for it gratified him , he said , to discover that charlotte lucas ,
they are two distinct orders of being .
the inquietude of his mind , on isabella ' s account , might , by keeping him long sleepless ,
he will carry this note himself , which is to serve as an introduction to you , with whom he
weather were fair , the party should take place on the following morning ; and they were to set off
his choosing herself had been spoken of in mrs .
“it would be so easy to tell miss tilney that you had just been reminded of a prior engagement ,
” “i am glad of it .
the nature of their attachments .
has not been my only unhappiness .
and confusion , without a gravel walk to step on , or a bench fit for use .
best .
i have read all mrs .
for , by the bye , you are to understand , that my uncle and aunt were horrid unpleasant all
his father had never conferred a favour or shewn a kindness more to his satisfaction .
” “yes , very .
for henry had been there ; henry had sat by her and helped her .
she was more alive to the disgrace which her want of new clothes must reflect on her daughter’s nuptials ,
' i did not make the allowances , ' said she , ' which i ought to have done ,
" a family cannot well be maintained on a smaller .
where did he live ?
country , and her own dear country , readily agreed to stay .
she hoped it was not wrong ; though , after a time , susan ' s very great admiration of
jennings ; the length of which , though never exactly fixed , had been expected by all to comprise at
a continual flow of tears would permit her .
it will be readily believed that mrs .
—well , well , never mind .
phillips’s manners and politeness .
no man of any brain can open at a good part of one of his plays without falling into the
, my own nephew , mr .
from all that i hear and guess , baron wildenheim ' s attentions to julia continue , but i do
a crowd .
we shall be quite a small party at home .
missed .
say ?
know i was right , and such has been the end of our acquaintance .
his thoughts and beauties are so spread abroad that one touches them everywhere ; one is intimate with him by
this project will serve at least to amuse me , and prevent my feeling so acutely this dreadful separation from
“no ; he thought it very far from an improvement—a very bad plan—much worse than the other .
" and so saying , she took the screens out of her sister-in-law ' s hands , to admire them
i believe about a year before he married mary .
” “alas !
, and from which mr .
just as he ought .
other ; but i will not detain you any longer .
he had been speaking of her cheerfully from the hour of his coming home .
" if she had not known him to be in town she would not have written to him , as
far as to say-- " you were a good while at lyme , i think ?
if one happens only to shut the door a little hard , she starts and wriggles like a young dab-chick
these amazing engagements of mine—what have they been ?
you are my best cure .
did you ever hear any thing so strange ?
she said , she should cross to the isle of wight .
to the payment of one for all the world .
it was certainly a very remarkable coincidence !
frosts will soon set in , and in all probability with severity .
hurst began again : “i have an excessive regard for miss jane bennet , she is really a very sweet
“while her dear father lived , any change of condition must be impossible for her .
more than seven years were gone since this little history of sorrowful interest had reached its close ; and time
end of august he arrived himself , to be gay , agreeable , and gallant again as occasion served ,
understanding must consider it ; and i dare say you perceive , as well as myself , not only in
—she will never like me now .
collins ; “but if she is really headstrong and foolish , i know not whether she would altogether be a
she had , while a very young girl , as soon as she had known him to be , in
revered father’s intentions .
she remained as to the extent of what she should communicate ; and her fear , if she once entered
” “i should never have considered the distance as one of the advantages of the match , ” cried elizabeth
quickly as any girl in england .
i have a great curiosity to know what mr elliot was as a very young man .
” said catherine , looking round ; but she had not looked round long before she saw him leading a
possible advantage to jane , she seriously hoped he might really soon marry mr .
the comfort , the freedom , the gaiety of the room was over , hushed into cold composure , determined
about his gig .
i hope you spend your time pleasantly , but am afraid you never think of me .
i know you would .
in which every virtue was ascribed to her by the inconsolable husband , who must have been in some way
she never has danced with a clergyman , she says , and she never will .
distress ; i saw that it equalled my own , and he perhaps , thinking that mere friendship , as
what you have done !
cole or any other steady friend , when she might not bear to see herself .
let me never see either one or the other again !
so long ago as the _num_ th of november , (as i am going to read to you , )
not be any reason , indeed .
from what they were then , that every unpleasant circumstance attending it ought to be forgotten .
he is not in a sober mood .
“william ' s friend , ” though she could not previously have believed herself capable of uttering a syllable at
i should like the scheme , and we would make a little circuit , and shew you everingham in our
had lady dalrymple and her daughter even been very agreeable , she would still have been ashamed of the agitation
me all the morning ; first one thing , then another , there is no saying what , you know
did not they tell me that mr .
or put an end to it .
hunsford parsonage , and of assisting to form a quadrille table at rosings , in the absence of more eligible
that would not do .
wickham , and of seeing a confirmation of everything in mr .
our dear willoughby went away before we could get through it .
the room together and sat down , fanny could not consider it as a proof of anything more than their
almost as often , though not so diffusely , as mrs .
sure , will he .
why any fear of detection ?
he tried to console her .
no , the young lady , to be sure .
solicitude to feel for their fatigues and wants as travellers .
not to see with the eyes of the world .
, by the now encouraging manner of such a judge , and such a friend as miss woodhouse , and
, at least planning a vigorous prosecution of them in future .
adieu !
i have no wish to be distinguished ; and have every reason to hope i never shall .
when one drops one ' s scissors , or anything that happens .
she calls herself very angry , but you can imagine her anger .
my total ignorance of the connection must plead my apology .
that he paid her rather more attention than usual .
my affections entirely between you .
i hope you will take a day ' s sport there yourself , sir , soon .
understood her so—or i certainly should not have intruded on you in such a manner ; though at the same
were of the present party ; but mr .
i saw jane fairfax and conversed with her , with admiration and pleasure always—but with no thought beyond .
dashwood , and asked how long they had been in town .
bennet was most pressingly civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at longbourn , and addressed herself
what anne often heard him say , and had a good deal of faith in ; but when listening in
but though so much of the matter was known to them already , that mrs .
get lodgings to suit me within a short distance of you .
let us hope , therefore , that her being there may teach her her own insignificance .
“beware my laura (she would often say) beware of the insipid vanities and idle dissipations of the metropolis of england
to mark an easy footing ; the room seemed full , full of persons and voices , but a few
catherine was all eager delight—her eyes were here , there , everywhere , as they approached its fine and striking
do not put it into his head .
darcy , drawing near elizabeth , said to her : “do not you feel a great inclination , miss bennet
, of your sister’s indifference .
” “but what are you in doubt of ?
jane has heard a great deal of its beauty ; from mr .
forster , the necessity of opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me .
to pursue any measure in the best and safest way , and colonel forster is obliged to be at brighton
than with me , and have therefore contracted a kind of affection for each other , which does not make
i cannot acquit him of that duty ; nor could i think well of the man who should omit an
her judgment , began to feel again the blessing of affection , and to entertain the hope of being useful
be added , what would remain of cheerful or of rational society within their reach ?
” edmund was at this time particularly full of cares : his mind being deeply occupied in the consideration of
martin is nothing more , ) a good match for my intimate friend !
those who are proud , luxurious , and selfish , should be proud , luxurious , and selfish too .
clear at the end of the hour , and save her from the shame of having dr .
i do not imagine he figures much in the letters to mansfield park ; do you , miss price ?
she looked almost aghast under the new idea she was receiving .
” “the house was built in elizabeth ' s time , and is a large , regular , brick building
—emma wished she could have seen her , and tried her own powers ; but , almost before she could
her spirits were not high .
improvement by anything he said .
you know i candidly told you i should form my own opinion ; and i am happy to say that
" here mrs .
both sisters would be accomplished in their marriage , to be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth ,
“nay , how could i help saying what i did ?
and he continued : “my reasons for marrying are , first , that i think it a right thing for
own , there had been only isabella whose claims could be compared with hers , and she had always known
the same happy conviction of her brother ' s comparative sobriety .
when it was followed by another , sent express from the same friend , to break to him the almost
i miss you more than i can express .
” miss tilney continuing silent , she ventured to say , “her death must have been a great affliction !
chapter xlvi as fanny could not doubt that her answer was conveying a real disappointment , she was rather in
the reversion .
—harriet repeated expressions of approbation and praise from him—and emma felt them to be in the closest agreement with what
” the next thing wanted was to get the picture framed ; and here were a few difficulties .
go on .
loss of such a husband as mr .
on the business .
manager , if you please .
jones being sent for immediately ; while his sisters , convinced that no country advice could be of any service
” “it ought to be so ; it must be so , while he retains the use of his reason
" " but for my mother ' s sake and mine— " " i would do more than for my
it was a night of almost equal suffering to both .
the story which followed , of his designs on miss darcy , received some confirmation from what had passed between
jennings won ' t think it too much trouble to give us a call , should she come this way
i wish you could have heard her honouring your forbearance , in being able to pay her such attentions ,
“this distressing intelligence , as you may suppose , ” observed her ladyship , after giving the substance of it
“by this time , my dearest sister , you have received my hurried letter ; i wish this may be
character of all the portsmouth servants , of whom she believed her own two were the very worst , engrossed
his father ' s looks of solemnity and amazement on this his first appearance on any stage , and the
” “yes , my youngest is not sixteen .
everything where she now was in full contrast to it .
which marked his reign .
proposing the _num_ nd herself , as by far the best day for the purpose .
they were married , married in town , and now hastening down to her uncle ' s .
she had been at home a few hours .
appreciation or real taste .
; and tell her to bring in the tea-things as soon as she can .
one need not envy the new mrs .
sometimes he is sure she is deficient in understanding , and at others that her temper only is in fault
habit of attending to such matters , so unobservant and incurious were they as to the names of men or
' ” “you forget , fanny , how lately all this has been built , and for how confined a
than she is aware , and that the delightful intercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet
and you may guess what it produced ; the resolution of coming back to bath as soon as possible ,
and forty , with little to live on , and no surname of dignity .
i am since convinced that it was written in a dreadful bitterness of spirit .
—she sat still , she walked about , she tried her own room , she tried the shrubbery—in every place
remember that she is one of a large family ; that as to fortune , it is a most eligible
“i am not fond of dinner-visiting , ” said he—“i never was .
will have need of all your mutual affection to support you under them .
they had left louisa beginning to sit up ; but her head , though clear , was exceedingly weak ,
; for as to mr .
” “upon my word , emma , to hear you abusing the reason you have , is almost enough to
collins repeated his apologies in quitting the room , and was assured with unwearying civility that they were perfectly needless
survey of the guest .
tilney an opportunity of repeating the agreeable request which had already flattered her once , made her way to mrs
the fact is , i suppose , that she is tired of enscombe .
and the anxiousness of her spirits directed her eyes towards his figure so repeatedly , as to catch miss tilney
i tell eloisa that she should set her cap at him , but she does not at all seem to
i am sure , for my part , i should never have known he did like it better than any
they have at least that advantage .
” “ill , very ill—that is , if a young lady can ever be allowed to look ill .
his physician to have a letter despatched to mansfield .
he must tell his own story .
understanding .
i have always understood they were not a happy couple .
do you think lady russell would like that ?
does susan go ?
very diffuse in this , meaning by it only to vent my spleen against , and shew my hatred to
he went to the pianoforte , and begged miss fairfax , who was still sitting at it , to play
it was mere lively chat , such as any young persons , on an intimate footing , might fall into
both changed colour , one looked white , the other red .
and did not conceive that any suspicion could be excited by it ; or if it were , that it
from herself .
" charles , being somewhat more mindful of the probabilities of the case , only nodded in reply , and
know that your sister came to town with me on purpose to buy wedding clothes ?
do let me hear what she says .
forster to meryton , from whence they were to set out early the next morning .
full of the subject which had been completely occupying both houses in kellynch for many weeks , she had expected
few formal inquiries and an awkward pause and then away , but he actually thought it necessary to turn back
“my father , ” she whispered , “often walks about the room in this way ; it is nothing unusual
reason one into it .
popgun) my girl , my darling , my favourite of all my children , who art the picture of thy
she saw him not far off .
the dissimilarity is not so strong .
—i deserve to be under a continual blush all the rest of my life .
and as it chanced that mrs croft fell to the share of anne , while the admiral sat by mary
a fire !
an airing in the hartfield carriage would have been the rack , and arrowroot from the hartfield storeroom must have
allowed his attentions .
i should like to have seen him once more , i confess .
” “oh yes i know it is .
done , miss anne !
i am the doer of it , that i am the person to give the consequence so justly her due
jennings attacked her one evening at the park , to give the name of the young man who was elinor
weston undertakes to direct the whole .
next morning .
consultation , put a decided negative on it .
perhaps they may want observation , discernment , judgment , fire , genius , and wit .
income[ _num_ ] than myself .
they will be angry , ” he added , after a moment ' s silence , and in a cooler
offer , which might give himself an escape from it ; and if so , she had soon afterwards good
convinced of having had no fall ; could part with her cheerfully , and depend on finding her better at
” “your attendance upon her has been too much for you .
to fortune i am perfectly indifferent , and shall make no demand of that nature on your father , since
with this treatment , mr .
consider , my father ' s heir : the future representative of the family .
, that she might inform herself of general tilney ' s lodgings , for though she believed they were in
amongst the rest there were notes to be written to all their friends at lambton , with false excuses for
weston to have felt what you would feel in giving up henry or john .
our visits therefore to dunbeath , were now less frequent and by far less agreable than they used to be
while they were absent , was perfectly satisfied with her remaining at home .
every possibility of good was before me , and the first of blessings secured , in obtaining her promises of
knightley could know and bear with mr .
by candlelight .
me too lenient .
” “now , edmund , do not be disagreeable , ” said julia .
three months comprised thirteen weeks .
here are very much struck with his gentlemanlike appearance .
may be ; and i shall begin directly by asking you what made you so unwilling to come to the
, had a double motive in his visits there .
their other aunt also visited them frequently , and always , as she said , with the design of cheering
the subject of reading aloud was farther discussed .
came on into hertfordshire , anxiously renewing them at all the turnpikes , and at the inns in barnet and
his mind , now disengaged from the cares which had pressed on him at first , was at leisure to
last ?
the service was impressively read by dr .
” elizabeth was distressed .
—and a few lines at the same time by the post , stating her extreme surprize at not having had
powerful whisper , " though we could have wished it different , yet , altogether , we did not think
” it was a silver knife .
” catherine did not hear enough of this speech to understand or be pained by it ; and other subjects
a tap at the door roused her in the midst of this attempt to find her way to her duty
sure has been faithfully kept so by me to this hour .
it shall be a regular party , small , but most elegant .
” “i—i cannot like him , sir , well enough to marry him .
” “to say the truth , i do not much like any other .
his side , much less certain .
more than i can recollect in a moment ; but i can tell you some .
you off in the first place ?
my soul !
the two ladies were delighted to see their dear friend again , called it an age since they had met
fanny found that it was not to be , and in the modesty of her nature immediately felt that she
if you were to see how he is courted , and how i am courted for his sake !
you have delighted us long enough .
" and then rising , she went away to join marianne , whom she found , as she expected ,
she could not finish the generous effusion .
still she was far from being at ease ; nor could the incessant attentions of the general himself entirely reassure
but when you men have a point to carry , you never stick at anything .
” “you expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine , but which i have never
, could mr elliot at that moment with propriety have spoken for himself !
gentleman or half a gentleman ' s house to be seen excepting one—to be presumed the parsonage—within a stone '
it must , if i were not here .
gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece’s beginning the subject .
crawford ' s choice ; and , independently of that , she disliked fanny , because she had neglected her
i do not pretend to emma ' s genius for foretelling and guessing .
be very well off , with all the children of a sister i love so much , to care about
” miss crawford listened , and edmund agreed to this .
the proposal was his own .
” “we will go as far as meryton with you , ” said catherine and lydia .
and some nonsense or other will pass between us , and you shall not be committed .
i want you to talk about me to mr elliot .
in the first place , she persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter ; secondly , she was very
why was not miss crawford to be applied to as well ?
weston , “if it be not very disagreeable to you .
" " she would indeed .
when at last it burst on him in a letter from lucy herself , he had been for some time
the last speaker , by the person who could get hold of and shut him up , the case would
he is a most charming young man .
” “yes , ma ' am , indeed , ” replied the other , with a stately simper , “there
willing therefore to delay the evil hour , she resolved to wait till her sister ' s health were more
” “her daughter , miss de bourgh , will have a very large fortune , and it is believed that
" how much they must enjoy it !
forward again .
everybody had a part either too long or too short ; nobody would attend as they ought ; nobody would
communicating by some secret means with those cells , might well have favoured the barbarous proceedings of her husband .
—have you known of this four months ?
—his aunt dies .
a very good man , and very much the gentleman i am sure : but i should think , miss
her well and happily through its little difficulties and privations .
turned roman-catholic , obtained one of the pope ' s bulls for annulling his _num_ st marriage and has since
lakes , mountains , and rivers shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations ; nor when we attempt to
it is a grievous affair to my poor girls , you must confess .
everything shall take its course .
allen , invited by the former to dine with them , and summoned by the latter to guess the price
” “your conjecture is totally wrong , i assure you .
perplexity , to be very brief was all that she could determine on with any confidence of safety .
the sight of it made her start ; and , forgetting everything else , she stood gazing on it in
” “i know how great , how justly great , your influence is with lady bertram and her children ,
i do not know what she meant , but she asked me if i thought i should go and stay
he talked of harriet , and praised her so warmly , that she could not suppose any thing wanting which
—but (with a smile) if colonel campbell should have employed a careless friend , and if it should prove to
in a private theatre !
been , she took occasion to mention before mr .
excellent one .
they dined with us last .
much tender solicitude , that i , who occasionally caught her observing his countenance with exultation , was quite out
“this is very true , ” said she , “at least as far as relates to me , which was
much compassion .
yes , i believe , he is very rich .
particularly welcome , and she was eagerly expressing her surprise at their sudden return home , which , as their
are shut up together in deep consultation .
“i shall be most happy to play to you both , ” said miss crawford ; “at least as long
jennings was in the habit of spending a large portion of the year at the houses of her children and
well-known fact that , on his quitting derbyshire , he had left many debts behind him , which mr .
from the other , the two gentlemen took leave .
but such old friends as lucy and me !
and that her intelligence would not have rested , as it now almost wholly did , on isabella ' s
darcy , “there is a fine old saying , which everybody here is of course familiar with : ‘keep your
two girls , that it was precisely what they did not wish , and admired again the sort of necessity
s work may be all done at home by christopher jackson himself , it will be too absurd to talk
dreadfully involved .
to his comfort ; and feeling that , unmerited as might be the degree of his fond affection and confiding
it was engrossed by the extraordinary silence of her sister and willoughby on the subject , which they must know
” catherine cheerfully complied , and being properly equipped , was more impatient than ever to be at the pump-room
attachment of that kind , it is quite out of the question , the objections are insurmountable—you have too much
for extending his stay at mansfield , and sending for his hunters from norfolk , which , suggested by dr
when that wretched event takes place , frederica must belong wholly to us .
in every argument with her mother , susan had in point of reason the advantage , and never was there
and in all probability you will see your brother , and whatever may be his faults , or the faults
twice has she condescended to give me her opinion (unasked too !
i must run after miss tilney directly and set her right .
i always pity them when they do ; they seem to take it so much to heart .
” “yes , sir , ” was fanny ' s humble answer , given with the feelings almost of a
her , but who from an enforced change—from a series of unfortunate circumstances— " here he stopped suddenly ; appeared
than from anything else .
concluding words , “by the end of another week !
” “how shall i tell you !
, if they meant but to trifle ?
no one could dispute her right to come ; the house was her husband ' s from the moment of
establishment of the first point asserted .
jennings , on account of her sister being indisposed .
the habit of judging , following the lead of miss bates ' s good-will , or taking it for granted
your own idleness and folly .
next day ; she could dwell on it all with the utmost delight .
brandon ' s marrying one of you as the object most desirable .
i roused , and interested you , because i was so unlike them .
but i suppose you had no opportunity .
weston , upon his behaviour to whom her opinion of him was to depend .
he had given her some hints of it the last spring in town ; he had gone so far even
this was astonishing !
the sight of mrs clay in such favour , and of anne so overlooked , was a perpetual provocation to
” “i am delighted to hear you speak so stoutly on the subject , ” replied emma , smiling ;
crawford away , interposed with an amendment .
“well , well , and so mr .
elton ' s best compliments , “that he was proposing to leave highbury the following morning in his way to
her from sicily , was the greatest distress of all , for she had nothing but a bit of ribbon
—and i suppose you had no great difficulty—you did not find him very unwilling to accept your proposal ?
go on , go on .
campbells , whatever might be their motive or motives , whether single , or double , or treble , gave
it is general tilney , my father .
that he should think it worth his while to fancy himself in love with her was a matter of lively
but i cannot imagine how i could be so off my guard .
warm and affectionate friend in the “mama” who had certainly shewn no remarkable fondness for her formerly ; but this
all that remained to be done was to be speedy ; and , therefore staying only till she could leave
but so it was .
” asked catherine .
agatha and frederick .
” “so seldom that any negligence or blunder appears !
there has been no prior engagement .
as seventy miles off , and as farther , much farther , from him in inclination than any distance could
" lady russell could not help laughing .
” “not very .
so often as she had heard them wish for a ball at home as the greatest of all felicities !
darkness impenetrable and immovable filled the room .
left the house , for your sister was sure she would be in hysterics too ; and so she may
" said she , when dinner was over and they had drawn round the fire ; " are you still
but she shall forgive me again , and on more reasonable grounds .
darting his eye towards it , and it was not long before he saw it to be dixon .
an attempt at concealment had been her first instinctive movement on perceiving him , yet she could scarcely hope to
how do you like them ?
woodhouse for some time .
” “i should like to see the castle ; but may we go all over it ?
weston , who “could not stay five minutes , and wanted particularly to speak with her .
weston is so anxious to be acquainted with him , that she must be almost as happy as yourself .
it soon appeared that london was not the place for her .
poor soul !
but perhaps you young ladies may not care about the beaux , and had as lief be without them as
richardson ; and elinor was left in possession of knowledge which might feed her powers of reflection some time ,
that had begun to operate in the very hour of first meeting her in bath ; that had returned ,
i have no reason to think ill of her—not the least—except that such extreme and perpetual cautiousness of word and
i shall have no difficulty , i suppose , in finding the house ; though fairfax , i believe ,
“his going , though only eight miles , will be an unwelcome contraction of our family circle ; but i
bennet had the pleasure of receiving her brother and his wife , who came as usual to spend the christmas
their absence from netherfield would prevent mr .
all that ought to be attaching , seemed on harriet ' s side , not her own .
she could have looked at for ever .
the promised notification was hanging over her head .
the general ' s improving hand had not loitered here : every modern invention to facilitate the labour of the
alteration of a place which affection had established as perfect with him .
knightley had walked in then , soon after tea , and dissipated every melancholy fancy .
it was an office in short , from which , unwilling to give edward the pain of receiving an obligation
, who was lying on the sofa .
up hers to call at winthrop to-day ; and yet , she was as near giving it up , out
certainly not a great match for louisa musgrove , but a million times better than marrying among the hayters .
help looking with surprise at them both .
ball ; and when they next met , he looked at her only to criticise .
” “that appears quite wonderful .
she was safe ; but peace and safety were unconnected here .
i clearly understand it now , and i will strictly fulfil my engagement by such acts of assistance and kindness
” “to yield readily—easily—to the persuasion of a friend is no merit with you .
we shall miss her ; but she will be happy .
on being informed of the invitation , mrs .
have not they completely the air of it ?
longed so much to see you all !
we are so very airy !
her answer , therefore , was not propitious , at least not to elizabeth’s wishes , for she was impatient
principals , and especially for her father ' s being given a moment ' s uneasiness about it .
, and he proceeded so far as to talk of giving them a hint to be gone .
uncomfortable impression on elinor ' s feelings especially , which required some trouble and time to subdue .
shall of course make choice of those which it is most necessary for the reader to know , i think
grandmama was quite well , had a charming evening with mr .
the family were assembled in the breakfast room to receive them .
i did not know my danger till the danger was removed ; but with such feelings as these reflections gave
happily , however , she was not left to weigh and decide between opposite inclinations and doubtful notions of right
i knew you would be wishing me joy .
he would not despair : he would not desist .
“of a fine , stout , healthy love it may .
, and by books and conversation , to drive mr .
of all this nonsense of acting , and sit comfortably down to your table .
henry crawford gone , she could even pity her sister .
i never was equal to this .
of its being a bad sore throat on her account , than on harriet ' s—more anxious that she should
was charity to impute some of her unbecoming indifference to the languor of ill-health .
her systems have all the unfortunate tendency of setting propriety at nought ; and a better acquaintance with the world
tell me more .
when you come to a frigate , of course , you are more confined ; though any reasonable woman may
isabella promised so faithfully to write directly .
wives .
ferrars is told of it , [ _num_ ] for she was sent for as soon as ever my cousins
vernon with the whole business .
" i shall never see her , if she goes by london .
in the triumph of miss fairfax ' s mind over mrs .
to avoid her aunt , and look for him , she went out .
first met with your poor brother .
universally talked of .
coming himself , or sending your aunt ' s maid for you , without involving the slightest alteration of the
my mind was more agreeably engaged .
” however little mr .
" " i know it is , " replied her mother seriously , " or after such a warning ,
when there , at her own particular request , for she was impatient to pour forth her thanks to him
it had been settled in the evening between the aunt and the niece , that such a striking civility as
own instruction , and their neighbours ' entertainment .
everybody around her was gay and busy , prosperous and important ; each had their object of interest , their
added the idea of the brothers and sisters among whom she had always been important as playfellow , instructress ,
they were looking over views in swisserland .
had a little better arranged her own .
his life , and you know it is impossible to submit to such an extremity while any other alternative remains
anne will not be sorry to join us , i am sure .
she knew who had been frequenting uppercross .
he too had a sacrifice to make to mansfield park as well as his aunt .
" they are up stairs with my sister : they will be down in a few moments , i dare
fanny harville was a very superior creature , and his attachment to her was indeed attachment .
more callers , more visitors by invitation and by chance , than any other family .
put to an end by exclamations and inquiries about the other ; of whom , however , she could only
, and though chiefly of larch and laurel , and beech cut down , and though laid out with too
luckily too poor to be an object of prey to anybody .
it to be indeed very charming , and was actually practising her steps about the drawing-room as long as she
she talked to her , listened to her , read to her ; and the tranquillity of such evenings ,
i planned the match from that hour ; and when such success has blessed me in this instance , dear
her mind made up on these several points , and her resolution formed , of always judging and acting in
upon my word , miss anne elliot , you have the most extraordinary taste !
” elizabeth , feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of his situation , now forced herself to
elton ; a most valuable , amiable , pleasing young man undoubtedly , and very much in love with harriet
frank churchill , was willing to forget his late improprieties , and be as well satisfied with him as before
as to edmund , we must learn to do without him .
” “and i am convinced to the contrary .
, instead of turning of a deathlike paleness and falling in a fit on mrs .
fraser ' s party .
would he have been less gay or less happy in the smiles of your sister ?
she was sure of his having asked his partner whether miss elliot never danced ?
darcy is not coming here again with our dear bingley !
live on .
he did not know what was come to his master lately , he said , but he could hardly ever
the whole subject of it was love—a marriage of love was to be described by the gentleman , and very
make no difficulty about it ; ' and so , away she went to your sister , who was sitting
chapter viii frank churchill came back again ; and if he kept his father ' s dinner waiting , it
when their visitor entered the room .
with that she soothed herself and amused her friend .
for not only was it considered as her future home by her brother and mrs .
always feeling towards herself and mr .
elton ' s return , and being hung over the mantelpiece of the common sitting-room , he got up to
mrs harville must be an odd mother to part with them so long .
— ' jane , ' indeed !
in such a state , he neither ought , nor would .
does elinor expect him already ?
to all that was strongest and best in his cellars .
she immediately shook her head at fanny with arch , yet affectionate reproach , and taking her hand , seemed
sophy cannot bear them .
” “thank you ; but there is no escaping these little vexations , mary , live where we may ;
exerted against our unoffending door .
succeeded , and after speaking some time of what the poor must suffer in winter , and receiving no other
" " to be sure he is .
" no , nothing at all .
with mary and edmund , without feelings so near akin to envy as made her hate herself for having them
depend upon it , you see but half .
“agreed , agreed .
" " then , " cried mrs .
instruction .
" " not till the first week of august , when he came home from the cape , just made
she persisted in a very determined , though very silent disinclination for bath ; caught the first dim view of
—you confined to the society of the illiterate and vulgar all your life !
man who , to every advantage[ _num_ ] of person and talents , united a disposition naturally open and honest
dull to a degree that almost made her uncivil .
" your behaviour was certainly very wrong , " said she ; " because—to say nothing of my own conviction
they gaily ascended the downs , rejoicing in their own penetration at every glimpse of blue sky ; and when
upon what is called society for his comforts , that is , upon the power of eating and drinking ,
there was too much domestic happiness in his brother ' s house ; woman wore too amiable a form in
her than to find her aunt using the same language : “i cannot but say i much regret your being
and act as circumstances might require .
he is now shut up in his apartment , whither i heard him go on leaving mine .
a distant light , which as i approached it , i discovered to be the chearfull blaze of your fire
the satisfaction of knowing it .
elton was very much discomposed indeed .
william ' s promotion , with all its particulars , he was soon master of ; and with such a
not have found her superior .
who will not give himself the trouble of writing anything worth reading to his sisters , when they are separated
there was a charm , perhaps , in his sincerity , his steadiness , his integrity , which miss crawford
elton since his going away .
no summons , however , arrived ; and at last , on seeing a carriage drive up to the abbey
bennet , shaking her head , “then she is better off than many girls .
a young man who had scarcely any other dependence than on our patronage , and who had been brought up
—more and more frightened , she immediately promised them money , and taking out her purse , gave them a
but , though bingley and jane meet tolerably often , it is never for many hours together ; and ,
think of nothing else .
he had remained in shropshire , lamenting the blindness of his own pride , and the blunders of his own
in general terms , to assist them , and make their situation more comfortable than it was in his power
reginald is so incensed against the poor silly girl .
you have drawn two pretty pictures ; but i think there may be a third—a something between the do-nothing and
kind and compassionate freind who might listen to my sorrows without endeavouring to console me was what i had for
it had not been built many years and was in good repair .
yates assured him that anhalt ' s last scene with the baron admitted a good deal of action and emphasis
of sentiment which might have prompted her to entreat him to transfer his affection from herself to harriet , as
i could not derive benefit from the late knowledge i had acquired of your character .
elton sat down with mr .
the discovery , conveyed some consolation to edmund for his disappointment in what he had expected to be so essentially
what animation , both of body and mind , she had derived from watching the advance of that season which
" " are you going back to town ?
ferrars was the most unfortunate of women—poor fanny had suffered agonies of sensibility—and he considered the existence of each ,
to know him in bits and scraps is common enough ; to know him pretty thoroughly is , perhaps ,
knightley ' s going to london had been an unexpected blow .
the do-all .
dashwood ' s spirit overcame the wish of society for her children ; and she was resolute in declining to
he dared not come to bartlett ' s buildings for fear of detection , and though their mutual impatience to
and their mother had the satisfaction of knowing that she would be able to show her married daughter in the
walking home again , late at night , and cold as the nights are now .
—we scarcely got home in time .
" " it is a beautiful country , " he replied ; " but these bottoms must be dirty in
my acquaintance is so very extensive , that i have little doubt of hearing of something to suit her shortly
at one moment she was softened , at another irritated ; always distressed , but always steady .
—he had been in love with emma , and jealous of frank churchill , from about the same period ,
' s footsteps .
bought what ever was requisite to furnish the two rooms and the closet , in a few days everything was
utmost distress , with no creditable home , no help , no friends , ignorant of his address !
of heart , which she had believed herself to discern in him yesterday .
express how perfectly delighted they were with him , how much handsomer , how infinitely more agreeable they thought him
" " i am not yet so much changed , " cried anne , and stopped , fearing she hardly
evils , were disagreeables at least , which mr .
and in the wretched state of his own finances , there was a very powerful motive for secrecy , in
at others that it was wholly incompatible with it .
“ ' so very fond of me !
she was come to be happy , and she felt happy already .
his countenance was thoroughly good-humoured ; and his manners were as friendly as the style of his letter .
of the town itself , that it was very evident they would not have more than time for looking about
i had best do—no , no , i do not mean that—as you say , one ' s mind ought
james’s ?
morland the high commendation of being one of the finest fellows in the world , but swore off many sentences
shall i go ?
do it as well .
rushworth , whose own manners were such a pattern of good-breeding and attention , that she really did not feel
any other situation would have been much less in character .
she shuddered , tossed about in her bed , and envied every quiet sleeper .
—or that she should be the first to possess the skill of unlocking a cabinet , the key of which
out , like his information .
loss of friends so much as i do .
” emma could not have desired a more spirited rejection of mr .
place could give her ease , barton must do it .
she is loveliness itself .
i could not think about you so much without doating on you , faults and all ; and by dint
she hardly wished to have more leisure for them .
i certainly have been misunderstanding you , if you feel in doubt as to the purport of your answer .
, " it would have gave me such pleasure to meet you there !
my gratitude will be insured immediately by any information tending to that end , and hers must be gained by
whom , in the blindness of her anger , she could have charged as the daemon of the piece .
darcy , you must allow me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable partner .
" " no , " replied elinor , most feelingly sensible of every fresh circumstance in favour of lucy '
to please in general ; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than her sister ,
collins joining in , observed : “yes , miss elizabeth , you will have the honour of seeing lady catherine
, fagged , worn look of fatigue and a hot climate , every tender feeling was increased , and she
and she appears so truly good—there is something so motherly and kind-hearted about her , that it wins upon one
in a moment , and she instantly said , “oh , eleanor , i will write to you indeed .
i do not understand her .
can yourself immediately contradict or confirm .
but i left no stone unturned .
honesty to stop and admit that her own behaviour to him had been so complaisant and obliging , so full
, and at dinner she found him seated by her—and , as she firmly believed , not without some dexterity
but my dear lydia , i don’t at all like your going such a way off .
i could very ill spare the time , and you might have saved me the trouble , if you would
” in two minutes , however , he relented in his own favour ; and muttering something about spruce-beer ,
every moment between music and reading .
might be too powerful , she thought it best to say , “i lay it down as a general rule
jennings deficient either in curiosity after petty information , or in a disposition to communicate it .
she is on her road somewhere , i dare say , and so , passing through meryton , thought she
between them it was more the intimacy of sisters .
the ceiling and stucco of the room ; and that when he inquired with mild gravity after the fate of
anxious for your not looking down on .
” “no , indeed .
and inquired after you , ma ' am , and the young ladies , especially miss marianne , and bid
invalid in a less alarming state than might be apprehended , and that he will be able to bring him
but i am sure she cannot mean to torment , for she is very much attached to my brother .
it was a style of beauty , of which elegance was the reigning character , and as such , she
, and that a clear blue sky was no longer a proof of a fine day .
he would be as little incumbrance as possible to captain and mrs harville ; but as to leaving his sister
” “it would be delightful to me to see the progress of it all , ” said fanny .
in all the certainty of his own self , reached randalls before dinner , and every thing was safe .
i have no doubt are giving this ball chiefly to do me honour—i would not wish to be inferior to
all the time—till just at last , when mrs .
pray , what is your age ?
to all he had to say of his own happiness , and of jane’s perfections ; and in spite of
character in doing so , which his own decided , confident temper could not endure .
knightley , “of this great intimacy between emma and harriet smith , but i think it a bad thing .
weston ' s accounting for it with “i suppose they will not take the liberty with you ; they know
thought mrs .
ferrars , is perhaps , altogether a little extraordinary .
but of her , i shall have occasion to speak more at large in future .
all her own demerits .
out of all proportion .
in such hands !
elinor placed all that was astonishing in this way of acting to his mother ' s account ; and it
, a detachment of the twelfth light dragoons (the hopes of the nation) called up from northampton to quell the
” “of mr .
kept back as she was by everybody else , his single support could not bring her forward ; but his
cousins , while the rest of the party waited for them at the top of the hill .
her thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of pemberley house , whichever it might be , where mr
we are , to be sure , a miracle every way ; but our powers of recollecting and of forgetting
when we parted , he almost shook me by the hand while he reminded me of an old promise about
a significant look and smile from mrs .
that word will be sufficient .
bennet was diffuse in her good wishes for the felicity of her daughter , and impressive in her injunctions that
chapter _num_ “i hope , my dear , ” said mr .
and he is not an acquaintance of to-day ; you have now known him some time .
entered into it with pleasure .
she was not so easily to be talked out of it .
miss darcy and her brother appeared , and this formidable introduction took place .
” “indeed i am , ” she replied ; “i love her exceedingly , and am delighted to find that
but no wonder ; milsom street , you know .
but she still tried to believe it no more than what he might often have expressed towards her cousins and
her time and attention , she was as far from finding herself without employment or utility amongst them , as
price very much more resembled lady bertram than mrs .
you believe that i do know how to value your kindness in coming to me this morning .
her sister of mr .
most satisfaction .
knightley i declare !
she approached and saw the likeness of mr .
ourselves , coachman is not very fond of the roads between this and sotherton : he always complains bitterly of
and miss bates occupied the drawing-room floor ; and there , in the very moderate-sized apartment , which was every
a lady , without a family , was the very best preserver of furniture in the world .
do not accuse me ; indeed , it was impossible to prevent it .
” catherine , with all the earnestness of truth , expressed her astonishment at such a charge , protesting her
forgive the question—are you quite certain that you can be happy with him ?
as she could , she again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to wickham , and commanded herself
the crown , had accidentally met with a navy officer or two of his acquaintance since his arrival , but
directly .
that ' s all .
and the lock of hair—that too i had always carried about me in the same pocket-book , which was now
what could more delightfully prove that the warmth of her heart was equal to its gentleness ?
it ought to have been a habit with him by this time , of following his duty , instead of
" " i have not a doubt of it , " said marianne ; " and i have nothing to
norris contrived to remove one article from his sight that might have distressed him .
he went into the pump-room afterwards ; but i would not have followed him for all the world .
leave us after all ?
a neighbouring door , when a loud one was suddenly heard which could not be mistaken for one at any
she only knew that henrietta was at home again ; and that louisa , though considered to be recovering fast
the last night ' s ball seemed lost in the gipsies .
, by all his father ' s doubts , to say that her complaints were merely imaginary , or that
, as important to him in all her smiles and all her ways , as mary crawford had ever been
sir james is certainly below par (his boyish manners make him appear worse) ; and had frederica possessed the penetration
say not a word of it ; hear nothing , surmise nothing , whisper nothing till i write again .
of being tolerably happy in marriage , which sincere affection on her side would have given , for self-interest alone
proudly spurned only four months ago , would now have been most gladly and gratefully received !
the impertinence of the eltons , which for a few minutes had threatened to ruin the rest of her evening
four sides of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight , and all her earnest desire of being loved
gardiner abused her stupidity .
sending for her to edward street , especially as every visit is so much deducted from the grand affair of
rather than his disappointing the hopes and disgracing the memory of his father .
a few yards of marianne , when her accident happened .
but those two lines are”— —“the best of all .
her recent good offices by anne had been enough in themselves , and their marriage , instead of depriving her
almost to blame her for exciting feelings which could not be gratified .
it was eleven , upon my soul !
crawford should come back again so soon , after being here so long before , full seven weeks ; for
for many years of her life she had had two sons ; but the crime and annihilation of edward a
affairs , and whose character she had no reason to question .
the picture which she had then drawn of the privations of the approaching winter , had proved erroneous ; no
, therefore , could be fairly conjectured from that , though elizabeth , who was by this time tolerably well
after an interval of silence , “i think they might as well have staid for me , ” said he
desert .
they will take care not to outrun their income .
” henry bowed his assent .
bennet , when elizabeth had read the note aloud , “if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness—if
do clear them too , or we shall be obliged to think ill of somebody .
" chapter _num_ one day only had passed since anne ' s conversation with mrs smith ; but a keener
some one must resolve on being off for uppercross instantly .
not so very bad as she would have expected : the pleasure of talking of mansfield was so very great
this was very kind of you to be persuaded to come .
— ' aye , pray do , ' said mr .
knightley ' s downright , decided , commanding sort of manner , though it suits him very well ; his
could hazard among the too-commanding claims of the others .
he could not forgive her , but he could not be unfeeling .
dashwood , " even if i remain at barton ; and in all probability , —for i hear it is
and so you are most comfortably settled in your little cottage and want for nothing !
” “my love to your sister , if you please ; and when you see my cousin , my cousin
frank churchill and miss woodhouse followed .
every thing that i have said or done , for many weeks past , has been with the sole view
within abundance of silver paper was a pretty little tunbridge-ware box , which harriet opened : it was well lined
but till it is absolutely settled—settled beyond all interference , he shall know nothing of the matter .
it is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise ; i hope at least it
, in seeing him out of it , to be rid of the worst object connected with the scheme ,
top .
” “you , sir , may say any thing , ” cried mr .
allen , are not you of my way of thinking ?
which induced you to take so much trouble , and bear so many mortifications , for the sake of discovering
a clergyman has nothing to do but be slovenly and selfish—read the newspaper , watch the weather , and quarrel
however , you will have dinner enough on it for ten , i dare say .
imagine my surprise at finding myself thus seated amongst my old acquaintance .
those dear little children .
by whom can you have heard it mentioned ?
i am informed by this day ' s post , is his , if he think it worth his acceptance—but
it will give you every thing that you want—consideration , independence , a proper home—it will fix you in the
smallridge ' s at the time proposed .
” he made no reply , and was beginning to talk of something else ; but she eagerly continued ,
through a brief comparison of opinion as to the first-rate poets , trying to ascertain whether marmion or the lady
with a severe rheumatic fever , which , finally settling in her legs , had made her for the present
the comforts of life .
the intervals of shooting and sleeping , to have convinced the gentleman that he ought to keep longer away ,
common indifferent plight , were contrasted with some few articles of a rare species of wood , excellently worked up
certainly , ” cried fanny , rising in haste , the haste of embarrassment and of wanting to get away—“i
same hurried manner .
did at mansfield park , and was scarcely ever seen in her offices .
elinor watched his countenance and saw its expression becoming more tranquil .
s son , and the advantage of inheriting a disposition to hope for good , which no inheritance of houses
his wife gave him a look which invited him in ; and , while he was coming round , added
the manoeuvres of selfishness and duplicity must ever be revolting , but i have heard nothing which really surprises me
would make as little alteration as possible in her dress .
fearful , on the contrary , as being considered as intruding themselves needlessly long , she urged jane to borrow
elton ' s absenting himself .
” as she pronounced these words , mr .
little ceremony .
“and here are crabbe ' s tales , and the idler , at hand to relieve you , if you
norris thought her quite as well off as the rest , was evident by the manner in which she claimed
ball the very next week .
what a difference it might have made !
bates , let me propose your venturing on one of these eggs .
these painful ideas crossed her mind , though she said nothing .
oh that he had sprained his ankle in the first dance !
than his brother , though , in her eyes , his air was more assuming , and his countenance less
having said thus much , i feel no doubt of your secrecy .
and a .
' you and i must part .
” elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those in the room .
crawford or of william when he said he was the finest young man in the room—somebody had whispered something to
i need not so totally despair of an equal alliance , as to be addressing myself to miss smith !
he caught the word ; it seemed to rouse him at once , and saying only-- " true , true
i have only heard that it is to be more horrible than anything we have met with yet .
draw her from the rest to himself—and at first , he had talked to her in a more particular way
getting on , but he has not another fault that i know of .
; —it was at her tongue ' s end—but she abstained .
william was her pride ; betsey her darling ; and john , richard , sam , tom , and charles
the strictest legal covenant had bound us to each other .
how very differently we feel !
only think , miss elliot , to my great surprise i met with mr elliot in bath street .
”—repeated frank churchill , with a look of surprize and displeasure .
a broader staircase , you will hereafter find your own house as faultless as you now do this .
elton , as elegant as lace and pearls could make her , he looked at in silence—wanting only to observe
her feelings ought to be respected .
edmund did not discern any symptoms of regret , and thought his father a little unreasonable in supposing the first
woodhouse , who commended her very much for thinking of sending for perry , and only regretted that she had
of edward for her .
fanny ' s last meal in her father ' s house was in character with her first : she was
four-and-twenty hours had never passed before , since august began , without bringing them together in some way or other
it is a point of great delicacy , and you must assist us in our endeavours to choose exactly the
the steadiness and delicacy of principle that it wants .
that she could be in any danger from the deception never entered my head .
" " dear ma ' am , this kindness is quite unnecessary .
merely through his conduct .
mr elliot would do nothing , and she could do nothing herself , equally disabled from personal exertion by her
to observe its effect on her .
be the guest of neither brother nor sister many months longer .
or were left as mere trifles to be settled at any time between mrs .
a most suitable connection everybody must consider it , but i think it might be a very happy one .
but this is the usual way of heightening alarm , where there is nothing to be alarmed at in reality
even if this family , the braithwaites , are put off , i am still afraid that some excuse may
i am , sir , your most humble servant , f .
palmer , or any friend that may be able to assist us .
him ?
the end of a long letter , instead of having it to spread over the largest part of a page
for as to secrecy , henry is quite the hero of an old romance , and glories in his chains
norris , “that dr .
no peace if i did not stand up .
we will not despair , however .
plan ; and even if he could form such a design against a young woman of lydia’s connections , which
i must torment my sister-in-law for the insolent triumph of her look and manner since sir james has been dismissed
“but it is fortunate , ” thought she , “that i have something to wish for .
friends i ever met with !
she had heard and seen it all ; and felt some curiosity to know whether the wet walk of this
he could immediately say with easy fluency , “i am sorry you are going ; but as to our play
“poor dears !
of his advice , quite as unyielding to his representation , quite as determined in the cause of pleasure ,
at his being much struck by the gentleness and delicacy of her manners ; but when he has mentioned her
forgive their daughter .
were the sentences exchanged while they remained upstairs , catherine in busy agitation completing her dress , and eleanor with
a few days had made a change indeed !
—he seemed to want to be acquainted with her .
with so much attention , as to be entirely mistress of the subject .
” “that is exactly the question which i expected you to ask .
perhaps this concealment , this disguise was beneath me ; it is done , however , and it was done
one cannot love a reserved person .
to particulars .
she had been solicited , when about two-and-twenty , to change her name , by the young man , who
the curtain will be a good job , however .
of assent , or disapprobation ; or merely of love , as the subject required ; concluding , however ,
her relations by acquainting them with the honour which she expected .
from something[ _num_ ] more than his affection for marianne , or the consciousness of its being known to others
shall hope to be in the future secured , when the following account of my actions and their motives has
when tea was over , mr .
are you speaking of—mr .
to assist in every way that he could .
my dear henry , and this is what took you to london !
as far as she could judge , mr .
all meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who , but three months before , had been almost an angel
” “by no means , (said he) for what may be pretty in a woman , may be very unpleasing
if they marry , they will be sure of doing well , and if they do not , they may
he always moved with the alertness of a mind which could neither be undecided nor dilatory , but now he
she found , on reaching home , that she had , as she intended , escaped seeing mr elliot ;
as they walked home , elizabeth related to jane what she had seen pass between the two gentlemen ; but
good company requires only birth , education , and manners , and with regard to education is not very nice
the time of year lightened the evil to him .
crawford for lending the horse which he had fully intended it should produce .
, and to abuse elizabeth , tho ' i am rather fearful of having fallen short in the latter part
" in a tone that implied , " do you really think him selfish ?
with him : but evening parties were what he preferred ; and , unless he fancied himself at any time
so far went his understanding ; and his vanity supplied a little additional soothing , in the admiral ' s
reynolds respect for elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of her knowing her master .
captain weston was a general favourite ; and when the chances of his military life had introduced him to miss
nothing could be more delightful !
would have been thankful to be assured of never seeing him again .
elizabeth martin ' s visit .
only the interesting charm of remembering former partialities and talking over old times .
a disgust which turned the tide of his popularity ; for he was discovered to be proud ; to be
i should be sorry to think so ill of him , in the very beginning of our relationship .
goddard ' s , her evil stars had led her to the very spot where , at that moment ,
every allowance will be made for you .
they were a couple worth looking at .
my spirits rallied with the morning , and i felt that i had still a motive for remaining here .
” “i hope he will be here to-morrow , for i have a question or two to ask him about
hodges , he said , was quite displeased at their being all sent away .
imprudent as the marriage between mr .
living creature , how could i suppose , when she so earnestly , so warmly insisted on sharing my fate
when they did meet , his grave looks shewed that she was not forgiven .
i am very glad you have somebody who thinks of these things .
” isabella was silent .
” “certainly ; you must be sensible that the last half-year has made a great difference in your way of
darcy bowed .
such was his instinctive compliment to the good manners of mr .
the crofts were to have possession at michaelmas ; and as sir walter proposed removing to bath in the course
to the result .
would be advantageously married , it made her feel a sort of credit in calling her niece .
that your kindness is not to be accepted—and that the happiness your company has hitherto given us is to be
sufficiently known to him to render him culpable in authorising it ; that in so doing he had sacrificed the
jane , don ' t you remember grandmama ' s telling us of it when we got home ?
[ _num_ drawing him a little aside .
her heart fluttered , her knees trembled , and her cheeks grew pale .
your musical knowledge alone would entitle you to name your own terms , have as many rooms as you like
[ _num_ ] begging her to stop .
jane by her solemn assurances of attachment .
my dear catherine , you alone , who know my heart , can judge of my present happiness .
” “it is more than i engage for , i assure you .
the narrow lanes scratching his carriage , and you know one should not like to have dear sir thomas ,
mainwaring .
he would have had a wife of whose temper he could make no complaint , but he would have been
" " i did not know i contradicted any body in calling your mother ill-bred .
i use the verb ' to torment , ' as i observed to be your own method , instead of
and this surprises me .
willoughby , he , whom only half an hour ago she had abhorred as the most worthless of men ,
sister , pray do not ask her now ; for fanny is not one of those who can talk and
you must give me leave to judge for myself , and pay me the compliment of believing what i say
placing gowns in the only right way , that maria thought herself obliged , on her return , to undo
his having been in the same neighbourhood fanny already knew .
—isabella , to be sure , was no very quick observer ; yet if harriet had not been equal to
his good looks and his rank had one fair claim on his attachment ; since to them he must have
regard with a deeper sentiment of gratitude than it had ever raised before ; she remembered its warmth , and
been able to name him to her mother , and recall her remembrance of the name , as that of
the subject ; and then , on her briefly expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured , he
he was directly invited to join their party , but he declined it , observing that he could imagine but
it was a handsome modern building , well situated on rising ground .
” “true , true , ” cried mr .
keep me longer at mansfield , and feel when i go away that she shall be never happy again .
dear miss woodhouse , how could you so mistake me ?
she longed to know what at the moment was passing in his mind—in what manner he thought of her ,
society has claims on us all ; and i profess myself one of those who consider intervals of recreation and
like her sister , to be agatha , began to be scrupulous on miss crawford ' s account .
he had followed them purposely to town , he had taken on himself all the trouble and mortification attendant on
“i could hardly believe my senses , when i heard it ; and no displeasure , no resentment that you
was almost ashamed to find that her uncle and aunt had already lost three days of happiness , and immediately
alive , not at liberty .
to sit between her ladyship and miss price , and teach them both , it was so settled ; and
never saw a house of the kind which had in itself so much the air of a gentleman ' s
poor harriet was in a flutter of spirits which required all the reasonings and soothings and attentions of every kind
on going down to breakfast the next morning , she found there had just been a decent pretence on the
" " i do not believe , " said mrs .
" " yes , i have , presently .
” “i do not think him at all handsome .
you know how i always feel for the horses .
he told me the other day that he only valued money as it allowed him to promote the happiness of
he is thought to be gouty .
graham ' s intending to have a bailiff from scotland , to look after his new estate .
i started—i gazed at her with admiration—she appeared every moment more charming , and the unfortunate musgrove became a captive
obliged to yield .
for bed , as to dream of him when there , cannot be ascertained ; but i hope it was
good-bye .
he yielded implicitly , and would fetch his hat and attend them in a moment .
the whole building enclosed a large court ; and two sides of the quadrangle , rich in gothic ornaments ,
fate of which she shared , by private partnership with morland , a very good equivalent for the quiet and
in his disfavour with me .
" " i know she did ; you had forbidden her speaking to mr .
, the brother ' s conduct , her cold-hearted ambition , his thoughtless vanity .
i have written to him and my father .
the reverse , and could imagine her to be taken perfectly unprepared , but sir thomas could not regard the
one came from her books , and the other from her toilette .
had i not been convinced of her indifference , i would not have been induced by any selfish views to
she began not to understand a word they said , and was obliged to plead indisposition and excuse herself .
as a freind , and be sincere with me—do not you prefer mr musgrove to any man of your acquaintance
if she were to meet miss bates in her way !
catherine ' s countenance fell , and in a voice of most sincere concern she echoed miss tilney ' s
my father depends on it .
private disappointments in very unreasonable applications) , prided himself on remaining single for his dear daughters ' sake .
left longstaple with what i thought , at the time , a most unconquerable preference for his niece , yet
but i have very little doubt it will be .
“here have i , ” said she , “actually talked poor harriet into being very much attached to this man
ferrars would be off ; and when edward did not come near us for three days , i could not
so silly—so satisfied—so smiling—so prosing—so undistinguishing and unfastidious—and so apt to tell every thing relative to every body about me
not it be better for captain benwick ?
elizabeth , as she affectionately embraced her , whilst tears filled the eyes of both , lost not a moment
this is breaking a head and giving a plaster , truly !
while she with the truest affection had been planning a most eligible connection for him , was it to be
i am much mistaken if emma ' s doctrines give any strength of mind , or tend at all to
thy ready wit the word will soon supply .
admired , they had both , constantly refused to submit to such despotic power .
on the forbidden door alone .
, shoe-string , and breeches-ball .
i have been laughing at them this half hour .
but , fair or not fair , there are unbecoming conjunctions , which reason will patronize in vain--which taste cannot
her heart beat quick on hearing harriet ' s footstep and voice ; so , she supposed , had poor
you will be a very proper , little old woman .
it might be a very indifferent piece of wit , but emma found a great deal to laugh at and
what right had she to be of importance to her family ?
see him ; but as to the rest of the family , it is a matter of perfect indifference to
nay , i cannot blame you”—speaking more seriously—“your feelings are easily understood .
suckling is extremely fond of exploring .
; besides sending , as soon as she recollected it , proper notice to the other house , which brought
acquainted .
have thought of returning it ; but being her brother ' s present , is not it fair to suppose
“oh for the ecclesford theatre and scenery to try something with .
" " no , " admitted charles , " i do not know that he ever does , in a
“but my dear elizabeth , ” she added , “what sort of girl is miss king ?
but charlotte , she would not be satisfied , so mr .
recommendations to mr .
of bravado , an air of affected unconcern ; i always observe it whenever i meet you under those circumstances
” thought catherine ; such ill-timed exercise was of a piece with the strange unseasonableness of his morning walks ,
her ignorance is hourly flattery .
the mere stateliness of money or rank she thought she could witness without trepidation .
it was reasonable that he should feel he had been wrong ; he had liberality , and he had the
hodges , or to inspect anything—” “i have not the least wish for it , i thank you .
she laughed because she was disappointed ; and though she liked him for his attentions , and thought them all
with a cheerful look , which showed her better satisfied with their visitors , than elizabeth .
” “but upon my honour , i do not .
but it was not to be avoided : he made her feel that she was the object of all ;
nursed her through the various illnesses of childhood .
norris ceased speaking , it was altogether a silent drive to those within .
she came in with a smile , smiled all the time of her visit , except when she laughed ,
her would only increase the irritation .
weston , do not take to match-making .
” “was she as much plagued as herself to get tolerable servants ?
father ' s having any right to complain .
the same image of mr elliot speaking for himself brought anne to composure again .
" here she pretended to cry ; i was out of patience with her .
the happiness of having such a sister was their first effusion , and the fair ladies mingled in embraces and
was of little importance .
with great indignation did he continue to observe him ; with great alarm and distrust , to observe also his
at randalls ; he wants to be introduced to her .
and so you like this man’s sisters , too , do you ?
fanny was ashamed of her .
the value of an event on a wet day in the country was most forcibly brought before her .
but don’t imagine it was from any silly cause .
every distinguishing attention that could be paid , was paid to her .
it did seem , last autumn , as if there were an attachment between him and louisa musgrove ; but
be narrowly watching her .
and she was only sixteen last june .
walls surrounding which i built and stocked myself about ten years ago , for the benefit of my son .
” “we are so totally unlike , ” said fanny , avoiding a direct answer , “we are so very
profession ; now my plan is that he should take orders as soon as he can , and then through
listened , and smiled , and congratulated .
the attachment , from which against honour , against feeling , against every better interest he had outwardly torn himself
the other circumstance of regret related also to jane fairfax ; and there she had no doubt .
to look around , and by only turning her head a little she saw it all .
he was able to introduce some improvement occasionally , though by no means to the extent he wished ; he
, her next sister , sally , could say it better than she did .
smallest difficulty in every body ' s returning into their proper place the next morning .
did you think i ought ?
he was afraid poor isabella would not like it .
business of it .
” fanny was again left to her solitude , and with no increase of pleasant feelings , for she was
' s wishes , though politely kept back , inclined the same way : but his determinateness and his power
strong attachment certainly must produce more of a struggle than she could foresee in her own feelings .
she had an ample house and garden , gave the children plenty of wholesome food , let them run about
there is a very good living kept for you , i understand , hereabouts .
begin an acquaintance with him .
she coloured deeply , and he recollected himself and moved away .
she knew it must be so , but it was terrible to her .
after sitting a few minutes , they were all sent to one of the windows to admire the view ,
so public a place .
, i did not like—i thought it would appear as if i wanted to set myself off at their expense
with her till summoned to coffee .
what the manners of the great really are , which my situation in life has allowed me to acquire .
jennings ' s advice , of sending for the palmers ' apothecary .
a little upstart , vulgar being , with her mr .
" " ay , ay , miss louisa musgrove , that is the name .
to suppose that a manuscript of many generations back could have remained undiscovered in a room such as that ,
" miss elliot , i am sure you are tired , " cried mrs croft .
” “do just as you please , my dear , ” replied mrs .
cheeks ; her skin , her complexion , greatly improved ; clearer , fresher .
as mr .
starting and looking up , she saw , across the lobby she had just reached , edmund himself , standing
we must allow for the effect of shade , you know .
and nights , and which would have done for poor old asp in half the time ; our touch with
fanny shrunk back to her seat , with feelings sadly pained by his language and his smell of spirits ;
we are not all born to be handsome .
elton , indeed , could not be denied—and mrs .
the tallest , seemed to fit him peculiarly for the baron .
quite gone , mama was so kind as to lend us a pair of blue sattin slippers , of which
a cool and impartial opinion , and prepare his objections on a fairer ground than inequality of situations .
allen was so long in dressing that they did not enter the ballroom till late .
" oh !
” “or that he did not give her the use of their own instrument—which must now be shut up in
could sir thomas look in upon us just now , he would bless himself , for we are rehearsing all
dorothy , meanwhile , no less struck by your appearance , gazes on you in great agitation , and drops
down to the sea before breakfast .
was excessive , all that bordered on selfishness , in her affection for edmund .
if he had a hobby-horse , it was that .
” “no more it is .
the promised visit from “her friend , ” as edmund called miss crawford , was a formidable threat to fanny
old lady is come .
" " and can your ladyship wonder that she should ?
” “i have only to add my dear sophia , that my henry ' s elder brother dieing about the
the prospect of the netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every female of the family .
" the next moment she was tapping at her husband ' s dressing-room door , and as anne followed her
if the westons think it worth while to be at all this trouble for a few hours of noisy entertainment
could say any thing , after taking a chair .
window-seats for the sake of all the little light she could command from it , and writing as fast as
” “yes , ma ' am , i thank you ; we could not have had a nicer day .
little used to company , and she looked forward to her introduction at rosings with as much apprehension as her
at the same time that it was advantageous and complimentary to them , would enable him better to provide for
if quite another subject , “it is so cold , so very cold—and looks and feels so very much like
all the sensations of curiosity , wonder and regret , pain and pleasure , as to this fortunate miss hawkins
the influence of the viscount and viscountess in their brother ' s behalf was assisted by that right understanding of
and i protest , if i had any money to spare , i should buy a little land and build
but jane , it seems , had a letter from them very lately , and not a word was said
” so saying , he took my hand and whilst sir edward , philippa , and augusta were doubtless reflecting
work for them .
repeated , reason to rejoice in what he had done for them all , and acknowledge the advantages of early
of miss bates , and to have forgotten to restore them , he had been obliged to stop at her
york , provided she can have her own way .
” “go away !
” and then , with a slight bow , turned again into the plantation , and was soon out of
why did such an idea occur to her even enough to be reprobated and forbidden ?
”—“he was generally thought so .
always to be presented with the date of her own birth and see no marriage follow but that of a
are the finest-looking home-baked apples i ever saw in my life .
her cousins .
i speak rather of the past , however , than the present .
for the first time , since their renewed acquaintance , she felt that she was betraying the least sensibility of
, hastily left the room to fetch the book in question , anxious to lose no time in attacking so
she always takes the right time for applying .
was to see her there , or to get her away from it .
fanny was all agitation and flutter ; all hope and apprehension .
you , my mother , and margaret , must henceforth be all the world to me ; you will share
the others were not so sorry but that they could put on a decent air of welcome ; and as
he was in high spirits ; as ready to talk and laugh as ever , and seemed delighted to speak
” “nearly three weeks .
neither lady russell nor mr elliot could admire the letter ; but it did all that was wanted , in
influence of his friends successfully combated by the more natural influence of jane’s attractions .
intercourse , even by letter , must soon be given up .
since the death of her husband , who had traded with success in a less elegant part of the town
riding towards them .
i can remember no symptom of affection on either side ; and had anything of the kind been perceptible ,
he has been disappointed of some friends ' arrival whom he expected to meet here , and as he is
but she would not be secure .
” “and mary king is safe !
, a few days before his union with sophia .
from this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents .
duke of norfolk who was so warm in the queen of scotland ' s cause , and who at last
but why mr .
these horrid old galleries and antichambers .
” “will you ?
” “plain !
we determined to take a good stock with us and therefore each took a pair of our own besides those
, to whom she had often had difficulty in persuading marianne to behave with tolerable politeness ; and resolved within
for my part , i do not find them so plain as i expected : but perhaps you may think
and people she had been used to ; but the same happiness of disposition must in any place , and
yet she bore it with so much composure , she seemed scarcely to notice it .
clever collection of curious comments , which have been carefully culled , collected and classed by your comical cousin the
weston , ” said she , “we are detaining the girls .
that would be the greatest misfortune of all !
” the rest of the party were now returning , and all were soon collected .
there as long as she could give comfort or advice , she quitted the cottage with such an impression of
the first use she made of her solitude was to take up the volume which had been left on the
is she ill ?
and feel their distance from the paternal abode an inconvenience .
knightley , if you will not consider me as doing a very rude thing , i shall take emma '
” “i would not engage in such a charge , ” cried fanny , in a shrinking accent ; “in
on mr .
agatha and amelia appeared to her in their different ways so totally improper for home representation—the situation of one ,
no letter of condolence had been sent to ireland .
” “perhaps , sir , ” said fanny , wearied at last into speaking—“perhaps , sir , i thought it
fire .
a very few words between them were sufficient .
but when did you , or anybody , ever get a compliment from me , fanny ?
she then do all the honours of the meal , and help and recommend the minced chicken and scalloped oysters
" she exclaimed , " what an opinion you must have of me !
, who is i know intimate with the marlowes .
goddard ' s to attend a sick child , and miss nash had seen him , and he had told
but sir thomas hopes he will be better to-morrow , and says we must consider his journey .
rest till they might be secure of having four walls to themselves .
affection could be the growth of only a few weeks , could bear no comparison .
fanny was left with only the crawfords and mr .
we would have persuaded eloisa to have taken a wing of a chicken , but she would not be persuaded
you must have seen that i did .
” “i cannot name a day , ” said he , “till i have spoken to some others whom i
you understand every thing .
—it was most provoking .
darcy , and her resolution to be civil to him only as mr .
nothing could be so good for her as a little quiet cheerfulness .
the house was large and handsome ; and the middletons lived in a style of equal hospitality and elegance .
time , without the ceremony of a formal invitation .
my present state is miserably irksome .
they must have quarrelled , and about frederica , too .
look at the five or six determined couple who were still hard at work ; and then , creeping slowly
you cannot have an idea .
a cold , gloomy morning in january , marianne , only half dressed , was kneeling against one of the
i know that the apprehension of being forced to quit mansfield will for a time be arming you against him
and say every thing .
“i shall like it , ” she cried , “beyond anything in the world ; and do not let us
” the following day brought news from richmond to throw every thing else into the background .
she was short and plump , had a very pretty face , and the finest expression of good humour in
management of them all ; told her how everything ought to be regulated in so small a family as hers
would now have thought her exceedingly handsome .
price been allowed the entire regulation of it , as the two girls , he found , would have been
his sister was less delicate , and directed her eyes towards mr .
a woman especially , if she have the misfortune of knowing anything , should conceal it as well as she
after the birth of louisa however , which one would have thought would have strengthened her regard for lesley ,
very odd indeed !
she had rushworth feelings , and crawford feelings , and in the vicinity of sotherton the former had considerable effect
to italy merely to see our brother .
" to this elinor had no answer to make , and did not attempt any .
crawford ' s attentions .
through her tears , " tell mama , " withdrew from her sister and walked slowly up stairs .
palmer took no notice of her .
” “aye—that is because you have the right disposition .
you are not afraid of being supposed ashamed .
marry miss morton , or any thing like it .
tom is certainly not at his ease .
you know the sad end of all lesleys connubial happiness ; i will not repeat it— .
vernon my dear catherine , —i have charming news for you , and if i had not sent off my
phillips , as well as her sister , stood in too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity
” “true , ” said mr .
poignant and so ceaseless in interest .
he sat musing a little while , and then said , “but i do not see why poor isabella should
much about his dining with him—had made such a point of it , that he had promised him conditionally to
—morning decidedly the best time—never tired—every sort good—hautboy infinitely superior—no comparison—the others hardly eatable—hautboys very scarce—chili preferred—white wood finest flavour
i am not saying that she did not err in her advice .
on the following morning he hastened to rosings to pay his respects .
in love with you , he is very much in love with her friend .
she was obliged , in spite of her previous determination to the contrary , to do it all the justice
denny addressed them directly , and entreated permission to introduce his friend , mr .
the justice of the charge struck her too forcibly for denial , and the circumstances to which he particularly alluded
pray assure him of it .
palmer were of the party ; from the former , whom they had not seen before since their arrival in
, one whom she could summon at any time to a walk , would be a valuable addition to her
being obliged to enter their prison in so dangerous and ridiculous a manner .
you are talking of the man you danced with last night , are not you ?
" " i thank you , ma ' am , sincerely thank you , " said marianne , with warmth
have been enough for anne ; but lady russell saw it very differently .
were a happier couple , i need not i imagine , inform you that their union had been contrary to
me , confides in me , and will talk to me by the hour together , has never yet turned
i could not have visited mrs .
this nut , " he continued , with playful solemnity , " while so many of his brethren have fallen
the evening had afforded edmund little pleasure .
think of .
weston !
“you are going in , i suppose ?
i go first ?
” was mrs .
assure the other two that they now saw mr .
had purchased independence by uniting himself to a rich woman of inferior birth .
to miss de bourgh she derived this comfort for miss bingley , that he might have been just as likely
knightley was hard at work upon the lower buttons of his thick leather gaiters , and either the exertion of
at his own ball he offended two or three young ladies , by not asking them to dance ; and
what years of felicity that man , in all human calculation , has before him !
she contemplated it , however , in spite of this drawback , with much emotion , and , but for
seeing and wondering , he suffered the girls at last to seize the advantage of an outer door , and
wingfield told me , that he did not believe he had ever sent us off altogether , in such good
, almost the greatest happiness i am capable of , to be able to accept it .
” “if you were as much guided by nature in your estimate of men and women , and as little
she believed herself to feel too much of it in the aggregate for honesty or safety in particulars .
" her voice sunk with the word , but presently reviving she added , " i am thankful to find
our friendship cannot be impaired by it , and in happier times , when your situation is as independent as
“she is a great deal too ill to be moved .
she felt edmund ' s kindness with all , and more than all , the sensibility which he , unsuspicious
that they should both come in time .
or are you imagining he would be too much flattered by seeing round your lovely throat an ornament which his
they owed to him their two or three politest puzzles ; and the joy and exultation with which at last
half a dozen natural children , perhaps—and poor frank cut off !
when they arrived at mrs .
besides , i could have no right to interfere .
it is his companion all this evening , his solace , his delight .
—and what can he mean by apologising for being next in the entail ?
she would think of it for ever and forget all the rest .
wildly bent on this scheme , that we had the greatest difficulty in the world to prevent her putting it
her face without detection ; and the result of these looks was , that though as bewitching as ever ,
merit to possess ; and by that still ardent love for marianne , which it was not even innocent to
directly from london .
no difficulty arose on either side in the agreement ; and she waited only for the disposal of her effects
lady russell had only to listen composedly , and wish them happy , but internally her heart revelled in angry
whatever your business may be with me , it will be better recollected and explained to-morrow .
herself , or she has since transferred it to her daughter ; for sir james is now desperately in love
it is often only carelessness of opinion , and sometimes an indirect boast .
, and i join him in it with all my soul .
i felt that i admired you , but i told myself it was only friendship ; and till i began
she wanted it to be prescribed , and felt as a duty .
wants .
seemed every probability of her being permanently fixed there ; of her being taught only what very limited means could
she could not be complying , she dreaded being quarrelsome ; her heroism reached only to silence .
would have found it most difficult to cease to speak to one another .
” “no , indeed , mr .
tithes , to elinor herself , who had heard so much of it from colonel brandon , and heard it
henry was alone in it ; and his immediate hope of her having been undisturbed by the tempest , with
" " the whole of his behaviour , " replied elinor , " from the[ _num_ ] beginning to the
how could she have so imposed on herself ?
i had left her only the evening before , so fully , so firmly resolved within my self on doing
there can be no comparison as to one ' s view of the country .
, of at least getting harriet into the house , made her again find something very much amiss about her
in words so plain as to bear but one meaning even to her , offering himself , hand , fortune
" " i wish with all my soul , " cried sir john , " that willoughby were among us
it is not that i am without the wish ; but you know how impossible my father would deem it
his behaviour to myself has been scandalous ; but i verily believe i could forgive him anything and everything ,
you must preach at mansfield , you know , that sir thomas and lady bertram may hear you .
every hope , every expectation from him suspended , at least , and who could say how long ?
of his shoulders .
, to which all the rest of highbury belonged ; but their fortune , from other sources , was such
but i have no reason to suppose it so .
" she received no other answer , than an artificial , assenting smile , followed by a contemptuous glance ,
cultivation and manners to all the rest .
certainly ought to refuse him .
julia was vexed , and her temper was hasty ; but she felt that it would not last , and
be his own which he had been directed to gain , no unworthy retraction of a tacit consent , no
in the town , which you must acknowledge to be true .
john knightley presently , with some slyness , “he seems to have a great deal of good-will towards you .
“no , not true on your side .
this event had at last been despaired of , but it was then too late to be saving .
he has imposed on me , but he has not injured me .
” elizabeth could not but look surprised .
[ _num_ ] some mothers might have encouraged the intimacy from motives of interest , for edward ferrars was the
weston could only approve .
it had not been possible for him to spend less ; he had done nothing but what sir walter elliot
under every circumstance that can be most interesting or affecting .
but he gave so many hints ; so mrs clay says , at least .
to think of him as miss crawford might be justified in thinking , would in her be insanity .
” “dear creature !
it had a most favourable aspect ; and , for half a minute , emma felt the glory of having
and whether , in defiance of everything , she was still dear to him .
frequent .
soon after their return , a letter was delivered to miss bennet ; it came from netherfield .
such very superior dancing is not often seen .
that the hair was her own , she instantaneously felt as well[ _num_ ] satisfied as marianne ; the only
many might have done with so little labour as she would ever submit to .
” “your gallantry is really unanswerable .
brown ' s—smiles and blushes rising in importance—with consciousness and agitation richly scattered—the lady had been so easily impressed—so sweetly
who should do it but himself ?
“our liturgy , ” observed crawford , “has beauties , which not even a careless , slovenly style of reading
my sweetest lizzy !
miss elliot , " that any particularity of attention seemed almost impossible .
then , in _num_ , the author fell to work upon an older essay in letters à la richardson ,
tormenting .
“i agree with you exactly .
weston , best in the world .
should certainly have named miss taylor .
he will be taken in at last .
to unfasten it from all the holds upon things animate and inanimate , which so many years ' growth have
“let me have the pleasure of finishing that speech to your ladyship , ” said he .
the express was sent off directly .
your kindness to william makes me more obliged to you than words can express ; but i do not want
on him by informing him of janetta ' s elopement , and of the active part we had both taken
it , she was quite decided against accepting the offer , and for the reasons you mention ; exactly as
conciliating .
vernon , to whom her own behaviour was far from unexceptionable , might for a time make her wish for
he was neither so unjust , nor so ungrateful , as to leave his estate from his nephew ; but
he would soon be among them again ; mr .
with ostentatious formality to his humble abode , and punctually repeated all his wife’s offers of refreshment .
the wish of distinguishing her , as far as civility permitted , was very evident , though it could not
his sense of the insignificance of all his parts together , and make him more ready to regret that some
gardiner did not write again till he had received an answer from colonel forster ; and then he had nothing
harriet ' s ; —and even were this not the case , he would never have known harriet at all
miss crawford soon felt that he and his situation might do .
you to come and sit down with us a little while , and give us your opinion of our new
been entreated to come early with the same distinguishing earnestness , on the same errand , that it seemed as
” he had hoped she would speak again , but she did not .
to london .
that she knew not what to expect to find him in his own family .
and to the very great satisfaction of lady russell , whose first views on the projected change had been for
” and turning round he looked for a moment at elizabeth , till catching her eye , he withdrew his
“for my companion tells me , ” said she , “that i absolutely promised miss bates last night , that
there can be no occasion for your going so soon .
a settled , and , secondly , as a good one—well aware of the nearly equal importance of the two
jane looked well , and elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her spirits , amidst the various engagements which the
whose eyes and smiles were immediately and more unequivocally directed as her brother ' s had been , and who
” “you understand the force of influence pretty well , harriet ; but i would have you so firmly established
be at all more likely to be useful now .
" [ _num_ ] " i can answer for it , " said mrs .
it is to be a morning scheme , you know , knightley ; quite a simple thing .
weston ' s heart and time would be occupied by it .
absent , anxious mind ; and about noon she made her escape with her work to the east room ,
removed .
, and how wicked it was to marry without affection .
of it was overheard by mr .
besides , there was gratitude towards her , for having made their tete-a-tete so much less painful than her fears
how little did i think !
if they were , which i have seen done .
when one thinks of it , how astonishing a variety of nature !
pain every moment to her mother and[ _num_ ] sisters , and forbidding all attempt at consolation from either .
” fanny thanked him , but tried to laugh it off .
sometimes i thought it had been—but it never was .
they are not far off .
first ; for a very narrow income has a tendency to contract the mind , and sour the temper .
darcy and devoted all his time to the care of the pemberley property .
have retracted a promise voluntarily made only five minutes before , and on a false pretence too , must have
i do not mean to be poor .
” she looked round the room .
sir thomas soon appeared , and maria saw with delight and agitation the introduction of the man she loved to
shall even respect you .
" for god ' s sake tell me , is she out of danger , or is she not ?
” “i am sure i cannot guess at all .
” “yes , sir , i know i am .
town to be gay .
three months , she says so , positively , as i am going to have the pleasure of reading to
here ceased the concert part of the evening , for miss woodhouse and miss fairfax were the only young lady
such schemes as these are nothing without numbers .
a young farmer , whether on horseback or on foot , is the very last sort of person to raise
elton took the reproof , so rapidly did another subject succeed ; for mr .
other ; and point out a quiz through the thickness of a crowd .
he had frequently observed , as he walked , that one handsome face would be followed by thirty , or
—you must not confound us with london in general , my dear sir .
with a feeling of terror not very definable , she fixed her eyes on the staircase , and in a
" " i believe you are right , " he replied , " and yet i have always set her
his spirits , during the last two or three days , though still very unequal , were greatly improved—he grew
smith ' s account , is equally dull and proud .
within the last three years , when she had quitted them .
whole to me .
you will never recommend yourself to his friend by so doing !
" anne smiled more than once to herself during this speech , and entered into the subject , as ready
his character sunk on every review of it ; and as a punishment for him , as well as a
weeks past , felt the expediency of mr .
will you hear it ?
she had scarcely a stronger regret than for her past coldness ; and the person , whom she had been
“i repeat again , ” added sir thomas , “that thornton lacey is the only house in the neighbourhood in
” “there is , i believe , in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil—a natural defect , which
i call it a very fine country , —the hills are steep , the woods seem full of fine timber
when she thought of miss crawford ; but miss crawford gave her the idea of being the child of good
if he wishes to avoid seeing me , he must go .
i shall leave you together .
it was unpardonable .
serviceable to her .
the whole of what elizabeth had already heard , his claims on mr .
to do , and of his having indeed quite a different manner towards her ; a manner of kindness and
a high spirit were likely to endure under the disappointment of a dear , though irrational hope , with a
if you , my dear father , will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits , and of
how well it was understood ; and before julia could command herself enough to speak , her brother gave his
with mr .
so dear ; for as to any partnership in thornton lacey , as edmund bertram once good-humouredly proposed , i
a difference of age and disposition he could ever attach her .
well , if they can be easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own , so much the
on one side or some attachment on the other , had missed mr .
weston , with a look of gentle reproach—“ah !
on the other hand , the delight of exploring an edifice like udolpho , as her fancy represented blaize castle
on this subject , what can you have to say ?
had been continually contrasted with his own severity .
but they , exalted creatures !
it gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast ; for she was in no cheerful humour .
the time of the play is a time which i hate to recollect .
” “and , upon my word , they have an air of great probability .
will she and the dowager agree in one house ?
but take it away , and all appropriation ceases , and a very pretty gallant charade remains , fit for
the plan of the young couple was to proceed , after a few days , to brighton , and take
) for himself .
report his proceedings , first on my affairs , and then on his own .
wingfield most strenuously recommended it , sir—or we should not have gone .
intercourse in camden place .
woodhouse , full of trivial communications and harmless gossip .
name would have given the lie more effectually to what they related ?
him to play at piquet of an evening , while miss dashwood was above with her sister , &c .
sadness she was the very reverse of all that she had been before .
drew near , isabella became more and more desponding , and before the letter arrived , had worked herself into
darcy , it determined her not to attend her cousins to rosings , where they were engaged to drink tea
but by an appeal to her affection for her mother , by representing the inconveniences which that indulgent mother must
trifle as this .
darcy , and all that he had suffered from him , was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed ; and
for mere amusement among ourselves we should want nothing more .
son , though he does not bear my name .
crawford , after properly depreciating his own abilities , was quite at his service in any way that could be
i hope i shall have some good friend to help me .
” “nothing further to alarm perhaps may occur the first night .
here are the letters which announce it , this moment come to hand .
—how often is happiness destroyed by preparation , foolish preparation !
however , so entirely lost on its object , that after many expressions of pity , she withdrew , still
but go on , go on .
of soliciting yours , miss elizabeth , for the two first dances especially , a preference which i trust my
" " if such is your way of thinking , " said marianne , " if the loss of what
favouring something which everybody who shuts their eyes while they look , or their understandings while they reason , feels
gardiner promised every assistance in his power .
” he thanked her , observing , “how lucky that we should arrive at the same moment !
all field sports were over .
prudence , soon grew into a matter of choice , as an object of that needful solicitude which there were
lady bertram ' s hour of good luck came .
” catherine did not exactly know how this was to be understood .
it was a concern which brought just employment enough .
hardly fit for service then .
, applied himself to studying it , without seeming to recollect her existence .
it spared me the concern which i might have felt in refusing you , had you behaved in a more
of any thing that you may have in contemplation—as a friend , indeed , you may command me .
he was just such a man as one might have expected to be the choice of macdonald .
she believed he was looking at her ; probably reflecting on what she had said , and trying to understand
them to suppose that we were as happy as we ought to be .
he is as silly as ever .
crawford , and mr .
allen ; “and i would only advise you , my dear , not to go out with mr .
she has the advantage in every feature , and i prefer her countenance ; but i like julia best ;
grant ' s morning calls , it was very hard upon her to be deprived of one of the last
true , true , you are acquainted with miss fairfax ; i remember you knew her at weymouth , and
lesley bristol the _num_ th of march i have received letters from you and your mother-in-law within this week which
in my eyes it would be no marriage at all , but that would be nothing .
, as the proprietor , who was then abroad , had left strict orders on that head .
felt all the force of the compliment , and would hardly have resented a comparison with the housekeeper’s room .
" since the idea had been started in the very quarter which ought to dictate , he had no scruple
she had no objection .
the politeness which she had been brought up to practise as a duty made it impossible for her to escape
on ; always the last of my family to be noticed .
, to be labouring only for the torment of little boys and girls , always struck me as a hard
regular narration to attend to , pursued only by the sounds of her desultory good-will .
—the delicacy of her mind throughout the whole engagement , my dear madam , is much beyond my power of
during his absence we faithfully complied with his desire and after the most mature deliberation , at length agreed that
but as to my letting her marry robert martin , it is impossible ; she has refused him , and
" i have heard , " said he , with great compassion , " of the injustice your friend mr
sir walter spurned the idea of its being offered in any manner ; forbad the slightest hint being dropped of
i thought you were against me .
my dear madam , i am not so ignorant of young ladies ' ways as you wish to believe me
is not the least wit in my nature .
miss crawford made us laugh by her plans of encouragement for her brother .
“well , fanny , it is all happily settled , and without the smallest hesitation on your uncle ' s
he said so repeatedly ; other things he said too , which marked the turn of his feelings and gave
“and this is always the way with him , ” she added .
cash—would certainly be employed in improving my collection of music and books .
grant ' s shewing civility to miss price , to lady bertram ' s niece , could never want explanation
" " oh dear !
the evening was quiet and conversable , as mr .
ma ' am , ” addressing her , “do you hear what miss woodhouse is so obliging to say about
an enlargement of the plan as this : so contrary to all their first protestations ; but edmund said nothing
of happiness as a very resolute character .
he knows he is wrong , and has nothing rational to urge .
” and would he only have smiled upon her , and called her “my dear fanny , ” while he
” “i wish i could say anything to comfort you , ” replied elizabeth ; “but it is wholly out
mary deplored the necessity for herself .
she does not know how to hold her tongue , as you must perceive , and i am sure i
he was considering her as the source of all the happiness they offered .
they had met .
in making me the offer , you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family
or four months at highbury will entirely cure her—and it is certainly a great deal better that she should come
allen ' s estate .
channel , and sent into portsmouth with the first boat that left the antwerp at anchor in spithead ; and
the pen for many days to come , being no less than the dangerous illness of her eldest son ,
she followed him with her eyes , envied everyone to whom he spoke , had scarcely patience enough to help
with a triumphant smile they were told that it was ten miles round .
dashwood with more than politeness ; with a kindness which sir john ' s account of him and her own
how unjustly she had condemned and upbraided him , her anger was turned against herself ; and his disappointed feelings
i am ill-qualified to recommend myself to strangers .
thoughtful and pensive in general , her countenance always brightens into a smile when reginald says anything amusing ; and
" " that is very true , " replied her mother , " but of her society , separately from
rejection ?
—when are we to begin dancing ?
even in the sick chamber the fortunate mary was not forgotten .
it were so—jane passed between them into the hall , and looked at neither .
there will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again ; therefore stay quiet at longbourn ,
, and the sort of pain it was creating .
to stay till thursday with me .
received from her aunt in the course of eight years and a half .
puzzle out an explanation as you can ?
created an attachment of no common character ; though , young as you are , and little acquainted with the
he had some thoughts , he could get nothing but a curacy , and how was they to live upon
it made her melancholy again ; and the knowledge of what must be enduring there , invested even the house
which belongs to a ball .
this imprudent step (tho ' we were sensible that it would probably deprive us of that fortune which philippa had
" fanny is in her own room , i suppose , " said he : — " i will go
“you will be very much missed .
and quite as soon as sir thomas could place dependence on such sources of good , edmund was contributing to
my father certainly could mean nothing more by his request to me than what you say .
weston would be disappointed .
a great tendency to lowness .
had ever seen , miss bertram seemed , by her amiable qualities and accomplishments , the best adapted to make
her name , it gave a pang to the heart of poor elinor , who , reproaching herself for having
forced to come by herself ; and then , what do you think we did ?
i never saw any thing so hard .
prepare for your sister-in-law , eleanor , and such a sister-in-law as you must delight in !
so from that moment i set it down as certain .
a civil falsehood .
delighted with myself for my impertinence , and half afraid of being thought too saucy .
“you have , i believe , and know the whole .
could have escaped heart-whole from the courtship (though the courtship only of a fortnight) of such a man as crawford
jennings enforced the necessity .
so refreshing as a walk after a fatigue of that kind ; and though the sun was strong , it
weston ' s temper .
and is perfectly convinced that mr .
her feelings , probably , were not acute ; he had never supposed them to be so ; but her
will twenty minutes after four suit you ?
a scheme on which some of those to whom she owed the greatest complaisance had set their hearts ?
conduct , strict in her notions of decorum , and with manners that were held a standard of good-breeding .
now , according to my idea of mrs .
but i was looking after some window-curtains , which lady alicia and mrs frankland were telling me of last night
to be seldom safely enjoyed by those who enjoyed it completely ; and that the strong feelings which alone could
six-and-twenty , with no want of sense or good companions , was durable in its happy effects .
; for , give me leave to observe that i consider the clerical office as equal in point of dignity
cruel anxiety on elinor ' s , before mr .
always had reason to believe as much in love with her as ever , ) to get acquainted with her
she must do her duty , and trust that time might make her duty easier than it now was .
he was only too good to everybody .
him and then by sir william , who was now enough recovered to echo whatever his son-in-law said , in
she had hardly been able to speak a word , and every look and action had shewn how deeply she
—the two last dances before supper were begun , and harriet had no partner ; —the only young lady sitting
; for i have a great many more than i can ever use .
” “say nothing , my dear emma , while you oblige me to read—not even of mrs .
dear harriet , i give myself joy of this .
why what in the name of heaven will become of all the victuals !
nameless , had been there , you would not have been a bit tired : and to say the truth
michaelmas came ; and now anne ' s heart must be in kellynch again .
he must love her .
and had hardly taken possession of her lodgings before she was again confined to her bed and suffering under severe
his faults forgotten , had affected her spirits exceedingly , and thrown her into greater grief for him than she
his concern however was very apparent ; and after expressing it with earnestness , he added , in the same
there is no end of the evil let loose upon us .
they caught in their faces the animating gales of a high south-westerly wind , they pitied the fears which had
“i remember too , miss andrews drank tea with us that evening , and wore her puce-coloured sarsenet ; and
heavy shower close to the parsonage ; and being descried from one of the windows endeavouring to find shelter under
—she was more disturbed by mr .
you would not think it perhaps , but marianne was remarkably handsome a few months ago ; quite as handsome
this world are always to be paid for , and that we often purchase them at a great disadvantage ,
my dear jane , i am in such a flutter , that i am sure i can’t write ; so
goddard ' s line , to have mrs .
to his character , without any embellishment of tenderness to lead the fancy astray .
” emma was silenced .
the liberty of addressing him : but there your husband stands my friend ; and the kindest , most amiable
very trying for us to part with her , after having had her so long , and she has a
he is in highbury every now and then , and he is sure to ride through every week in his
” “your ladyship has declared it to be impossible .
” “very much to the honour of both , ” was the handsome reply .
—especially with such a groundwork of anticipation as her mind had already made .
sixty-five miles farther than from maple grove to london .
" said miss steele , as soon as they were gone .
only on a something or a nothing between mr .
him anywhere .
attracted by the partial sunshine of a showery sky , and unable longer to bear the confinement which the settled
there was a strange rumour in highbury of all the little perrys being seen with a slice of mrs .
the cottage seemed to be considered and loved by him as his home ; many more of his hours were
he was as generous , she doubted not , as the most generous of his sex ; but while he
hope it must be so ; but otherwise i could not have imagined it .
happiness , without reference to you , or to any person so wholly unconnected with me .
the sisters , handsome , clever , and encouraging , were an amusement to his sated mind ; and finding
and i must say that lucy ' s crossness not to take them along with them in the chaise is
you do not know what he really is ; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in
your hair , and who makes your shoes .
price , beyond a brief question or two , if she saw her daughter with a letter in her hand
goddard and others , were a good deal behind-hand in knowledge of the world , but she would soon shew
on the contrary , she could think of nothing but mansfield , its beloved inmates , its happy ways .
talk a great deal of the length of this passage , my dear .
they are not married , nor can i find there was any intention of being so ; but if you
read it in comfort to yourself .
she will grow sober by degrees .
is it impossible to- ?
he spoke to her , and then turned away .
“i do not offer it for miss smith ' s collection , ” said he .
fore give myself no more trouble either about him or his favourite .
as hitherto , was her search ; her quick eyes directly fell on a roll of paper pushed back into
sisters were of jane , and to be certain that they must desire the connection as much as she could
of mr .
thirdly , that the future incumbent , whoever he might be , would , in all probability , die very
she now found that she had erred in relying on elinor ' s representation of herself ; and justly concluded
martin—he might have mr .
manners to recommend her ; and , according to mr .
at an inn , you would not wonder at mrs .
i have really a curiosity to see the person who can give occasion to such directly opposite notions .
—you would be amazed to hear how my brother , mr .
there was also a postscript to this effect : “i have written to colonel forster to desire him to find
‘this young gentleman is blessed , in a peculiar way , with every thing the heart of mortal can most
stand .
to her ; and elinor had the satisfaction of seeing him soon become more like himself .
when i last saw her , she was not very promising .
she was so busy in admiring those soft blue eyes , in talking and listening , and forming all these
” “which you suppose has biassed me ?
and then his hat sat so well , and the innumerable capes of his greatcoat looked so becomingly important !
her mother’s thoughts she plainly saw were bent the same way , and she determined not to venture near her
for ever , the happiness of a most beloved sister ?
striking proof of that taste for architecture and that happy ease in overcoming difficulties which were some of wilhelminus '
but , upon examination , the ardour of generosity went off .
in an open [ _num_ ]carriage , it was impossible to have any other companion .
hearing that you received the young couple into your house as soon as they were married .
toward darcy , and she had something to say to him before he had advanced many steps .
their engagements at rosings were as frequent during the last week of her stay as they had been at first
but you , (turning to mr .
employment , even melancholy , may dispel melancholy , and her occupations were hopeful .
for making it a general concern , when kitty left them she went boldly on with him alone .
come along , my dearest catherine , for heaven ' s sake , and stand by me .
her thoughts were instantly driven back to the time when mr .
me that such circumstances , while they continue from any cause in suspense , cannot be too cautiously concealed .
convenience in the lowest part of the street ; but his evident surprise and vexation at the substitution of one
had some consequences which must be considered as the very reverse of frightful .
you will allow all this ?
in the waverings of harriet ' s mind , emma would have been amused by its variations .
he did not think we ever walked this road .
if mr .
“it would have been very shocking to have it torn , ” said she , “would not it ?
for imagining her blind and ignorant , and in want of counsel .
wilhelminus gladly accepted the offer and continued for some time searching after such a retreat when he was one morning
the postman ' s knock within the neighbourhood was beginning to bring its daily terrors , and if reading could
her visits there , beginning by chance , were continued by solicitation .
the most beautiful creatures in the world ; and i have told them it is all very true , and
” “i dare say your apologies were accepted , sir .
that his mother would make any difficulty of sparing her , and therefore gave his decided open advice that the
pray sir , " turning to the waiter , " did not you hear , did not his servant say
" marianne looked with amazement at edward , with compassion at her sister .
’ she did indeed .
shall i tell you my guess ?
reynolds , pointing to another of the miniatures , “is my master—and very like him .
twenty minutes longer , when suddenly the clouds united over their heads , and a driving rain set full in
; and if it had not been for the misery of her leaving hartfield , i should never have thought
yours ever , alicia .
his profession qualified him , his disposition lead him , to talk ; and " that was in the year
he had told her the most extraordinary , the most inconceivable , the most unwelcome news ; and she could
respect him ; and even my own knowledge of him , though lately acquired , is very considerable ; and
any three together , they insensibly followed one another to the delicious shade of a broad short avenue of limes
nobody meant to be unkind , but nobody put themselves out of their way to secure her comfort .
catherine too made some purchases herself , and when all these matters were arranged , the important evening came which
but i am quite in the minority , i believe ; few people seem to value simplicity of dress ,
it was a subject which she must learn to speak of , and the weakness that shrunk from it would
we were of necessity obliged to entertain each other .
an effusion was heard only by herself , soon went away .
i wish we could bring dear frederica too , but i am sorry to say that her mother ' s
her to be wetter than she would at first allow , and providing her with dry clothes ; and fanny
the first of john ' s , there had been this sentence : — " we know nothing of our
fortune , and turning from the cheerful round of such amusements to nothing worse than a tete-a-tete with the person
then i will sing a song .
have spring again , they gained the summit of the most considerable hill , which parted uppercross and winthrop ,
i will tell you exactly what i think .
a play was still to seek .
he , who had ever boasted of being an elliot , and whose feelings , as to connection , were
“only think of its being three months , ” she cried , “since i went away ; it seems but
i did not use to think her wanting in self-possession , but she had not quite enough for the demands
” northanger abbey !
, our opinions were so exactly the same , it was quite ridiculous !
excellent one is at present somewhat out of repair , is ready to receive me .
, all this .
i have not nerves for the sort of thing .
always the first person to be thought of !
what is the foolish girl about ?
ships , that it had made scarcely any impression at the time ; and that mrs musgrove should have been
, and her peace would be fully secured .
you would look rather blank , henry , if your menus plaisirs were to be limited to seven hundred a
to what she ought to do ; and as she walked round the room her doubts were increasing .
nothing could restore him with a faith unbroken—a character unblemished , to marianne .
—a fine young man certainly is frank churchill .
to lyme , and without any present intention of quitting it any more .
bribed a physician in my life .
” cried he , with more feeling than politeness ; then recollecting himself , “i will not detain you a
fanny did not share her aunt ' s composure : she thought of the morrow a great deal , for
do put up your horse at the crown , and come in .
, from the voluntary information of the housemaid , who came in to attend it , that so it was
their vanity was in such good order that they seemed to be quite free from it , and gave themselves
it is too common a fault .
some amusement ; when hearing her brother mentioning a ball to miss bennet , she turned suddenly towards him and
if he were , every thing else must give way ; but otherwise his friend cole had been saying so
s hands to the amount of two hundred pounds .
pretty , but i never think of it ; and though you would be most heartily welcome to any other
louisa and i were agreeing that we should not have known her again .
i shall not stop .
and miss frances quite as handsome as miss maria , did not scruple to predict their marrying with almost equal
nothing of it .
anne was sporting with from camden place to westgate buildings .
soon after the return of the party from box hill—which messenger , however , had been no more than was
lady catherine’s visit .
” lady catherine hesitated for a moment , and then replied : “the engagement between them is of a peculiar
she felt it at her heart .
the aspect was so favourable that even without a fire it was habitable in many an early spring and late
but still i might not have believed it , for where the mind is perhaps rather unwilling to be convinced
xxxix lady susan to mrs .
” “yes ; but he seemed to like his second better .
let no name ever pass our lips .
of spirits in calling on miss fairfax .
churchill is not much in my good graces , as you may suspect—but this is quite between ourselves .
she felt that his influence over her mind was heightened by circumstances which ought not in reason to have weight
was likely to be an arrangement of the first order , in form as well as quantity .
at length , however , having slipped one arm into her gown , her toilette seemed so nearly finished that
” “i should like to go to a ball with you and see you dance .
imitation .
you ought to be very much obliged to mrs .
past .
rushworth then began to propose mr .
the room was most dear to her , and she would not have changed its furniture for the handsomest in
i used to think she had some taste in dress , but i was ashamed of her at the concert
house .
i dare say mr .
such nonsense !
for they were under the care of a governess , with proper masters , and could want nothing more .
” elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction—and a moment’s consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest
your most obliged and affectionate sister , s .
of seeing them .
ankles , dirty stockings , and a face glowing with the warmth of exercise .
like julia best , because you order me .
missed as every noisy evil is missed when it is taken away ; that is , there is a great
new to such circumstances , the importance of it appeared unspeakably great , and she contemplated it as one of
lydia laughed , and said : “aye , that is just like your formality and discretion .
by many significant looks and silent entreaties , did she endeavour to prevent such a proof of complaisance , but
” fanny shook her head .
can you—can you really be in love with james ?
five couple are nothing , when one thinks seriously about it .
vague wishes of getting sarah thither , had occurred before to mrs musgrove and henrietta ; but without anne ,
would have to frequent the same church , and there must be intercourse between the two families .
the village ; nor did her attendant do her much good by his comments on miss crawford ' s great
“this is beyond me , ” said he .
carriages , mr musgrove ' s coach containing the four ladies , and charles ' s curricle , in which
such a woman as jane fairfax probably never fell in mrs .
many years ago for a ball-room , and while the neighbourhood had been in a particularly populous , dancing state
had been accused of several crimes during the time of her reigning in scotland , of which i now most
long .
” “oh no , no !
“one can suppose nothing else , ” added mrs .
once or twice she could discern a faint blush ; but in general charlotte wisely did not hear .
residence of a man of independent fortune , was considering sir thomas , with decided ill-will , as the destroyer
does oneself !
still smile with them .
time , she knew , must be allowed for this being thoroughly done ; and she could suppose herself but
" i am writing home , marianne , " said elinor ; " had not you better defer your letter
only let me be told when i may speak out .
the post , and carries them to it .
rather fagged after the morning ' s party .
in wigmore street , till she becomes a little more reasonable .
in their prosperity and comfort .
one man ' s ways may be as good as another ' s , but we all like our own
she dined at the parsonage , with the rest of you , which seemed like being out ; and yet
and edmund of what she felt ; but still there were emotions of tenderness that could not be clothed in
, such as it was , had a value as arising in all probability from the influence of their brother’s
darcy’s having both spent three weeks at rosings , and asked him , if he was acquainted with the former
time of his marriage ; and everybody ought to respect the delicacy of those feelings which could not endure that
he is so very strict and scrupulous in his notions ; over-scrupulous i must say .
and the first hours of his visit were consequently spent in hearing and in wondering .
“and what are you reading , miss— ?
" he cried , " you would !
“a trifling part , ” said he , “and not at all to my taste , and such a one
she wished , she feared that the master of the house might be amongst them ; and whether she wished
strikes me as a possible thing , emma , that henry and john may be sometimes in the way .
bingley comes , my dear , ” said mrs .
have good sense , and deserve encouragement .
should marry one of my daughters .
yet she bore it with a most unshaken fortitude , firm in her mind ; constant in her religion ;
colonel brandon , the friend of sir john , seemed no more adapted by resemblance of manner to be his
law .
woodhouse ?
it was her first published , novel , would be a mere exercise in paradox .
not been obliged to suspect that his previous inquiries of mrs .
—well , this is very astonishing !
they have been buried , i suppose , in the parish church .
as you can like to listen : probably much longer , for i dearly love music myself , and where
clock , ” was her parting speech to her new friend .
, and his particular approbation of your behaviour on the present occasion .
both at maple grove and in bath , it would have been a most serious sacrifice .
bates ' s parlour , with all the encumbrance of awkward feelings , could have afforded .
he is absolutely miserable about you , and jealous to such a degree of de courcy that it would be
as a walking companion , emma had very early foreseen how useful she might find her .
to perform it .
she was delighted with each , but mary was her dearest object ; and having never been able to glory
“why will not you write one yourself for us , mr .
same moment that her eyes instinctively glanced towards the distant table , captain wentworth ' s pen ceased to move
course of a few minutes , she found herself with henry in the curricle , as happy a being as
bates and miss fairfax are—” “very well , i am much obliged to you .
you see he cannot put the card out of his hand .
have suffered the many afflictions of my past life , prove to her a useful lesson for the support of
bingley had not been of age two years , when he was tempted by an accidental recommendation to look at
nineteen years , a woman who if the claims of relationship and merit were of no avail , yet as
rushworth , was ready to lead the way .
“i told you yesterday , ” cried mr .
“you began the evening well , charlotte , ” said mrs .
a captivating person , but a natural ardour of mind which was now roused and increased by the example of
; yet fearfull lest it might prove a source of endless misery to the deluded bride , our trembling sensibility
kind you were .
; but before he absolutely made up his mind , he consulted his son .
dashwood introduced him to her as mr .
the difference of fortune can be nothing to signify .
” the next step was to communicate with portsmouth .
catherine was restlessly miserable ; she could almost have run round to the box in which he sat and forced
she loved the child , and had always kept it with her .
manners as well as appearance are , generally speaking , so totally different .
” upon such expressions of affection fanny could have lived an hour without saying another word ; but edmund ,
before he mounts his horse to-morrow .
saying to captain wentworth-- " it is very unpleasant , having such connexions !
should not have a wish unsatisfied .
elton looked up to him .
one man ' s style must not be the rule of another ' s .
” “yes—(rather hesitatingly)—i believe i do .
has the means of settling well , without farther expense to anybody .
to do relative to his ordination .
” “there are four umbrellas up already .
collins had only to change from jane to elizabeth—and it was soon done—done while mrs .
of needless repetition , and all the insolence of imaginary superiority .
” “but really , i am half ashamed , and wish i had never taken up the idea .
i felt so convinced it would be dry !
book sold well enough to enable its putter-forth to hand over to its author what mr .
was rather an advantage .
ramparts with so fine a sound , produced altogether such a combination of charms for fanny , as made her
crawford ' s opinion—in a singular manner , had mr .
: tie his legs and he will get on .
” “i answer no such irrelevant and insidious questions ; though were i to answer all that you could put
" and who is willoughby ?
" " granting your assertion that the world does all this so soon for men (which , however , i
in daily expectation of her confinement ; but mr elliot spoke of her as " a most charming woman ,
in the neighbourhood , offering at the same time to supply him with fishing tackle , and pointing out those
you do it very ill .
—the superior hopes which gradually opened were so much the more enchanting .
found it .
they were in fact very fine ladies ; not deficient in good humour when they were pleased , nor in
—every day making me less fit to bear any other place .
passed unnoticed .
winthrop , without beauty and without dignity , was stretched before them ; an indifferent house , standing low ,
i wish they would stay at home .
weston , which every body likes in him , because there is so much good-humour with it—but that would not
had we indeed before imagined that either of them lived , we should have been more sparing of our greif—but
” then turning to mrs .
but this was not judged feasible .
in her earnest meditations on the contents of the letter , on the depravity of that mind which could dictate
tom ' s complaints had been greatly heightened by the shock of his sister ' s conduct , and his
but , though discomfited and disappointed , he could still do something for his own interest and his own enjoyment
darcy , she turned her eyes on the daughter , she could almost have joined in maria’s astonishment at her
nothing to be done till the summer .
weston , with triumph of a different sort , was confessing that he had known it to be snowing some
her care and attention could not be questioned ; they were , in fact , only too great .
ferrars , as either robert or fanny ; and while edward was never cordially forgiven for having once intended to
you must not expect news for we see no one with whom we are in the least acquainted , or
moments , her busy labours for some one of her five children—“how long it is , how terribly long since
” some time afterwards it was , “i think mrs .
nipped by the lingering frost , raised the laughter of charlotte , —and in visiting her poultry-yard , where ,
is nothing due to the man whom we have all such reason to love , and no reason in the
was not ordered with any reference to the ball , be kept for commoner occasions .
be done in a quiet , unpretending , elegant way , infinitely superior to the bustle and preparation , the
opposition of his son , steady as the sanction of reason and the dictate of conscience could make it .
there , where i looked forward to going ; —no , elinor , you cannot expect me to go there
" " i am sorry i do not , " said elinor , in great astonishment , " if it
, and that his hair bore not the least resemblance to auburn , we were certain that janetta could feel
very sure that anxiety for her brother is the cause of it .
—bear with the truths i would tell you now , dearest emma , as well as you have borne with
he laughed most immoderately .
towards her , which soon procured her pardon , and directed all his anger against another .
grant laughed at her for her rapidity .
“have you breakfasted ?
” “i should not be surprised , ” said darcy , “if he were to give it up as soon
palmer excessively .
never to be sure were there two more different dispositions in the world .
” “you allude , perhaps , to the entail of this estate .
getting into a puzzle , and could not be prevailed on to add another word , not by dint of
“my dear jane , what is this i hear ?
one it was .
and of their having eight cows , two of them alderneys , and one a little welch cow , a
with regard to her not accompanying them to ireland , her account to her aunt contained nothing but truth ,
his mother is perfectly right not to be in a hurry .
rushworth is never remiss .
in their usual walk , instead of wandering away by herself .
as he was in that subject , more than once tried to make his father think of fanny , and
she and the children might stay very well .
it will be the means of confirming us in that sort of true disinterested friendship which i can already look
providing for himself no small portion of vexation and regret : vexation that must rise sometimes to self-reproach , and
to take three thousand pounds from the fortune of their dear little boy would be impoverishing him to the most
we must double them .
the others liked it , when mary eagerly interrupted her by exclaiming-- " good heavens , charles !
, but this was a way of going on that she could not understand .
” at this moment they were approaching ford ' s , and he hastily exclaimed , “ha !
what relates to yourself , is as follows : ‘having thus offered you the sincere congratulations of mrs .
and exclamations , not a word was spoken for half a minute : each with an altered countenance was looking
“you have heard of a certain frank churchill , i presume , ” he continued—“and know him to be my
' inferior to her lovely cousin the queen of scots , was yet an amiable young woman and famous for
; adding , with a momentary seriousness , “she is too good for him—much too good .
that was his motive for drawing back , i can assure you .
it was too pathetic for the feelings of sophia and myself—we fainted alternately on a sofa .
answer it to herself to leave them even for a week , and therefore must certainly sacrifice every other pleasure
carelessness of the future , as you attribute to him .
no , you never can ; and , unluckily , it is out of distance for a ride .
their object in itself and on captain wentworth ' s account : for in a small house , near the
he gives a very plausible account of her behaviour at langford ; i wish it may be true , but
” “but does lydia know nothing of this ?
" i must hurry away then , to give him those thanks which you will not allow me to give
” without allowing herself time for consideration , and scarcely knowing what she felt , elizabeth on finishing this letter
was grieved to have kept her waiting , and anxious to get her away without further loss of time and
“a very fine young man indeed , mr .
" " lord bless you , my dear !
it ended in a gracious “well , well !
lady middleton had the advantage of being able to spoil her children all the year round , while sir john
and her judgment was further bought off by isabella ' s assuring her , when they withdrew to see the
go therefore they must to that knoll , and through that gate ; but the gate was locked .
a disturbance to him , either in themselves or in any restless attendance on them .
teazing the poor child when it is ill ; and you saw , this morning , that if i told
he was a very handsome man , of a commanding aspect , past the bloom , but not past the
“to-morrow , i think , my uncle dines at sotherton , and you and mr .
is perry going to set up his carriage , frank ?
me , regretting only that heart which had deserted and wronged me , and leaving you , for i professed
concluding however by observing , that as they were all got together , they must do something by way of
it was the greatest misery of all .
long does not come back till the day before ; so it will be impossible for her to introduce him
contents .
very early , in order to be at home in good time .
” “your degree of respect for honesty , rich or poor , is precisely what i have no manner of
” this was very proper ; the sigh which accompanied it was really estimable ; but it should have lasted
you have passed your time not disagreeably .
upon the whole , julia was in the best looks of the two , at least after you were spoken
“yes , half-past nine , ” said crawford to william as the latter was leaving them , “and i shall
how could you imagine me an advocate for marriage without love ?
arriving quite in time , nor the first to arrive .
there , fanny , you shall carry that parcel for me ; take great care of it : do not
knightley , “that need not be the consequence .
” emma saw mrs .
” and with a low bow he left her to attack mr .
the liberty which her imagination had dared to take with the character of his father—could he ever forgive it ?
but do not insist upon my being very agreeable , for my heart , you know , will be some
her child already possesses the personal charms of her unhappy mother !
i talked about the dance , and you ought to make some sort of remark on the size of the
i am so happy !
marianne , not contented with absolutely refusing to go herself , was very urgent to prevent her sister ' s
your meaning must be unequivocal ; no doubts or demurs : and such expressions of gratitude and concern for the
on the tragic side were the miss bertrams , henry crawford , and mr .
when she looked at the hedges , she thought the elder at least must soon be coming out ; and
” “yes , ” said he , smiling—“and reason good .
dashwood ; he has a pretty little estate of his own in[ _num_ ] somersetshire besides ; and if i
be from the stables to mine .
bates—i will call upon her to-morrow , and take my children .
profusion of love and praise towards the fortunate creature who was now mistress of his fate .
darcy , she could not but allow that mr .
but our visitor was very obstinate .
fraser ' s party ; his staying was made of flattering consequence , and he was to meet mrs .
beheaded with the earl of warwick , and the latter was taken into the kings kitchen .
of doors , and tempting you to more frequent exercise than you would otherwise take .
speak your opinion , for ladies can best tell the taste of ladies in regard to places as well as
“and what are we to do for a proper partner for her ?
she sat motionless over it , and at last , how the eyes which had appeared so studiously to avoid
it is the worst evil of too yielding and indecisive a character , that no influence over it can be
“read it aloud , ” said their father , “for i hardly know myself what it is about .
" " certainly .
; and when mary began to complain of it , and lament her being ill-used , according to custom ,
, “i must speak to you for a few minutes somewhere” ; words that fanny felt all over her ,
and margaret .
moments of serious conference , may be imagined ; as well as the sanguine views and spirits of the boy
elton ' s having dropt a hint .
own , i should hate myself if i were capable of neglecting her .
and poor fanny , who had hoped to silence him by such an extremity of reproof , found herself sadly
” she cried , satisfied to have no one preferred to herself .
chapman had just reached the attic floor , when miss price came out of her room completely dressed , and
pleasantest feelings of our nature , eager curiosity and warm prepossession .
both were kissed very tenderly , but tom she wanted to keep by her , to try to trace the
got up , and saying to kitty , “come here , my love , i want to speak to you
they are all coming up to town directly , on mrs .
his father ' s ease by improvement in the only point in which he had given him pain before—improvement in
” “nothing can be actually settled yet , perhaps , ” replied emma , smiling—“but , excuse me , it
" depend upon it , he will call again tomorrow .
" " my dear , " was mrs smith ' s reply , " there was nothing else to be
they had talked , and they had been silent ; he had reasoned , she had ridiculed ; and they
” catherine sat down , breathless and speechless .
for where , fanny , shall we find a woman whom nature had so richly endowed ?
in future , i hope we shall be always of one mind .
saw , with admiration of his taste , that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine ; with less of
safely out of the house one morning , and left my name .
i ever read .
harris ' s arrival , she set off , with her little boy and his nurse , for the house
—i shall often have a niece with me .
allowed , perhaps , but i must still use it .
” “conjecture—aye , sometimes one conjectures right , and sometimes one conjectures wrong .
things being thus settled between them the king died , and was succeeded by his son henry who had previously
" but if you write a note to the housekeeper , mr .
he would manage all his own way ; and lastly , in walked mr .
we cannot mean the same mr .
impatient in this situation to be doing something that might lead to her sister ' s relief , elinor resolved
in a sister it is bad enough , but in a wife !
to treat her with unkindness , to speak of her slightingly is no atonement to marianne—nor can i suppose it
some part , but not the whole of the case , thought it incumbent on her to be dignified ,
vernon ; and i cannot just now afford to go to town .
rushworth ' s guidance were shewn through a number of rooms , all lofty , and many large , and
the others have been gone on to scarborough , these three weeks .
she had not deserved it ; she had often been negligent or perverse , slighting his advice , or even
they arrived , the carriage turned , the step was let down , and mr .
never had she felt such a one as this letter contained .
i could have wished , however , as you know , that you had seen mr .
and her thoughts flew to those absent cousins with most unfeigned and truly tender regret , that they were not
—to have her haunting the abbey , and thanking him all day long for his great kindness in marrying jane
little short of a declaration of love be made by the lady .
should he die (as i suppose he will) i shall still have to prepare a dinner for you whenever you
s youth and vigour most horribly ; a sailor grows old sooner than any other man .
mainwaring is just gone ; he brought me the news of his wife ' s arrival .
of the others , and she had no opportunity of detaining them .
i always said it must be so , at last .
an excellent satire on modern language .
knightley is quite the gentleman .
lydia’s intention of walking to meryton was not forgotten ; every sister except mary agreed to go with her ;
“eloisa (said i) i beg you would be quite at your ease with respect to all such fears in future
been greater .
her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea ; and you may imagine that i am happy on every occasion to
ferrars told me .
the shower was heavy , but short ; and it had not been over five minutes , when in came
i think we must get him to bath .
it talked of as likely to do me good (oh !
—quite delightful ; so many friends !
” “a bad thing !
” emma wondered whether the same suspicion of what might be expected from their knowing each other , which had
" " civil !
woodhouse told me of it .
pay a visit at enscombe in january ; and that frank ' s coming depends upon their being put off
but if , which i rather imagine , your making the match , as you call it , means only
one of each other ; and deeply was she vexed to find that her mother was talking to that one
behind !
knightley keeping no horses , having little spare money and a great deal of health , activity , and independence
figure , and look , and situation in life seem to allow it ; but if any young man were
clock , the general could not forgo the pleasure of pacing out the length , for the more certain information
the view of supporting her hopes and raising her spirits .
for giving no warning .
, “i am glad you are come , for there is such fun here !
he was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble names .
had you married , you must have been always poor .
altering her name as far as she can ?
” “what is to prevent you ?
instantaneously , with the consciousness of existence , returned her recollection of the manuscript ; and springing from the bed
" i hope my dear miss dashwood will excuse the liberty i take of writing to her ; but i
” “he may have a great deal of influence on some points , ” continued mrs .
it was all wretchedness together .
no , never i can answer for it , since a musgrove is not to be met with by every
superior integrity , which is peculiarly insolent !
” “south or north , i know a black cloud when i see it ; and you must not set
home affords .
the past , present , future , everything was terrible .
lesley .
” “what is there of good to be expected ?
i will not say , ' do not be uneasy , ' because i know that you are so ,
why yourselves , and the careys , and whitakers [ _num_ ]to be sure .
she either sat in gloomy silence , wrapt in such gravity as nothing could subdue , no curiosity touch ,
what i have to say relates to poor lydia .
a fellow perhaps , as any in the world .
week to such insinuations .
” on henry ' s arrival from woodston , she made known to him and eleanor their brother ' s
“but the wife of mr .
the manner in which it was done so grossly uncivil , hurrying her away without any reference to her own
reginald is returned , not to ask our consent to his marrying lady susan , but to tell us they
beyond these minute items of information , and the statement—already referred to in the introduction to pride and prejudice—that she
” “well , i always shall think that you play quite as well as she does , or that if
not help feeling how unwelcome her appearance at pemberley must be to her , and was curious to know with
the parties stood thus : — the two mothers , though each really convinced that her own son was the
” this threat was so palpably disregarded , that though within five minutes afterwards the three boys all burst into
no , miss crawford , ” he added , in a more serious tone , “there are distinctions which i
cole of the rise and progress of the affair was so glorious—the steps so quick , from the accidental rencontre
” “low , i am afraid , sir , very low , ” answered his son ; —“but we shall
thing , the other nothing—and she sat musing on the difference of woman ' s destiny , and quite unconscious
wentworth coming towards them .
dreaded figure of the general himself at the further end of the gallery , stood before her !
she should die , it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of mr .
” “not the slightest .
a proper manner , without any of those apologies and thanks which he would have thought necessary .
well , shall we join and disappoint them of half their lecture upon sitting down out of doors at this
bennet wondered at their coming , and thought them very wrong to give so much trouble , and was sure
” she explained what its effect on her had been , and how gradually all her former prejudices had been
the stairs , with any wish of giving pleasure , but in conferring obligation , or of deriving it ,
useful and good to her in a way which had considerably lessened her misery , and could never be remembered
two days of joyful security were immediately followed by the over-throw of every thing .
it is evident , in spite of his frequent attention to her while she draws , that in fact he
he should make a point of inquiring into the matter .
“think of me to-morrow , my dear emma , about four o ' clock , ” was mrs .
" " no , sir , " she replied with firmness , " i shall not stay .
but i have always observed , that they who are good-natured when children , are good-natured when they grow up
miss crawford civilly wished him an early promotion .
collins was carefully instructing them in what they were to expect , that the sight of such rooms , so
be the chosen , the first , the dearest , the friend , the wife to whom he looked for
once beautiful .
that passage .
but i have just left marianne in bed , and , i hope , almost asleep ; and as i
” said fanny , “quite cruel .
had i done as i ought !
i should see knightley to-day ; and it becomes a matter , therefore , of very serious inconvenience that i
the doors were in constant banging , the stairs were never at rest , nothing was done without a clatter
every thing turns out for his good .
“i do not know when i have been more shocked , ” said she .
very pretty little welch cow indeed ; and of mrs .
aunt , that i have never been much in love ; for had i really experienced that pure and elevating
bennet to his wife , as they were at breakfast the next morning , “that you have ordered a good
darcy and his relation colonel fitzwilliam , i was ignorant of the truth myself .
quite otherwise indeed , if i understood miss fairfax ' s opinion last night .
it was evident how little the women were used to the sight of anything tolerable , by the effect which
had understood all the ladies were to be within .
with him , speaking certainly without the prejudice , the blindness of love , she ought to be believed .
” the son looked convinced .
i only entreat everybody to believe that exactly at the time when it was quite natural that it should be
i must take anhalt myself .
i am going away myself .
that is exactly the pleasure i want you to have .
' many a time has she said so ; and yet i am no advocate for entire seclusion .
" he had been introduced to sir walter and your sister before i was acquainted with him , but i
; and the others withdrew , after eleanor had affectionately expressed a wish of being of use or comfort to
" i was afraid you would think i was taking a great liberty with you , " said she ,
” “you ought to know your friend best , ” replied mr .
, and dress .
” catherine spoke the pleasure she really felt on hearing this part of the arrangement .
you look pale .
' s heart , and the rational tranquillity of her ways .
colonel fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly with the readiness and ease of a well-bred man , and talked very pleasantly
there was a very general ignorance of all naval matters throughout the party ; and he was very much questioned
know what all this means .
, now first became perceptible to elinor , when it ceased to be noticed by them .
of subject or animation—or of courage and opportunity for frank churchill to draw near her and say , “i have
i thought you would have entered more into miss crawford ' s feelings .
" " and--were you much acquainted ?
—who was so useful to him , who so ready to write his letters , who so glad to assist
less because reminded by it of the east room .
, round from portsmouth to plymouth .
before .
almost too late .
what an exalted mind he must have to be capable of such a wish !
this is the very thing , precisely what i wished for !
you see the evil , but you do not see the consolation .
after being known to oppose the scheme from the beginning , there is absurdity in the face of my joining
at the parsonage .
that i dare say he would not mean to charge any thing for attendance , we could not suffer it
elizabeth , though resenting the suspicion , might yet be made observant by it .
” elizabeth smiled .
” but the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was shortly relieved , and her mind opened again
forty miles off .
the sound of merriment ascended even to her .
in kent .
uncivil , and even sir henry percy tho ' certainly the best bred man of the party , had none
edward ferrars was not recommended to their good opinion by any peculiar graces of person or address .
hostess to charles) if their ladyships in the sun ring their bell—answerit .
—but i have been forgiven by one who had still more to resent .
after a time , fanny found it not impossible to direct her thoughts to other subjects , and revive some
and even sir john ' s joking intelligence must have had some weight .
difficult it is to keep the actions and designs of one part of the world from the notice and curiosity
this pathetic representation lasted the whole evening , and so ostentatious and artful a display has entirely convinced me that
there are not many houses that i should presume on so far ; but in coming home i felt i
girls enough on the catch for him if we had been idle .
james was in excellent spirits , and isabella most engagingly placid .
” part of her meaning was to conceal some favourite thoughts of her own and mr .
you will tell me , i know , that this may or may not have happened ; but i will
deep blush of consciousness , there had been a smile of secret delight , she had less scruple in the
, so tending to ease , and so much in harmony with every dearest sensation , that there are few
susan , within ten minutes , walking towards the high street with mr .
she had hardly even attained the wish to do it .
collins had been taken in ; thirdly , she trusted that they would never be happy together ; and fourthly
she spoke in a low voice to mr .
great friend lady russell ' s doing , that she did not .
but for particulars isabella could well afford to wait .
beyond fanny to edmund .
—— elizabeth it was the peculiar misfortune of this woman to have bad ministers—-since wicked as she herself was ,
in another day or two perhaps ; this extreme mildness can hardly last longer—nay , perhaps it may freeze tonight
she hesitated a moment , and then replied , “with you , if you will ask me .
very well ; i shall not attempt to deny emma ' s being pretty .
” “nothing can be more natural , ” said sir thomas , after a short deliberation ; “nor , were
that he had a different story to hear .
were at least so distressing to fanny that , though admitting they were by no means without provocation , she
under such circumstances , however , he was not likely to be proof against the temptation of immediate relief .
a way off .
elinor , affected by his relation , and still more by his distress , could not speak .
such a beautiful hind-quarter of pork !
the loss of mary i must consider as comprehending the loss of crawford and of fanny .
weston were obliged to be almost always either talking together or silent together .
her nephew , who chooses that everyone connected with him should have an understanding of the first class .
” drawing her arm within his .
" elinor said no more , and john was also for a short time silent .
the house stands among fine meadows facing the south-east , with an excellent kitchen-garden in the same aspect ; the
she read with an eagerness which hardly left her power of comprehension , and from impatience of knowing what the
was , " then i am sure anne had better stay , for nobody will want her in bath .
but you must give my compliments to him .
had been able to afford , since the loss of their father .
i am very little able—have you a chair , ma ' am ?
lady dorothea is lovely and engaging ; i prefer no woman to her ; but know sir , that i
force him to come to me .
but i told a man mending a hedge that it was thornton lacey , and he agreed to it .
" at last we are alone .
long has just been here , and she told me all about it .
oh , go to him this moment .
she will never submit to any thing requiring industry and patience , and a subjection of the fancy to the
he inquired how far netherfield was from meryton ; and , after receiving her answer , asked in a hesitating
your sister is certainly better , certainly out of danger ?
chapter _num_ it is a truth universally acknowledged , that a single man in possession of a good fortune ,
it does not signify .
she had no intellectual superiority to make atonement to herself , or frighten those who might hate her into outward
and that they were succeeded , not merely by friendship and regard , but by the tenderness of the past
it came , and she had yet heard nothing of her return—nothing even of the going to london , which
these points formed her chief solicitude in anticipating her removal from uppercross , where she felt she had been stationed
well , mrs .
in one circumstance only , my marianne , may your destiny be different from her ' s !
[ _num_ ] lucy was silenced .
miss morland , never to give offence to any of my neighbours , if a small sacrifice of time and
” “you think her diffident .
jennings received the information with a great deal of joy , and many assurances of kindness and care ; nor
thank your uncle , william , thank your uncle !
rushworth at sotherton , to afford a reason , an occasion for such a thing , you would be tempted
for two or three months longer i shall remain where i am , and as i am .
, i observed the blinds were let down immediately .
“this will never do , ” said tom bertram at last .
elton , even in the days of his favour , none had disturbed her more than his propensity to dine
should have distinguished our introduction to each other .
she saw them in an instant in their parsonage-house ; saw in lucy , the active , contriving manager ,
the only drawback was the doubt of her aunt bertram ' s being comfortable without her .
and by all accounts , it won ' t come before it ' s wanted ; for they say he
she was obliged to stop and think .
came over her with renewed strength , and it seemed as if to be at home again would heal every
come , sir , pray let me hear it .
she had had many a hint from mr .
that had he been deserving her , in every other respect yet that of itself ought to have been a
" then recollecting herself , and not wishing to be answered , she added , " i certainly do think
— .
us , he will probably remain but a very short time , perhaps only a few days behind us .
table , and begin to acquaint herself with the play of which she had heard so much .
i see plainly that she is uneasy at my progress in the good opinion of her brother , and conclude
i always am .
” he made no answer .
ay , --mr wentworth , the curate of monkford .
yorkshire , was to be to the house of a very old friend in windsor , to whom mr .
” “that is miss maria ' s concern .
” catherine , observing that isabella ' s eyes were continually bent towards one door or the other , as
price ' s , who was come to take his daily survey of how things went on , and who
he stepped back again to the door to say , “take care of fanny , mother .
then have rested in its proper place .
not being supposed a good walker , " oh , yes , i should like to join you very much
i write to the doctor , indeed !
henry , who is good-nature itself , has offered to fetch it in his barouche .
ribband or string , or any thing just to keep my boot on .
" no , ma ' am , for my mistress .
, yet determined to persevere .
weston was the object of a regard which had its basis in gratitude and esteem .
earlier than i had calculated .
it was snuffed and extinguished in one .
she received him with her very best politeness , which he returned with as much more , apologising for his
what i am now doing indeed , seems nothing at all , since it can advance him so little towards
” “upon my word , i cannot exactly explain the matter ; darcy must speak for himself .
freind but you—” “what !
mary ' s .
and when anne ventured to speak her opinion of them to mr elliot , he agreed to their being nothing
whatever be his pursuits , his eagerness in them should know no moderation , and leave him no sense of
as well as i do .
was to be formed , whether landed property were to be resigned , or funded money made over , was
fraser !
knightley among the most attentive , soon drew away half emma ' s mind ; and she fell into a
chapter xiii their intended excursion to whitwell turned out very different from what elinor had expected .
when we got to the george , i do think we behaved very handsomely , for we treated the other
friend here is charmingly recovered ?
at the parsonage , he was no longer allowed to be called so by anybody .
thomas ' s intelligence seemed over .
the rest of the day .
facts or opinions which are to pass through the hands of so many , to be misconceived by folly in
he drove captain wentworth , were descending the long hill into lyme , and entering upon the still steeper street
i arrived here in safety , and have no reason to complain of my reception from mr .
” “you are rather disposed to call his interference officious ?
, the horse was immediately checked with a violence which almost threw him on his haunches , and the servant
bad temper , was seldom stubborn , scarcely ever quarrelsome , and very kind to the little ones , with
" she assured him that she had not .
the fever of suspense , the consequence of all this was felt in an aching head , a weakened stomach
“you cannot be more than twenty , i am sure , therefore you need not conceal your age .
” they were all astonished ; and mr .
_num_ .
once a striking example of her vanity , her pride , and her folly .
that the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other inducements which led me on ,
to talk of them all in the usual way , and to take the child out of her arms with
the very style to touch ; a small mixture of reproach , with a great deal of kindness ; and
” “nonsense , errant nonsense , as ever was talked !
prompter through the rest .
" her husband , but with great humility , did not see the force of her objection .
heaven forbid it !
the attentions of a certain person can hardly be among the tittle-tattle of highbury yet .
collins is a conceited , pompous , narrow-minded , silly man ; you know he is , as well as
" " to london !
” “though it is difficult , ” said jane , “to guess in what way he can mean to make
mentioned at all , —he resumed the subject of his own passion , and was very urgent for a favourable
grant !
” elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal ; yet was really vexed that her mother should
, obeyed the first impulse of her heart in turning instantly to quit the room , and her hand was
whether she really understood that language or whether such a study proceeded only from an excess of vanity for which
“you were speaking , ” said he , gravely .
who was just passing by on horseback , that they were going as far as wick rocks .
" " why , to be sure , " said he , seeming to recollect himself , " people have
, and told lady susan three times that he had seen mrs .
the number of acres contained in this garden was such as catherine could not listen to without dismay , being
room again , as to advance farther into it .
xviii from the same to the same churchhill .
have you got a new gown on ?
" but what are his manners on more intimate acquaintance ?
spirit .
emma could not deplore her future absence as any deduction from her own enjoyment .
had neither courage to speak of , nor fortitude to conceal , now saw with a joy , which no
you are each of you so complying , that nothing will ever be resolved on ; so easy , that
she was on the point of continuing her walk , when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the
i believe i was relating to her some ridiculous stories of an old irish groom of my uncle ' s
i could not stay two minutes .
—how could he tell what mischief he might be doing ?
had said .
anne would have been a delightful performer , had her health allowed her to learn .
what can be the meaning of it ?
sophia was rather above the middle size ; most elegantly formed .
them !
her ; but marianne excused herself from being of the party , under some trifling pretext of employment ; and
frederica makes me very unhappy !
i could name three people now , who would give me my own terms and thank me .
, they had only a few faint enquiries to make , before the talk must be all their own .
when really touched by affliction , her active powers had been all benumbed ; and neither lady bertram nor tom
at the time—all favoured the supposition of her imprisonment .
a family of females only in his cottage , he had all the satisfaction of a sportsman ; for a
but here is my sister , sir ; here is fanny , ” turning and leading her forward ; “it
he has no occasion to marry , either to fill up his time or his heart .
this does not seem much like joy , indeed , in me—(twinkling away a tear or two)—but it will be
” it was done however .
had looked forward to as possible at some future time .
all ; —for after experiencing the blessings of one imprudent engagement , contracted without his mother ' s consent ,
“aye , there she comes , ” continued mrs .
i should like to know his present opinion , as to the probability of the event he has been in
dashwood , urged equally by her own and her daughter ' s wishes , began to talk of removing to
me begin to feel how superior he was to every other being upon earth .
” emma spoke with a very proper degree of pleasure ; and fully assented to his proposition of mr .
attentions which were still carrying on there , some punishment to maria for conduct so shameful towards herself as well
curtain , and perhaps that may be enough .
he said no more .
bragge ' s is the one i would most wish to see you in .
nothing wrong in him escaped her .
you alluded to something else .
every one does not get a bingley , or a darcy (with a park) ; but a good many sensible
darcy himself need not disdain , and respectability which he will probably never reach .
” “well , well , i am ready ; ”—and turning again to emma , “but you must not be
the quiet , heart-felt satisfaction of the old lady , and the rapturous delight of her daughter—who proved even too
but alas , that very evening destroyed it all .
with the musgroves , there was the happy chat of perfect ease ; with captain harville , the kind-hearted intercourse
father ' s , not at all calculated to compose them .
" captain wentworth , however , came from his window , apparently not ill-disposed for conversation ; but charles hayter
miss taylor has been used to have two persons to please ; she will now have but one .
retirement .
could stand over her .
she had recovered her senses and speech .
” “my journal !
was of no religion himself be at so much trouble to abolish one which had for ages been established in
lady elliot had been an excellent woman , sensible and amiable ; whose judgement and conduct , if they might
but i am at his disposal .
grace and inspired a warmer interest .
vernon , who , as it must already have appeared , lived only to do whatever he was desired ,
bingley for his sister .
—i am excessively fond of music , but without the smallest skill or right of judging of any body '
when i think of his past declarations , i give him up .
“you certainly do , ” she replied with a smile ; “but it does not follow that the interruption must
“what can be the meaning of this ?
i found , therefore , that something must be done ; for i did not choose to leave my character
in one of these excursive glances she perceived among a group of young men , the very he , who
knightley is well ?
it has been a sad , heavy winter hitherto , without reginald , and seeing nobody from churchhill .
i assure you , i can hardly exist till i see him .
one feels that it cannot be a very long acquaintance .
he was not handsome , and his manners required intimacy to make them pleasing .
if you remember , i left the room almost immediately .
where would be the use of his bringing us a charade made by a friend upon a mermaid or a
which the greatest powers of the mind are displayed , in which the most thorough knowledge of human nature ,
” “he did not , the only time he went to see mr .
whether former feelings were to be renewed must be brought to the proof ; former times must undoubtedly be brought
, and now it is too long ago ; suffice it , that everything was just as it ought to
be first , was obliged to examine it herself .
she felt that she had arranged everything extremely well , and that any alteration must be for the worse .
she is exactly the woman to do away every prejudice of such a man as the admiral , for she
there is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair on which i do not reflect with satisfaction
time ?
such was the first distinguished exploit of miss frederica vernon ; and , if we consider that it was achieved
norris ' s death that we put in the apricot against the stable wall , which is now grown such
darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years’ continuance .
has been told by some of the good-natured , gossiping lucases .
” then , perceiving in elizabeth no inclination of replying , she added , “unhappy as the event must be
" " i felt my luck , admiral , i assure you ; " replied captain wentworth , seriously .
” “yes—i imagined—that is—i did not—” “he has been used to her in these complaints , and i hope to-morrow
it by adding , for the information of himself and his family , these words , after the date of
—i shall have her very often indeed while they are with me , and i dare say we shall sometimes
yes , yes .
and miss bates , or when mrs .
directly to the york hotel , ate some soup , and bespoke an early dinner , walked down to the
surprizes are foolish things .
too often .
perry drank tea with mrs .
or something of the kind .
the plan of a drain , the change of a fence , the felling of a tree , and the
” “so much the worse !
“as soon as i am cooler i shall go back again .
feared , that instead of prevailing on feelings so selfish to consent to it , you would have lessened your
perceived her , and saying only , “i did not know that proper names were allowed , ” pushed away
the small band of true friends who witnessed the ceremony , were fully answered in the perfect happiness of the
do not you , darcy ?
catherine thought , rather angrily back , demanding whether she were going ?
but just now she could think only of captain wentworth .
at the time of the ballroom ' s being built , suppers had not been in question ; and a
harriet expressed herself very much as might be supposed , without reproaches , or apparent sense of ill-usage ; and
it will be under circumstances which may open our hearts to each other without any remnant or shadow of reserve
i shall be sure to say three dull things as soon as ever i open my mouth , shan '
the spirits he was watching .
crawford probably could not regard his future father-in-law with any idea of taking him for a model in dress ;
comfortable a talk with him about william as to make her feel as if nothing had occurred to vex her
boyish attachment to lucy treated with all the philosophic dignity of twenty-four .
i am sure , to oblige us for one half-hour .
knightley to mean you .
" " grandeur has but little , " said elinor , " but wealth has much to do with it
pain .
a sort of knoll to my right—which church was strikingly large and handsome for the place , and not a
you will undertake it , i hope ?
they descended the hill , crossed the bridge , and drove to the door ; and , while examining the
cole ' s door ; and was pleased to see that it was mr .
gallantry , or however else it happened , but she thought nothing became him more .
" marianne hardly knew what to say .
this eclaircissement is rather provoking .
” tom walked out of the room as he said it , and edmund was left to sit down and
she had nothing to do , and was glad to have the light screened from her aching head , as
" he replied , with an air of surprise .
his imprudence had made her miserable for a while ; but it seemed to have deprived himself of all chance
morland quickly dispatched all that she felt on the score of james ' s disappointment .
frederica does not know her mother .
you think with me , i hope” (turning with a softened voice to fanny) .
a discovery took place , " —here he hesitated and looked down .
won’t it , kitty ?
he owed it to her , to risk any thing that might be involved in an unwelcome interference , rather
in asking ; and , if i am refused , that , i think , will be the honest motive
—but i will promise , ” she added presently , laughing and blushing—“i will promise to call you once by
was a little uneasy .
were all good ; her smile was sweet and attractive ; and in her eyes , which were very dark
names of his cousin miss de bourgh , and of her mother lady catherine .
tedious hours before the delivery of the letters ; a needful exertion , for as the time of reasonable expectation
with no greater expense or inconvenience than a distance of forty , i should be as willing to prefer cromer
hope to have all my expectations of pleasure realised .
a likeness pleases every body ; and miss woodhouse ' s performances must be capital .
he thought her all this .
the country , and expressed his hopes of their all meeting frequently at st .
, so long !
it was a most fortunate accident as it diverted the attention of sophia from the melancholy reflections which she had
and i hate italian singing .
appearing surprised at my question , from suffolk .
not look beyond the present moment .
us , and our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask nothing about it .
like fullerton , but better : fullerton had its faults , but woodston probably had none .
to have her acquaintance with the tilneys end so soon was an evil which nothing could counterbalance .
they had the pleasure of assuring her that bath more than answered their expectations in every respect .
to be a good correspondent herself ; and edmund , at a convenient moment , then added in a whisper
a gentleman ' s hints .
i dare say people would admire him in general ; but he is not at all in my style of
back to his wife .
meeting her again , when he hoped to be able to give a better report ; and he sighed and
she had been satisfied to hear and believe just what mrs .
they shew her to the greatest advantage .
valuable they were) to your mother .
decided , intelligible tenderness as was tolerably convincing .
perhaps i did not always love him so well as i do now .
maria felt her triumph , and pursued her purpose , careless of julia ; and julia could never see maria
perhaps you did not know i had been there .
you will soon , i earnestly hope , know her thoroughly yourself .
more consequence .
grant should wish to procure so agreeable a visitor for her sister ?
the effort so successfully made .
it does not come to me in quite so direct a line as that ; it takes a bend or
“that is an uncommon advantage , and uncommon i hope it will continue , for it would be a great
she saw that there had been bad habits ; that sunday travelling had been a common thing ; that there
heard a word of the subject .
watched his eyes , while mrs .
imagine my transports at beholding one , most truly worthy of the name .
with his wife .
mary ' s face was clouded directly .
to peruse every line before she attempted to rest .
found herself mistaken in the nature of her feelings , the alteration could not be understood too soon .
might have given more consequence to his character , and more usefulness , rationality , and elegance to his habits
ever from the object of her love , and that marianne was internally dwelling on the perfections of a man
” “i am always sorry to leave eleanor .
” then changing from a frown to a smile—“no , do not tell me—i do not want to know what
the wonder is that it should not have been thought of before .
and you know there is generally an uncle or a grandfather to leave a fortune to the second son .
do you scold them for not admiring her ?
apprehend that the dalrymples considered the relationship as closed .
” “i thoroughly understand you , ” cried mrs .
now necessary , and she assured him , with some confusion , of her attachment to mr .
and an explanation immediately took place , by which both [ _num_ ]gained considerable amusement for the moment , without
you must be sorry for your own indifference .
for everybody connected with you ; and i am sensible of the importance of having an ally of such weight
all that were good would be withdrawn ; and if to these losses , the loss of donwell were to
inconveniences of a most imprudent marriage , but without mentioning names or any other particulars , and i only suspected
by many hours sooner still !
elizabeth looked expressively at lydia ; but she , who never heard nor saw anything of which she chose to
farm , with meadows in front , and the river making a close and handsome curve around it .
the sitting began ; and harriet , smiling and blushing , and afraid of not keeping her attitude and countenance
she has borne it all , with the fortitude of an angel !
” “yes , and i had heard it before .
“to be sure .
madness , if it is so ; but i hope you are mistaken .
” the loss of her daughter made mrs .
you can slip in from the shrubbery at any time ; and there you will find we keep our umbrellas
begun writing to her , as a treasure beyond all her hopes , and reading with the tenderest emotion these
—she could only resolve at last , that she would still avoid a meeting with her , and communicate all
with regard to captain wentworth , though anne hazarded no enquiries , there was voluntary communication sufficient .
miss godby told miss sparks , that nobody in their senses could expect mr .
” “the place , fanny , is what you will not quit , though you quit the house .
she must have been in your own circle ; for as you went with lady dalrymple , you were in
far as the future can be answered for ; i think i never shall return his regard .
miss bennet’s astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly partiality which made any admiration of elizabeth appear perfectly natural
she could not call herself an invalid now , compared with her state on first reaching bath .
” “much , indeed !
we left our dear home on last monday month ; and proceeded on our tour through wales , which is
i could not bear to leave the country in a manner that might lead you , or the rest of
one man may say forty civil things to another without our supposing that he is ever paid for it ,
a considerable flight of steps landed them in the wilderness , which was a planted wood of about two acres
, her kindness did sometimes overpower her judgment .
neither time , nor health , nor life , to be called your own .
down ; —and so equal had been hitherto the number of dancers , that how there could be any one
there is nothing very striking in mr .
sincerity of edmund ' s too partial regard , to the unconcern of his mother speaking entirely by rote .
it is impossible to refuse what you ask in such a way .
the charm of those reveries which his image did not fill .
i really must talk to him about purchasing a donkey .
” “i mean , that no man in his senses would marry lydia on so slight a temptation as one
from the first casting of the parts to the epilogue it was all bewitching , and there were few who
gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind .
a few minutes were enough for such unsatisfactory sensations on each side ; and sir thomas having exerted himself so
how very extraordinary !
street , and drawn up before the door of a small house now inhabited by mr .
he thought she had undertaken more than she was equal to , and that she felt it so herself ,
crawford , she hoped it might give him a knowledge of his own disposition , convince him that he was
—if we walk fast , we shall soon be at randalls .
_num_ days sooner than we had intended .
the wants and sufferings of the poor family , however , were the first subject on meeting .
i will not say quite all .
it would be incompatible with what she owed to her father , and with what she felt for him .
pensive face , may be considered as very completely screened , captain wentworth should be allowed some credit for the
i wish he may be induced to call here .
i ' ll lay my life that he meant nothing farther ; indeed , it would be very strange and
at first with a look of horror at the proposal .
appeared to her so natural , so inevitable to strive against an inclination of that sort unrequited , that she
“i must entreat miss julia bertram , ” said he , “not to engage in the part of agatha ,
i feel that we are born to be connected ; and those tears convince me that you feel it too
to a very lively one of five and twenty ?
retrace all that had then passed , she added , “once only before .
i reproach myself for having , even though innocently , made her unhappy on that score .
fanny listened collectedly , even to the last-mentioned circumstance ; nay , it seemed a relief to her worn mind
in her letters i shall be at dear highbury again .
i had not thought of mrs .
palmer was several years younger than lady middleton , and totally unlike her in every respect .
collins’s happiness ; and that in speaking of rosings and her not perfectly understanding the house , he seemed to
her regard was receiving strength by invariable praise of him , and her regrets kept alive , and feelings irritated
elton is going to be married .
no answer to her note ?
" upon my word , " said she , " i should not have supposed that my opinion of any
when we came back from minehead he was gone down to edward ' s , and there he has been
but they are very good kind of people , and very rich .
she was particularly asked to meet mr elliot , and be introduced to lady dalrymple and miss carteret , who
” the fire therefore died away , and catherine , having spent the best part of an hour in her
putting one arm round her neck , and one cheek close to hers , said in a low , but
on that article , truth seemed attainable .
to me one day “well charlotte , i am very glad to find that you have at last left off
she was in hysterics all yesterday .
of edinburgh .
but you , you above all , above my mother , had been wronged by me .
with her children they were in continual raptures , extolling their beauty , courting their notice , and humouring their
i want your opinion .
our new friend .
the tediousness of a two hours ' wait at petty france , in which there was nothing to be done
could not do better .
henry , overjoyed to have her go , bowed and watched her off , and without losing another moment ,
, for be assured that i shall always keep my admiration to myself and my own pursuits and never extend
to a rational companion or useful helpmate , he could not do worse .
cromwell , fairfax , hampden , and pym may be considered as the original causers of all the disturbances ,
you have not much time before you ; and your relations are in no situation to do anything for you
in the pause which succeeded , a sound like receding footsteps and the closing of a distant door struck on
on either side will be ease to what i now suffer .
he wished resentfully to be true , than what he knew any thing about .
” “never is a black word .
” fanny ' s eyes were turned on crawford for a moment with an expression more than grave—even reproachful ;
she heard it all under embellishment .
as to mrs .
my father is not overpowered .
” elizabeth longed to observe that mr .
i do not know when poor richard ' s cravats would be done , if he had no friend but
—her emotion was such as mrs .
though you do not know him so well as me , miss dashwood , you must have seen enough of
the persons to be invited , required little thought .
home !
” “and remember that i have not much reason for supposing it to be bingley .
and i believe i may say that since the first half year of our foolish business this is the only
yes ; we are always forced to be acquainted whenever she comes to highbury .
, that a doubt sometimes entered her mind of their being really engaged , and this doubt was enough to
chapter xli edward , having carried his thanks to colonel brandon , proceeded with his happiness to lucy ; and
very true indeed .
" well , my dear , ' tis a true saying about an ill-wind , for it will be all
if the mildness of her uncle should get anything out of her , i am not afraid .
morland , you long to be at it , do not you ?
he survived his uncle no longer ; and ten thousand pounds , including the late legacies , was all that
know your friendship for me will make you pleased to hear such a good account of myself and my dear
constable , printers to her majesty at the edinburgh university press] chapter xxv the intercourse of the two families was
she was very far from wishing to dwell on her own feelings , or to represent herself as suffering much
the limited remnant of the earliest patents ; there any unwelcome sensations , arising from domestic affairs changed naturally into
it is not likely that i should , considering what i have been used to .
” “you were imposed on , ma ' am , ” replied dr .
trifling and silly .
dear , i do believe it will be wet , ” broke from her in a most desponding tone .
wallis can be uncivil and give a very rude answer , but we have never known any thing but the
elton , a young man living alone without liking it , the privilege of exchanging any vacant evening of his
collins no sooner saw the two girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune , which charlotte
as for the navy , it had fashion on its side , but i was too old when the subject
” the ladies stared .
from miss mainwaring ; but , if the world could know my motive there they would honour me .
how grievous then was the thought that , of a situation so desirable in every respect , so replete with
is to be ill-disposed : but he was , in general , well respected ; for he conducted himself with
i did not think mrs .
goddard ' s all the rest of her life—or , at least , (for harriet smith is a girl who
whether mr .
on this point she was soon satisfied ; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere they parted , which
she had ventured once alone to randalls , but it was not pleasant ; and a harriet smith , therefore
with which you were received into it ; that you have corresponded with him ever since your leaving langford ;
even then , however , when fully determined on paying my addresses to her , i allowed myself most improperly
by a lively song , a graceful dance , or by some smart bon-mot , and witty repartee .
, with a most scrupulous fear of being late , been many minutes seated in the drawing-room , sir thomas
bennet ?
” it was as much as emma could bear , without being impolite .
knightley , ” said emma , trying to be lively , but really confused—“i am in a very extraordinary situation
it amazes me , i confess ; for , certainly , there can be nothing so advantageous to them as
, all of them as eloisa told me expressive of my admiration ; and so indeed i suppose they are
you will not regard being tired .
passage-room to something better , and she stood for a moment expecting to be invited on ; but when she
in fact was as little valued , as it was professedly sought .
into it .
” emma had no opportunity of speaking to mr .
yates considered it only as a temporary interruption , a disaster for the evening , and could even suggest the
what had she to say that would not humble herself and pain her family , that would not increase her
to make her unwilling to dismount .
; and the “oh !
knightley and jane fairfax .
she said little , but every sentence aimed at cheerfulness , and though a sigh sometimes escaped her , it
we have notice of it in a letter to-day .
they burst on him , i do not know how , but by some letter or message—and it was the
if you wish me to talk to mrs .
to—dear miss morland , consider the dreadful nature of the suspicions you have entertained .
" we may treat it as a joke , " said he , at last , recovering from the affected
no remembrance of reginald , no consciousness of guilt , gave one look of embarrassment ; she was in excellent
“what an excellent device , ” said he , “the use of a sheepskin for carriages .
he takes them now for people of fashion .
, and resolving to divide herself effectually from him and his connexions by soon beginning her career of laborious duty
i dare say either of them would like to go .
or ought to do ?
grant to have an equal claim with fanny and myself , for we shall both have a right in you
some report of her to hartfield—they were overtaken by mr .
elizabeth longed to explore its windings ; but when they had crossed the bridge , and perceived their distance from
; and i believe i could help them to a housemaid , for my betty has a sister out of
weston , to people of large fortune ?
cole .
” “dear madam , ” cried mrs .
, dripping and comfortless veranda , or even notice through the misty glasses the last humble tenements of the village
the willingness of their attention ; for miss crawford , who had seen scores of great houses , and cared
but so it was , and it required a long application of solitude and reflection to recover her .
with a small carpet and shining floor , to which the present daughters of the house were gradually giving the
the introduction .
, i received your two kind letters with the greatest delight , and have a thousand apologies to make for
” “i was astonished to find what a piece of work was made of it !
her thoughts were silently fixed on the irreparable injury which too early an independence and its consequent habits of idleness
, and had long felt an interest in , on account of her beauty .
she had only two daughters , both of whom she had lived to see respectably married , and she had
” “yes ; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they both like vingt-un better than commerce ;
coming up with most becoming gallantry to emma , had secured her hand , and led her up to the
" is there no chance of my seeing you and your sisters in town this winter , miss dashwood ?
well .
as to make them scarcely secondary to donwell abbey itself , in every other kind of consequence ; and the
yes ; i remember , i asked you while you were waiting in the lobby for your cloak .
but first of all , you must tell me the name of the young lady i am going to talk
; and the privacy of such a discussion was a most important part of it to fanny , being more
” “great has been the pleasure , i am sure .
she went to mrs .
is everything at stake—your own happiness , that of your parents , and the credit of your name .
from herself would put an end to it in time .
they seemed to be within half a sentence of harriet , and her immediate feeling was to avert the subject
willoughby since you left him at barton ?
i shall never be quite happy till i have been all round the park .
at the bottom of the street , however , she looked back again , and then , not at a
” farther discussion was prevented by various bustles : first , the driver came to be paid ; then there
his attentions to miss king were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary ; and the mediocrity of
to my fancy , a thousand times prettier than barton park , where they are forced to send three miles
be guided in her conduct by the manner in which her proposal might be taken .
" and then to turn the discourse , she began admiring the house and the furniture .
it was a very useful note , for it supplied them with fresh matter for thought and conversation during the
his hospitality would have welcomed his visitors to every thing , his care for their health made him grieve that
after breakfast , the girls walked to meryton to inquire if mr .
" she could not make a very long history , i think , of one such little article of unfounded
smallridge is in a great hurry .
bennet was firm .
in a fortnight they were to go—and once gone , she hoped there could be nothing more to plague her
—nobody but you , mr .
" as for regret , " said marianne , " i have done with that , as far as he
" " pardon me , " replied elinor , startled by the question ; " but i can give you
he had abundantly earned the privilege of intimate discussion of her sister ' s disappointment , by the friendly zeal
even to be very small , admired the situation , the walk to highbury , highbury itself , hartfield still
you sink your voice , but i can distinguish the tones of that voice when they would be lost on
mamma would like to go too of all things !
but you i am sure will vindicate my character whenever you may hear it so cruelly aspersed , for you
to give the young people a dance at mansfield .
” “yes , it is exactly behind the house ; begins at a little distance , and ascends for half
capability of sleep at that moment about her , and she was not to be kept away from her sister
give him a hint , by a line to oxford , that his sister and i both think a letter
we all feel the influence of a something beyond common civility in our personal intercourse with each other—a something more
jennings , though her carriage was always at elinor ' s service , so very much disliked mrs .
it is very inconvenient to have no butcher in the street .
any one whom i loved , for all the improvements in the world .
she was very unwilling that frederica should be allowed to come to churchhill , and justly enough , as it
there had been something remarkably amiable about her .
of involuntary absence of mind .
perfectly natural ; and equally so that my value for domestic tranquillity , for a home which shuts out noisy
with sugar plums by the other .
i can make no submission .
charles hayter was the eldest of all the cousins , and a very amiable , pleasing young man , between
willoughby ' s portrait was drawn , and at what warehouse miss grey ' s clothes might be seen .
" " perhaps i shall .
fork to use .
“no , it by no means wanted strength—it was not a large hand , but very clear and certainly strong
i am afraid they may feel themselves neglected .
why should there be any change ?
elinor , however little concerned in it , joined in their discourse ; and marianne , who had the knack
” “but if he returns no more this winter , my choice will never be required .
i know it must be a skeleton , i am sure it is laurentina ' s skeleton .
i am afraid i have often been too indulgent , but my poor frederica ' s temper could never bear
it was some time before she could get his attention to her plan , or any answer to her demand
, i saw her , and saw her miserable , and left her miserable ; —and left her hoping never
” edmund , on this appeal , had first to hear what was going on ; but , on understanding
” in a few minutes she was joined by bingley , whose conference with her father had been short and
of the five thousand pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and my sister ; and ,
” “i am grieved indeed , ” cried darcy ; “grieved—shocked .
" she cried , " i have such a secret to tell you about marianne .
—he is a disgrace to the name of man .
“ay , you have been brought up to it .
their having instantly all the liberty and attendance , all the eating and drinking , and sleeping and playing ,
broke my arm with pulling him in to that cursed broken-winded jade ' s pace .
letter the seventh from miss c .
lady catherine , i believe , did a great deal to it when mr .
could i immediately apply to either , however , i should still prefer you , because it strikes me that
” “fanny !
” a new idea now darted into catherine ' s mind , and turning as pale as her friend ,
had bred himself on his estate in somersetshire , and which was exactly calculated to carry a woman .
but disguise of every sort is my abhorrence .
i would even rather lay it uselessly by than dispose of it in a manner so painful to you .
” “to bristol !
” “were it certain that lady catherine would think so , ” said mr .
" " about two hundred a year .
bennet half-opened the door and called out : “lizzy , my dear , i want to speak with you .
“and this , ” said she , “is the end of all his friend’s anxious circumspection !
always loved her with such real , generous affection .
—only think of his gallantry in coming away before the other men !
on his returning to netherfield .
he had no reason to wish his hair longer , to conceal any confusion of face ; no reason to
much ease .
oh , god !
it makes one detest all one ' s acquaintance .
well may it be doubted ; for , had i really loved , could i have sacrificed my feelings to
—quite well , i am much obliged to you .
has my sister a pleasant mode of instruction ?
tilney did not appear .
—for harriet , it would be advantageous and delightful indeed .
and i am sure , by his manner , it was no compliment .
unwell , or had any ideas of danger , was the winter that i passed by myself at deal ,
during the progress of her disorder , frederick and i (we were both at home) saw her repeatedly ; and
you are describing what never happened .
an idle , helpless being .
” “why , at that rate , you will have been here only six weeks .
she could not yet recover from the surprise of what had happened ; it was impossible to think of anything
, “i have something to tell you , emma ; some news .
may take an umbrella—” i could hardly help laughing at hearing her give me leave to keep myself dry—“and pray
vanity and pride are different things , though the words are often used synonymously .
i never saw a place so altered in my life .
eye of catherine , who saw little more than its spaciousness and the number of their attendants .
if i could not directly command hers , so as to send them to highbury within a week , i
countenance as ever , was wisely and kindly keeping his eyes away , and giving her time to recover ,
of carrying with me the right of tenderness and esteem .
better of .
bingley , express her impatience for his arrival , or even require jane to confess that if he did not
of knowing his private character , and observing his general conduct , which in london can rarely be the case
body but herself .
to enquire after marianne was at first his excuse ; but the encouragement of his reception , to which every
disagreeable ; and the inferiority of the house too—knowing what i had been accustomed to—of course he was not wholly
” “what are you waiting for ?
” “i am quite sure , ” he replied , speaking very distinctly , “that he told me she had
i am sure , rather than run the risk of hurting mr .
pratt can give her .
her heart was in a glow , and she feared her face might be as hot .
, and speak again .
not displeased with her brother ' s marrying a little beneath him .
but they did pass away , and mr .
something occurred , however , to give her a different duty .
every thing was explained to him by mrs .
miss churchill , however , being of age , and with the full command of her fortune—though her fortune bore
what shall we do for an anhalt ?
she played till fanny ' s eyes , straying to the window on the weather ' s being evidently fair
smith ' s intelligence ; you had no doubt of its authenticity a month ago .
” harriet felt this too much to utter more than a few words of eager exclamation .
an increase of income to answer the expenses of the change , was highly acceptable to those who went and
pray apologise for my having disliked him so much before .
i could very ill be spared—but such a point had been made of my coming !
society ; the greatest part of his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and miserly father
you said you had a great many , and now you have not one left .
elizabeth preserved as steady a silence as either mrs .
but who will remain to enjoy you ?
” “yes , very ; only i am soon tired .
you will not like the noise .
he was my godfather , and excessively attached to me .
ground he had gained in harriet ' s inclination .
it was horrible to emma to think how it must sink him in the general opinion , to foresee the
letter the third from a young lady in distressed circumstances to her freind a few days ago i was at
esteem , she could not , in her general conduct , be open to any severe reproach .
was there any picture of her in the abbey ?
bring himself to wait , however impatiently , for the fortunate day , when she might be freed from the
as soon as they entered the house , marianne with a kiss of gratitude and these two words just articulate
things about whom she had never felt so much curiosity as now , and she would have been glad to
she was a woman who spent her days in sitting , nicely dressed , on a sofa , doing some
” “your parish there was small , ” said jane .
that will soon be settled .
dislike of the extreme admiration i meet with , and my aversion to being so celebrated both in public ,
my situation in life , to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now suffering under , of
” “udolpho was written by mrs .
gardiner and her niece , however , did her justice , and pitied her .
let him have all the perfections in the world , i think it ought not to be set down as
to pronounce it with surprise within twenty minutes of five !
she could not turn her eyes from the meadow ; she could not help watching all that passed .
have a few living creatures of that sort ; and so to be sure it will .
it was on the wedding-day of this beloved friend that emma first sat in mournful thought of any continuance .
and when he did speak , it seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choice—a sacrifice to propriety ,
or three days are not to be taken out for the abbey .
, to seize such an opportunity of dancing a reel ?
one image of grief , one suffering friend to another , and her spirits oppressed to the utmost by the
uppercross was a moderate-sized village , which a few years back had been completely in the old english style ,
”—mrs .
” miss bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit , and threw back the praise on her sister’s warm affection .
” “his misfortunes !
of its separate lawn , and shrubberies , and name , did really belong , afforded her no equals .
i dare say he often hears worse things said than i am going to say .
at last emma attacked her on another ground .
forth her compassion towards poor mr .
are not going to tell me , i hope , that you had not a pleasant evening .
obtain his approbation of her doing .
henrietta asked him what he thought of you , when they went away , and he said , ' you
”—she could really say nothing .
“how can you say so ?
he would do any good to her , or her family ; but—” “well , ” said mrs .
with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you while you have been here .
the family were not consumptive , and she was more inclined to hope than fear for her cousin , except
would endeavour to class what mr .
it was after tea that jane spoke to mrs .
i saw them the night before last .
harriet was one of those , who , having once begun , would be always in love .
ten minutes were enough to certify that .
but consider—you need not be afraid of delegating power to me .
“dear miss woodhouse .
all this passed overnight , for the journey was to begin very early in the morning ; and when the
gardiner and the children were to remain in hertfordshire a few days longer , as the former thought her presence
i will answer for the gentleman ' s indifference .
her friend was not in better spirits than herself .
narration , without feeling at all nearer decision than at first , heard this ; and perceiving that as reflection
if a man had not a wife , he soon wants to be afloat again .
i feel very much obliged to you for keeping your admiration to yourself .
to express my refusal in such a way as to convince you of its being one .
darcy’s explanation there had appeared very insufficient , and she read it again .
entirely wrong , formed on mistaken grounds , and that by requiring her longer continuance in london it deprived her
isabella laughed .
” “oh , for shame !
had opportunities of seeing him in unguarded moments , which mr .
, forming three distinct parties ; and to that party of the three which boasted least animation , and least
he can sit down and write a fine flourishing letter , full of professions and falsehoods , and persuade himself
giving him a week ' s indulgence , lady russell determined him to be unworthy of the interest which he
even partially , from his daughter .
something new for your coachman and horses to be making their way through a storm of snow .
care of yourself to-night .
elliot , " (looking with serious reflection) , " i should think he must be rather a dressy man for
lydia talked incessantly of lottery tickets , of the fish she had lost and the fish she had won ;
of his kindness at such a moment !
of society , elizabeth .
the crawfords were more warm on the subject than mr .
” catherine was hurt by these insinuations .
she proved to be the daughter of a tradesman , rich enough to afford her the comfortable maintenance which had
the openness and heartiness of her manner more than atoned for that want of recollection and elegance which made her
of different people to quit the topic , it fell to the ground .
her head .
" poor frederick !
case i am sure i could not be deceived .
would be so disappointed , tom would be quite angry ; and if we are so very nice , we
, a difference which seemed purposely made to humble her more , only amused her .
pondering over these heart-rending tidings , catherine walked slowly upstairs .
jennings exceedingly .
this piece of civility .
before her visit ended ; and that a little abstinence from the elegancies and luxuries of mansfield park would bring
norris called out , “stay , stay , fanny !
the natural taste is equal the player must always be best off , for she is gratified in more ways
him speak so affectionately of his sister as to prove him capable of some amiable feeling ; that had his
” then taking the disengaged arm of mr .
she wondered , indeed , at his thinking it necessary to do so ; but supposed it to be the
seemed to consider the separation as any thing short of eternal .
treating her with parental kindness .
the family features , and protesting still more positively that it was mr elliot , calling again upon anne to
of a sister .
there she sat—and who would have guessed how many tears she had been lately shedding ?
louisa , under mrs harville ' s direction , was conveyed up stairs , and given possession of her own
in a few minutes they could distinguish him to be a gentleman ; and in a moment afterwards marianne rapturously
any other of our intelligences .
weston gently , “very much .
i hope it may be understood to have worn out on each side equally , and without violence .
her admiration of captain carter , and her hope of seeing him in the course of the day , as
but as he proceeded in his story , these fears were over .
of the lateness of the hour , before the other gentlemen appeared .
otherwise .
sir walter , on being applied to , without actually withholding his consent , or saying it should never be
, ” as it was observed by her aunts , “she might ride one of her cousin ' s horses
he is convinced that her attempt to run away proceeded from no , justifiable cause , and had no provocation
i never spoke a syllable about it to sir thomas , nor he to me .
norris , and then at fanny , whose tears were beginning to shew themselves , immediately said , with some
stinking fish of southampton ?
there had been three alternatives , london , bath , or another house in the country .
—well , i had always rather fancied it would be some young lady hereabouts ; not that i ever—mrs .
” “there now , i knew how it would be .
bingley’s heart were entertained .
receiving a very good education from her , on the very material matrimonial point of submitting your own will ,
his lameness prevented him from taking much exercise ; but a mind of usefulness and ingenuity seemed to furnish him
elton had only drunk wine enough to elevate his spirits , not at all to confuse his intellects .
bennet could hardly comprehend it .
might agree with it , and was confident at last that she recollected having heard mr .
miss frederica must therefore wait a little .
but this is a striking proof of their narrow souls and prejudiced judgements who accuse her .
dreadful indifference !
” “the carriage !
he wrote by the same post to reginald a long letter full of it all , and particularly asking an
” jane shook her head .
, " perhaps , elinor , it was rather ill-judged in me to go to allenham ; but mr .
i will ask them all for an evening ; that will be much better ; that will be a novelty
families was carried on without restraint , and no other attempt made at secrecy than mrs .
, when mrs .
that is ship ; —plain as it can be .
i was so much vexed by william ' s glance , that i could not summon patience enough , to
opposite side of the river , in the nearest direction ; but their progress was slow , for mr .
” this appeal to her affections did more than all the rest .
these cottages and alehouses , inside and out ; but pray let me know my fate in the meanwhile .
jennings received the refusal with some surprise , and repeated her invitation immediately .
weston , “as can well be ; and while she is so happy at hartfield , i cannot wish her
woodhouse opposed it earnestly , on the score of health .
but as so melancholy a subject must necessarily extremely distress you , i will no longer dwell on it— .
” “i angry !
mansfield , she naturally became everything to lady bertram during the night of a ball or a party .
a “let sir thomas know” to the servant .
perhaps , however , he is kept silent by his fear of offending , and i shall , therefore ,
" " frederica never does justice to herself ; her manners are shy and childish , and besides she is
out , “well , miss morland , here i am .
and am the more concerned that it should not have been .
chapter iii the first event of any importance in the family was the death of mr .
reconciliation with the longbourn family he had a wife in view , as he meant to choose one of the
the pemberley house , is a powerful motive .
the lady is the hon .
of a november day , most acceptable to mary crawford .
lesley ' s peace of mind , which must ever be essential to that of your sincere freind m .
most earnest supplication .
remember it ?
to be in company , nicely dressed herself and seeing others nicely dressed , to sit and smile and look
away to excuse herself from attending mrs .
[ _num_ ] so shy before company .
" anne wondered whether it ever occurred to him now , to question the justness of his own previous opinion
everything else , gave way before the hope of jane’s being in the fairest way for happiness .
woodhouse was quite at ease ; and the seeing him so , with the arrival of the little boys and
that is , i know you must have seen her a hundred times—but are you acquainted ?
” “what is the matter now ?
he might be at leisure to be amused by it .
, i protest !
tilney drank tea with us , and i always thought him a great addition , he is so very agreeable
fanny he must give up .
for their future husbands , had so much to do as , in addition to all her own household cares
friend , and expecting a summons herself from the angry general to attend him in his own apartment .
nursery for the children , —just as usual , you know .
of some handsome warrior , whose features will so incomprehensibly strike you , that you will not be able to
lady bertram was perfectly quiescent and contented , and had no objections to make .
is so very clever ; but i respect her amazingly , and wish we had such a neighbour at uppercross
his abandoned wife , since my fair one will not consent to be mine till their decease has placed her
of her own .
this would have been an error in judgment , great though not uncommon , from which one of the other
“and when they had gone over the house , he promised himself moreover the pleasure of accompanying her into the
conversation , that they were sometimes only reminded of her being amongst them by her solicitude about her troublesome boys
indisposition which delayed them at cleveland ; and almost fixing on the time when marianne would be able to travel
there is the parsonage : a tidy-looking house , and i understand the clergyman and his wife are very decent
better for us both to break off the matter entirely .
but had i been informed of it a few hours earlier , i think it is most probable that something
“has he been here on this occasion—or has he not ?
knightley came again , she desired him to read it .
—is not it possible , that when enquiring , as you thought , into the state of your affections ,
the chief of the party were now collected irregularly round the fire , and waiting the final break-up .
a plan like theirs , comprehending only brothers and sisters and intimate friends , and which would never be heard
known as to make it impossible for any young woman of character to love or confide in him .
crawford spoke to her , and he spoke to her much too often ; and she was afraid there was
and nurse said just the same .
must arise from a young man ' s being received in this manner : domesticated among us ; authorised to
his marriage was now fast approaching , and she was at length so far resigned as to think it inevitable
to the person it was drew for .
edmund was all in all .
delaford parsonage before michaelmas ; and i am sure i shan ' t go if lucy an ' t there
intercepting her letters , ruining her character , or turning her out of doors .
yates , making his bow and apology to sir thomas bertram , was such an exhibition , such a piece
they are some of my very old friends .
she had feeling , genuine feeling .
as mr elliot became known to her , she grew more charitable , or more indifferent , towards the others
, said , “but where is fanny ?
greatest relief ; and not a day went by without a solitary walk , in which she might indulge in
” “your surprise could not be greater than mine in being noticed by you .
price cared too little about the report to make her much answer .
a fair statement of the whole acting scheme , defending his own share in it as far only as he
shocked as captain harville was , he brought senses and nerves that could be instantly useful ; and a look
was spoken , elinor replied that she was .
yes , certainly , the sun shines , and the park looks very cheerful .
" " i am very glad you were well enough , and i hope you had a pleasant party .
and marianne , still talking wildly of mama , her alarm increased so rapidly , as to determine her on
mainwaring had that instant entered the house , and forced herself into her guardian ' s presence , though i
her mind had been never farther from peace .
she wished , by a gentle remonstrance , to remind isabella of her situation , and make her aware of
of his wife and children , had sought no confidant but the butler , and had been following him almost
; and in the nearness of the parsonage , or the pleasantness of the walk to it , or of
made his affection every moment more valuable .
your secret is safe with me ; but pardon me if i express some surprise at so unnecessary a communication
i must observe that they might well be offended at being supposed to have no higher aim , and that
that was the only point of resemblance between her and the lady who sat by her : in everything but
but miss price and mr .
" " but what does lady russell think of this acquaintance ?
objections there might be against a certain—a certain connection , you understand me , —it would have been far preferable
the indulgence , now and then , of a look or hint for the better-informed and conscious fanny .
it began to rain , not much , but enough to make shelter desirable for women , and quite enough
of the party to be assembled there , consisting precisely of those whose society was dearest to her , occurred
collins was eloquent in her praise .
his celebrated passages are quoted by everybody ; they are in half the books we open , and we all
the head had received a severe contusion , but he had seen greater injuries recovered from : he was by
it was enough for her to feel .
the rhine , and horrid mysteries .
to answer her or not .
had i died , in what peculiar misery should i have left you , my nurse , my friend ,
as for herself , she might always command a home with lady russell .
of goodness too great to be probable , and at the same time dreaded to be just , from the
that is strange !
don ' t scruple .
elton seemed very properly struck and delighted by the idea , and was repeating , “no husbands and wives in
of the card parties , the subject was necessarily dropped .
, till , shaking off his embarrassment , he turned to her again , and said in the gentlest of
but—it was not colonel brandon—neither his air—nor his height .
” after this , he made some progress without any pause .
he is as well acquainted with his own claims , as you can be with harriet ' s .
own eyes had beheld his altered appearance .
with all the old neglect of prospect , had scarcely a sight—and its abundance of timber in rows and avenues
former days , that in spite of the many , many weeks we had been separated , she was as
” “it is very unfair to judge of any body ' s conduct , without an intimate knowledge of their
he wished to persuade mr .
bennet regretted that their stay would be so short ; and she made the most of the time by visiting
” elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment , before their approach was announced by the
how improperly had she been acting by harriet !
she had been repeatedly very earnest in trying to get anne included in the visit to london , sensibly open
you do not know how vexed i am ; i shall have no pleasure at clifton , nor in anything
halton .
knightley , with a smile which implied a conviction of some part of what had passed between them .
her own thoughts and reflections were habitually her best companions ; and , in observing the appearance of the country
declare it , i know you too well not to entertain the warmest hopes .
he begged her pardon , but she must be applied to , to explain italian again .
i assure you i have no doubt of its doing mr .
that he should neither come nor write !
it is impossible for me to be impartial .
such a plan , and her first thought was to decline it ; but her second was of greater deference
catherine reproach herself with having parted from eleanor coldly , with having never enough valued her merits or kindness ,
cheerful selfishness reflect , firstly , that he had not been half so much in debt as some of his
” “oh yes , sir , ” cried she with ready sympathy , “how you must miss her !
cannot you invent a few hardships for yourself , and be contented to stay ?
i hate money ; and if our union could take place now upon only fifty pounds a year , i
with the prospect of spending at least two months at uppercross , it was highly incumbent on her to clothe
[ _num_ ] " of one thing i may assure you .
his acting had first taught fanny what pleasure a play might give , and his reading brought all his acting
the remembrance of willoughby could be connected .
help crying out : “engaged to mr .
frank churchill and miss smith making their party quite complete .
but when this passed away , when her spirits became collected , when she saw that to the perfect good-breeding
leaving edmund looking after her in an ecstasy of admiration of all her many virtues , from her obliging manners
try the truth of this same old song .
smiling weather .
if mrs .
became the property , the charge , the consolation , the foundling of her grandmother and aunt , there had
, allowed room only for the stream , and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered it .
the distress in which marianne had quitted the room was such as a serious quarrel could most reasonably account for
rest of her short life : i was with her in her last moments .
so far from being all satisfied and all enjoying , she found everybody requiring something they had not , and
after deducting seven hours , as the nature of the country required , for going and returning .
” “well , there is feeling here .
wished .
weston will be almost as much relieved as myself , ” said she .
it was misery to think of mr elliot ' s attentions .
so well in the world as rolling down the green slope at the back of the house .
from monday next to saturday , i assure you we have not a disengaged day !
reginald came this morning into my dressing-room with a very unusual solemnity of countenance , and after some preface informed
voice well .
but to convey five idle , shivering creatures into colder rooms and worse company than they might have had at
he had talked of going down to plymouth for a week , and wanted to persuade captain benwick to go
” “that is all very proper and civil , i am sure , ” said mrs .
as proceeding from a rapidity of thought and carelessness of execution , which , if not estimable , you think
“from what we have seen of him , ” continued mrs .
woodhouse ' s life ; and upon being applied to , he could not but acknowledge (though it seemed rather
, and she is not to remain here long .
" chapter ix the dashwoods were now settled at barton with tolerable comfort to themselves .
" " yes ; once , while she was staying in this house , i happened to drop in for
tom oliver is a very clever fellow , and charles maddox is as gentlemanlike a man as you will see
” he folded her in his arms , and whilst they were tenderly embracing , the door of the apartment
to what she ought to wear , determined to seek the counsel of the more enlightened , and apply to
weston , “she was energetic .
he did justice to his very gentlemanlike appearance , his air of elegance and fashion , his good shaped face
happiness of attending to the recommendation of sir charles ; that sir charles was much delighted in having such an
(thought i to myself) what a total want of delicate refinement must he have , who can thus shock our
she was ready to sink as she entered the parlour .
from her , she soon learned that the party to clifton had taken place .
chapter xxviii her uncle and both her aunts were in the drawing-room when fanny went down .
depend upon it , there is some mistake , and that a day or two will clear it up ;
caution ; but no sooner did i come to the mention of her being unwell , than i burst out
i have not an idea—i cannot guess it in the least .
” he paused a moment , again smiling , with his eyes fixed on her face .
could have no merit .
“how the pleasing plague had stolen on him” he could not say ; and before he had expressed the same
jennings , " said marianne , " at least it need not prevent my accepting her invitation .
every expression of congratulation which her marriage had already secured .
for the rest of his character and habits , they were marked , as far as elinor could perceive ,
for her , that i am certain he would never hear reason on the subject , and i shall there
their reception at home was most kind .
i ought not to punish him by dismissing him at once after this reconciliation , or by marrying and teazing
after a short silence , during which he had closely observed her , he added , “as there is nothing
to encounter charlotte’s observation , and hurried her away to her room .
i soon found it would not do ; indeed i guessed what sort of stuff it must be before i
we travelled on horseback by preference .
she had also to anticipate how her visit would pass , the quiet tenor of their usual employments , the
i hope my uncle may continue to like mr .
" marianne here burst forth with indignation[ _num_ ]— " esteem him !
she seemed to propose shewing no agitation , or disappointment , or peculiar concern in the discovery .
” “to be sure you must miss him very much .
of your wishes .
i would write to him myself , but have mislaid his direction ; and , as i hinted above ,
my poor little girl would be sadly disappointed , i know , if the basket was not finished tomorrow ,
have nothing farther to ask .
of the party .
that she desires to know what you are all thinking of ?
left no room for the little zigzags of embarrassment .
such a debasement on his !
elton actually making violent love to her : availing himself of the precious opportunity , declaring sentiments which must be
” edmund said no more to either lady ; but going quietly to another table , on which the supper-tray
of her situation , had been too distressing at the time to make the remembrance when she was alone much
she often tried to provoke darcy into disliking her guest , by talking of their supposed marriage , and planning
” “you mistake me , you quite mistake me , ” she replied , exerting herself .
” sir thomas heard with some surprise that it would be totally out of mrs .
hastened away alone ; but the general pace was quickened , and they all accompanied her into the house ,
of his .
the business ; sir thomas retiring from it with some feelings of satisfaction , and views of good over and
—she saw that there never had been a time when she did not consider mr .
delightful for summer .
both husband and wife ; the son approached her with a cheerful eagerness which marked her as his peculiar object
—i always told you he would be here again soon , did not i ?
supposing him to be attached to me , would my refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow
does not interfere .
” “no , ” said miss tilney , sighing ; “i was unfortunately from home .
by elizabeth’s instructions , she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband which a brother
, to amuse herself with .
" and this , without much waiting for an answer ; or in the young ladies ' addition of ,
justice to the aunt she loved best , from saying something in which the words “my aunt norris” were distinguishable
bingley , it is very hard to have her taken such a way from me .
all the world are good and agreeable in your eyes .
bates good morning .
enjoying everything present , and fearing little in future , beyond henry ' s going to woodston for a day
you could not give me a greater reproof for the mistake i fell into .
she opened the packet ; it was too surely so ; —a note from mrs .
saying , “well , if it is to be so , i can only say that i am sorry for
—how strange !
as it was , also proved again by the gentleman ' s looks , that he thought hers very lovely
read about them) as are never to be persuaded into love against their judgment by all that talent , manner
morland ' s horse was so tired he could hardly get it along .
to explain it , she might be as[ _num_ ] liable to say too much as too little .
it is beautiful ; and that she cannot be too much guarded in her behaviour towards the undeserving of the
“there , ” cried miss crawford , “you have quite convinced miss price already .
in all probability she was at this very time waited for there ; and mr .
without affection for the person who was to be his wife ; but that he had not even the chance
few young ladies of eighteen could be less called on to speak their opinion than fanny .
can you imagine any thing nearer perfect beauty than emma altogether—face and figure ?
” “but he paid her not the smallest attention till her grandfather’s death made her mistress of this fortune .
of interest and curiosity , she fancied now that it was too late to retract , and the whole six
is just the same ; he has amazing strong feelings .
a better effect than anything he had yet been able to say or do .
what would my husband and brother say of us , if they knew all the fine things i have been
be assured that he never was so very wicked as my fears have sometimes fancied him , since the story
had sir thomas applied to his daughter within the first three or four days after henry crawford ' s leaving
real workmen , i suppose , hold their tongues ; but we gentlemen labourers if we get hold of a
she brought no name , no blood , no alliance .
when they had paid their tribute of politeness by curtsying to the lady of the house , they were permitted
her eye fell everywhere on lawns and plantations of the freshest green ; and the trees , though not fully
his warm attachment .
years’ discontinuance .
the communication excited many professions of concern ; and enough was said of wishing them to stay at least till
the satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in great britain to be her husband might
” tom was the only one at all ready with an answer , but he being entirely without particular regard
knightley , what a delightful party last night ; how extremely pleasant .
her imprudent marriage had placed her in .
at hand , the heart must be opened , and everything told ; no one else in the room ,
so gratifying had been the tenor of his conduct throughout the whole visit , so well assured was her mind
thirteen winters ' revolving frosts had seen her opening every ball of credit which a scanty neighbourhood afforded , and
was too keenly felt to be a subject of the slightest communication .
the high spirit and strong passions of mrs .
” “i shall be most happy to make her better acquainted with them .
we have all a better guide in ourselves , if we would attend to it , than any other person
the coming of her sister ' s family was so very near at hand , that first in anticipation ,
" elinor thought this generosity overstrained , considering her sister ' s youth , and urged the matter farther ,
; we will walk to sir john ' s new plantations at barton cross , and the abbeyland ; and
cattle too .
tilney , which immediately fronted the family pew .
his voice to the level of irritation and feebleness .
” (replied i .
i want you to call me something else , but i do not know what .
bertram too .
to oblige .
away the tea-things , and mrs .
i thank you for explaining it so fully .
he was brought , not from doubt or suspense , but from misery to happiness ; and the change was
reflection of my having paid every attention to her , that could be offered , in her illness .
yes , i call it a very easy distance .
except of conversation , appeared ; but there , the deficiency was considerable .
and besides , handsome as he was , there was a something in the turn of his features which spoke
this house , that i should be forced to make way for her , and live to see her take
thorpe , who had descried them from above , in the passage .
done .
conversation with any of them occupied but a small part of it .
” “don ' t say i was cross .
she could not do so , without comparing herself with miss larolles , the inimitable miss larolles ; but still
—this is admirable !
she could not wish him to stay , and would much rather not have him speak to her .
to get the better of it .
she began first to be sensible of this , and to sigh for her conversation , as she walked along
to me .
, and every half minute seems like five .
be just the right number .
" " you decide on his imperfections so much in the mass , " replied elinor , " and so
usual companions had probably no concern in , she had the hope of being of real use to him in
sir john had dropped hints of past injuries and disappointments , which justified her belief of his being an unfortunate
made out every word .
dashwood ; she had never been used to find wit in the inattention of any one , and could not
i received your note , my dear alicia , just before i left town , and rejoice to be assured
his particular kindness last september twelvemonth in writing that note , at twelve o ' clock at night , on
i have been thinking whether you had not better remain in the carriage with her , while i go in
—i am not helpless .
the difference between his present air and what it had been in the octagon room was strikingly great .
could he ever be tolerably happy with lucy steele ; could he , were his affection for herself out of
the town ; or , as the happiest alternative , been secluded from the world , in some distant farmhouse
" " perhaps , " said elinor , smiling , " we may come to the same point .
—come emma , set your companions the example .
not have put up with it .
but she does not do him justice , nor think enough about winthrop .
rushworth stepped forward with great alacrity to tell him the agreeable news .
than she is of them , she is the less likely to have been hurt , except by their flattery
on paper his perfect approbation of all that was done , and his willingness to fulfil the engagements that had
" said she , when they were ready .
amusing contrast to the protracted apologies and civil hesitations of the other .
rushworth so .
his abilities in every respect improve as much upon acquaintance as his manners and person .
very bad , i can get out and walk .
by this time she is actually with them !
little in a lover ; and he was ready at the smallest intermission of the pencil , to jump up
my doctrine has never aimed at the subjection of the understanding .
of their having a very handsome summer-house in their garden , where some day next year they were all to
as without supposing it possible that she could be ignorant of any of the particulars of mr .
she was a woman rather of sound than of quick abilities , whose difficulties in coming to any decision in
but she doubted , as she looked round the room , whether anything within her observation would have given her
" mr elliot , and his friends in marlborough buildings , were talked of the whole evening .
had finished it .
and yet , that i must and would confess that , could i have restored her to what she had
” soon afterwards mr .
why would you write to me ?
” “i do not know , ” replied miss crawford hesitatingly .
have quite the ease of elinor ' s .
it was evident that he was unhappy ; she wished it were equally evident that he still distinguished her by
have been pleasanter .
i see nothing alarming in the word .
we have nothing clever to say—not one of us .
, but altogether sufficiently awake to the terror of a bad sore throat ; and emma was quite in charity
” “have i offended the general ?
another person as much as i can be to anyone , i should make a point of not bestowing my
the colour into her cheeks when she thought of captain wentworth unshackled and free .
how it might be considered by the rest of the party , she could not tell .
there was instant pleasure in the sight of them , and still greater pleasure was conveyed in sound—for mr .
the consciousness of having injured you with your family , how am i to support myself ?
i am not sensible of having done anything wrong in walking over mrs .
bingley and his eldest sister , to observe the game .
, and ride off as fast as i could .
“is miss woodhouse sure that she would like to hear what we are all thinking of ?
here , sarah , come to miss bennet this moment , and help her on with her gown .
but where other powers of entertainment are wanting , the true philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given
her hopes were answered ; jane had not been gone long before it rained hard .
” fanny felt obliged to speak .
lady susan was far from intending such a conquest , and on finding how warmly miss mainwaring resented her lover
from jane ' s countenance that she too was really hearing him , though trying to seem deaf .
virtue from those for whom education had done so little ; entered into their troubles with ready sympathy , and
—i have it not—but i know how to prize and respect it .
” chapter _num_ two days after mr .
, —perhaps her despair !
they never could have been all three together , without her having stabbed jane fairfax ' s peace in a
it was natural for him to feel that he had cause to sigh .
palmer ' s barouche stopped at the door , and in a few minutes she came laughing into the room
i really cannot be plaguing myself for ever with all the new poems and states of the nation that come
she gave advice , advice too sound to be resisted by a good understanding , and given so mildly and
and the self-reproach arising from the deplorable event in wimpole street , to which he felt himself accessory by all
risen to the honour of knighthood by an address to the king during his mayoralty .
it would hardly be early in november , there were generally delays , a bad passage or something ; that
i once heard an excellent sharade on a carpet , of which the subject i am now on reminds me
but she saw in it only increase of happiness to all , and had no scruple in urging him to
full of lines under the words to be made public .
annesley is with her .
dissenting voice , by not waiting for her answer .
and as if it were rather an effort , he said— " colonel brandon seems a man of great worth
such formidable accounts of her ladyship , and her manner of living , quite frightened maria lucas who had been
they went back to dress and dine ; and so well had the scheme answered already , that nothing was
“no great variety of faces for you , ” said emma .
one half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other .
however , i am much happier as i am .
) “i think there must , ” (replied my father) “i fancy the servants are returned ; (said i) i
fail listening to her music , and she is as constant in eating my pies .
“you look pale .
rushworth ' s admiration of maria to any effect .
of any of their neighbours .
address which she had spirits or time to attempt .
everything seems to depend upon sir thomas ' s return .
for a quarter of an hour , when a gentle tap at the door was followed by the entrance of
be quite so obstinate as usual .
what would frank churchill say to her , if he were here ?
the lawn .
fanny , whether near or from her cousins , whether in the schoolroom , the drawing-room , or the shrubbery
with all dear emma ' s little faults , she is an excellent creature .
they must all go to brighton .
i cannot spare her , and i am sure she does not want to go .
perry ' s great attention .
the gruel came and supplied a great deal to be said—much praise and many comments—undoubting decision of its wholesomeness for
enabled to contribute to the recovery of her spirits , by all that affection could do .
” emma felt the bad taste of her friend , but let it pass with a “very true ; and
in a barouche !
price talked of her poor sister for a few minutes , but how to find anything to hold susan '
everybody allows that the talent of writing agreeable letters is peculiarly female .
the general ' s good humour increased .
fanny was the only one of the party who found anything to dislike ; but since the day at sotherton
” “it is so odd to me , that you should never have read udolpho before ; but i suppose
is much larger than sir william lucas’s .
her making a fourth , when they sat down to dinner , was noticed as an advantage .
he had the offer of count cassel and anhalt , and at first did not know which to chuse ,
ago , he would have been more cautiously gallant .
proper measures ; and this property , though not large , would be enough to make her comparatively rich .
doubt)—you would be safe .
brothers .
in the room in itself to raise curiosity , this must have proceeded from a sentiment of respect for my
mr elliot appeared to think that he (sir walter) was looking exactly as he had done when they last parted
her .
that she had been absent from them all , and that her days had been passing in a state of
i am glad to find , however , from what you say , that he is a respectable young man
charles joins me in love , and everything proper .
least temptation to go .
” said her mother .
— when had he succeeded to that place in her affection , which frank churchill had once , for a
i have been used to the gratification of believing myself to earn every blessing that i enjoyed .
to be sitting long after dinner , was a confinement that he could not endure .
it was dreadfully mortifying ; but mr .
but to be guarded at such a time is very difficult .
" i would rather have young people settle on a small income at once , and have to struggle with
” “thank you , ” said catherine , in some distress , from a doubt of the propriety of accepting
worth looking at—and , in those days , i fancy parsons were very inferior even to what they are now
—it is so wonderful , that though perfectly convinced of the fact , it is yet almost incredible to myself
” emma wished she had been alone with mrs .
a child on the watch , came towards them to beg ; and miss bickerton , excessively frightened , gave
i am not one of those that spare their own trouble ; and nanny shall fetch her , however it
every fine day , and had no idea of carrying their obliging manners to the sacrifice of any real pleasure
“dear mrs .
i suppose he saw isabella sitting down , and fancied she might wish for a partner ; but he is
say she liked it very much ; and , therefore , she hoped miss woodhouse and miss smith would do
to assure mrs .
notice , giving instances of blunders , and failures with their secondary causes , the want of management of the
" " i am afraid , " replied elinor , " that the pleasantness of an employment does not always
six years hence , if he could meet with a good sort of young woman in the same rank as
own family .
, friday , and saturday , and did not know what was become of him .
distracted , for i cannot bear him .
james martin to address my daughter contrary to her inclinations .
miss woodhouse , i hope nothing may happen to prevent the ball .
” darcy made no answer , and seemed desirous of changing the subject .
i resisted ; it was the impulse of the moment to resist , and still walked on .
have been hardly in any class at all , but for their connexion with uppercross , this eldest son of
had somewhat in particular to tell her , sat for some time without saying a word .
but first of all , there must be an answer written to mrs .
rushworth could seldom get anybody to rehearse with him : his complaint came before her as well as the rest
” jane then took it from her pocket-book , and gave it to elizabeth .
low pitched , and that the ceiling was crooked .
of his epicurism , his selfishness , and his conceit , to rest with complacency on the remembrance of edward
her mother , she was convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her .
it always strikes me as the most comfortable apartment in the house , and i rather wonder that eleanor should
in any of their walks before .
—no longer walking in at all hours , as if ever willing to change his own home for their '
half an hour at northanger must be enough .
, however , there is no occasion to trouble you .
” the real solicitude now awakened in the maternal bosom was not soon over .
the happiest , wisest , most reasonable end !
welfare of the poor , is inconceivable .
she is tender , and not used to rough it like the rest of us .
those who staid .
he had been absent only two sundays , and when they parted , had left her interested , even to
him in it .
are the others coming out ?
he so heartily despised .
” still , however , fanny was oppressed and wearied ; he saw it in her looks , it could
much thicker than miss anne ' s ; and , in short , her civility rendered her quite as anxious
no smile , no continued observance attended it ; his eyes were immediately returned to their former direction .
austen leigh , we think , speaks too contemptuously of this initial notice of _num_ .
the uncle not letting him .
gulf impassable between them .
” “you are ungrateful .
you may guess , therefore , that the news he heard from his friend could not be very agreeable ,
all grace to acquit himself well through it .
they display imagination without raising interest .
would not be a match at all .
crawford gone , sir thomas ' s next object was that he should be missed ; and he entertained great
shoulder obliged anne to turn round .
he started .
time here ; and miss darcy is always down for the summer months .
fetch the cards ; i feel so very stupid .
you must feel it ; and the usual satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me , because
bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner , and then added : “may i take the liberty
found , when it was folded up and returned to mrs .
of these scenes , and to question him more minutely on the objects that had particularly struck him , when
hate him for many a week .
she soon caught his eye , and he immediately bowed , but without attempting to speak to her , or
he not only bestowed on mr .
we did very well without them .
” “you might have talked to me more when you came to dinner .
” “and how long ago may it be that your mother died ?
time did something , her own exertions something more , and she resumed her attentions to susan , and again
we are both prejudiced ; you against , i for him ; and we have no chance of agreeing till
they walked along the road through the valley , and chiefly in silence , for marianne ' s mind could
it raises my spleen more than anything , to have the pretence of being asked , of being given a
any sense of obligation for being sought after now when nobody else was to be had ; and deriving no
to be at an early certainty is a material object .
of spirit .
of such a situation in point of privilege and independence beyond all calculation .
well , the jointure may comfort him ; and perhaps , between friends , he began to tremble for his
herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the others .
very little was said by either ; kitty was too much afraid of him to talk ; elizabeth was secretly
drawing-room , when edmund , being engaged apart in some matter of business with dr .
" " she is walking , i believe .
unreserve as had been , such an open and frequent discussion of hopes and chances , she was perfectly resolved
approve—something of ingratitude , merely glossed over—it must be done , or what would become of harriet ?
the most affectionate principle by my mother .
in confirmation of this , she related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in which they had been connected
woodhouse ' s habits and inclination being consulted in every thing .
whilst wandering on in this slow manner , they were again surprised , and elizabeth’s astonishment was quite equal to
emma , this is your doing .
i have a great deal of vivacity in my own way , but i really must be allowed to judge
roused as soon as possible by the remonstrance which edmund would certainly make .
” edmund again felt grave , and only replied , “it is a noble profession .
in a morning ' s excursion to exeter , they had met with two young ladies , whom mrs .
will you tell me how long you have loved him ?
who knew her , was to her comprehension impossible .
in the desperation of her feelings , she resolved on one effort more , and , turning to elizabeth ,
am afraid i did not do so much as i might have done !
" " that is exactly what i think of him , " cried marianne .
s confidence on this important matter—which was most probable—still , in knowing her as she ought , and as she
nothing should prevail on him to give up his engagement .
“i would not on any account trifle with her affectionate solicitude ; or allow her to hear it from anyone
his tardiness was chiefly resented from being disrespectful to her .
visit to portsmouth , and these two said walks , and his introduction to your family , especially to a
what are they saying about mr .
of a refusal .
let me not suppose that she dares go about , emma woodhouse-ing me !
at the very moment of yates perceiving sir thomas , and giving perhaps the very best start he had ever
, when able to turn and look as she had done before , she found herself accosted by captain wentworth
jennings only exchanged one form of delight for another , and still without forfeiting her expectation of the first .
made herself or her family ridiculous ; a flirt , too , in the worst and meanest degree of flirtation
of the day , to know that her husband could write a good letter .
i felt a little uneasy—a little fearful of my sister’s happiness with him in marriage , because i knew that
allen was now quite happy—quite satisfied with bath .
possible .
edmund was the first to speak— “something must be done , ” said he .
it gives me pain to speak ill of a darcy .
jennings exultingly .
i like a fine prospect , but not on picturesque principles .
mamma ' s farther pressing invitations to come and dine with them on the morrow--actually on the morrow ; and
my heart was in highbury , and my business was to get my body thither as often as might be
do you sit where you like ?
a clear ten thousand per annum .
bennet , having dawdled about in the vestibule to watch for the end of the conference , no sooner saw
but do not be cast down .
” “edmund !
miss bingley was then sorry that she had proposed the delay , for her jealousy and dislike of one sister
, and take a turn with her about the room .
" and on mrs musgrove ' s side , it was , " i make a rule of never interfering
" anne hoped she had outlived the age of blushing ; but the age of emotion she certainly had not
difference felt .
my dear musgrove you cannot think how impatiently i wait for the death of my uncle and aunt—if they will
they were soon settled in comfortable lodgings in pulteney street .
to have had no concern at all for that friend ' s probable finances , but , on the contrary
and violoncello , would fix them at pleasure on any other object in the room .
to this speech bingley made no answer ; but his sisters gave it their hearty assent , and indulged their
weston was at last persuaded to believe , or to say , that it must be by some attack of
it is true that i am vain enough to believe it within my reach .
lady susan had received a line from him by that day ' s post , informing her that miss summers
you would not have had miss taylor live with us for ever , and bear all my odd humours ,
keep her with them as much as possible just at present .
the probability of its being some money concern—something just come to light , of a disagreeable nature in the circumstances
she had already learnt that lady catherine was still in the country .
this is three times as large .
dining once with the coles—and having a ball talked of , which never took place .
and whispered , “my dear creature , i am afraid i must leave you , your brother is so amazingly
the tea-table , and gave all her attention to mrs .
" " but perhaps the abuse of such people as yourself and marianne will make amends for the regard of
—that she is a gentleman ' s daughter , is indubitable to me ; that she associates with gentlemen '
” “lizzy , ” said her father , “i have given him my consent .
were not you struck ?
“there is but one thing that i cannot understand .
he has a great regard for the bateses , you know , independent of jane fairfax—and is always glad to
encouraged by this to a further examination of his opinions , she proceeded to question him on the subject of
was for their accommodation the carriage was used at all .
it was evident that the report concerning her had spread , and a short pause succeeded , which seemed to
pressing ; and scrupled not to lay all the ill-consequences of lydia’s flight on her own folly alone .
those who can barely live , and who live perforce in a very small , and generally very inferior ,
to hear those beautiful lines which have frequently almost driven me wild , pronounced with such impenetrable calmness , such
her hair , so untidy , so blowsy !
married .
luxury to me , and your goodness will not i know refuse to read what it will so much releive
when she could let her attention take its natural course again , she found the miss musgroves just fetching the
” said lady bertram .
books which charmed her leisure hours , he encouraged her taste , and corrected her judgment : he made reading
his principal object must be to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them from clapham .
no matter what , so that something is chosen .
" this argument was irresistible .
as he is moreover heir to a very large estate i could see that lady greville did not look very
palmer and colonel brandon would get farther than reading that night .
“you know nothing and you care less , as people say .
i cannot give her up , fanny .
my fate will teach you this .
so dreadfully .
" as she said this , she looked earnestly at lucy , hoping to discover something in her countenance ;
thing , or in taking patterns of some elegant new dress , in which her appearance the day before had
” “no , indeed , i have no doubts at all on that head .
but do not stay here to be cold .
" " you would not be six hours later , " said willoughby , " if you were to defer
” elizabeth was again deep in thought , and after a time exclaimed , “to treat in such a manner
the mother ' s confidence ; and marianne , leaning on elinor ' s arm , was authorised to walk
or any of your family ; because it was always meant to be a great secret , and i am
grew so determined , that the difference of a quarter of an hour , it was found , would be
“and may i ask—” said elizabeth ; “but the terms , i suppose , must be complied with .
friend of mrs .
that she might have no concern in another , and , as she deemed it , most unnecessary rehearsal of
to see her with her brother !
” is there a henry in the world who could be insensible to such a declaration ?
—but you observed nothing of course , for it seems to be a new idea to you .
, careless in all serious matters ; and , though he might now think very differently , who could answer
she had not been many hours at home before she found that the brighton scheme , of which lydia had
of it , and wished it long ago .
i have now no hope for her .
would be well attended to ; and in the clamorous happiness of lydia herself in bidding farewell , the more
if he will adopt these regulations , in seven years he will be clear ; and i hope we may
there were two nephews of lady catherine to require them , for mr .
” “i am sorry you think so ; but if that be the case , there can at least be
he was afraid of catching cold i dare say , and invented this trick for getting out of it .
to hear the woman whom—no harsher name than folly given !
it all over while she was gone , the two young people set off together without delay for the crown
he can see ready wit in harriet , but will not dine alone for her .
on his looking in for a minute in his way from his plantation to his dressing-room , she called him
his revenge would have been complete indeed .
” she saw and felt for my embarrassment and with admirable presence of mind releived me from it by saying—“my
and how beautiful we thought he looked !
elinor was to be the comforter of others in her own distresses , no less than in theirs ; and
" " how can that be ?
have been safe ; none of this dreadful sequel would have been .
however , i don ' t think her hardly at all handsomer than you , i assure you ; for
" the sounds were retreating , and anne distinguished no more .
of algebra .
[ _num_ ] " oh , " cried miss steele , looking significantly round at them , " i dare
price seemed rather surprised that a girl should be fixed on , when she had so many fine boys ,
that he was now determined to inquire at all the principal hotels in town , as mr .
late hours do not agree with us .
” “to yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of either .
“i assure you , i feel it exceedingly , ” said lady catherine ; “i believe no one feels the
“my dearest catherine , i quite envy you ; but i am afraid , brother , you will not have
and his woods , —i have not seen such timber any where in dorsetshire , as there is now standing
that the manner in which she treated the dreadful crime committed by her brother and my sister (with whom lay
it is time for us to be going indeed .
between the parsonage and the mansion-house much greater .
“pray do , my dear miss lucas , ” she added in a melancholy tone , “for nobody is on
” “upon my word , ” exclaimed emma , “you amuse me !
have done .
perfect sincerity , “indeed , catherine , i love you dearly .
from indulging a thought of its continuance ; and elinor , conning over every injunction of distrust , told herself
he would enjoy her liveliness and she has talents to value his powers .
; i always thought him silly and impertinent and disagreeable , and now he is grown worse than ever .
rain for .
—had she refused , i should have gone mad .
but if i can be the means of restraining the publicity of the business , of limiting the exhibition ,
so much of politics between mr .
anne ' s only surprise was , that affairs should be in forwardness enough for henrietta ' s wedding-clothes to
general conversation ; but elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention even from wickham ;
it was impossible for her to be insensible of mr .
the dining-parlour was a noble room , suitable in its dimensions to a much larger drawing-room than the one in
she loves nobody but herself and her brother .
there will be an end of the matter .
his good sense and good principles would delight you .
john dashwood had never been a favourite with any of her husband ' s family ; but she had had
” “i should like balls infinitely better , ” she replied , “if they were carried on in a different
her to appear tolerably cheerful .
he expressed great pleasure in meeting elinor , told her that he had been just going to call in berkeley
but to invite her in the kindest manner to his own house , and to claim the best right in
his complexion became pale with anger , and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature .
them in the evening ; he would not dine from home , but he might walk in for half an
” “edward (replied she) you are surely too diffident in your own praise .
” “i am very sorry for it , ” said catherine dejectedly ; “if i had known this before—” “perhaps
next week ?
nothing has proved him unworthy ; nor has anything declared him indifferent to me .
elton was called out of the room before tea , old john abdy ' s son wanted to speak with
at last it arrested her—and she beheld a striking resemblance to mr .
a piece of paper was found on the table this morning—(dropt , we suppose , by a fairy)—containing a very
it was not possible that the occurrence should not be strongly recommending each to the other .
house than see all the finery of all the rest .
he has been dead these eight years and better .
she had spent six weeks with great enjoyment ; and the pleasure of being with charlotte , and the kind
they took a slight survey of all ; and catherine was impressed , beyond her expectation , by their multiplicity
was so old as she is .
of apples , a bushel at least , and i was very much obliged , and went down and spoke
and finest places in the country .
“my dear mr .
" " perhaps , " said elinor , " thirty-five and seventeen had better not have any thing to do
when informed that elizabeth had given orders for her death !
first of september , than any body else in the country .
she said nothing , therefore , till he was out of the room , but as soon as there was
they were going to remove immediately to richmond .
morland—sorry that anyone you love should be unhappy ; but my surprise would be greater at frederick ' s marrying
, accommodation , and punctuality , were in favour of a pleasant party .
and voice had something peculiarly interesting in them .
you have widely mistaken my character , if you think i can be worked on by such persuasions as these
by dinner-time .
is far from objecting to my occasional absence on a sunday , provided that some other clergyman is engaged to
“let her go , let her go , if she will go .
be set down as the great landholder of the parish by every creature travelling the road ; especially as there
, and thought with judgment , edmund was still more and more pleased .
the clergy are lost there in the crowds of their parishioners .
” “it is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion , to be secure of judging properly at
the number of them throughout the whole kingdom amounting only to five , besides the inhabitants of oxford who were
oh , how delightful it was to watch the variations of his countenance while i spoke !
neatness and fashion are enough for the former , and a something of shabbiness or impropriety will be most endearing
knightley ' s answer was the most distinct .
she was anxious to speak with me in private .
was not a man to be trusted .
" " no ; but she might suppose that something would occur in your favour ; that your own family
“in essentials , i believe , he is very much what he ever was .
weston laughed , and said he did not know what he was talking about .
often without knowing , till the last moment , where it was to take her .
they were able to love each other even as well as they intended .
must make it very strange to be in different kingdoms , i was going to say , but however different
it had been the effect of over-persuasion .
” “i hope not that .
time ; for she may have her orders to-morrow , perhaps .
before the arrival of his aunt in our neighbourhood where she established herself you know about a twelvemonth ago ,
after box hill , when poor jane had been in such distress as had filled her with compassion , though
degrees towards the instrument , and when it ceased , he was close by the singers , among the most
at her heart .
then the two third he danced with miss king , and the two fourth with maria lucas , and the
chapter _num_ it was the beginning of february ; and anne , having been a month in bath , was
his estate had been rated by sir john at about six or seven hundred a year ; but he lived
' was not that well done of me ?
i would undertake for five pounds to drive it to york and back again , without losing a nail .
” miss bennet paused a little , and then replied , “surely there can be no occasion for exposing him
the evening passed without a pause of misery , the night was totally sleepless .
are so amazingly changeable and inconstant .
any longer , and inhabited as such to a later period .
a very short trial convinced her that a curricle was the prettiest equipage in the world ; the chaise and
other child .
who could write chat to sir thomas ?
last autumn , nothing but a series of imprudence towards myself , and want of kindness to others .
” “good heavens !
do not imagine me in danger of forgetting it .
; and this being the case , i am afraid my applying to you will appear no better than equivocation
that in this instance fame had fallen short of the truth ; and added , that he did not doubt
speak either to me , or of harriet , in such a manner .
at others was answered by the sweetest confidence in his regret and resentment .
, there was reason to fear that her mother had been too ingenious for her .
house ever had .
drove up to cleveland .
it was an injury and affront to julia , who ought to have been mr .
so afraid you might have a headache !
and not often any resemblance of subject , for mrs .
very glad , if your aunt sees no objection .
one myself , within a short distance of london , where i might drive myself down[ _num_ ] at any
he told her the news .
welcome among her new friends ; but so great was her agitation in finding herself as one of the family
the fireplace , where she had expected the ample width and ponderous carving of former times , was contracted to
whom she is brought up .
very first leisure from the saddle of mutton , to say to her , “we want only two more to
the manner in which they spoke of the meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic .
” “oh yes ; next week .
” “with a great deal of pleasure , sir , at any time , ” said mr .
, and regaling themselves with her admiration , anne could not draw upon charles ' s brain for a regular
full liberty to communicate to her friend everything relative to mrs smith , in which his conduct was involved .
, “but tell me all and everything about it which i have not already heard .
as such , however , they were treated by her with quiet civility ; and by her husband with as
a very ignorant mind , cannot fail of attracting a clever young man , unless circumstances are particularly untoward .
not be able to gratify my curiosity of beholding my mother-in-law and that if they did , matilda would no
emma turned round to look at her in consternation , and hastily said , “have you any idea of mr
—you seem low—you don ' t speak ; —sure you an ' t well .
it really was so .
no , mr .
willoughby was a young man of good abilities , quick imagination , lively spirits , and open , affectionate manners
only one page more .
barton cottage , for the houses were in the same parish , could , by any alteration , be made
preparation !
but as it was , such a notion had scarcely ever entered her head , except by mrs .
—i suppose you have heard—and are come to give us joy .
money , you know ; and it is the first time we have ever had anything from him , except
was yet in the midst of his very civil welcome and congratulations , when she appeared , to have her
bertram .
jones says we must not think of moving her .
” “and here he is ; (said a gracefull youth who that instant entered the room) here is the gustavus
their parties abroad were less varied than before , and at home she had a mother and sister whose constant
nor unfelt by the whole of the family .
elton , indeed , shewed no unwillingness to mix , and be as agreeable as they could ; but during
be the very day of this party .
if you are a good girl for the next ten years , i will take you to a review at
anne did not share these feelings .
with such sensations , mr .
beyond a competence , it can afford no real satisfaction , as far as mere self is concerned .
smallridge ' s situation , she had come to the resolution of accepting it .
” “psha !
back again , when he had almost closed the door , with “sir thomas , stop a moment—i have something
him ; and certainly there are moments when we could all wish him disengaged from every tie of business .
had his own happiness , however , been the only sacrifice , he might have been allowed to sport with
some members of their society sent away , and the spirits of many others saddened—it was all sameness and gloom
and slammed the parlour-door till her temples ached .
was the whist-club night , which he had been never known to miss before ; and mr .
deserved ; seldom heard of , and scarcely at all regretted , when the intelligence of his death abroad had
” harriet submitted , though her mind could hardly separate the parts , so as to feel quite sure that
a purchase in his absence , and adding to the great expenses of his stable , at a time when
he has too much real feeling to address any woman on the haphazard of selfish passion .
" it is but a cottage , " she continued , " but i hope to see many of my
he declares himself , that coming to lyme for a month , did him more good than all the medicine
be much less chance of his marrying her than if she remain with him .
it was a done thing ; mr .
it was looked upon as something out of the common way .
the modes of life in whatever way he might choose to model his household .
to be doing something .
it is a thing of course among us , that every man is refused , till he offers .
if i am wrong , i am doing what i believe to be right .
” there was great food for meditation in this letter , and chiefly for unpleasant meditation ; and yet ,
bingley thought her quite beautiful , and danced with her twice !
to her , after humphing and considering over a particular paragraph : “what ' s the name of your great
” “not your vain spirit , but your serious spirit .
, some curious anecdote to give ; and as a farmer , as keeping in hand the home-farm at donwell
, for he was slow , constant , and methodical .
this , however , was a profound secret , not to be breathed beyond their own circle .
however , he is very well .
darcy’s contempt seemed abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech , and at the end of it he
" of course , " said mary , " you will mention our seeing mr elliot , the next time
her kind , compassionate visits to this old schoolfellow , sick and reduced , seemed to have quite delighted mr
all her attention was for her work .
at length the chaise arrived , the trunks were fastened on , the parcels placed within , and it was
little did they appear to dwell on her mind , and so very inadequate was the comfort she offered .
other play had not been chosen .
things must come to a crisis soon now .
” then leaving her seat , and coming to him to enforce the proposal , added in a whisper ,
after winding along it for more than a mile , they reached their own house .
” “make yourself easy , there is no danger of that , for i heard tilney hallooing to a man
" " with dark narrow stairs and a kitchen that smokes , i suppose , " said elinor .
as for reginald , i believe he does not know what to make of the matter .
the friend best worth attending to .
though i fully believe that , at present , you have not the smallest intention of accepting him , there
error .
and again how provoking it was to be so disappointed .
the consciousness of it should be so meekly borne .
thorpe , ' said he , ' do you happen to want such a little thing as this ?
—it was agreed upon , as what was to be ; and every body by whom he was used to
mere jargon .
they were both silent : mrs smith very thoughtful .
the delightful family party which emma was securing for herself , poor harriet must , in mere charitable caution ,
arose at home .
i certainly get better and better .
buy my brown mare .
all the rest ; for it irritates her mind more than the most perfect conviction of his unworthiness can do
i will do my best .
it was not only with herself that she was sunk—but with henry .
rushworth , and that would like to hear mr .
, and in the general well-doing and success of the other members of the family , all assisting to advance
be pleased with other people .
nothing seemed amiss on the side of the great house family , which was generally , as anne very well
—i thought them a habit , a trick , nothing that called for seriousness on my side .
—the kind-hearted , gentle mrs .
she turned from sister to sister , demanding their congratulations ; and when at length they all sat down ,
edward was allowed to retain the privilege of first comer , and colonel brandon therefore walked every night to his
” “but miss bertram does not care three straws for him ; that is your opinion of your intimate friend
of their all removing to donwell , emma had already had her own passing thoughts .
lady catherine continued her remarks on elizabeth’s performance , mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste .
but no sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she hardly had a good feature
if in that light there is anything which you suppose his cousin might fairly ask of him , i beg
” “i dare say she will ; she has got over the most trying age .
and now , elinor , what have you to say ?
who is just gone away ?
i talked to her repeatedly in the most serious manner , representing to her all the wickedness of what she
before , beginning with the observation of " your sister looks unwell to-day , " or " your[ _num_ ]
for feeling the full value of the other joyful surprises at hand .
offered no counsel of her own except of patience till their mother ' s wishes could be known ; and
how can you be so unjust ?
" upon my soul , " he added , " i believe it is nothing more ; and so i
unaccountable !
might suffice to restore him to the relish of his own smooth gruel .
an evening , she found one or two such very serious points to consider , as made her feel ,
was a mrs .
i see it in her cheek , her smile , her vain attempt to frown .
i only ask what i want to be told .
i quite dote on her .
” “oh , yes .
but these measures are each too violent to be adopted without some deliberation ; at present my thoughts are fluctuating
could not wish you established as a permanent neighbour ; but i hope , and believe , that edmund will
another view of man , my second brings , behold him there , the monarch of the seas !
lady middleton proposed a rubber of casino to the others .
let me look at her this moment .
—and i do not know whether miss bates is not as likely to understand the inclinations of the rest of
my father and mother knew nothing of that ; they only felt how imprudent a match it must be .
i have my alarms , but they are quite in a different quarter ; and if i could have altered
the young people ' s happiness , with a remark , on the gentleman ' s side , in favour
, or in some respect saying what should not be said .
after a pause of several minutes , their silence was broken , by his asking her in a voice of
was very sorry—and he was so grateful to mrs .
" and that you are very likely to do very soon , i can tell you , ma ' am
while he was slowly turning over the leaves with the hope of still discovering such a scene , she very
, thinking aloud , “monday—so soon as monday ; and you all go .
at lambton ; and this disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there
” she was a little revived , however , by his bringing back his coffee cup himself ; and she
gratitude prompted ; and every thing that passed during the visit tended to assure him of the sense , elegance
effort for conversation with a woman who was now more than usually insolent and disagreeable .
pratt ' s family , with any satisfaction .
miss bingley was engrossed by mr .
and almost turned her out of the house .
into matrimony again , and he might set forward on a second , and , it is to be hoped
exertion , began to talk of going likewise .
what can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always coming here ?
the carriage came ; and he entered the house again at the same moment , just in time to spend
peculiarity of manner , that spirit and ingenuousness which are so much a part of herself .
it was an earnest , steadfast gaze , but she often doubted whether there were much admiration in it ,
poor margaret fraser will be at me for ever about your eyes and your teeth , and how you do
explanations .
he called it , therefore , his duty to step forward , and endeavour to remedy an evil which had
i fell ; and there i first saw willoughby .
xi mrs .
and after all , marianne , after all that is bewitching in the idea of a single and constant attachment
william larkins is such an old acquaintance !
home , when he called before in berkeley street .
” when the young ladies next met , they had a far more interesting subject to discuss .
he had seen mrs croft , too ; she was at taunton with the admiral , and had been present
will it not be honourably conveyed ?
—“i cannot separate miss fairfax and her complexion .
well be thought , where the only regret was for a partial separation from friends whose friendship for her had
but strange things may be generally accounted for if their cause be fairly searched out .
accustomary intervention of kind friends , they had been informed , spoken most disrespectfully of them all , most slightingly
acquainted with her ; of being considered as already friends , through the friendship of their brothers , etc .
angel , and she will never be more to either than a sister .
the impulse of curiosity , she raised her eyes to his face , she as often found him looking at
your own innocence and good intentions supports your spirits .
here again i shall give you pain—to what degree you only can tell .
" " quite delightful !
just the kind of girl i should suppose likely to captivate poor edward .
” “are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this ?
i have been called an unkind mother , but it was the sacred impulse of maternal affection , it was
“whatever can give his sister any pleasure is sure to be done in a moment .
” “and what did he say .
the jewels i should imagine too will undoubtedly be hers , and there is too much reason to think that
” “i wish you would read it with a kinder spirit towards him .
" in the mean time , till all these alterations could be made from the savings of an income of
she acknowledged , therefore , that though she had never been informed by themselves of the terms on which they
welfare and improvement of her daughter , acknowledging , in terms of grateful delight , that frederica was now growing
ended only with the visit .
is this just ?
chapter iv a very few days had passed after this adventure , when harriet came one morning to emma with
a very nice walk , and you are two very nice young ladies .
i must tell you that i have good reason to believe your little friend will soon hear of something to
—thomson , cowper , scott—she would buy them all over and over again : she would buy up every copy
i am sure if i have reflected in this manner once , i have fifty times .
but what was his increase of astonishment on hearing her exclaim—“oh !
" and by the means of this continual though gentle vent , was able not only to see the miss
perplexity .
i joined them unexpectedly a day or two before the intended elopement , and then georgiana , unable to support
norris had not the smallest intention of taking her .
and were received with the most grateful joy .
to me , she was in the place of a parent .
but pray , colonel , how came you to conjure out that i should be in town today ?
arise from the public notice of lydia’s unguarded and imprudent manner—nay , which has already arisen from it , i
” “the very picture of him indeed !
” “that is capital , ” added her sister , and they both laughed heartily .
collins were once silent .
a sudden scud of rain , driving full in her face , made it impossible for her to observe anything
" " we had better not talk about it , my dear , " replied mrs croft , pleasantly ;
little herself with either of her sisters .
however , this does make a difference ; and , perhaps , when we come to talk it over—but these
i know they will ; but i am sure i would not do such a thing for all the world
she now plainly saw that she must not expect a manuscript of equal length with the generality of what she
was the joy and animation of being thus thrown together , of comparing schemes , and sympathising in praise of
with difficulty , for something seemed to resist her efforts , she raised the lid a few inches ; but
of a near relation of mr .
she answered in the affirmative , and , unable to resist the temptation , added , “when you met us
so decidedly , i think , as must prevent any second application .
i tell him he ought to be ashamed of himself , but you and john must keep us in countenance
he had suffered , and he had learned to think : two advantages that he had never known before ;
no , i see no finery about you ; nothing but what is perfectly proper .
all as it should be : and as emma became acquainted with robert martin , who was now introduced at
the stage could no longer excite genuine merriment—no longer keep her whole attention .
" the evening ended with dancing .
he now and then addressed frederica , but more frequently her mother .
” this was not so very easy a question to answer , and occasioned an “oh !
aye , i remember it all now ; all , except your saving this relic—i knew nothing of that till
she felt that she had never seen so agreeable a man in her life ; and was only astonished to
conversation , opinion , and idea .
i trust , can they be dangerous for her associates .
to wait on her for a few minutes if not inconvenient ; and though charles had answered for the child
very early in april , and tolerably early in the day , the two parties from hanover square and berkeley
i have not been[ _num_ ] always a rascal , to obtain something like forgiveness from ma—— , from your
chapter _num_ elizabeth had settled it that mr .
james expressed himself on the occasion with becoming gratitude ; and the necessity of waiting between two and three years
us both .
place had wished not to go at all at present , to be allowed merely to write to miss fairfax
persuaded that no real confidence could ever subsist between them again .
had for ever felt it to be impossible ; that he had not cared , could not care , for
emma hung about him affectionately , and smiled , and said it must be so ; and that he must
sir john .
" undoubtedly , if they had known your engagement , " said she , " nothing could be more flattering
living at barton , more company[ _num_ ] with her than her house would hold .
” elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand .
can it be possible for this man to be beginning to transfer his affections from harriet to me ?
lady bertram ' s admiration was expressed , and strongly too .
it is not of particular , but of general evils , which i am now complaining .
“where , edward in the name of wonder (said he) did you pick up this unmeaning gibberish ?
she is niece to sir thomas bertram ; that will be enough for the world .
” she sighed—“you seem unhappy my dear miss grenville—is it in my power to soften your misfortunes ?
: while lady middleton saw enough of fashion in his appearance to think his acquaintance worth having ; and mr
” “why , to own the truth , i am afraid you are rather thrown away , and that with
as dirt .
clair—but tell me (continued he looking fearfully towards the door) tell me , have i any other grand-children in the
rushworth was of the first consequence to his lady ; and julia was quite as eager for novelty and pleasure
“this is not behaving well by the absent , ” said she .
spend ; i will give you this little book on purpose .
never will persuade me that it is in compliment to her beauty , or that it proceeds from anything but
" " we never shall .
such doings discomposed mr .
sure you will , upon consideration , make that sacrifice rather than give pain to one who has been so
never cooled , and who could ill bear to part with her .
kitty might in time regain her natural degree of sense , since the disturbers of her brain were removed ,
it had better never be asked ; and few , i imagine , do ask it , but when they
" " but he talked of flannel waistcoats , " said marianne ; " and with me a flannel waistcoat
and , besides , no traces of them were to be found on the barnet road .
refresh and correct her memory with more particular observation , more exact understanding of a house and grounds which must
as address him before she could catch his notice .
” this was too true for contradiction .
in her presents too .
captain wentworth , with five-and-twenty thousand pounds , and as high in his profession as merit and activity could place
my poor dear child , the truth is , that in london it is always a sickly season .
change ; but when they did meet , her composure was odious .
well , he certainly is very agreeable , and i give you leave to like him .
emma will be happy to entertain you .
i do not mean to talk to you of what my feelings have been for him , but what they
any former objection to their living together , but even to give it the most decided eligibility ; and as
myself properly for bath already , you see , " (pointing to a new umbrella) ; " i wish you
if i must give my opinion , i have always thought it the most insipid play in the english language
you were our audience and prompter .
after my father ' s consent had been so kindly given—but no more of this .
we told you about the laundry-door , at uppercross .
no one but herself ; but that after their removal it had been everywhere discussed ; that he had then
it was creditable to have a sister married , and she might flatter herself with having been greatly instrumental to
something very shocking indeed will soon come out in london .
, " much may be done .
—i can suppose , however , that i may have underrated him .
what brother on earth would do half so much for his sisters , even if really his sisters !
lydia , in a voice rather louder than any other person’s , was enumerating the various pleasures of the morning
others , and would not say a word ; and almost every thing that was said , proceeded from elinor
mankind , individually or collectively considered , temporally and eternally , which has the guardianship of religion and morals ,
seem disrespectful , when this point was settled , and being commissioned with the brother and sister ' s apology
georgiana’s reception of them was very civil , but attended with all the embarrassment which , though proceeding from shyness
i was glad you made her play so much , for having no instrument at her grandmother ' s ,
i ' ll give you their description .
i am a talker , you know ; i am rather a talker ; and now and then i have
the evening before this great event (for it was a very great event that mr .
subject : his decided preference of a quiet family party to the bustle and confusion of acting .
but i need not ask you , for you look delightfully .
” “but they are passed over , ” said fanny .
" to-morrow evening , to meet a few friends : no formal party .
across the fields made many separations necessary , to keep with her brother and sister .
course excepted , who had chosen to be a scholar and a gentleman , and who was very superior in
very highest terms of your modesty , economy , and other amiable qualification .
hurst had therefore nothing to do , but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep
—these the finest beds and finest sorts .
as for fanny ' s being stupid at learning , “she could only say it was very unlucky , but
let me recommend mr elliot .
i should like to dine with him ; i dare say he gives famous dinners .
it was now some time since miss taylor had begun to influence his schemes ; but as it was not
collins ; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be quarrelsome , discontented , or too poor ,
as their progress in every thing they have learnt has been always the same , i am willing to forget
secrecy could not have been more desirable for mrs .
unjust as to suppose she would shrink unnecessarily from the office of a friend .
, as she was passing by the house where a young woman was making up a gown for her ,
she may probably have already told you that being left by her parents in indigent circumstances she had retired into
reginald will be a little enraged at first , but by to-morrow ' s dinner , everything will be well
crawford was in love with fanny .
its being possible for her to be really cured of her attachment to mr .
in one respect she was admirably fitted to introduce a young lady into public , being as fond of going
so , there was i , crowded into the back seat with henrietta and louisa ; and i think it
your sister need not have any scruple even of visiting her , which , to say the truth , has
elinor was very earnest in her application to her mother , relating all that had passed , her suspicions of
as you will do it , it will indeed , to use your own words , be an exquisite possession
though i thought it would be very good fun if i was .
their party .
” emma agreed to it , and with a blush of sensibility on harriet ' s account , which she
her , and she did not think too much had been said in his praise ; he was a very
the morning after the assembly brought the former to longbourn to hear and to communicate .
” “yes ; jane says she is sure they will ; but yet , this is such a situation as
you have shewn that you can dance , and you know we are not really so much brother and sister
” “true , to see real acting , good hardened real acting ; but i would hardly walk from this
i am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of that noble place .
and so you must judge for yourself , whether it would be better for you to go about the house
i used to think him .
him if there was any news .
everybody at all addicted to letter-writing , without having much to say , which will include a large proportion of
then , as i knew that everything must depend on that moment , i forced myself to give it .
she knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt , or his dependence on her judgment ,
he had met mrs .
parts of the stream where there was usually most sport .
she had already been obliged to tell lady russell that louisa musgrove was to marry captain benwick .
chapter xxvii on reaching home fanny went immediately upstairs to deposit this unexpected acquisition , this doubtful good of a
but fetch them both .
" no , but i wrote to him—i did indeed , i got up this morning before it was light
collins have a little conversation together .
you would have thrown yourself out of all good society .
s eldest daughter .
apt to seize her mind if her fingers only were busy ; and , especially at this time , hoped
she had hardly ever been in a state so nearly approaching high spirits in her life .
wickham , he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them , and a ball was ,
when mr .
he gave it to me , and with the necklace i make over to you all the duty of remembering
” “yes , ” said john knightley , “and i think we shall have a good deal of it .
best education in the world , ' know nothing worth attending to .
i must wait till there is an especial assembly for the representation of younger sons who have little to live
nominally missed ; and lady bertram was soon astonished to find how very well they did even without his father
” “he brought it with him for us to see .
any profession at all , as i might be as dashing and expensive without a red coat on my back
" " in this affair it can only do harm ; more so perhaps than in many cases of a
it was very early in september ; the season was fine , and from first seeing the place under the
” “pretty !
very pretty property .
new systems—and where young ladies for enormous pay might be screwed out of health and into vanity—but a real ,
author ' s feelings thereupon .
suffering as she then had suffered for marianne .
i am of a cautious temper , and unwilling to risk my happiness in a hurry .
[ _num_ ] chapter xlii one other short call in harley street , in which elinor received her brother '
” her daughters listened in silence to this effusion , sensible that any attempt to reason with her or soothe
but for harriet ' s sake , or rather for my own , and as there are no husbands and
make my sentiments known to you .
offer to send her home .
harriet was very ready to speak of the share he had had in their moonlight walks and merry evening games
his present state fanny could hardly bear to think of .
understanding between the parties could justify her in throwing off this last encumbrance of mystery .
jennings to be lady middleton ' s mother .
elton ' s activity in her service , and save herself from being hurried into a delightful situation against her
“but we have a charming morning after it , ” she added , desiring to get rid of the subject
—nobody is equal to you !
how he had been sent for wednesday to harley street , and been talked to by his mother and all
, she could not quit the mansion house , or look an adieu to the cottage , with its black
to mingle in the crowd , and take their share of the heat and inconvenience , to which their arrival
he shared it , however , in a silence even greater than her own .
it is indolence , mr .
it was but an effusion of lively spirits .
i shall probably put off his arrival under some pretence or other .
they had not long separated , when miss bingley came towards her , and with an expression of civil disdain
i can hardly even conjecture as to the time , or the preparation necessary ; but i suppose two or
bennet had been to epsom and clapham , before his arrival , but without gaining any satisfactory information ; and
“but , mr .
do not we rather surpass your expectations ?
bordering on the uncivil , and i never spoke to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not
it was not often that she could turn her eyes on mr .
on some particular passages .
” this was followed by a short silence .
i have no pleasure in talking to undutiful children .
dashwood was convinced .
the latter was not going to retire .
such a confirmation of his merits as might remove the possibility of fear from marianne .
my dear sir , you really are too bountiful .
altogether was quite overpowering to fanny ; and before she could breathe after it , mrs .
she accordingly read ; and elizabeth , who knew what curiosities his letters always were , looked over her ,
a few difficulties together , than be involved in a long engagement .
the friends from whom she had just parted , though very good sort of people , must be doing her
years longer mr .
he did not advance a word of praise beyond what she knew to be thoroughly deserved by mrs .
cole ' s , or balls at the crown .
all his caution was spent in being secured of the real amount of her fortune , before he committed himself
” “well , mrs .
you have robbed edmund for ten , twenty , thirty years , perhaps for life , of more than half
“and never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice ?
there must be murder ; and government cares not how much .
here are no aisles , no arches , no inscriptions , no banners .
in that house , which she had hardly entered twice a year since mr .
john dashwood had not the strong feelings of the rest of the family ; but he was affected by a
learning every word of his part herself , but without his being much the forwarder .
it was his duty .
; adding , " yes , yes , he is very well worth catching i can tell you , miss
be of the same opinion , his mother ' s brother the duke of somerset was chosen protector of the
they have very liberal notions , and are as likely to make desirable tenants as any set of people one
she wanted to talk , but there seemed to be an embargo on every subject .
marianne told her , with the greatest delight , that willoughby had given her a horse , one that he
you will all be going soon i suppose ; the whole party breaking up .
weston for my feelings , ” said emma ; “were you to guess her to be eighteen , i should
” happily for her companion , she wanted no answer .
that it is unfinished , i greive ; yet fear that from me , it will always remain so ;
safely suggest the name of " louisa .
and marianne , satisfied in knowing her mother was near her , and conscious of being too weak for conversation
to convince him , therefore , that he had deceived himself , was no very difficult point .
, by everything .
” the party being now all united , and the chief talkers attracting each other , she remained in tranquillity
but on the other hand , as emma wants to see her better informed , it will be an inducement
" " nay , my dear , i ' m sure i don ' t pretend to say that there[
her more than she thinks for .
anxiously pre-arranging its result , and a resolution of reviving the subject again , should marianne fail to do it
” “pretty well , my dear—i hope—pretty well .
he wishes exceedingly to come ; but his uncle and aunt will not spare him .
there is no end of the sad consequences of your going to south end .
instant exertion , he recovered himself again , and after saying , " yes , i had the pleasure of
latter indispensable , yet to add and improve was a delight to her ; and she had at this time
stood with each other , of their mutual affection she had no doubt , and of their correspondence she was
she fell into violent hysterics immediately , with such screams as reached your brother ' s ears , as he
can he be deceitful ?
how few people know what comfort is !
i have often scolded him for it , but it is his only fault ; and there is this to
it is to be a family remembrancer .
my sister will be equally sorry to miss the pleasure of seeing you ; but she has been very much
a meanness , selfishness , cruelty , which no indignant , no contemptuous look , even of yours , miss
bennet will receive every possible attention while she remains with us .
finish chapter _num_ no one who had ever seen catherine morland in her infancy would have supposed her born to
here it comes .
is disgusted with such pretensions , he affects greater indifference and less discrimination[ _num_ ] in viewing them himself than
the sympathy and good-will excited towards captain benwick was very great .
happened that would make it very dreadful for me to be in the same house with captain tilney .
i have nobody else to care for , but i should be very glad to think i could leave a
wherever they wanted to go .
or lands can ever equal the value of .
—she must communicate the painful truth , however , and as soon as possible .
desire me to do .
she was proved to have been universally mistaken ; and she had not quite done nothing—for she had done mischief
speaking again to mr .
catherine , whose expectations had been as unfixed as her ideas of her father ' s income , and whose
collins’s letter ; and after laughing at her some time , allowed her at last to go—saying , as she
” “it is amazingly ; it may well suggest amazement if they do—for they read nearly as many as women
usages which make everything plain and easy between landlord and tenant .
my conduct has been equally guarded from the first , and i never behaved less like a coquette in the
and consequently of the manners which result from their influence .
she was then out .
darcy’s proposals .
the youngest , mary , married first the king of france and secondly the d .
yet to inspirit her play , sharpen her avarice , and harden her heart , which , especially in any
throwing away from you such an opportunity of being settled in life , eligibly , honourably , nobly settled ,
opinion , cannot be so easily removed .
the milk a mixture of motes floating in thin blue , and the bread and butter growing every minute more
hurst were going out .
—she would not give him such a troublesome office for the world , ”—brought on the desired repetition of entreaties
hour .
amiable in the prejudices of a young mind , that one is sorry to see them give way to the
at all lessened .
she was sitting near the window , and as soon as sir john perceived her , he left the rest
her temper was open .
to her when she was called on to quit them .
in this walk emma and mr .
the general , meanwhile , though offended every morning by frederick ' s remissness in writing , was free from
rushworth came back from the parsonage successful ; and edmund made his appearance just in time to learn what had
ferrars ' s kindness is .
, and finally would make him hear the whole history of his disappointment at ecclesford .
his cousin was as absurd as he had hoped , and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment ,
and done , or omitted to say and do , in the last four-and-twenty hours .
slice of cold beef so well as i do : nay it would be hard if i did not know
his instructions were so clear that she soon began to see beauty in everything admired by him , and her
laughingly said , “oh yes !
and yet i do not think i am a very difficult mistress to please ; and i am sure the
when i came to you last week and found you alone , i came determined to know the truth ;
" —she paused .
i have just learnt to love a hyacinth .
lady catherine was a tall , large woman , with strongly-marked features , which might once have been handsome .
and after that , as soon as he can light upon a bishop , he will be ordained .
the friendliness of his disposition made him happy in accommodating those , whose situation might be considered , in comparison
what would i not give to see it again ?
few months ago would have been a disgrace—when she saw him thus civil , not only to herself , but
energy which always adorned her praise .
" " he did not know what he was talking of , i dare say ; ten to one but
against him for being neither lively nor young , seemed resolved to undervalue his merits .
the idea of edward ' s being a clergyman , and living in a small parsonage-house , diverted him beyond
they came : the master of the house was not at home , but the two sisters were together ;
henry crawford was ready to take either .
in it ; and the family from whom he had received such a blessing must be ever considered as having
mary was obliged to mix more with the world , but she could still moralize over every morning visit ;
“i begin now to understand you all , except miss price , ” said miss crawford , as she was
came at last near enough to speak to her .
“i never saw any gentleman ' s handwriting”—emma began , looking also at mrs .
her mother was a woman of useful plain sense , with a good temper , and , what is more
, the m ' kinnons , the m ' lellans , the m ' kays , the macbeths and the
" " heaven knows , my dearest mrs .
assist her endeavours to obtain that promise from her nephew which she had refused to give .
the sweet scenes of autumn were for a while put by , unless some tender sonnet , fraught with the
which he opposed whatever could be urged by the supineness of his mother , or the economy of his aunt
means so expensively dressed as herself .
it originated in mrs .
an old friend , they proceeded to make inquiries and give intelligence as to their families , sisters , and
” “and which of the two do you call my little recent piece of modesty ?
the fatigue , too , of so long a journey , became soon no trifling evil .
various countries , of the scrambling parties in which he had been engaged , the rough horses and mules he
well , there is nothing more to be said .
she was almost at the door , and not chusing by any means to take so much trouble in vain
surely this comparison must have its use with her .
sir john and mrs .
darcy drew his chair a little towards her , and said , “you cannot have a right to such very
tilney could be married ; he had not behaved , he had not talked , like the married men to
can you ?
the looking over his letter again , in replying to it , had such a softening tendency , that it
the last-born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth as the first .
away , without benefit from books or anything else .
“i hope i shall have the pleasure of seeing you again soon , ” said catherine .
, unable to stop herself to assist her , was involuntarily hurried along , and reached the bottom in safety
be useful in turning back with her sister , and lessening the interference in any plan of their own .
" anne had been ashamed to appear to comprehend so soon as she really did ; but now she could
such a choice .
” “he replied that he was under a melancholy necessity of owning the truth of what i said , and
him strong encouragement ; and not only losing the right lady , but finding himself debased to the level of
be one end of what the general ' s father had built .
any room in this house might suffice .
poor , and that catherine would have three thousand pounds .
” “her friends must all be sorry to lose her ; and will not colonel and mrs .
while you considered me as having sinned against emma woodhouse , i could deserve nothing from either .
coffin .
ferrars had took a dislike to me .
you are quite mistaken .
and the harvilles , and she had got books from the library , and changed them so often , that
at first he scarcely said anything ; his looks only expressed his extreme surprise and vexation , and he walked
fanny had a good deal of enjoyment in the course of the evening ; but henry ' s attentions had
think that one interview with miss crawford had taken place , from which edmund derived only increased distress , had
everything at mansfield went on for some time as usual .
the praises he asked for , every view was pointed out with a minuteness which left beauty entirely behind .
scratch , and a slight intermission of screams in the young lady on hearing it , gave them reason to
now so blended together , so harmonised by distance , that every former affliction had its charm .
it is mrs .
my best—my brother , mr .
irish , i dare say .
between them .
friends , and one remained a widower , the other a widow .
she saw mrs clay fairly off , therefore , before she began to talk of spending the morning in rivers
of comparing and judging .
” the whist party soon afterwards breaking up , the players gathered round the other table and mr .
when will you reward me with yourself ?
knowledge .
" " oh , no !
” “but i do talk to him more than i used .
you would rob it of its simplicity by imaginary improvement !
they sometimes pass in such very little time from reserve to quite the opposite—to confidence !
" " i know you did ; i know it all perfectly , but-- " " indeed , mrs smith
at description , or some lines of feeling .
with all the high opinion of himself , which she had often laid to his charge , she had never
palmer ' s dressing-room .
” and without attempting any farther remonstrance , she left fanny to her fate , a fate which , had
possible that she could sit out the dinner , said no more ; and adjusting her dress for her as
" after a short pause he resumed the conversation by saying— " does your sister make no distinction in her
every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter and fainter ; and in farther justification of mr .
disapprobation , be kept from stepping forward .
half .
see him , that i do not know what to do .
norris seemed to do , to her transplantation to mansfield , he was pleased with himself for having supplied everything
” lady catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey , and as she did not answer them
” “yes ; i have promised your sister to be with her , if possible .
bennet , and was a great comfort to them in their hours of freedom .
and brilliant acquirements a manner naturally easy , and carefully formed to general civility and obligingness , they possessed its
age to be all for love , and therefore unable to blame ; and knowing her wish on the subject
for a few moments every one was silent .
at this separation .
she could allow that an occasional memento of past folly , however painful , might not be without use .
you will , that at this moment she is dearer to me than ever .
chapter x though now the middle of december , there had yet been no weather to prevent the young ladies
a portrait—very like—of a departed wife , not valued by the husband !
they ascended and passed him ; and as they passed , anne ' s face caught his eye , and
it requires a delicacy of feeling which they have not .
hardly done wondering at charlotte ' s being so happy without a cause , at mr .
to work in this garden was one of his most respectable pleasures ; and elizabeth admired the command of countenance
to get it over as soon and as quietly as possible , she sat down again and tried to conceal
—how has wright done my hair ?
perfect unrivalled hold it possessed over his own .
” “i leave an excellent substitute in my daughter .
though nothing could be more polite than lady middleton ' s behaviour to elinor and marianne , she did not
elinor , with a very heavy heart , aware of the pain she was going to communicate , and perceiving
we had better send the leg—do not you think so , my dear ?
as ourselves ?
where he was , that he might pay his respects to the old gentleman handsomely since he was come ;
” lady bertram agreed with her instantly .
" anne was amused by henrietta ' s manner of being grateful , and amused also that the course of
have , it is extremely unlikely that the name of pride and prejudice has anything to do with cecilia (which
opened the cause to him in the following manner .
mother did not make my home in every respect comfortable , as i had no friend , no companion in
desert air .
" " yes ; and the set of breakfast china is twice as handsome as what belongs to this house
, “ah !
” “i wonder he did not remember the book”—was all harriet ' s answer , and spoken with a degree
all the agitation which a conviction of having heard him would naturally produce ; in the ecstasy of her feelings
my daughters , on receiving a proposal of marriage at any time which might carry with it only half the
but i believe i must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at pemberley .
an awful charge rather , to confide to the authority and guidance of a conceited , silly father .
could get entirely the better of ; and as to his ever meeting with any other woman who could—it was
sufficient to unite them in friendship , without any other attraction ; but their being in love with two sisters
air of levity which edmund knew to be most offensive to fanny , he had true pleasure in satisfying ;
have repressed .
she had no doubt of its being so .
there he had seen everything to exalt in his estimation the woman he had lost ; and there begun to
enviable mortal !
” “you have a house in town , i conclude ?
affected .
they then talked on for a few minutes longer without her catching a syllable , when another lucky stop in
i fancy lord s .
he really felt conscientiously vexed on the occasion ; for the very exertion to which he had limited the performance
how is half such a sum to be repaid ?
wales on eoconomical motives .
be glad ?
i never saw any thing equal to the comfort and style—candles everywhere .
“i declare i cannot recollect what i was talking of .
so forth , which will be made , of course , i can see nothing objectionable in it ; and
” “my dear sir , ” replied mr .
: " your invitation has insured my gratitude for ever , and it would give me such happiness , yes
she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between mr .
a general silence prevailed—a silence , which was by nothing interrupted but by the loud and repeated snores of one
fanny watched him with never-failing solicitude , and sometimes catching his eye , revived an affectionate smile , which comforted
such early measures , but from the very particular circumstances , which left me not an hour to lose .
pain of apprehension frequently to be endured , though the offence came not .
being fond of books and spending the chief of her time in reading .
bingley if she could .
it was painful to him even to keep a third cousin to himself .
morland ; and though catherine immediately dismissed her , it recalled her to the sense of what she ought to
in such a frame of mind as she was now in , elinor had no difficulty in obtaining from her
she often says , when the letter is first opened , ' well , hetty , now i think you
very cases which strike us the most) may be precisely such as cannot be brought forward without betraying a confidence
what had edward felt on being within four miles from barton , on seeing her mother ' s servant ,
she was accordingly more guarded , and more cool , than she had been the night before .
one i can ever experience .
the path just admitted three .
; she , indeed , regretted that his part was not more considerable , and deferred coming over to mansfield
” “it is very pretty , madam , ” said he , gravely examining it ; “but i do not
friends , in what language my answer was couched ?
” the brother and sister looked at each other .
he joined them immediately , and , with scarcely an invitation , seated himself between them .
jane , who was not so light nor so much in the habit of running as elizabeth , soon lagged
elinor drew near , but without saying a word ; and seating herself on the bed , took her hand
” “he is a most fortunate man !
the number of servants continually appearing did not strike her less than the number of their offices .
her dejection had no abatement from anything passing around her ; a friend or two of her father ' s
spirits , in the manners , in the inclination for much or little company , in the propensity to talk
she instantly wrote sir john middleton her acknowledgment of his kindness , and her acceptance of his proposal ; and
the complaints and lamentations which politeness had hitherto restrained , now burst forth universally ; and they all agreed again
—i wonder you was not afraid of its being torn .
in the drawing-room , whither she then repaired , she was soon joined by mrs .
those are almshouses , built by some of the family .
had before made ambiguous ; and , joining to this , the consideration that he would not really suffer his
it was his idea to bring her to hartfield : he had thought of no other place .
these were thrilling words , and wound up catherine ' s feelings to the highest point of ecstasy .
" marianne coloured as she replied , " but most people do .
she knew that his mother neither behaved to him so as to make his home comfortable at present , nor
about it , which soon led to an acknowledgment of her wishing very much to hear it , and a
about the middle of the next day , as she was in her room getting ready for a walk ,
his manners to them , though calm , were perfectly kind ; to mrs .
of edward and elinor .
would it make you happy to write to william ?
when she found that every circumstance related by mrs .
property of some one or other of their daughters .
but it was not immediately that an opportunity of doing so could be commanded , though lucy was as well
” “you are a very strange creature by way of a friend !
i told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent .
and on this point there were not many who differed from her .
they would hardly come in their chaise , i think , at that season of the year .
norris .
” cried elizabeth , brightening up for a moment .
tea with us—take us in their afternoon walk ; which they might do , as our hours are so reasonable
her keenest attention was awakened ; she longed to hear more , and was grateful to her uncle for saying
and now do , when you get to town , find them out , wherever they may be ; and
as to that , papa and mamma were in no hurry at all .
of pleasant talk between the brother and sister there was no end .
“why do you smile ?
she began then to be afraid of appearing rude and impatient ; and walked to meet them with a great
before her again ; nay , perhaps with greater enjoyment , for it came unexpectedly , and with no such
perry might have reason to regret the alteration , but nobody else could .
“yes , that uncle and aunt !
” “will you give me leave to defer your raptures till i write again ?
rushworth , on a point of some similarity , and could not help wondering as she listened ; and glad
" " yes , ma ' am , i just see him leaning back in it , but he did
it was more than civil ; it was really attentive ; and there was no necessity for such attention .
when i wrote to you the other day i was , in truth , in high irritation , and with
they lagged behind , while elizabeth , kitty , and darcy were to entertain each other .
" elinor could not remember it ; —but her mother , without waiting for her assent , continued— " and
he presently added , with a smile , “i do not pretend to fix on times or places , but
” this was spoken jestingly ; but it appeared to her so just a picture of mr .
—she could not enter on it .
composedly attend to her ; and the quarter of an hour quite convinced her that mrs .
goddard ' s experience and care ; but as there must still remain a degree of uneasiness which she could
” harriet was soon back again , and the proposal almost immediately made ; and she had no scruples which
i have thought it all over i assure you , and i can perfectly account for every thing that at
" " i might not like them the better for that perhaps .
" " at longstaple !
i am that person , and i now challenge you to accept the offer i make you of my confidence
only think , william , when you are a lieutenant , how little you will care for any nonsense of
midshipman as i am .
young ladies under your care as to their sister ' s indisposition , i think it advisable to say ,
well , that must be infinitely provoking !
; of which we have been advertised by the same authority .
thought there was anything to complain of .
knightley took charge of miss bates and jane ; and emma and harriet belonged to frank churchill .
within a fortnight .
, for the fears of mr .
" john is in such spirits today !
anne was tenderness itself , and she had the full worth of it in captain wentworth ' s affection .
anne will send for me if anything is the matter .
the very age of all others to need most attention and care , and put the cheerfullest spirits to the
her disappointment in charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her sister , of whose rectitude and delicacy she
disappointment , cried out on seeing her , “heyday !
himself ?
to employ her , is busy in pursuing the plan of romance begun at langford .
and colonel brandon ' s discernment of it .
how to look up , and could scarcely speak to be heard , or without crying .
” “yes , indeed , a very good letter , ” replied emma rather slowly—“so good a letter , harriet
a day , returned from that period to her own home , and her own habits , in which she
“and whither shall we go (said i) to shelter us from either ?
” catherine ' s swelling heart needed relief .
no ; stay where you are .
seeking that fate , it is to be supposed , in spite of the jealousy with which he had once
i need not tell you what is to be done .
principal inn of the city , that a day never passes in which parties of ladies , however important their
had he married a more amiable woman , he might have been made still more respectable than he was :
—not even knightley could be so very eccentric ; —and his servants forgot it .
is this the only return i can make you ?
least that she might not have many years of existence before her ; but he could not be prevailed on
news ; and though seeming to have no concern in the affair beyond politeness , and to have vented all
the house with equal delight .
you may believe me , mrs .
, that with so much uneasiness as both her sisters had lately experienced , so much reason as they had
" " ha !
affection should be my particular freind ; but to tell you the truth , our freindship arose rather from caprice
—he gave his consent with very little persuasion .
the subject again .
darcy , and lizzy , and kitty , ” said mrs .
prove him one of the worthiest of men .
her feelings in a quiet congratulation , heard it with an attention not so easily satisfied .
churchill ' s temper , before we pretend to decide upon what her nephew can do .
from all the pleasures of life , of rational intercourse , equal society , peace and hope , to penance
my mother means well ; but she does not know , no one can know , how much i suffer
was all her communication ; and this produced from mrs .
convinced of his being in love with harriet .
although i have been acquainted with this charming woman above fifteen years , yet i never before observed how lovely
she was quite pained by the severity of his father ' s reproof , which seemed disproportionate to the offence
the most graceful bows she had ever beheld , when they parted .
she was however much quieter than she had been ; the convulsions she had before suffered having given way to
respectable home .
you know how much he wanted money : worse than myself .
you have not the smallest chance of moving me .
supposed in his other children .
you into what was my mother ' s room—the room in which she died—” were all her words ; but
woodhouse very soon followed them into the drawing-room .
it ought to be no recommendation to you .
” “i do not know what i could imagine , but i confess that i have seldom seen a face
grant ' s great hands , she called out , in high good-humour , “sotherton !
—this letter reached me on the very morning of my poor aunt ' s death .
whatever marianne was desirous of , her mother would be eager to promote—she could not expect to influence the latter
i have united for their ease what they must divide for mine .
her sister must endure .
hurst or miss bingley ; and even lydia was too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of
' —but , said i , i shall be more sure of succeeding if one of you will go with
i was actually silenced .
” “and that prevented you , ” said henry , earnestly regarding her .
sleep a wink all right for thinking of it .
a good word for my little lizzy .
cousins anywhere ; and you will find mr .
now indeed it would be too late to sell it , but a man of colonel brandon ' s sense
—and yet it is formal .
and that ' s so dreadful !
this had been her motive in going to her cousin ' s .
” “yes , my dear ; why should you be astonished ?
there were many other views to be shewn ; and though the weather was hot , there were shady lanes
possibility of being heard by edmund , and not at all aware of her feelings , “we certainly were very
the longer she considered it , the greater was her sense of its expediency .
it is a very large one , i know ; and when i come to see you , i hope
edmund did not wonder that such should be his father ' s feelings , nor could he regret anything but
" " this will probably be the case , " he replied ; " and yet there is something so
” “look well !
it was an evening of no common delight to them all ; the satisfaction of miss bennet’s mind gave a
—she is sadly taken away from us all !
—what two letters of the alphabet are there , that express perfection ?
" can anything be more galling to the spirit of a man , " continued john , " than to
but such as they were , it may well be supposed how eagerly she went through them , and what
, obliged her to be seated , rubbed her temples with lavender-water , and hung over her with affectionate solicitude
with him , i should never have done .
enough to support me in the rank of a gentlewoman , and enable me to live so as not to
ferrars would only allow him five hundred a-year , she would make as good an appearance with it as any
—my love , " applying to her husband , " don ' t you long to have the miss dashwoods
” miss bates had just done as patty opened the door ; and her visitors walked upstairs without having any
yates was beginning now to understand sir thomas ' s intentions , though as far as ever from understanding their
" " i will tell her all that is necessary to what may comparatively be called , your justification .
reconciled sir thomas to the effort of quitting the rest of his family , and of leaving his daughters to
if edmund were not there to mix the wine and water for her , would rather go without it than
elizabeth would wonder , and probably would blame her ; and though her resolution was not to be shaken ,
mr elliot ; in having been wished for , regretted , and at the same time honoured for staying away
no more would sir john , nor my daughters , for they are all very thoughtful and considerate ; especially
” she could not contradict it , and therefore suffered herself to be detained , though her dread of further
palmer is so droll !
he should happen to be in the same part of the room , but he was not ; her eye
his reflections ended thus .
anything was possible , anything might be defied rather than suspense .
send him away immediately ; he is only a fool : but what her mother can mean , heaven only
rushworth , for i look forward to our owing her a great many gay , brilliant , happy hours .
the interest he takes in her—his anxiety about her health—his concern that she should have no happier prospect !
they could none of them help perceiving that sir james was no solomon ; but i had positively forbidden frederica
she did most heartily grieve over the idleness of her childhood—and sat down and practised vigorously an hour and a
would be poor consolation to sir thomas .
was nothing to regret for half an instant .
of decrying the capacity and undervaluing the labour of the novelist , and of slighting the performances which have only
rushworth had been gone at this time to bath , to pass a few days with his mother , and
and obliging .
and in that case , how gratefully she could esteem him for his friendship to william !
weston would take no denial ; they must all dine at randalls one day ; —even mr .
people would be in such a hurry to marry—and to marry strangers too—and the other half she could give to
on sunday , after morning service , the separation , so agreeable to almost all , took place .
collins , to be sure , was neither sensible nor agreeable ; his society was irksome , and his attachment
elinor flattered herself that some one of their connections in london would write to them to announce the event ,
i little thought then--but no matter .
schemes in the in-betweens , that the evening flew away at a very unusual rate ; and the supper-table ,
too often repeated and at improper seasons , prove destructive to your constitution .
you know how uncomfortable i feel with her .
in such an exigence , my uncle’s advice and assistance would be everything in the world ; he will immediately
hurst and her sister scarcely opened their mouths , except to complain of fatigue , and were evidently impatient to
” “i say no more than the truth , and everybody will say that knows him , ” replied the
of a higher stamp , for he had easy manners , excellent spirits , a large acquaintance , and a
she had heard nothing of him since her leaving london , nothing new of his plans , nothing certain even
look conscious .
perhaps we are talking about you ; therefore i would advise you not to listen , or you may happen
" and what , " said mrs .
yates , i presume , is not far off .
” “i think we had .
, nor manner , were elegant .
she followed another carriage to mr .
cole—he was looking on unconcerned ; jane was asked by somebody else , and he was still talking to mrs
” “i wish i were too .
" you are very good .
wingfield considers it very sickly except— “ah !
story , he was evidently mortified and displeased in no common degree .
when denny , and wickham , and pratt , and two or three more of the men came in ,
pleasure of coming in upon one ' s friends before the look-out begins , is worth a great deal more
thoughtlessness , want of attention to other people’s feelings , and want of resolution , will do the business .
no motive can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted there .
to this personal acquaintance ; but , against reason , against conviction , to be so well pleased with her
could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman , or the insolent smiles of the ladies , were
the small pianoforte has been removed within these few days , at lady susan ' s request , into her
this was all sent with the instrument .
” he could say no more ; and with the hope of hartfield to reward him , returned with mrs
if you value her conduct or happiness , infuse as much of your own spirit into her as you can
all those fine first feelings , of which he had hoped to be the exciter , were already given .
what would you have me do ?
the woman was better off ; she might have the assistance of fine clothes , and the privilege of bashfulness
the principal purport of his letter was to inform them that mr .
my reasons for believing it are briefly these : it does not appear to me that my hand is unworthy
a well-disposed , good-hearted girl , and thoroughly attached to himself .
, i shall not accept him .
if your abhorrence of me should make my assertions valueless , you cannot be prevented by the same cause from
barouche box .
escape the letter itself .
i am sure edward ferrars is not well .
my resolution was soon made , and at eight o ' clock this morning i was in my carriage .
a house there for some weeks .
loss of bloom and spirits had been their lasting effect .
harriet bore the intelligence very well—blaming nobody—and in every thing testifying such an ingenuousness of disposition and lowly opinion of
they gave themselves up wholly to their sorrow , seeking increase of wretchedness in every reflection that could afford it
i read it a little as a duty , but it tells me nothing that does not either vex or
weston was acting no part , feigning no feelings in all that she said to him in favour of the
bennet could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before him .
rather knew that she was happy than felt herself to be so ; for , besides the immediate embarrassment ,
colonel martin is the second son of the late sir john martin who died immensely rich , but bequeathing only
he was , in fact , entirely on his father ' s side of the question .
rushworth ' s property on each side of the road , ” without elation of heart ; and it was
elton would be an excuse for any change of intercourse ; former intimacy might sink without remark .
life—- .
little so ever he might have , she should be very glad to have it all , you know ,
is he not a man of honour and feeling ?
edmund was the only one of the family who could see a fault in the business ; but no representation
—i reached highbury at the time of day when , from my knowledge of their late breakfast hour , i
i have worn them a great deal since .
freaks and the fancies of a child never banished from home ; and mrs .
for my part , i am determined never to speak of it again to anybody .
nothing should separate her from her father .
as all conversation was thereby at an end , elizabeth soon afterwards left the room .
, turning hastily round , she added , “i take no leave of you , miss bennet .
her for allowing her only to see her displeasure , and not to hear it .
bennet’s means , for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband .
they were forced to conclude that he had no pleasing intelligence to send ; but even of that they would
substantial .
" " putting all these very extraordinary circumstances together , " said captain wentworth , " we must consider it
he believed him to be imprudent and extravagant .
goddard would be very much surprized if she knew what had happened .
going at all ; and mrs .
and do you really love him quite well enough ?
chorus) tough one , tough one , tough one for he would carve the partridge if it should be a
i never wish to offend , but i am so foolishly shy , that i often seem negligent , when
a few struggles to relinquish her , she was ready to allow it a wise and desirable measure for both
when your choice is fixed so that no objection can be made to it , then i can promise you
that ' s a good one !
size for real beauty , when you know that two of them are taller and the other shorter than ourselves
but i cannot talk .
manner , she added , " my expressions startle you .
” “no , she is quite determined .
emma , your infatuation about that girl blinds you .
they had gone on together most happily .
, which i had not supposed possible !
” this , though the thought of the moment , did not end with the moment ; for the inclination
” “the most interesting in the world , ” replied her brother—“how to make money ; how to turn a
you could not make me happy , and i am convinced that i am the last woman in the world
i instantly followed , and asked her what was the matter .
" our dear willoughby is now some miles from barton , elinor , " said she , as she sat
five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on mrs .
and our cousins—of our visit to macdonald-hall—of the singular service we there performed towards janetta—of her fathers ingratitude for it
s face wore its broadest smiles , may be easily conceived .
: it was her uncle ' s ; she knew it as well as his voice ; she had trembled
“he had never seen so lovely a face , and was delighted with her naivete .
” “i wonder you should think so , for you never asked me .
by sir william lucas’s accidental information , that bingley’s attentions to your sister had given rise to a general expectation
their construction was both simple and elegant—a couple of old blankets , each supported by four sticks , gave a
day , as they were walking together from the park to the cottage— " but pray , are you personally
made her miserable under it .
” “yes , ” said his brother quickly , “it is randalls that does it all .
and those who met too often ; a commonplace business , too numerous for intimacy , too small for variety
you to accompany me downstairs , where , though i cannot but presume on having been no unacceptable companion myself
i am persuaded that mrs .
think of the kind pains you took to reason and persuade me out of my fears , and convince me
affair , was provoking him exceedingly .
the compliment was so little returned that he had never been there in his life .
“i would rather be talking to you , ” he replied ; “but as it seems a matter of justice
felt safe , when she heard that he was coming again in the evening .
” fanny , with all her faults of ignorance and timidity , was fixed at mansfield park , and learning
we are told that previous to its publication in _num_ she again devoted a considerable time to its preparation for
there go you and your riddle-book one of these days .
and attentive to him ; there had been no formality , no stiffness ; he had soon felt acquainted with
portion of apparent indifference and calmness ; but he could not do it now .
i shall let a seven years ' lease of everingham .
there were wishes at randalls respecting emma ' s destiny , but it was not desirable to have them suspected
when the hand-organ was in the street ?
matter now ; catherine is safe at home , and our comfort does not depend upon general tilney .
i do not know how to apologize enough for this letter ; i know it is taking so great a
as well as all the rest of that side of the house ; and eleanor promised to attend her there
but they live very comfortably .
i know marianne ' s heart : i know that she dearly loves me , and that i shall not
harris arrived , he declared his patient materially better .
to be in other respects irreproachable , i am ready to confess it .
how they will spend half of it " 	 _num_ so shy before company	 _num_ they sang together	 _num_ he
looked so conscious when i mentioned her .
mean .
, i dare say , it succeeds .
that it was merely an impatience of restraint and a desire of escaping from the tuition of masters which brought
” and the bell was rung , and the carriages spoken for .
sir thomas engaged for its giving her very little trouble ; and she assured him “that she was not at
john dashwood wished it likewise ; but in the mean while , till one of these superior blessings could be
he would act for her and release her .
was he not deceiving himself ?
there was no injury but to the head .
everything is so insipid , so uninteresting , that does not relate to the beloved object !
heart to jest ; in truth , i am serious enough ; for to be sunk , though but for
the surgeon was with them almost before it had seemed possible .
anxious to marry fanny as fanny herself could desire .
in the moment of parting , edmund was invited by dr .
but now every commendation on every subject is comprised in that one word .
finish it this evening .
as they very soon were , the effect on her was not entirely such as the former had hoped to
any collection .
, and he told her of feelings , which , in proving of what importance she was to him ,
b .
have passed since you parted have not been spent on your side entirely without improvement ; though , i fear
one be secure .
i quite forgot !
hair in the centre , very conspicuous on one of his fingers .
“they would have solicited the honour earlier , but had been waiting the arrival of a folding-screen from london ,
take .
you foretold how it would be when i first came to langford , and mainwaring is so uncommonly pleasing that
when the marriage takes place , i fear she must hear of it all .
as far as london , for i am going there early in june , for a week ; and as
agitation of gratified pride , and , as far as they alone were concerned , had not a single objection
” she went accordingly to the table , where she was in the habit of writing for her aunt ,
my mother says the orchard was always famous in her younger days .
for what do we live , but to make sport for our neighbours , and laugh at them in our
prevent the marriage , if possible ; but i know you : i know that a wife you loved would
could very well describe .
her resolute effort threw back the lid , and gave to her astonished eyes the view of a white cotton
courage to reply .
they are very fond of being at hartfield , harriet .
' i firmly believe it .
humbled as he now is , i cannot forgive him such an instance of pride , and am doubtful whether
begged to be excused .
own letter .
you may depend upon my seeking no further .
" " why did you call , mr .
and embarrassed her , and made her regret that she had said so much , simple as it was .
a very comfortable contrast to the steady sobriety and orderly silence of the other .
i am so glad your eldest cousin is gone , that he may be mr .
; and whether it might not be a possible , an hopeful undertaking to persuade her that her warm and
she was a little surprised that he could spend so many hours with miss crawford , and not see more
weston ' s stable , papa .
i always fetch the letters when i am here .
” the marriage of eleanor tilney , her removal from all the evils of such a home as northanger had
her astonishment from being visible .
” “you know of course that lady catherine de bourgh and lady anne darcy were sisters ; consequently that she
bennet had been downstairs ; but on this happy day she again took her seat at the head of her
the old walnut trees are all come down to make room for it .
be left out , it became a certainty that the five couple would be at least ten , and a
his collar-bone was found to be dislocated , and such injury received in the back , as roused the most
; that they were prepared to find a world full of things to amaze and to shock them : but
open , candid , artless , guileless , with affections strong but simple , forming no pretensions , and knowing
—those curls !
i thank you , again and again , for not going to the lakes .
consider—if reading had not been taught , mrs .
darcy had brought with him a colonel fitzwilliam , the younger son of his uncle lord —— , and ,
grant , and they were both better satisfied , though your warm-hearted friend was still run away with a little
gardiner .
how she bore these attacks , with an earnestness which gave elinor far more pain than could arise from such
” she played .
thicker letter than usual from mary was delivered to her ; and , to quicken the pleasure and surprise ,
i see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of mr .
weston had not a lively concern ; and half an hour ' s uninterrupted communication of all those little matters
to finish the interest of the story , the friendship between him and the harvilles seemed , if possible ,
from this day fanny grew more comfortable .
perhaps i am not doing her justice .
" and i will tell you our reason , " she added , " and all about it .
his words seemed to imply it .
the evil lies yet deeper : in her total ignorance , unsuspiciousness of there being such feelings ; in a
but she had promised to hear him , and her curiosity no less than her honor was engaged .
knightley and mr .
he must not head mobs , or set the ton in dress .
—that must be a very great pleasure .
fortune , had recourse for subsistence to the talent in which , he had always most excelled , namely ,
, and tranquillity , was just falling into a gentle doze , while fanny was getting through the few difficulties
such an adventure as this , —a fine young man and a lovely young woman thrown together in such a
, were allowed to join their counsels , and add their quota of significant looks and mysterious expressions to fill
' s wishes , and that their marriage was likely to take place in a few months , quite as
she rushed out at an opposite door from the one her uncle was approaching , and was walking up and
” “that was very good-natured of you , ” said catherine , quite pleased .
thousand a year .
character of an earl , as drake was in that of a sailor , was robert devereux lord essex .
to take up the pen to say that such a horse is ill , or such a relation dead ,
no less contented with his lot , no less free from every wish of an exchange .
yates was still talking .
the musgroves for all their pleasures : they would come at any time , and help play at anything ,
i have thought only of you .
perhaps , expect some from improving her acquaintance with her sister-in-law ' s family .
i have not been to the rooms this age , nor to the play , except going in last night
his sister ' s kind offices have implanted , he may be an agreeable flirt .
and then not to find him at home !
i know no harm of her .
, and she crept about in constant terror of something or other ; often retreating towards her own chamber to
estranged from each other .
lady catherine had been rendered so exceedingly angry by the contents of her nephew’s letter , that charlotte , really
unceasingly to increase till they stopped in pulteney street again , induced her , in some small degree , to
one natural consequence of the evil she had involved herself in , ” she said , “was that of making
the miss dashwoods had no greater reason to be dissatisfied with mrs .
you are too scrupulous , indeed you are , ” cried emma warmly , and taking her hand .
indifference , even in the midst of the serious anxiety which they afterwards felt on his account .
when people come into a beautiful country of this sort , you know , miss woodhouse , one naturally wishes
to find that tho ' secluded from all the world , neither you nor matilda are dull or unhappy—that you
her daughter could not quite agree with her , but her dissent was not heard , and therefore gave no
but it was more probable that he should be come to stay .
but in bath ; sir walter elliot and his family will always be worth knowing : always acceptable as acquaintance
in a moment he went on— “that will never be , however , i can assure you .
of seeing mr .
—in town next week , you see—at the latest , i dare say ; for she is as impatient as
my surprize is the greater because on wednesday , the very day of his coming to parklands , we had
if i am as little in favour with mr .
indeed she had no taste for a garden ; and if she gathered flowers at all , it was chiefly
all the great events of the last fortnight , and the present situation of matters at mansfield were known to
chapter xxx miss crawford ' s uneasiness was much lightened by this conversation , and she walked home again in
amelia should be a small , light , girlish , skipping figure .
let him know me to be a friend of yours , and then he will think little of the trouble
] told .
we both eagerly embraced the proposals we gave and received of becoming one family , and have from that time
i have no fears at all for myself ; and i should have no scruples of staying as late as
she is a stupid girl , and has nothing to recommend her .
and yet , this was to happen .
how unlucky that you are not ordained ; mr .
did not like .
" he is a man , " said lady russell , " whom i have no wish to see .
under-voice , and the declaration with which she began of , “i am sure i would give up the part
" and that , " he presently added , " might perhaps be in his head when the acquaintance between
i know nothing of your furlongs , but i am sure it is a very long wood , and that
the proposal was a very pleasant one to william himself , who enjoyed the idea of travelling post with four
” “my dear emma , as long as he thinks so , it is so ; but if he really
accordingly , on this principle , sir thomas took the first opportunity of saying to her , with a mild
bingley ?
but you will do every thing right .
will you come and see me ?
harriet ' s feelings , they were visibly forming themselves into as strong and steady an attachment as her youth
de courcy !
he has told me so himself .
" lucy here looked up ; but elinor was careful in guarding her countenance from every expression that could give
i can hardly believe it .
to her , its greatest interest must be , in having been very much talked of between her friend and
lucy , she determined , that had lucy been more amiable , she ought to have rejoiced .
been scarcely ten months a widow .
with such powers as his , however , and such a disposition as hers , edmund trusted that everything would
“how strange this is !
” fanny could not speak , but he did not want her to speak .
declare that it was what she had expected all the while .
but one must not be over particular .
if it had not been for that , we should have carried on the garden wall , and made the
had joined and disappeared with him , she ran for safety to her own room , and , locking herself
” “his bottle a day !
“you may readily comprehend , ” she added , “what my curiosity must be to know how a person unconnected
“i have no doubt of his being a most amiable young man .
the next meeting of the two mansfield families produced another alteration in the plan , and one that was admitted
by every means on his power to prevent it encreasing with her years .
; ' —for , would you believe it , miss woodhouse , there he is , in the most obliging
girl , while they were the finest young women in the country .
i had thought it might be a relief .
she is a vain coquette , and her tricks have not answered .
he had condescended to mortgage as far as he had the power , but he would never condescend to sell
street on tuesday , and even hoped to be carrying the pain still farther by persuading her that he was
—you laugh at me about william larkins ; but i could quite as ill spare robert martin .
' that is the true manly style ; that is a complete brother ' s letter .
enough for the exercise of my talent , as the chief of my time is spent in conversation .
” charlotte assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful , and that it amply repaid her for the
, would ever be whispered , and in the trust that among his , the brother only with whom he
—you remember those lines—i forget the poem at this moment : “for when a lady ' s in the case
i bought one for her the other day , and it was pronounced to be a prodigious bargain by every
“we are not calling it a good house , ” said he .
be obliged to go back so soon , though he does .
, resolved first to announce it at home , and then at randalls .
woodhouse , shaking his head and fixing his eyes on her with tender concern .
i asked you as soon as i came into the room , and i was just going to ask you
the test of many months’ suspense , and enumerating with energy all his good qualities , she did conquer her
it is a pity they are not knocked on the head at once , before they reach admiral baldwin '
captain wentworth ' s anxiety to see him had determined him to go immediately to lyme .
” cried his wife .
we shall be very glad to see you at fullerton , whenever it is convenient .
weston , “if miss fairfax were to have been drawn on beyond her own inclination , by her aunt '
vi mrs .
if i am vain of anything , it is of my eloquence .
—what was to be done ?
a long morning , spent principally with her two aunts , she was often under the influence of much less
but before she had been three minutes in her own room , her mother followed her .
miss woodhouse !
such feelings ought to be investigated , that they may know themselves .
and situation to be in love with an elliot , or from not wanting to believe anne a greater attraction
de courcy had ended so gloomily .
the subject was pursued no farther , and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away .
miss harriet smith may not find offers of marriage flow in so fast , though she is a very pretty
tomorrow , or any day .
of calling for me in her way and of allowing me to sit forwards , which is a favour about
” a very friendly shake of the hand , a very earnest “good-bye , ” closed the speech , and
—nobody could have helped it .
s performance .
well-wishers ; to see your cousin close by you , conversing and smiling , and feel all the horrible eligibilities
but , " (in a deep tone , ) " it was not done for her .
, and catherine , catching mr .
my trust in it .
never wished to offend anybody , especially anybody of good fortune .
but as it is , it must be out of anybody ' s power to assist him .
chapter xxix .
i am thankful that my last letter will precede this by so little , as every moment that you can
" " strange that it would !
he was in high spirits , doing everything with happy ease , and preeminent in all the lively turns ,
the chance proved a lucky one , for a message from mrs .
pianoforte ; and the substance of the story , the end of all the dialogue which ensued of surprize ,
she dared not even mention that gentleman .
i expected a most disagreeable companion for myself , but could not imagine that my brother would be in the
” her son answered cheerfully , telling her that everything was always for the best ; and making light of
which had been intended .
she must have a sensation of being honoured , and whether thinking of herself or her brother , she must
, with these objects in view , till they were accomplished .
: so delighted to see them all , that it was hard to say whether she received most pleasure from
taken ever so many before ; hey , shepherd ?
to lead , she gave a very proper compliance .
her inviting you to town is certainly a vast thing in your favour ; and indeed , it speaks altogether
re-entered the house so happy as to be obliged to find an alloy in some momentary apprehensions of its being
but i thought i would just tell you of this , because i knew how much it must please you
woodhouse , his approbation of the whole ; not so openly as he might have done had her father been
gladden the eyes of its mistress .
though suspicion was very far from miss bennet’s general habits , she was absolutely incredulous here .
end in disappointment ; for in her opinion it admitted not of a doubt , that all her friend’s dislike
it was not unlikely , she thought , that she might see mr .
to raise ecstasy even in retrospect .
it was soon uppercross with him almost every day .
yates , from better understanding the family , and judging more clearly of the mischief that must ensue .
" but nobody heard , or , at least , nobody answered her .
nay , were your friend lady catherine to know me , i am persuaded she would find me in every
dashwood , with a good humoured smile , " that mr .
on the gentlemen’s appearing , her colour increased ; yet she received them with tolerable ease , and with a
cause of disapprobation , though he did not say what .
” she stopped for a moment , and then added , with great firmness , “i have no sister ,
” frank churchill returned to his station by emma ; and as soon as miss bates was quiet , she
elizabeth had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit , but his plan did not appear in the least
when we arrived at edinburgh sir edward told me that as the widow of his son , he desired i
he had ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate , generous heart in the world
the interruption had been short , though severe , and ease and animation returned to most of those they left
weston there was nothing to be done ; for harriet every thing .
i know that such a girl as harriet is exactly what every man delights in—what at once bewitches his senses
john thorpe kept of course with catherine , and , after a few minutes ' silence , renewed the conversation
“this is very bad .
sympathy , only distressing to ourselves .
then why does he stay here ?
and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortune with contempt and ridicule .
lady middleton looked as if she thanked heaven that she had never made so rude a speech .
" my dear friend , " cried lucy , as soon as they were by themselves , " i come
“a very pleasant evening , ” he began , as soon as mr .
" here they were interrupted by the absolute necessity of charles ' s following the others to admire mirrors and
, where he sat , she felt that his were immediately directed towards her .
” fanny was too much surprised to do more than repeat her aunt ' s words , “going to leave
weakness , and the warm acknowledgment of peculiar obligation .
friend , and declaring he should not go ; and being too much engrossed by proposals of carrying them away
” fanny turned farther into the window ; and miss crawford had only time to say , in a pleasant
when the party broke up , lydia returned with mrs .
she had been a beauty , and a prosperous beauty , all her life ; and beauty and wealth were
they were not long able , however , to enjoy the repose of the eminence they had so laboriously gained
” “you saw me dance at meryton , i believe , sir .
when she did , her eyes looked very red and she was as much agitated as before .
girl , and trusting they would never have cause to throw her off .
, though a good many things i assure you are suspected ; and yet by their manners they evidently think
sofa to her husband .
resisted .
a fanny .
she is the sort of woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference .
the housekeeper came ; a respectable-looking elderly woman , much less fine , and more civil , than she had
she shared in their attendance on mrs .
very well done indeed !
no notice of what passed , by instantly talking of something else , she internally resolved henceforward to catch every
i took care to see her alone , that i might say all this , and i hope made her
every line , every word was—in the hackneyed metaphor which their dear writer , were she here , would forbid—a
they are known to no human being , i guess , but herself .
little of what the other said .
should be at mrs .
that will make thirteen with ourselves , so there will be just room at table for him .
" " i was engaged elsewhere .
no , she had had enough of interference .
he had laid by an annual sum for the better provision of his children , and of his wife ,
have been brought up .
i conceive myself peculiarly bound to pay .
removed from him only to sink deeper in a life of sin .
her , instead of going to bath .
i wish you had saved yourself this walk home .
coming as he did from such a purport fulfilled as had taken him away , he would have expected anything
ever hear it talked of .
here ' s what may leave all painting and all music behind , and what poetry only can attempt to
of situation from addressing her .
how did you think the coxes looked ?
i am sure you will like them ; indeed , you do like them , you know , very much
and for a few minutes , therefore , could not keep pace with the conversation of the others .
be wrong , they feel injured by the expectation of any thing better from them .
up the measure of curiosity to be raised in the unprivileged younger sisters .
is concerned .
she was aware herself , that , parting under any other circumstances , they certainly should have corresponded more ,
and if captain wentworth lost no friend by it , certainly nothing to be regretted .
she could not speak .
his running on to give notice .
—was it a new circumstance for a man of first-rate abilities to be captivated by very inferior powers ?
" " i should guess so , " said elinor , with a smile , " from what i have
been gone , and how much he was engaged in company , and what a favourite he was wherever he
they remind me of augustus .
the consciousness of his being known there only as william ' s friend was some support .
, “ask how you came here ?
” “well , ” said the still waiting harriet ; —“well—and—and what shall i do ?
and i must make myself amends for the humiliation to which i have stooped within these few days .
as he had already done for more than four years , nothing less could be expected of him in the
the miss steeles , as she expected , had now all the benefit of these jokes , and in the
much as this .
find some body for me .
" " i confess , " replied elinor , " that every circumstance except one is in favour of their
gladly would i have bestowed either of my own daughters on him .
thorpe and mrs .
having i trust by this assurance entirely done away every suspicion and every doubt which might have arisen in the
all friendship ; but i am not such a fool as to be taken in by them .
must feel in promoting her children ' s enjoyment was attributed to her nature .
gravel of the shrubbery , but all over the grounds , and especially in the most distant parts of them
jennings ' s endeavours to cure a disappointment in love , by a variety of sweetmeats and olives , and
the very morning after his having had the pleasure of seeing her .
his absence was certain .
she could go there after anything unpleasant below , and find immediate consolation in some pursuit , or some train
that his judgment submitted to all his own peculiar and bitter share of this family affliction , but that it
most endearing claims of innocence and helplessness , and completed by every recommendation of growing worth , what could be
on both sides it was only assertion .
on perceiving him lord st .
” “nay , t ' is very true answered she , i assure you , for he was in love
different were her delicate features and mild dark eyes from his own) , there could be nothing in them ,
—my dear sir , if there is one thing my mother loves better than another , it is pork—a roast
do not you think we have ?
sporting .
to her brother which delighted her beyond all the rest .
she could imagine what louisa was feeling .
herself for having judged him so harshly[ _num_ ] before .
but one morning—i forget exactly the day—but perhaps it was the tuesday or wednesday before that evening , he wanted
of being well married , and if i were determined to get a rich husband , or any husband ,
but , to be sure , the good lady who showed us his house did give him a most flaming
me of it yourself .
he found he could not be useful , and his feelings were too much irritated for talking .
so far settled her journey before his arrival , that the careys were then expected every moment to fetch margaret
exert it , beyond what was practicable .
through which it was necessary to pass .
we admired it so much , that i have ventured to write it into miss smith ' s collection .
to say , “of all horrid things , leave-taking is the worst .
i could no longer bear to stay the end of , and knowing in what good hands i left the
" the cruelty , the impolitic cruelty , " —he replied , with great feeling , — " of dividing
she had taken up a wrong idea , fancying it was a mother and daughter , a son and son
grant to alight and the others to take their places .
it must be terrible for you to hear it talked of ; and as for your sister , i am
chapter viii the wretchedness of a scheme to box hill was in emma ' s thoughts all the evening .
how he ought to behave .
he now wished it more than ever .
be sure of my pardon .
he is always giving me something or other .
through its more immediate premises ; and the rest of the morning was easily whiled away , in lounging round
an hour ' s complete leisure for such reflections as these , on a dark november day , a small
ferrars came to inspect the happiness which she was almost ashamed of having authorised ; and even the dashwoods were
" lady russell began talking of something else .
” “you are all kindness , madam ; but i believe we must abide by our original plan .
she felt that she should like to have had the power of refusal ; and afterwards , as the idea
darcy had been staying there .
and every civility and accommodation that can serve to make your situation pleasant might be reasonably expected .
of the man she loved and respected as her own .
" " it is not every one , " said elinor , " who has your passion for dead leaves
xx mrs .
cast down , soon went on .
i think him a very handsome young man , and his manners are precisely what i like and approve—so truly
as strong a contrast as could be wished to the last state she had seen it in .
” “that is not enough .
each of them at times being held the most probable .
the gardener ' s lamentations .
—i shall introduce her , of course , very particularly to my brother and sister when they come to us
an angry voice , that fanny had got another child .
by this time , the walk in the rain had reached mrs .
maria was her first favourite , the dearest of all ; the match had been her own contriving , as
edmund was close to her ; he was speaking to her ; he was evidently directing her management of the
: her heart leaped with exultation at such a victory , and having thrown open each folding door , the
you , in the confusion of so many subjects , mistake him ?
it might have been an opportunity of watching the loves and jealousies of the four--they were now altogether ; but
well , my dear reginald , i have seen this dangerous creature , and must give you some description of
her capable of doing any thing in the world for those she really valued .
” he went to highbury the next morning , and satisfied himself on that point .
“now , ” said harriet , “you must recollect .
tallest , politely decided in favour of the other .
except his mother , who , after hearing an affecting sermon , had cried herself to sleep , it was
business that had taken him away , and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of
i have no fears and no scruples .
marianne was in a silent agony , too much oppressed even for tears ; but as mrs .
tell him that it would quite shock you to see me do such a thing ; now would not it
with it , that he agreed with mr .
grant , with a temper to love and be loved , must have gone with some regret from the scenes
” “yes , i fancy they are , but i am not quite certain .
you have seen him do .
” “but if we only wait a few minutes , there will be no danger of our seeing them at
a meadow , on which henry ' s genius had begun to act about half a year ago , she
please to destroy my scrawls—but the ring with my hair you are very welcome to keep .
“i am sure they will consent , ” was her frequent declaration ; “i am sure they will be delighted
” “yes ; we agreed to take a turn in the crescent , and there we met mrs .
misleading me , i think , when i call charles most capable of engaging any woman’s heart .
that the butcher says there is a bad sore-throat very much about .
anyone abiding in it an object of compassion , while they are sharers of our intimacy at rosings .
at last submitted to sir walter .
beware of swoons dear laura .
willoughby , whose heart i know so well ?
she expresses a most eager desire of being acquainted with me , and makes very gracious mention of my children
you would not wish to disappoint and mortify the coles , i am sure , sir ; friendly , good
upon my soul there is not .
elton was to go , and never had his broad handsome face expressed more pleasure than at this moment ;
but how is your acquaintance to be long supported , under such extraordinary despatch of every subject for discourse ?
—she was now in perfect charity with frank churchill ; she wanted no explanations , she wanted only to have
family (our family let me say) in that degree of consideration which we must all wish for .
hear what you tell us , of long sleeves .
by elizabeth , who had liked the man for himself , and still more for being her father ' s
and marianne ' s impatience to be gone increased every day .
crawford ' s having left the house ; but when convinced of his being gone , she was eager to
—i think they are , without exception , the most vulgar girls in highbury .
a most delightful place !
conveying the offer from colonel brandon to edward , and , therefore , must understand the terms on which it
there was no want of likeness , she had been fortunate in the attitude , and as she meant to
had little reality in fanny ' s feelings .
as to anxiety for any alarm that her absence in such weather might occasion at home , she had nothing
not that i have much pleasure , indeed , in talking to anybody .
mind , wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal contempt which her rage for admiration will excite
“i must really congratulate your ladyship , ” said she , “on the play being chosen ; for though you
it cannot be delayed .
asking , in a consequential manner , whether she had seen him talking with general tilney : “he is a
they will tell me i should write to the doctor , to get edward the curacy of his new living
a letter to herself ; and this letter was from him , from mr .
—but her spirit was stubborn .
there is something in the sound of mr .
they can be nothing to you .
—i must go and ask her whether it is an irish fashion .
it was now above a week since john dashwood had called in berkeley street , and as since that time
at twelve o ' clock , they were to call for her in pulteney street ; and “remember—twelve o '
i know it has .
her power with him was gone for ever .
—indeed i am very sorry .
the portraits themselves seemed to be staring in astonishment .
careless or a hasty thing , than of those whose presence of mind never varied , whose tongue never slipped
it had been , and he detained her some minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his inquiries after
it , if i am to learn that you are not what we have hitherto believed you , that your
the rapture of lydia on this occasion , her adoration of mrs .
searched by madam with the most ingratiating virulence , —the dear lock—all , every memento was torn from me .
not uncommon ; but to read him well aloud is no everyday talent .
” “upon my word !
streph : ) alas , my freind , i have but a bad guinea with which i mean to support
that such words could relate only to a circulating library , she immediately pictured to herself a mob of three
the pinery had yielded only one hundred in the last year .
elton for that day .
ever ; and the lenient hand of time did much for her by insensible gradations in the course of another
but the feelings of the past could not be recalled .
we all love to instruct , though we can teach only what is not worth knowing .
thorpe , smiling complacently ; “i must say it , though i am his mother , that there is not
every well-known particular entitling her to interest , were added the highly probable circumstance of an attachment to mr .
over ; and one subject only engaged the ladies till coffee came in , which was the comparative heights of
weston and cole will be there too ; but one is apt to speak only of those who lead .
knightley ?
you order me , whether you speak or not .
no ; i am unalterably fixed on this point , though i have not yet quite decided on the manner
and women ; and mrs .
half a play , but everything of higher consequence was against it .
he loved her , i am persuaded , as well as it was possible for him to—we have not all
november _num_ , _num_ ; mary , born november _num_ , _num_ .
very likely secure every thing to robert , and the idea of that , for edward ' s sake ,
but indeed i would much rather have it only in one .
now i shall really be very happy to walk into the same room with you .
—it was a wretched business indeed !
it is about lovers ' vows .
” she cried .
if her manners have so great an influence on my resentful heart , you may judge how much more strongly
anne ' s object was , not to be in the way of anybody ; and where the narrow paths
” “no , ” said he , smiling , “that is no subject of regret at all .
the length of the letter convinced her that it did not contain a denial .
as they drove to mr .
it would be the greatest pleasure to him to have her there to the last moment before he sailed ,
indeed it could not be ; he is the only one that could be possible ; but he is a
—and that excellent miss bates !
the friendly encouragement , the admission to be gallant , which she had ever given in the first and most
in , and even in spite of mrs .
wished , therefore , to declare only the simple truth , and lay open such facts as were really due
in spite of all that had passed , was not prepared to witness .
the thrush went out of harbour this morning .
was to precede her return .
she is a relation of the colonel ' s , my dear ; a very near relation .
for the life and soul of me , i cannot admire him ; and , between ourselves , to see
earlier .
very smart bonnet indeed , or a really new muslin in a shop window , could recall them .
much satisfaction , she now walked home again , with a change rather than a diminution of cares since her
is not it what you have often wished to do yourself ?
the case was this—frederica had set herself violently against marrying sir james .
the pleasure of walking and breathing fresh air is enough for me , and in fine weather i am out
, " and i hear he is quite a beau , and prodigious handsome .
for a few moments , indeed , she felt that he would probably strike into some other path .
how pleasant it would be if we had any acquaintance here .
you will stay , and go with us ?
accepted him ; and that there was no obscurity , nothing doubtful , in the words he used ; and
i should experience from it , can account for .
” “it is a proof of your own attachment to hertfordshire .
we passed each other several times .
why should you think of such a thing ?
” “no , as to acting myself , ” said edmund , “that i absolutely protest against .
to warn you against her .
, for a few moments , she flattered herself that her wishes did not err .
, i knew all about it at the time .
—bless me !
—now we all follow in her train .
the law was allowed to be genteel enough ; many young men , who had chambers in the temple ,
what an odd gown she has got on !
” “very well , catherine .
" [ _num_ ] " what do you mean ?
his mother had some old friends in bath whom she wanted to see ; it was thought a good opportunity
as for isabella , she has been married long enough to see the convenience of putting all the mr .
equal to her brother ' s ; and as miss bertram caught at the idea likewise , and gave it
leave him to settle that .
how far your nephew might approve of your interference in his affairs , i cannot tell ; but you have
of it , is now , and has been many months , inexpressibly painful to me .
“i do not ask whether you are musical , mrs .
and what is her attraction ?
ferrars— " very pretty , " —and without regarding them at all , returned them to her daughter .
she had even learnt to detect , in the very gentleness which had first delighted her , an affectation and
am afraid my practice is much more on your sister ' s .
wickham were , and that he had seen and talked with them both ; wickham repeatedly , lydia once .
no ; you will continue the same ; unconscious of the pleasure or the regret you occasion , and insensible
if you and miss bennet will defer yours till i am out of the room , i shall be very
he can be of essential service to me ; and if you would have the goodness , my dear miss
vernon xix lady susan to mrs .
edward the _num_ th as this prince was only nine years old at the time of his father ' s
he had never heard of such books before i mentioned them , but he is determined to get them now
” “i can have no opinion on that subject .
should be miserable if i thought myself without any chance—absolutely without chance or possibility of obtaining—but they are of a
they remained but a few minutes together , as miss woodhouse must not be kept waiting ; and harriet then
" that cannot be much to your taste , i know , " said she ; " but i do
it amused her to observe that all her friends seemed determined to send her to delaford ; —a place ,
were familiar to them .
frank churchill pass through bath as well as oxford ?
almost resolved on leaving london again directly .
she could but just speak to be heard , and she said so prettily , ' let sister susan have
and the fear of doing wrong , would easily give to those who felt themselves inferior the belief of her
elton , i believe i shall try what i can do .
such painful confusion .
mama , how spiritless , how tame was edward ' s manner in reading to us last night !
there is safety in reserve , but no attraction .
for an hour or two i was even staggered in my resolution of marrying him , and though this was
the peace has come too soon for that younker .
but i must object to your dooming colonel brandon and his wife to the constant confinement of a sick chamber
” “i do , i do like him , ” she replied , with tears in her eyes , “i
you , whom she had known from an infant , whom she had seen grow up from a period when
making two distinct parties ; —with so much perseverance in judging and behaving ill did mrs .
same society , and the friendship , if friendship it might be called , had been proved and perfected by
chapter _num_ the allens , thorpes , and morlands all met in the evening at the theatre ; and ,
bank-bill into her hands , gave her only ten guineas , and promised her more when she wanted it .
which had not fallen in her way before .
the continuance of such unanimity and delight as had been almost too much for her at first .
you feel all this ?
’—my mind , however , is now made up on the subject , for having received ordination at easter ,
” said elizabeth to herself .
did not feel quite certain that the air of london would agree with lady lucas .
poor souls !
” a reverie succeeded this conviction—and when isabella spoke again , it was to resolve on the quality of her
had i known what i ought , what i dared to do !
if the match takes place .
weston ; i am much obliged to you for reminding me .
cruel as this sentence may appear , the necessity of pronouncing it , which can alone reconcile it to myself
all huntingdon exclaimed on the greatness of the match , and her uncle , the lawyer , himself , allowed
it came from mr elliot .
dread of ; whether he considers the danger to be lessening or not .
as i have little doubt of your feeling for us , my dear fanny , under these distressing circumstances ,
had been dead many years .
but we are none of us consistent , and in his behaviour to me there were stronger impulses even than
feelings of delight and entertainment which she knew she must be expressing , she added , “well , now tell
i could not have answered it to my conscience to let it fall into any other hands .
as of love , and apparently more full of captain wentworth than of little charles .
man , ' or ' making a conquest , ' are the most odious of all .
courage to give it .
“he is now gone into the army , ” she added ; “but i am afraid he has turned out
i declare i had no idea !
take pleasure in degrading you .
upon such occasions poor mr .
i am not at all ashamed of it .
she resolved to give her the information herself , and therefore charged mr .
” “yes ma ' am .
, sore-footed and fatigued , restless and agitated , yet feeling , in spite of everything , that a ball
; and she immediately heard that mary and henrietta , too impatient to wait , had gone out the moment
tell you , miss anne , because you may be able to set things to rights , that i have
rushworth ' s opinion in better words than he could find himself .
i do not pretend to it .
” elizabeth turned away to hide a smile .
more , and of seeing him with jane , would yield its proportion of pleasure .
she was calm , except when she thought of her mother ; but she was almost hopeless ; and in
” cried jane , with a blush and an hesitation which emma thought infinitely more becoming to her than all
it is undoubtedly better to deceive him entirely , and since he will be stubborn he must be tricked .
much might happen in thirteen weeks .
others even arose to confirm it .
he has not an ill-natured look .
fortune of twenty thousand pounds , were in the habit of spending more than they ought , and of associating
: “there are very few people of whom so much can be said .
it is not the want of more money that makes me just at present a little out of spirits ;
but shakespeare one gets acquainted with without knowing how .
was longing to know what mrs .
the imprudence , lament the result , and captain wentworth ' s name must be mentioned by both .
he injured himself ; if her case were pitiable , his was hopeless .
” “it will be a favourite , i believe , from this hour , ” replied crawford ; “but i
will be better that one should sit with henry ; and as you were saying lately that you wished you
the future .
” catherine , a little doubtful of this , could not help answering , “i wish you could have gone
better knowledge—but that so much better knowledge , so many good notions should have been hers at all ; and
” “that ' s right , my dear , very right .
” miss bates should never again—no , never !
miss woodhouse in .
we have had such incessant rains almost since october began , that we have been nearly confined to the house
the formidable henry soon followed her into the room , and the only difference in his behaviour to her was
horse ; did you ever see an animal so made for speed in your life ?
would be the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it .
own judgment been equal to her exercise of it in every other respect , had she been sure that she
” elizabeth was shocked to think that , however incapable of such coarseness of expression herself , the coarseness of
aunt norris lives too far off to think of such little people as you .
, some interference in those of her sister , and mrs .
i am writing nonsense .
jumped up , and made but two steps to the platform .
nothing escaped her minute observation and general curiosity ; she saw every thing , and asked every thing ; was
” jane ' s curiosity did not appear of that absorbing nature as wholly to occupy her .
to be placed above so many elegant young women !
” elizabeth made no answer , and walked on , her heart swelling with indignation .
her inquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered .
this letter , my dear mother , will be brought you by reginald .
frank churchill ' s accommodation on his journey , through the sad evils of sleeping two nights on the road
required , which it is very natural for him now , with so many affairs and engagements of his own
, for i have been connected with his family in a particular manner from my infancy .
the maid aside , and while william was opening the chaise-door himself , called out , “you are just in
the first error and the worst lay at her door .
” but mr .
james’s , with very decent composure .
had maintained , as to any such design in her former letter , was equally descriptive of its anxious delicacy
pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves , vanity to what we would have others think of us .
it for her daughters ' sake with satisfaction , though as for herself she was persuaded that a much smaller
room , and said he did not know what to do .
” “i dare say he will be in parliament soon .
you can ' t think how much i go through in my mind from it altogether .
” “and i am changed also ; for i am now very willing to grant you all harriet ' s
know , whether furniture might not be in danger of suffering as much where there was no lady , as
“he is the best landlord , and the best master , ” said she , “that ever lived ; not
of what might have been—but what never can be now .
, he suddenly recollected himself , and took leave .
a fortnight i declare ; and yet there have been things enough happened in the time .
collins and lizzy .
who was chiefly of use in listening to mrs .
she does not like me .
—whether miss woodhouse began really to understand me before the expiration of that fortnight , i cannot say ; —when
about with her daughter , and having very frequent parties at home .
” “i think she will .
she consulted , and in a degree was influenced by her in marking out the scheme of retrenchment which was
bennet and kitty walked off , and as soon as they were gone , mr .
though as it passed it seemed long , was not long enough to determine her feelings towards one in that
by birth she belonged to highbury : and when at three years old , on losing her mother , she
however , i have determined ; i think i am right ; i think you ought to be made acquainted
your opinion of them will not be greatly increased when i assure you that i have been as entertaining as
been in kellynch yesterday (the first time since the accident) , had brought anne the last note , which she
” “very true ; and if i had my will , we should .
at any rate , a ball .
" or will it be wrong ?
on the beginning of the fifth , however , the sudden view of mr .
lady russell had another excellent one at hand , for being extremely glad that sir walter and his family were
, and mr .
exactly so indeed !
” “impossible !
the open door , she used only the ceremony of saying that she must speak with miss tilney that moment
i have just had a conversation with my brother in which he has greatly offended me , and which as
” “he must have thought it very odd to hear me say i was engaged the other evening , when
the great-coat was hanging over the panel , and hid the arms , so it did ; otherwise , i
he did not believe there was a bolder rider in england !
to every body , having that general information on all subjects which will enable him to follow the lead ,
disappoint him—that harriet ' s nature should not be of that superior sort in which the feelings are most acute
” describing the nature of his own as they entered them .
" " i knew you by report long before you came to bath .
' —those were miss woodhouse ' s words , were they ?
them both very much .
think that the linings and cushions of the pulpit and family seat were only purple cloth ; but this is
give me further particulars .
' i will not say , that since i entered into the engagement i have not had some happy moments
miss bennet’s pleasing manners grew on the goodwill of mrs .
" anne admired the good acting of the friend , in being able to shew such pleasure as she did
i cannot express my own abhorrence of myself .
thorpe , “we perfectly see into your heart .
melancholy affair .
then she began to blame herself .
i dare say it is all very smart—but i must own , for you know i always speak my mind
, and as ready to talk as to listen .
soon after six eleanor entered her room , eager to show attention or give assistance where it was possible ;
but—how can i tell you ?
crawford ' s misconduct , that she could not give his character , such as she believed it , without
sleep as long as you can , and never mind me .
have all been so well satisfied to consider it a present from the campbells , may it not be from
for his own sake , i would not have him do so mad a thing .
" for if miss elliot were to hear how soon we came to an understanding , she would never be
the first favourite in the world , has made me consider improvements in hand as the greatest of nuisances .
no more of the matter : and their indifference towards jane when not immediately before them restored elizabeth to the
but this conciliation was not granted ; for though she often threw out expressions of pity for her sister to
these letters were but the vehicle for gallantry and trick .
no want of understrappers : my sister desires her love , and hopes to be admitted into the company ,
of some most generous and disinterested sentiments on the subject of money , which she had more than once heard
mary was satisfied with the parsonage as a present home , and henry equally ready to lengthen his visit .
when they were all in the drawing-room , the questions which elizabeth had already asked were of course repeated by
" but by coolly giving the reins a better direction herself they happily passed the danger ; and by once
morrow .
” “why , do you find them plainer then ?
she insists on my accepting every invitation of lady greville , or you may be certain that i would never
; she scorned the causeless fears of an idle fancy , and began with a most happy indifference to prepare
the two other gentlemen waited at the door to let her pass .
we are now returning to edinburgh in order to get some preferment in the acting way ; and such my
how could she deny that credit to his assertions in one instance , which she had been obliged to give
to which he was now on the point of belonging .
—it was the work of a moment .
know what to make of miss fanny .
a heroine in a hack post-chaise is such a blow upon sentiment , as no attempt at grandeur or pathos
and , with no little alarm , whether the family were down for the summer ?
, and that their manners , particularly those of the eldest , were very good .
i am sure it was a source of high entertainment to you , to feel that you were taking us
” having settled this point to our satisfaction , the next we took into consideration was , to determine in
” then seating herself with a gentleman on each side , she resumed the conversation which had engaged them before
you will hardly bear to be long outdone by jane .
collins , who continued most perseveringly by her side , and though he could not prevail on her to dance
not call , and much as he wished to stay longer at hartfield , he must hurry off .
louisa ; though till that day , till the leisure for reflection which followed it , he had not understood
i have more pleasure in a snug farm-house than a watch-tower , —and a troop of tidy , happy villages
push you about , and you will do it very well , i ' ll answer for it .
at our time of life it is not so pleasant , i can tell you , to be making new
, she resolved on getting out of the house and proceeding directly by the stage to her friends , the
who was one of the principal nurses , was recreating herself in the housekeeper ' s room , and elinor
” “persuasion is not at command ; but pardon me , if i cannot even endeavour to persuade him .
invitations were sent with despatch , and many a young lady went to bed that night with her head full
“i must be a brute , indeed , if i can be really ungrateful !
he seems a good kind of old fellow enough , and has lived very well in his time , i
she had “hoped for the pleasure of her company for a much longer time—had been misled (perhaps by her wishes)
“yes , yes , we saw him .
” “it is well .
tell him i hope he will excuse me when he knows all ; and tell him i will dance with
; and , having reached the ornamental part of the premises , consisting of a walk round two sides of
moralising over her broad hems with a commiseration and good sense , true and steady .
last obliged to answer at random , before she could at all recollect what letter it was which they were
her children were answered most satisfactorily .
look which could be fancied a reproach on their account .
of people—friendly , liberal , and unpretending ; but , on the other hand , they were of low origin
miss lucas called soon after breakfast , and in a private conference with elizabeth related the event of the day
cole , you would stay a little longer than you might wish .
in the world can be .
” “why , indeed !
what is to be done now ?
with any of us , and (comparatively speaking) a stranger to our family , should have been amongst you at
darcy ; and you yourself , when last at longbourn , heard in what manner he spoke of the man
” the varieties of handwriting were farther talked of , and the usual observations made .
well , and how did mr .
electrified by mrs croft ' s suddenly saying , -- " it was you , and not your sister ,
, and a great many more who had none at all ; and the performers themselves were , as usual
consideration , said , “if you only want me as a listener , cousin , i will be as useful
she means it , i know .
” “what , none of you ?
to an imagination which had hoped for the smallest divisions , and the heaviest stone-work , for painted glass ,
a queen and as one who condescended to place confidence in her , had every reason to expect assistance and
i have great hope of prevailing .
” with a triumphant smile of self-satisfaction , the general wished he could do the same , for he never
” some laughed , and answered good-humouredly .
and sisters , was a source of as lively pain as her mind could well be sensible of under circumstances
sir walter , indeed , though he had no affection for anne , and no vanity flattered , to make
perhaps , believe that remaining partiality for her might assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind
i am glad to hear bertram will be so well off .
we were asked on purpose to be introduced .
the carriage was sent for them now .
bennet raised his eyes from his book as she entered , and fixed them on her face with a calm
there must be three months , at least , of deep mourning ; but when they are over , i
he is not a shining character , but he has a thousand good qualities ; and is so disposed to
it was a heartiness , and a warmth , and a sincerity which anne delighted in the more , from
favourite .
frightened and awkward ; hoped she would be pleased to wait a moment , and then ushered her in too
there were very different thoughts to succeed .
frocks— .
harris , and an order for post-horses directly , she wrote a few lines to her mother .
“who is that gentleman on horseback ?
davies was coming to town , and so we thought we ' d join him in a post-chaise ; and
an hour , however , saw the whole completed ; and mr .
i wish i could see her .
a very grievous injury , and her good manners were severely taxed to conceal her vexation and anger till she
chapter xlix unaccountable , however , as the circumstances of his release might appear to the whole family , it
and eleanor , with a command of countenance which did honour to her concern for his character , taking an
“you have a great turn for acting , i am sure , mr .
i defy even sir william lucas himself to produce a more valuable son-in-law .
each other should be checked by lucy ' s unwelcome presence .
foreseen that as she died without children , she would be succeeded by that disgrace to humanity , that pest
the evening conversation , when they were all assembled , had lost much of its animation , and almost all
the carriage was offered to mrs .
” “and can you likewise declare , that there is no foundation for it ?
before the end of september , emma attended harriet to church , and saw her hand bestowed on robert martin
that , perhaps , it was best for me ; i had less to regret in sacrificing a friendship ,
are you , indeed , going there ?
" " poor dear fellow !
the account of his connection with the pemberley family was exactly what he had related himself ; and the kindness
“but my mother will have my father with her all the evening .
but , my dear elinor , what is the matter with marianne ?
” “i danced with a very agreeable young man , introduced by mr .
“my dear henry , have you nothing to say ?
” “she has taken it into her head that enscombe is too cold for her .
” they all exclaimed against such terrific ideas ; and mr .
and his behaviour , so strikingly altered—what could it mean ?
i do remember now being with you , and seeing him as well as the rest—but that we were ever
her father , captivated by youth and beauty , and that appearance of good humour which youth and beauty generally
but , though we have both reason to think my opinions not entirely unalterable , they are not , i
excessively , by her nonsense and pride--the elliot pride .
weston , whose marriages taking them from hartfield , had , indeed , made a melancholy change : but she
it all prearranged ; and when she would have conjectured and hinted about the day , it appeared that the
" she had seemed to recommend and praise him !
attributed that preference of herself which soon became evident in the manners of both , but especially of lucy ,
—what can be to be broke to me , that does not relate to one of that family ?
can you seriously ask me , harriet , whether i imagined him attached to another woman at the very time
do as well ; but there was that degree of acquaintance at weymouth which—” “oh !
i must beg to return to the house .
tranquilize her[ _num_ ] still more , had not marianne entreated her , with all the eagerness of the most
” catherine looked grave .
to be dwelt on the next day , on the ramparts ; when the balmy air , the sparkling sea
they might chuse to surprize her .
" no , i do not think we shall .
he was not a great favourite with his fair sister-in-law .
a great deal of heat about her , a quick , low pulse , &c .
“you will find , however , miss morland , it would be reckoned a cheap thing by some people ,
action abroad—of his widow sinking under consumption and grief soon afterwards—and this girl .
she was then interrupted by harriet ' s coming in ; and if harriet ' s praise could have satisfied
of visiting that would be welcome to her father , pressed them all to go in and drink tea with
” “yes , he went on tuesday , as i wrote you word .
” and emma had the advantage of hearing her own silly compliment repeated twice over before the good old lady
darcy to marry your daughter ; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make their marriage at all more
come , come , let ' s have no secrets among friends .
this was your business !
another half-hour they were all walking to and fro , between the different rooms , some suggesting , some attending
” “no doubt one is familiar with shakespeare in a degree , ” said edmund , “from one ' s
of the navy , i imagine , who would not be surprised to find themselves in a house of this
, more prosperous trial of the state : if duped , to be duped at least with good humour and
" very well indeed !
—and not only was there time for these convictions , with all their glow of attendant happiness ; there was
her uncle .
she looked all loveliness—and what might not be the end of it ?
” everybody was surprised , and darcy , after looking at her for a moment , turned silently away .
which at last , on some very wet day , is lent to yourself .
weston , i dare say , has been telling you exactly how the matter stands ?
a conundrum of mr .
, in order that he might choose for himself , whether to conquer his passion , or love and despair
she felt as if the spring would not pass without bringing a crisis , an event , a something to
" she remembered too , her own surprise at the time , at his mentioning nothing farther of those friends
or is it too short ?
affection to her .
the two grandmothers , with not less partiality , but more sincerity , were equally earnest in support of their
the first advances .
making in young ladies ' affections .
since her being at lambton , she had heard that miss darcy was exceedingly proud ; but the observation of
" but the chair would never do .
i dined twice in wimpole street , and might have been there oftener , but it is mortifying to be
de courcy could do anything with my mother ; but i was mistaken : they have had a dreadful quarrel
her beloved child , rendered dearer to her than ever by absence , unhappiness , and danger .
we are always meeting with some old friend or other ; the streets full of them every morning ; sure
difficult thing , encouraged him to hope that between them it would be easily managed .
soon lose the look of youth .
” “you appear to feel a great deal—but i am not aware how you or any of miss fairfax '
“my dear madam , ” he replied , “this invitation is particularly gratifying , because it is what i have
opposite direction from the gallery in which her room lay , and shortly entered one on the same plan ,
his opinion of louisa musgrove ' s inferiority , an opinion which he had seemed solicitous to give , his
two moments ' ill flavour , and then be swallowed and forgotten ; for i am not such a coxcomb
even their mother missed them ; and how much more their tenderhearted cousin , who wandered about the house ,
he had walked up one day after dinner , as he very often did , to spend his evening at
it is excellent news—capital news—and about a certain person we all like !
” “it is not like udolpho at all ; but yet i think it is very entertaining .
it seemed like the forerunner of something absolutely serious , which she did not wish .
while uncertain of the issue , he could not have borne any participation of his feelings , but this had
she is so stupid !
anne always contemplated them as some of the happiest creatures of her acquaintance ; but still , saved as we
two thousand pounds , and what little matter mr .
i was surprised to see sir henry such a stick .
their inferior rank .
" was an inquiry which sprung from the impatience of her mind to have something going on .
” cried emma ; “at that rate , what will become of her ?
and , my dear jane , i never saw you look in greater beauty .
" this was the light in which it appeared to those who knew the family , long before you returned
but the clothes , the wedding clothes !
you really are fit for something better .
palmer , though very unwilling to go as well from real humanity and good-nature , as from a dislike of
pain that had since grown out of the separation .
i have myself told him that miss thorpe is engaged .
he could sing a little himself .
” “but , my dear , your father cannot spare the horses , i am sure .
your party and wait for her at hartfield—if you are going home .
” “no , indeed , i shall grant you nothing .
it would astonish you to see all the shoes we wore out in our tour .
“if the master and mistress do not attend themselves , there must be more harm than good in the custom
be duped , by the sister at least .
” it was no effort to catherine to believe that henry tilney could never be wrong .
an immediate companion , and as assisting in all those arrangements for the future , which , in mr and
a frenzy fit is not one quarter so pernicious ; it is an exercise to the body and if not
i have explained it to myself in the most satisfactory way ; but you , elinor , who love to
there can hardly be a more unpleasant sensation than the having anything returned on our hands which we have given
a walk before breakfast does me good .
he began to wish to know more of her , and as a step towards conversing with her himself ,
s conduct ; langford appeared so exactly the place for her in every respect , as well from the elegant
i hope you will soon be better .
allow me to say , however , that your fair partner does not disgrace you , and that i must
” “well , ” said charlotte , “i wish jane success with all my heart ; and if she were
” she repeated .
he makes me write , but i do not know what else is to be communicated , except this said
you had better come earlier another time , because we are generally out by one .
remember that we are english , that we are christians .
it will save me a world of trouble and economy .
wickham’s adieus were much more affectionate than his wife’s .
, such as it was , there could be no possibility of the two friends passing it without a slackened
she rated his abilities much higher than any of the others ; there was a solidity in his reflections which
for a moment catherine was surprised ; but mrs .
acquainted with your sister-in-law ' s mother , mrs .
at such a time they had hoped for exertion .
" " true , " said anne , " very true ; i did not recollect ; but what shall
elinor ' s uneasiness was at least equal to her mother ' s .
like rhubarb , from every druggist .
“i do not know what i was thinking of” (blushing again that she had blushed before) ; “james only means
, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her sister as the servant was approaching the door .
means assured that such might not be the consequence .
lady susan had heard something so materially to the disadvantage of my sister as to persuade her that the happiness
she had neither beauty , genius , accomplishment , nor manner .
edward ferrars !
passed before she was interrupted , with all the restraints of her situation , could do nothing towards tranquillity .
weston , must necessarily open the cause ; but when these effusions were put by , they had talked a
attention .
but i believe i am nice ; i do not like strange voices ; and nobody speaks like you and
morland will be naturally supposed to be most severe .
and this , i fear , is all that can be said for the conduct of one , who was
two ladies were waiting for their carriage , and one of them was giving the other an account of the
but breed her up with them from this time , and suppose her even to have the beauty of an
what dreadful weather we have had !
ferrars ' s disposition and designs .
agreeable to her .
—i must , i will tell you truths while i can .
miss thorpe , and mrs .
” “yes ma ' am , some time i beleive .
what a pity , ” he added , after an instant ' s reflection , “that she should have been
crawford must be struck .
to be enlivened , not sorry to be flattered , was gay and easy too , and gave him all
this little circumstance seemed the completion of all that had gone before .
' that was what i said immediately .
dexterity of execution .
“his house shall not be hurt .
” they entered .
dixon is very musical , is he ?
their attention and wit were drawn off to his more fortunate rival ; and the raillery which the other had
i thought you did not mean to come back till tomorrow .
i am a very poor italian scholar .
in their family .
what they had done and were doing : told him of the gradual increase of their views , the happy
" " do you know what kind of a girl miss grey is ?
you , in the meanwhile , will be taking a trip into china , i suppose .
of one personal grace !
on the contrary , every particular relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to
him in a moment .
" most unwilling was she to awaken from such a dream of felicity to comprehend all the unhappy truths which
be in doubt , who has seen him often enough to engage him in unreserved conversation .
, to discover the name of your admirer .
in all their dealings and intercourse , sir walter elliot must ever have the precedence .
for it is so very agreeable a place , that it is much better to be here than at home
so wonderful and so sudden , —a perplexity which they had no means of lessening but by their own conjectures
provision than _num_ l would support her in affluence .
" marianne looked very grave and said nothing .
were sometimes of a nature to make a third very useful , especially when that third was of an obliging
possible with charlotte , she went thither every morning as soon as she was dressed , and did not return
and grateful .
quiet of belmont ; and as she was not really mrs croft , she must let him have his own
they had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in ; and her uncle and aunt , leaving
a time from highbury , and—indulging in one scheme more—nearly resolve , that it might be practicable to get an
her heart was devoted to willoughby , and the fond attachment to norland , which she brought with her from
he would not ask harriet to dance if it were possible to be avoided : she was sure he would
the carriage , and mr elliot (always obliging) just setting off for union street on a commission of mrs clay
jane , do you know i always fancy mr .
—how can you imagine such conduct practicable ?
of their father , of whom mrs .
” miss bennet had not been able to hear of his coming without changing colour .
rushworth proceeded next , under the conviction that everybody must be wanting to see sotherton , to include miss crawford
so , lady russell would not get out .
xii sir reginald de courcy to his son parklands .
elton are by situation called together ; you belong to one another by every circumstance of your respective homes .
at this rate you will soon reform everybody at mansfield and thornton lacey ; and when i hear of you
you are a kind , kind listener .
and jane declares—well !
” “i cannot take surprise to myself on that head .
of the alps and pyrenees , with their pine forests and their vices , they might give a faithful delineation
i know no one more entitled , by unpretending merit , or better prepared by habitual suffering , to receive
she found it hot enough ; but they were so full-blown that one could not wait .
” and with these words he hastily left the room , and elizabeth heard him the next moment open the
” for a moment he was silent ; and then added , in a tone much more guarded and demure
the thing is determined , that is (laughing affectedly) as far as i can presume to determine any thing without
she could not get away ; and mr .
had her own affections been as free as perhaps they ought to have been , he never could have engaged
and assist his patron and friend in deciding on what improvements were needed to it ; and from thence ,
the others are very much admired too , but i believe isabella is the handsomest .
—long , very long , she felt she had been first ; for , having no female connexions of his
” asked mrs .
to miss lydia bennet , ’ without there being a syllable said of her father , or the place where
her in a chair in the parlour .
even if he did not come to camden place himself , it would be in her power to send an
" no , none at all , " he replied , and read on .
—em-ma .
them with attention : and who could tell that they might not expect to go out with her a second
catch the music , like unfledged sparrows ready to be fed .
advantage the juster notions of what was due to everybody , and what would be wisest for herself , which
churchill ' s account—she has not been well the whole winter , and thinks enscombe too cold for her—so they
he knew his uncle too well to consult him on any matrimonial scheme .
s ideas of what such a household should be !
hurst called them to order , with bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward .
he was gone—he had touched her hand for the last time , he had made his parting bow , and
i had known it , and purposely kept it from him .
of his justifying the hopes which had so instantly followed , she was every thing by turns but tranquil .
he meant to provide for me amply , and thought he had done it ; but when the living fell
he must write his own sermons ; and the time that remains will not be too much for his parish
at home by the projection of a hill .
but , dear fanny , you must allow that you were not so absolutely unprepared to have the question asked
to think he must have received a different account of harriet from what had reached her .
till mr .
that she was , to all appearance , in the last stage of a consumption , was—yes , in such
what i wished to hear .
as soon as he knew him to be in the house .
success ; and happy did she think it for bingley and her sister that some of the exhibition had escaped
she saw her in idea settled in that very house , in all the felicity which a marriage of true
her back ; and he kissed it , and folded it up in a piece of white paper ; and
i managed it extremely well .
raise myself at the expense of others .
very little passed between them on meeting ; each found her greatest safety in silence , and few and trivial
at any rate , that henry is blameless , and in spite of a moment ' s etourderie , thinks
i am sure i would rather do any thing in the world than be thought so by a person whose
but mrs .
” here was a glance at fanny .
produced .
it may admit of improvement , however .
the distance is nothing when one has a motive ; only three miles .
“but i , ” he soon added , “who have had no such charm thrown over my senses , must
i can get you , however , a nice drawing-room apartment in upper seymour street , and we may be
end to your engagement with edward ferrars , it will be more for the happiness of both of you ,
pray read on .
who would be so very much concerned !
” repeated darcy contemptuously ; “yes , his misfortunes have been great indeed .
was resolved to go and dance ; so i thought perhaps he would ask you , if he met with
i cannot for a moment imagine that she has anything more serious in view ; but it mortifies me to
where people are really attached , poverty itself is wealth ; grandeur i detest : i would not settle in
“they set off at eight this morning , ” said miss anne , “and i am sure i do not
novels to you .
listening to her uncle in the utmost perturbation and dismay .
but he thought he could discern .
encouraged , as by no means unpleasing , though it could not be exactly defined .
weston looked up , afraid to believe ; but emma ' s countenance was as steady as her words .
and began to take in some part of the misery that must ensue , can hardly be described .
nineteen , submitting to new attachments , entering on new duties , placed in a new home , a wife
allen , ” said mrs .
within half an hour it was known all over highbury .
if , however , by an unforeseen chance it should be in my power to serve him farther , i
however , i am to have my harp fetched to-morrow .
if , as i am willing to suppose , you wish to shew me any observance , you will not
i was startled , i confess , by the alteration in his manners this morning ; he did not speak
“he only told me what i have now told you .
i have no jealousy of any individual .
proper or pleasing than his whole manner to her—nothing could more agreeably denote his wish of considering her as a
well , i was so frightened i did not know what to do , for my uncle was to give
home and countenanced by them all .
allen ' s dining-parlour was not more than half as large , ” and she had never seen so large
have anything marked out as a duty , and certainly not sorry to have the scene of it in the
a drop of water to the ocean , compared with the ceaseless tumult of her present abode .
in the first place you are to learn that i have met your sisters three freinds lady lesley and her
" " i never was in better health .
i am amazingly agitated , as you perceive .
they got on fast .
two points) he could with time persuade her to any thing .
the haste with which he came to our releif so soon after the receipt of our note , spoke so
weston informed her that she was going to call on the bateses , in order to hear the new instrument
spend in london ; so that we have the agreeable prospect of frequent visits from frank the whole spring—precisely the
" and she , " said mrs smith , " besides nursing me most admirably , has really proved an
” “that you were gone into the army , and she was afraid had—not turned out well .
grant should not contrive better !
there is not a bit of fish to be got to-day .
was till january , that he might convey her thither ; he had heard her speak of the pleasure of
many charming views of the valley , the opposite hills , with the long range of woods overspreading many ,
” “yes ; all the advantages of sitting still when he ought to move , and of leading a life
one of them now , but there is another somewhere .
her sister ' s presence ; and when at last they were told that[ _num_ ] lady middleton waited for
power of observation ; and she passed along the room without having a glimpse of him , without even trying
there will be very few people in the pump-room , if it rains all the morning .
woman is fine for her own satisfaction alone .
the lingering and long-petted master harry , sent to school after his brothers , was now living in her deserted
is or she is not engaged to willoughby ?
would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market-town where the family did not visit .
great uncle .
—you must all endeavour to comprehend the exact nature of my situation when i first arrived at randalls ; you
the idea is horrible !
she had deceived his expectations ; she had lost his good opinion .
be a finer .
what were the yawns of lady bertram ?
have been glad to be certain .
world worth having ; and with your pretty face you will never want admirers .
distasteful .
vernon and me , a very weak young man .
i am well aware that it could not be complied with ; and that one thousand pounds in the four
” she sighed .
” “no , i thank you” (sighing as she spoke) ; “they are all very well .
sponges , and made five of the under-servants idle and dissatisfied ; and sir thomas was in hopes that another
" " you were not formerly , i know .
“how good it was in you , my dear mr .
” fanny agreed to it , and had the pleasure of seeing him continue at the window with her ,
you have erred in supposing him not attached to her .
“for my own part , ” she rejoined , “i must confess that i never could see any beauty in
” and in a lower tone to fanny , “i shall have only a desolate house to hurry from .
but you see , every thing turns out for the best .
we found her indeed all that our warmest wishes could have hoped for ; we had no difficulty to convince
were i distractedly in love with him , i cannot say that i regret my comparative insignificance .
she could not .
she has a fault .
no sooner had she caught the eye of the venerable peer , than he exclaimed with every mark of astonishment—“another
we have delightful rides round us , i have a charming horse , am uncommonly fond of the amusement ,
any thing else i should be most happy to do , at your command—but my dancing days are over .
grant , with perfect good-humour , on mr .
but james will not like to put the horses to for such a little way ; —and where are the
the language , though plain , was strong and unaffected , and the sentiments it conveyed very much to the
” inquiries and communications concerning brothers and sisters , the situation of some , the growth of the rest ,
remained therefore to be done , but to think well of them both , to defend the conduct of each
—she joined them at the wall , and found them more engaged in talking than in looking around .
i could have imagined .
, more comfortable manner , than any other plan could do , and perhaps without any greater delay .
miss crawford need not have urged secrecy with so much warmth ; she might have trusted to her sense of
” emma denied none of it aloud , and agreed to none of it in private .
thought of as anything , or capable of becoming anything ; and now it is converted into a walk ,
morning , about a week or ten days after the croft ' s arrival , it suited her best to
shall i call upon them ?
as joseph andrews .
, and her own sister , mary , had been at school while it all occurred ; and never admitted
further , and fixed all her thoughts on the welfare of her new straw bonnet ; and she was actually
obliging as to take some , ' oh !
“ ' we must persuade henry to marry her , ' said she ; ' and what with honour ,
objects to which they were advancing .
instantaneous a change of expression and subject necessary , as fanny , in spite of everything , could hardly help
after a moment ' s pause , mrs .
my heart bled for you , as i talked of happiness ; and yet he is sensible , he is
" " oh , dear , that is a great pity !
bingley and his sisters on the elegance of their entertainment , and the hospitality and politeness which had marked their
weston and hear the instrument .
nobody doubts it ; and i hope you do not think i am so illiberal as to want every man
how attentive she is , to think of every body !
evils of her father ' s house , attributing an undue share of the change , attributing all to the
aye , aye , that is the fact , depend upon it .
idea , gave a hint of his hope as to the limitation of the audience , they were ready ,
" i am so glad to meet you ; " said miss steele , taking her familiarly by the arm—
complexion , the consequence of her having been almost as much at sea as her husband , made her seem
its completion depended on others .
so i said i would go down and see , and jane said , ' shall i go down instead
she is very fond of frank , and therefore i would not speak ill of her .
rushworth has set a good example , and such things are very catching .
' i shall say directly , ' i wonder how you could think of such a thing ?
relenting on the lady ' s , and that they were now very glad to be together again , did
only think what an establishment it would be for one of them .
plan in order to fly with her .
" she was silent .
i honour your esprit du corps .
that w .
nothing was fixed on ; but henry crawford was full of ideas and projects , and , generally speaking ,
churchill would never get over it .
” “ungrateful !
from that of barton , as formerly described , the girls had , in one of their earliest walks ,
, he would not distress her by the slightest allusion .
the honour of victory is doubtful .
julia was the first to move and speak again .
the son , a steady respectable young man , was amply provided for by the fortune of his mother ,
" i am sure , " said she , " i have no doubt in the world of your faithfully
and for five couple there will be plenty of room .
every thing as natural and simple as possible .
it requires a gentlewoman—a julia bertram .
the very first subject after being seated was maple grove , “my brother mr .
he must and does love her i am sure .
s little children , to improve the noise of uppercross , and lessen that of lyme .
he repeated the question , with some surprise at her silence .
i do not like crooked , twisted , blasted trees .
weston , if you will dance with me .
to all the injustice and all the discredit of the selfish arrangements which shut her out , and on many
on her fan ; and a self-condemnation for her folly , in supposing that among such a crowd they should
i have a great regard for mr .
for of course you must know , as you have been in devonshire so lately .
" chapter xxi the palmers returned to cleveland the next day , and the two families at barton were again
herself , as must appear with particular advantage at that moment to her friend .
it has been , it is a most cruel affliction .
, and william was gone .
to see justice done her .
why she did not like jane fairfax might be a difficult question to answer ; mr .
" i shall see him the husband of lucy .
the thought returned again and again .
you are probably aware of this already .
, where minuteness could be safely indulged .
i have really for some time past , for at least these three months , cared nothing about him .
—he seemed often observing her .
for , or there would be cruelty instead of kindness in taking her from her family .
certain , and quite mistress of the lines , and then passing it to harriet , sat happily smiling ,
be put out of their way—delicious fruit—only too rich to be eaten much of—inferior to cherries—currants more refreshing—only objection to
—never happier than when doing what you must know was not justifiable !
weston this morning , and at the end of them he gave me a brief account of what had happened
feelings of the warmest friendship—indignation—abominable scoundrel !
wrong in itself , if she had been guilty of one breach of propriety , only to enable her to
” “your humility , mr .
in comparison with his brother , edmund would have nothing to say .
then , her understanding was beyond every suspicion , quick and clear ; and her manners were the mirror of
he is a clever man , a reading man ; and i confess , that i do consider his attaching
i was privy to all the fors and againsts ; i was the friend to whom he confided his hopes
blush , at the sound .
seated , " of the very shocking discovery that took place under our roof yesterday .
, that we are to have the whole of the time they can give to the country , that two
little ; he seems behindhand to-night .
it was lower and quicker than ever !
i think their father is too rough with them very often .
a state of complete penance , and as different from the julia of the barouche-box as could well be imagined
weston , you must really have had aladdin ' s lamp .
, in vain .
but little interest .
before , you may as well take it into consideration now .
rushworth has made it since he succeeded to the estate .
her to love you , and she will never have the heart to refuse .
she proposed it to him accordingly ; but he did not catch at the measure so eagerly as she had
norris : “would you have her stay within such a fine day as this ?
well , that is very decided indeed—that does seem as if—but , however , it may all come to nothing
" said she , seating herself between elinor and marianne , " for it is so bad a day i
allen ' s , and james , as the door was closed on them , said , “well , catherine
impatient was he to shew his gratitude , by seeing captain wentworth under his own roof , and welcoming him
by mrs .
how much is your due ?
you will be glad[ _num_ ] of a little company to sit with you .
“base miscreant !
her calmness astonishes me .
” “your plan is a good one , ” replied elizabeth , “where nothing is in question but the desire
allen will put on his greatcoat when he goes , but i dare say he will not , for he
and then , fanny , the glory of fixing one who has been shot at by so many ; of
—an ordinary genius might probably have been embarrassed , in endeavouring to accomodate so large a party , but wilhelminus
woodhouse had been exceedingly well amused .
i am sure my sisters must all envy me .
” elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact ; and he afterwards took occasion to ask her ,
think differently from their sovereign , to forget the adoration which as stuarts it was their duty to pay them
you may see something of it here—something of the more distant trees .
” the latter part of this address was scarcely heard by darcy ; but sir william’s allusion to his friend
as possible .
from eating much ; and the present refreshment , therefore , with such feelings of content as she brought to
" what edward felt , as he could not say it himself , it cannot be expected that any one
rushworth , on her coming into the neighbourhood , civilly declined it on her own account , she was glad
besides in the present case , i really thought some explanation was due to you after my making such particular
at her with his usual kindness , she believed he had soon ceased to think of her countenance .
not i ; i never read novels ; i have something else to do .
” said she ; “that is the only security for its freshness ; and nothing could be easier to you
there was hardly time to talk over the first letter from enscombe before “mr .
its happening so .
" my dear aunt , " said she , " he is going—mr .
elinor , who saw as plainly by this , as if she had seen the direction , that it must
for god’s sake , say no more of his partners .
do not you think the miss lesleys are two very handsome young women ?
i am sure he encouraged it in us as boys .
” “and so you absolutely opened what was directed to her !
my uncle meant it so .
weariness of his company , which crept over her before they had been out an hour , and which continued
five children , and talking over what she had done every evening with her father and sister .
in mourning , you see , just as our mr elliot must be .
” “i can never be important to any one .
” “and while mrs .
i shall do that directly .
of her wishes and hints for a less expensive conveyance of fanny , they were to travel post ; when
” she spoke with great agitation ; and emma very feelingly replied , “that can be no reason for your
“you forget how much she belongs to highbury .
—no wonder you should hold my speeches in such affectionate remembrance .
literally , i conclude .
again ; and you had better name an early hour .
from such a connection she could not wonder that he would shrink .
was beginning to be influenced by fanny ' s services and gentle persuasions ; and she found that the best
much the other day .
there is no giving you a moment ' s uneasiness .
public opinion in any point of worldly decorum .
society in the neighbourhood ; looked up to , perhaps , as leading it even more than those of larger
believed herself to be inflicting a severe disappointment when she told her that edward certainly would not be in harley
” lady bertram listened without much interest to this sort of invective .
comes and makes love to a pretty girl , and promises marriage , he has no business to fly off
” cried mary ; “settle in northamptonshire !
the sisters set out at a pace , slow as the feebleness of marianne in an exercise hitherto untried since
” the speech was more to emma than to harriet , which emma could understand .
" who is colonel brandon ?
opinions of both husband and wife were so much alike ; and his praise of harriet , his concession in
amiable in it , the affectionate heart which could not bear to see a sister slighted in the smallest point
its proper course , there was no putting an end to his extreme solicitude about her .
i found them most intimate friends ; and i , too , became excessively pleased with mr elliot , and
it was late in the morning before they returned home ; and[ _num_ ] no sooner had they entered the
lady bertram constantly declined it ; but her placid manner of refusal made mrs .
in the same half-whisper to jane , “here comes this dear old beau of mine , i protest !
goddard a beautiful goose—the finest goose mrs .
” “to be sure we do , ” cried his father ; “mrs .
it at first was induced to go likewise .
she was , besides , which was the worst of all , so cold , so cautious !
certainly your own .
dashwood now took pains to get acquainted with him .
dashwood would have interrupted her instantly with soothing tenderness , had not elinor , who really wished to hear her
i have scarcely any hesitation in saying she will include you and my sister maria in every invitation with which
every minute is valuable .
his person and air were equal to what her fancy had ever drawn for the hero of a favourite story
” “no , certainly .
you forget yourself : there is a decided difference in your tempers , i allow .
” “then let it be done now .
” “well—as you please ; only don ' t have a great set out .
reached home .
i don ' t say that it is not a disagreeable business—but things might be much worse .
but the inexplicability of the general ' s conduct dwelt much on her thoughts .
, that in removing thence she might be considered rather as leaving him behind , than as going towards him
her kind-hearted uncle , you may be sure , was too fearful of distressing her to ask many questions as
she sat and cried con amore as her uncle intended , but it was con amore fraternal and no other
be always giving him such an epithet .
amazed that isabella could endure it , and jealous for her brother , she rose up , and saying she
real gentlemen .
jennings had been anxious to see colonel brandon well married , ever since her connection with sir john first brought
" said sir walter .
her mind , disposition , opinions , and habits wanted no half-concealment , no self-deception on the present , no
is a charming young fellow , has seen a great deal of the world , and writes the best love-letters
they had , therefore , many acquaintances in common ; and though wickham had been little there since the death
nobody can wonder that men are soldiers and sailors .
they are descended , on the maternal side , from the same noble line ; and , on the father’s
_num_ ] the appearance of the eldest , who was nearly thirty , with a very plain and not a
with the size and furniture of the house mrs .
not that i imagine he can think i have been encouraging him hitherto .
we shall not find a very charming neighbour in her .
but unfortunately her father possessed not a soul sufficiently exalted to admire so promising a disposition , and had endeavoured
but they are very pleasing women when you converse with them .
he scarcely ever spoke to her , and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of himself were
” “and mrs .
a recantation of past prejudices and errors , than saying to mr .
when the voices of both her sisters were raised to detain her ; a third , almost as well known
weak ; and at others again , so tyrannic , so beyond control !
” “it is an affecting circumstance indeed , replied lady scudamore .
capable of being young , attractive , and at a ball without wanting to fix the attention of every man
this was the knowledge of herself , on the first question of inquiry , which she reached ; and without
though heavy and feverish , with a pain in her limbs , and a cough , and a sore throat
bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters .
but do not torture me so .
, who readily continued her first contribution and talked with a good grace of her being “very pleasant and very
she had no anxieties for anybody to cloud her pleasure : her own time had been irreproachably spent during his
and feel their own[ _num_ ] dullness , till mrs .
is not worth while to bore my father with it now .
edmund bertram , as you do not act yourself , you will be a disinterested adviser ; and , therefore
the very houses and friends whom , under any other distress , i should turn to for consolation .
or figure more pleasing to me than hers .
pleasures , should much exceed theirs .
charles came a few hours afterwards , to bring a later and more particular account .
when she had been coming to portsmouth , she had loved to call it her home , had been fond
change of inclination , might have something to do with it ; and to augur favourably from the personal entreaty
i wish she had accepted him .
as they were surveying the last , the general , after slightly naming a few of the distinguished characters by
weston ' s disappointment , as might naturally belong to their friendship .
” but elizabeth had now recollected herself , and making a strong effort for it , was able to assure
, was a strong proof of his opinions on the subject .
; for she tells me , they are always tempting her to take a walk with them .
but my feelings are not only cordial towards him ; they are even impartial towards miss king .
, garden , and glebe , extent of the parish , condition of the land , and rate of the
, a little man .
crawford ' s very cordial adieus , pass quietly away ; stopping at the entrance-door , like the lady of
louisa was now recovering apace .
books ; her favourite authors were brought forward and dwelt upon with so rapturous a delight , that any young
as the door shut them out , but not to anne .
” “we have heard only twice .
" so calm !
) ; and of old remedies for the lost art of swooning , in the ' lavender drops ' of
” “certainly , he is not like mr .
her hand ; for i have often observed that resignation is never so perfect as when the blessing denied begins
" " yes , a great while ; ever since my sister married .
, but they were not less .
no more use at home than you are .
he turned round on their coming in , and his countenance showed that he strongly partook of the emotion which
" " i love your indignation , " said he ; " it is very natural .
you make the best of it—but after you have been a week at hartfield , you are all of you
i am to thank my sister , i suppose , for having represented me in such a light as to
” “colonel forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality , especially on lydia’s side , but nothing
darcy’s explanation , by restoring bingley to all her former good opinion , heightened the sense of what jane had
more important intelligence .
but of all the views which his garden , or which the country or kingdom could boast , none were
in spite of this release , frederica still looks unhappy : still fearful , perhaps , of her mother '
a pair of ear-rings for each of his sisters , in his next visit at gray ' s his thoughts
to elizabeth it appeared that , had her family made an agreement to expose themselves as much as they could
i seem to have been distressing you for nothing .
why what single feature in the face of either of them , can you possibly find fault with ?
the motive was too common to be wondered at ; but the means , however they might succeed by establishing
" " dear me !
his greatcoat , instead of being brought for him to put on directly , was spread out in the curricle
there represented .
you shall have a charming wife .
—i could not imagine how you could possibly do without her .
“i think we cannot do better , ” said she ; “let us send for the child .
i mean when you are settled there .
her pleasure in being at hunsford , her love of solitary walks , and her opinion of mr .
darcy : —but let me not interrupt you , sir .
norris by its reverse in himself ; clearly saw that he had but increased the evil by teaching them to
other , startled from the agreeable fancies she had been previously indulging on the strength of her brother ' s
darcy improves upon acquaintance .
not of henry ' s , of eleanor ' s—the only portraits of which she had been in the habit
i lay no embargo on any body ' s words .
respect and consideration .
wretched .
and spirits ; that he has now entirely ceased to think of louisa with any degree either of pity or
i could not leave it till louisa ' s doing well was quite ascertained .
” “i am not supposing him at all an unnatural creature , in suspecting that he may have learnt to
” elizabeth did not know what to make of it .
care of yourself , that you may be fit for the evening .
you see , miss morland , the injustice of your suspicions .
chooses .
that she had a new gown , or a new parasol , which she would have described more fully ,
, one of the sweetest creatures in the world , has read every one of them .
and sir thomas ' s wishing just at first to be only with his family , is so very natural
have i not reason to rejoice ?
—his wedding-day was named .
they were no sooner in the passage than marianne came hastily out of the parlour apparently in violent affliction ,
we do not want your present services .
churchill , as we understand , has not been able to leave the sofa for a week together .
woodhouse talked over his alarms , and emma was in spirits to persuade them away with all her usual promptitude
the effect of his discourse on the lady too , could not escape her observation , for though she was
i would much rather take a chair at any time .
on the other you have a view of the church and village , and , beyond them , of those
it is a handsome chapel , and was formerly in constant use both morning and evening .
there could be no harm in a scheme , a mere passive scheme .
after this had been settled , colonel brandon began to talk of his own advantage in securing so respectable and
“i have heard her speak of the acquaintance , ” said emma ; “she is a very elegant young woman
weston ' s wedding-cake in their hands : but mr .
a theatrical party ; and the play in which he had borne a part was within two days of representation
absolute fact of his absence was pronounced by his friend denny , to whom lydia eagerly applied , and who
we had better go into the avenue .
skilful has been the hand !
must be admired in such a place as this—is not she ?
mr millar appeared to answer the character i had always received of him .
there is more general observation and taste , a more critical knowledge diffused than formerly ; in every congregation there
her manner was incurably gentle ; and she was not aware how much it concealed the sternness of her purpose
she applied to mrs .
” “most willingly .
i give you notice that as i find your son , so i shall judge of him .
a little quickness of voice there is which rather hurts the ear .
—no .
allen , not being at all in the habit of conveying any expression herself by a look , was not
i had often seen him in love before .
and many were collected near them , to be useful if wanted , at any rate , to enjoy the
the ensuing spring deprived her of her valued friend , the old grey pony ; and for some time she
waiting appeared very long .
and at last , as if resolved to qualify his opinion completely for travelling round to its object , he
yet so unconscious , her grief and agitation were excessive .
norris ; “the curtain will be hung in a day or two—there is very little sense in a play without
but you must be aware that when a young lady is (by whatever means) introduced into a dwelling of this
—she did it all herself .
this was colonel campbell , who had very highly regarded fairfax , as an excellent officer and most deserving young
i hope he will not mind it so very much .
have no reason to find fault with him for admiring me , tho ' perhaps i may not marry him
i must put on a few ornaments now , because it is expected of me .
the play concluded—the curtain fell—henry tilney was no longer to be seen where he had hitherto sat , but his
carried round to her .
in books too , as well as in music , she courted the misery which a contrast between the past
i have heard him say that he could listen to her for ever .
jones should be sent for early in the morning , if miss bennet were not decidedly better .
had only his own comfort to seek , and his own situation to improve as he could .
willoughby was all that her fancy had delineated in that unhappy hour and in every brighter period , as capable
your mother must have been quite a slave to your education .
—but , as you had none about you , and knew i had , you desired me to supply him
everybody , and perfectly satisfied with her share of public attention .
she depended on the evil feelings of the eltons for supplying all the discipline of pointed neglect that could be
his advice .
young woman , who leant on his arm , and whom catherine immediately guessed to be his sister ; thus
and as for mrs .
he saw me sitting down .
, i should be glad to sit down for a little while .
” as it happened that elizabeth had much rather not , she endeavoured in her answer to put an end
but what shall you do ?
be found for disappointing us .
but suspecting them to be playing high she declined it , and making her sister the excuse , said she
the first half-hour was spent in piling up the fire , lest she should suffer from the change of room
” “it is not mr .
woodhouse soon followed ; and the necessity of exertion made him composed .
" she concluded with a very kind invitation to mr .
” “i am afraid you find it very cold maria .
such a sight having never occurred before , was almost as wonderful as it was welcome .
such a trifle is not worth half so many words .
acquainted with him at all .
their tempers were mild , but their principles were steady , and while his parent so expressly forbade the connection
she had despised him , and loved another ; and he had been very much aware that it was so
one is sick of the very name of jane fairfax .
the profession , either navy or army , is its own justification .
man she did , was cruelly mortifying .
am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters .
a line from me would bring you a little host of acquaintance ; and my particular friend , mrs .
you cannot mean that he has even proposed to her again—yet .
i am not conscious of having provoked the disappointment by any imprudence of my own , i have borne it
everything indeed relative to this important journey was done , on the part of the morlands , with a degree
a very agreeable day .
it was a very extraordinary thing !
if he would act in this sort of manner , on principle , consistently , regularly , their little minds
make over her little patient to their cares , and leave the room .
or at least of its appearance , and was only eager for an opportunity of explaining its cause .
“i honour his sincerity .
can hardly expect more .
” “i am quite of your opinion , sir , ” replied mrs .
variety of things to be seen and done all day long , which i can know nothing of there .
“you write uncommonly fast .
he had been going to call on them .
" no , no ; you were better employed .
i know we shall be happy .
was esteemed and valued—that even wickham had allowed him merit as a brother , and that she had often heard
; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings .
more , its sweet , retired bay , backed by dark cliffs , where fragments of low rock among the
been !
, any otherwise than as the self-command she had practised since her first knowledge of edward ' s engagement ,
mother , rather than her own , whom they were about to behold ; but instead of doing that ,
gratitude .
all the comfort that could be given by assurances of her own composure of mind , and a very earnest
" " we have been engaged these four years .
i am sure , my dear sister , you will excuse my remaining silent so long , and agree with
criticism .
i thought—but i beg your pardon , perhaps i have been under a mistake .
sages for looking on the chance of miss crawford ' s future improvement as nearly desperate , for thinking that
from the expense of the child , however , he was soon relieved .
she admired him for contriving it , though not able to give him much credit for the manner in which
i wish her extremely well : and , no doubt , there are men who might not object to—every body
had it not been for a dread of its soon becoming expedient to leave the one , and an apprehension
the same part of the house for ten minutes together , was engaged in conversation with general tilney ; and
” “i have no doubt of their being happy together , ” said emma ; “i believe them to be
to keep him quiet .
which edward ought to have inquired about , but never did .
" " a very simple one—to be of use to mr .
xxi miss vernon to mr de courcy sir , —i hope you will excuse this liberty ; i am forced
shame .
i , being a husband , and you not being a wife , the claims of the man may very
john knightley were not detained long at hartfield .
i am undeceived in time !
and he talked on only to his son , and only of the thrush , though william , warmly interested
they were scarcely ever without some friends staying with them in the house , and they kept more company of
do you remember it ?
there has been a solemn engagement between them ever since october—formed at weymouth , and kept a secret from every
the result of his thoughts appeared at last in these words .
when you have studied the character , i am sure you will feel it suit you .
—you and i will have a nice basin of gruel together .
my mother ' s spectacles .
under a bright mid-day sun , at almost midsummer , mr .
she wanted to hear[ _num_ ] many particulars of their engagement repeated again , she wanted more clearly to understand
think me incapable of having ever felt .
settled .
maple grove will probably be my model more than it ought to be—for we do not at all affect to
he heard her with astonishment .
but pride—where there is a real superiority of mind , pride will be always under good regulation .
a very friendly inquiry after miss fairfax , she hoped , might lead the way to a return of old
jennings	 _num_ mrs .
your unworthy child from your affection for ever , and leave her to reap the fruits of her own heinous
to pemberley , therefore , they were to go .
weston had occasionally introduced , and who now sat happily occupied in lamenting , with tender melancholy , over the
i was told that not only your sister was on the point of being most advantageously married , but that
present evening had particular pleasure in sending them away happy .
june will soon be here .
who were most dear to him , and who most needed a provision by any charge on the estate ,
the sole grievance and alloy thus removed in the prospect of harriet ' s welfare , she was really in
elton , nor , under mrs .
the possibility of colonel brandon ' s arriving and finding her there , came across her .
her heart was hardened against the belief of mrs .
an old man playing at see-saw , i took up the first volume once and looked it over , but
that out of her power ; she could strike out nothing new in commendation , but she readily echoed whatever
“then i will go after them , ” said catherine ; “wherever they are i will go after them .
certainly his being at randalls had given great spirit to the last two weeks—indescribable spirit ; the idea , the
it out to be feasible , but it would not do ; he must give it up .
darcy half as well as i do my dear wickham , you must be very happy .
—she felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to each : she dissolved it .
my playing is no more like her ' s , than a lamp is like sunshine .
darcy might have liked such an address , he contented himself with coolly replying that he perceived no other alteration
which did his daughter think would most accord with her fair friend ' s wishes ?
some ingenuity to evade , and he was at the same time exercising great self-denial , for he was longing
knightley could not be there too often ; he should be glad to see him every day ; —but they
be completely unsuited to her , and ought not to think of her .
, or any other game that was sufficiently noisy .
can any one if he reflects but for a moment on this blot , this everlasting blot upon their understanding
a while , captain wentworth , exerting himself , said-- " we must be decided , and without the loss
—where ' s dear mr .
” “you did !
” “you must give me leave to flatter myself , my dear cousin , that your refusal of my addresses
" ] [ _num_ ] " it was necessary to my own pride .
“you must know that though i should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation , i could not hesitate .
” cried catherine , quite frightened .
to their families in some way or other .
pounds , and no hope of any thing else ; and if he was to go into orders , as
engagement .
crawford would be less overpowering .
hearts must understand each other ere long .
a higher rank of life .
not unfrequently , through emma ' s persuasion , he had some of the chosen and the best to dine
, or of the desire i feel that our correspondence may be regular and frequent than by setting you so
we shall have a most heavenly drive .
it would have suited me in every respect .
do not you know she calls every one reserved who does not talk as fast , and admire what she
” “that i am sure you would .
“but to expose the former faults of any person without knowing what their present feelings were , seemed unjustifiable .
it of lucy ' s superior claims on edward , and be taught to avoid him in future ?
“sure , my dear sir thomas , a basin of soup would be a much better thing for you than
not to mention that aunt jane wrote sense and sensibility .
" " and see how the children go on .
certainly , ” said elizabeth , though burning with curiosity ; “we will ask you no questions .
dwindled soon into a matter of little importance but to emma and her nephews : —in her imagination it maintained
in his disposition altogether .
—i hope she caught no cold last night .
sir thomas , indeed , was , by this time , not very far from classing mrs .
i thought i had seen you first in february .
—i have gone too far already for concealment .
all this was acknowledged to mrs .
spirits became almost too high for control , and she called herself without scruple the happiest of mortals .
if there were anyone that one could apply to with a probability of gaining such a clue as that ,
wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was turned , and elizabeth was the happy woman
as to being anne ' s acquaintance , " said mary , " i think he is rather my acquaintance
—i did not care what you thought of me .
weston is rather an easy , cheerful-tempered man , than a man of strong feelings ; he takes things as
dorothea to accompany them .
drift of his discourse , that his assistance extended no farther than their maintenance for six months at norland .
the anxious interval wore away unproductively .
—he is a fortunate man indeed !
spirits which might have defied almost another week of the same small party in the same bad weather , had
should lay the whole business before him as it really was , enabling the general by that means to form
crawford , ” was exactly what he had intended to hear .
were not often met with .
she is netting herself the sweetest cloak you can conceive .
—she heard patty announcing it ; but no such bustle succeeded as poor miss bates had before made so happily
both her mother , step-mother , and himself are equally desirous of beholding .
she went on , however .
evening or never .
resentment has not been unreasonable .
it was the delay of a great deal of pleasure and parade .
i had better not write .
“then , ” observed elizabeth , “you must comprehend a great deal in your idea of an accomplished woman .
agitating , delight , should be hers .
be in love , must have long outlived every sensation of the kind .
with all the uneasiness it supplied , it connected her with the absent , it told her of people and
happily it was not necessary to speak .
be silenced .
in general reckoned to draw extremely well .
” “no governess !
i am amazingly absent ; i believe i am the most absent creature in the world .
ferrars too—in short it has been a scene of such complicated [ _num_ ]distress—but i will hope that the storm
she saw that he wanted to engage her on the old subject of his grievances , and she was in
his errand at barton , in fact , was a simple one .
and every thing was done by all three , in so critical an emergency , which affection could suggest as
forgive me , my dear friend , it is my last resource .
half an hour passed away , and the favourable symptom yet blessed her .
— ' upon my word , mr .
a watch is always too fast or too slow .
the shock which her marriage had given me , " he continued , in a voice of great agitation ,
ay , it is but too true .
chapter xviii everything was now in a regular train : theatre , actors , actresses , and dresses , were
it was a gloomy prospect , and all she could do was to throw a mist over it , and
, under such circumstances , fall short by two than exceed by two .
i have often heard him declare , that if baronetcies were saleable , anybody should have his for fifty pounds
— , pall mall .
grant received in those whom she hoped to love better than ever a young man and woman of very prepossessing
—yes—certainly .
and knew she should enjoy herself when once away , she was already looking forward to being at mansfield again
enough for her .
i will get the bath paper , and look over the arrivals .
make up his mind to leave mansfield half a day earlier than had been proposed , he would accept a
it is throwing time away to be mistress of french , italian , and german : music , singing ,
servile regret , be guarded without coldness , and honest without resentment—a letter which eleanor might not be pained by
, her very display of the importance of a spare room might have misled sir thomas to suppose it really
the best nature in the world—a wedding .
her fears and her difficulties were immediately before him .
and pretension , now spread over his air .
” elizabeth obeyed , and running into her own room for her parasol , attended her noble guest downstairs .
had been beginning to excite .
her resolution of refusal only grew more interesting by the addition of a scheme for his subsequent consolation and happiness
but anne and maria soon set her heart at ease by the sagacity of their “i know what” ; and
, that had the ball taken place , she did not think jane could have attended it ; and it
” “no , lizzy , that is what i do not choose .
, and we had a great deal of talk together .
isabella cannot bear to stay behind her husband .
much regularity , was darkness and shade , and natural beauty , compared with the bowling-green and the terrace .
be together again .
he will be there in february , otherwise london would have no charms for me ; i have not spirits
her , and though becoming attached to another , still he could not see her suffer , without the desire
that his understanding has no brilliancy , his feelings no ardour , and his voice no expression .
” but harriet was in a tremor , and could not touch it ; and emma , never loth to
the evening in walking about the room , speaking occasionally to one of his own party .
these kind of things are very well at christmas , when one is sitting round the fire ; but quite
and her daughter .
future ; for , as to her friend ' s approbation , emma had instantly removed every fear of that
she had , however , one very intimate friend , a sensible , deserving woman , who had been brought
they added to their house , to their number of servants , to their expenses of every sort ; and
in that point , however , and that only , he erred ; for though lucy soon gave him hopes
allen used to take pains , year after year , to make me like them ; but i never could
more to warm his courage than his eyes could discern in hers .
you do not think i could mean you , or suppose mr .
the marriage , which made a material difference in the discredit of it .
suspicious part by our family , he might well be embarrassed and disturbed .
affection and constancy nothing can deprive me of i know .
crawford ; yet , if he really loved her , and were unhappy too !
together as fast as could be , and he seemed to be begging something of her , and presently he
after what has so lately passed , so lately been settled between us—how joyfully , how thankfully on my side
exuberance .
depend upon it that whatever unemployed sum may remain , when i make up my accounts in the spring ,
, they were not refined enough to make any parading stipulation ; but the decent appearance of consent must be
and it was settled that we should all be there by eleven o’clock .
adeiu laura .
apprehension of its robbing marianne of farther sleep ; —but mrs .
bates ' s door .
moved towards him instantly , had not her sister caught hold of her .
” “i wish fanny had half your strength , ma ' am .
and her mother too , mrs .
he had some intention , he added , of studying law , and i must be aware that the interest
rivet never came out again .
harriet was to be there in the evening , and the bateses .
emma watched them in , and then joined harriet at the interesting counter , —trying , with all the force
—extraordinary dream , indeed !
she felt that he had every thing to elevate him which general attention and deference , and especially the attention
with several parts of the story , and has learnt the rest from that friend himself , i shall venture
you may do as you like , but i shall go to the play .
your telling it will be the greatest act of friendship that can be shown marianne .
i was upon the platform two hours this afternoon looking at her .
” “my mother ' s room !
crawford as occupier .
his absence .
no young people ' s are , i suppose , when those they look up to are at home” .
to agree with him , that with a little contrivance , every body might be lodged , which she hardly
a mile in this wood .
and his happiness under it made her wretched .
station over the mantelpiece .
prohibited its appearance except on duty .
sir thomas promised that it should be so .
to cautiousness of conduct in an affair respecting which she had never been able to inspire her with distrust ;
give them the meeting in dublin , and take them back to their country seat , baly-craig , a beautiful
” “but why should you be sorry , sir ?
suppose , with any doubt of the fact , but merely to see how she looked .
an offer to me .
” “poor girl !
it was a subject , however , in which she often indulged with her fair friend , from whom she
” “oh yes !
she got up , and ran out of the room ; and returned no more , till she heard them
and pure .
, must , at such a moment , relieve the fulness of her heart .
round the table ; and standing by them , seemed to interest herself in their arrangements till , as if
it would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk , she made some slight observation
when she could get nobody else ; and she was , in fact , almost engrossed by her nephews ,
bennet , and which she never failed to contradict as a most scandalous falsehood .
but edward had no turn for great men or barouches .
her beauty is much admired by the vernons , but it has no effect on him .
anne could not have supposed it possible that her first evening in camden place could have passed so well !
” “but you will know it , when i tell you what happened the very next day .
longer in addressing herself .
either captain benwick or charles hayter .
in these words : “i think , madam , i cannot be mistaken ; it is a long time since
her manners , soon had their effect ; and anne was well repaid the first trouble of exertion .
but now i have no doubt of seeing him here about the second week in january .
me his directions , which i particularly begged him to do .
had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains .
a very proper compliment !
” “perhaps we may ; but it is more than i ever thought of .
, when her visitor entered , to force her upon this greatest exertion of all .
a comfortable-sized bench , on which they all sat down .
” catherine was disconcerted , and made no answer ; but lydia , with perfect indifference , continued to express
“my dear , eliza , he must be in love with you , or he would never have called us
, was too apt , in emma ' s opinion , to get about as he could , and not
” “i was not within at the time ; but i heard of it from eleanor , and she has
i shall not be able to keep you—and so i warn you .
wickham had accepted their uncle’s invitation , and was then in the house .
modest tranquillity .
mr elliot was better to look at than most men , and he had no objection to being seen with
he was fond of the country and of books ; and from these tastes had arisen his principal enjoyments .
her reproaches , however , were not spared .
they gradually ascended for half-a-mile , and then found themselves at the top of a considerable eminence , where the
there is comfort , however , even here .
” “because he has not money enough .
allen ' s reply .
a man must be very much in love , indeed , to describe her so .
elton ' s time is so engaged .
in favour of her amendment ; and when , at last , she went early to bed , more and
—such a transformation !
do not be impatient , emma ; it will all come out too soon .
crawford ' s behaviour ; but when the whist-table broke up at the end of the second rubber , and
her father composed himself to sleep after dinner , as usual , and she had then only to sit and
woodhouse should dine out , on the _num_ th of december) had been spent by harriet at hartfield , and
she was perfectly disposed to make every allowance for the colonel ' s advanced state of life which humanity required
he was her dear wickham on every occasion ; no one was to be put in competition with him .
no one seemed to value but herself , and where she felt beyond the reach of lady catherine’s curiosity .
lady bridget , and yourself are the only persons who are in the knowledge of my having ever been either
could , and spent her days very happily in so doing , while those who might otherwise have attended to
did you ever see such a little tittuppy thing in your life ?
way of randalls to procure it .
you know how well it succeeded— .
the pains i have been at to dispel those gloomy ideas and give him cheerfuller views !
” catherine felt that nothing could have been safer ; but ashamed of an ignorance little expected , she dared
" " to judge from the colonel ' s spirits , however , you have not yet made him equally
before she expected it .
of such amiable appearance as wickham .
the resolution of its performance ; and as soon she had rung up the maid to take her place by
, which was saturday .
in some countries we know the tree that sheds its leaf is the variety , but that does not make
what the observations of all those might be , who were now seeing them together for the first time .
though darcy could never receive him at pemberley , yet , for elizabeth’s sake , he assisted him further in
improved .
every qualification is raised at times , by the circumstances of the moment , to more than its real value
” “my dear child , there must be a little imagination here .
jennings was desirous of her feeling ; for besides that the circumstance did not in her opinion justify such lasting
the rest of his letter is only about his dear charlotte’s situation , and his expectation of a young olive-branch
as soon as i could use my hands she taught me to knit , which has been a great amusement
youngest miss steele ; so i took off my hat , and she knew me and called to me ,
greatly in his favour that i hesitated not to pronounce him at first sight , a tender and simpathetic freind
he did not believe it to proceed from any thing that care and medicine might not remove , or at
, for ever agreed to , without being able to make their opinions the same .
knightley know any thing about it for the world !
till the possibility of the door ' s having been at first unlocked , and of being herself its fastener
god be praised !
there is something about frederick more to our taste .
, and that when i was called away for only five minutes to answer a note , instead of waiting
bingley’s invitation , and if he did , whether he would think it proper to join in the evening’s amusement
he had been very little cared for at any time by his family , though quite as much as he
he had paid it .
" anne had always thought such a style of intercourse highly imprudent ; but she had ceased to endeavour to
other side of the room ; but on perceiving mr .
” cried julia : “go boxed up three in a postchaise in this weather , when we may have seats
, and walked home to the coolness and solitude of donwell abbey .
perry , the apothecary , on the subject .
listen to other people ' s performance with very little fatigue .
she could not but observe that the abundance of the dinner did not seem to create the smallest astonishment in
the return of henry crawford , and the arrival of william price , had much to do with it ,
the good will of lucy , who looked up at marianne with no very benignant expression .
been invited as well as the harvilles ; and what do you think was the reason ?
the skinners were here last year—i wish they were here now .
i can remember that they were evidently fond of his society ; and with such encouragement , a man like
she could only compare mr elliot to lady russell , in the wish of really comprehending what had passed ,
only to gay street , or farther up the town ?
i was most seriously alarmed by her illness which trifling as it may appear to you , a certain instinctive
be observant of him .
” “then i should like to see it ; but i cannot—i cannot go .
elizabeth reserved to herself the application for her mother’s .
he submitted to believe that tom ' s illness had influenced her , only reserving for himself this consoling thought
having long had as much money as he could spend , nothing to wish for on the side of avarice
i have not heard of any thing to please me so well since charlotte was brought to bed .
her to promise him not to venture into such hazard till he had seen mr .
, but very indulgent to the latter when it did not put herself to inconvenience , guided in everything important
" ' twill be a fine thing to have her married so young to be sure , " said she
denny comes back from town .
” “i dare say she had .
why should you be less fortunate than your mother ?
away without seeing you , but i have no time to spare , and therefore must now be gone directly
made a good deal of .
" certainly , ma ' am , i shall tell marianne of it ; but i shall not mention it
she watched them till they had turned the corner , and listened till all sound of them had ceased .
i hope we shall have many sweet little concerts together .
cannot have a doubt as to mr .
when he came away , she was going to walk out with captain benwick , which , he hoped ,
by you , i was properly humbled .
i congratulate you , my dear harriet , with all my heart .
” “those who see quickly , will resolve quickly , and act quickly , ” said julia .
” “but what do you do for women ?
“now , ” said she , “that this first meeting is over , i feel perfectly easy .
everything so pleasantly settled .
loin to be dressed directly in any manner they like .
how was it ?
the servants to control , the youngest child to banish , and the poor suffering one to attend and soothe
we consulted together , however , as to what should be done , and at last she determined to send
—methodical , or well arranged , or very well delivered , it could not be expected to be ; but
” elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his friend .
harriet .
” were questions with which she amused herself .
this specimen of the miss steeles was enough .
had not mentioned it , or she could not recollect it .
used .
elinor was hardly less anxious than herself for their removal , and only so much less bent on its being
lady lucas began directly to calculate , with more interest than the matter had ever excited before , how many
price in his behaviour to this most highly respected stranger , from what he was in his own family at
there was only a small part of his estate that sir walter could dispose of ; but had every acre
jennings was eager for information ; but as elinor wished to spread as little as possible intelligence that had in
such an unlooked-for premature arrival as a most untoward event , and without mercy wishing poor sir thomas had been
jennings declared her danger most imminent—the palmers are all gone off in a fright , &c .
to make such a couple of charming lines about me !
connected with some of the great men of the day .
are favourable to his constitution and my wishes , he will be laid up with the gout many weeks .
he had three horses of his own , but not one that would carry a woman .
hurst nothing at all .
and now , miss woodhouse , i do not think i shall mind seeing them again .
had never happened , it does not appear that he felt particularly delighted with the manner of it .
dismissed for ever from his mother ' s notice .
" " i have , " returned elinor , colouring likewise , and hardening her heart anew against any compassion
what should a young fellow like you do ashore for half a year together ?
and as to smaller-sized rooms than i had been used to , i really could not give it a thought
i declare positively it is quite shocking .
though earnestly did i , as i thought my duty required , urge him to it for prudence sake ,
but he had given a reason for his interference , which asked no extraordinary stretch of belief .
of agitated spirits and unquiet slumbers .
i thought it had been only a joke , but so serious a question seems to imply more ; and
advantage .
crawford was travelling back , to london , on the morrow , for nothing more was seen of him at
the merest awkward country girl , without style , or elegance , and almost without beauty .
” “i was upstairs , mama , moving my things , ” said susan , in a fearless , self-defending
—could he have seen the heart , he would have cared very little for the lungs ; but without the
” “perfectly so , i thank you .
and there would be poor emma in the carriage behind .
by reading only six hours a-day , i shall gain in the course of a twelvemonth a great deal of
a pre-engagement in edgar ' s buildings prevented his accepting the invitation of one friend , and obliged him to
the upstart pretensions of a young woman without family , connections , or fortune .
never alluded to .
a great deal of very reasonable , very just displeasure i had to persuade away .
phillips , protesting that he did not in the least regard his losses at whist , enumerating all the dishes
dinner-parties , made him unfit for any acquaintance but such as would visit him on his own terms .
rumours getting abroad of your intention ; which must be contemplated as a possible thing , because we know how
" " and has it indeed been spoken of ?
if other people think sotherton improved , i have no doubt that you will .
she felt that , in quitting donwell , he must be sacrificing a great deal of independence of hours and
willoughby ?
i had intended to write to reginald myself as soon as my eyes would let me , to point out
occur , when he was once gone , to take him elsewhere .
the annoyance of the bells must be terrible .
, to lessen your ill opinion , by letting you see that your reproofs had been attended to .
surprised and alarmed they proceeded directly into the room she had just quitted , where they found only willoughby ,
and (raising his voice still more) i do not see why miss fairfax should not be mentioned too .
she left him disappointed and sorry .
she had neither sympathy nor assistance from those who ought to have entered into her feelings and directed her taste
by a removal for some months from each other we shall tranquillise the sisterly fears of mrs .
, that i felt it my duty to buy it .
“she has had the advantage , you know , of practising on me , ” she continued—“like la baronne d
cotton , and seemed resolved either to take another or none at all .
could he have seen only half that she felt before the end of a week , he would have thought
” “yes , cold and insensible nymph , (replied i) that luckless swain your brother , is no more ,
with the highest rank in the kingdom—provided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time maintained .
she could not keep her appointment punctually , however ; the weather was unfavourable , and she had grieved over
one cannot wonder that so very fine a young man , with family , fortune , everything in his favour
it would have kept her a little out of his way .
“i wonder , ” said he , at the next opportunity of speaking , “whether he is likely to be
so very odd we should happen to meet !
consequently , was only too happy in being allowed to go and help nurse dear miss louisa .
he had received a good education , but , on succeeding early in life to a small independence , had
anne felt an instant oppression , and wherever she looked saw symptoms of the same .
this card-room would be wanted as a card-room now ; or , if cards were conveniently voted unnecessary by their
" i did myself the honour of calling in berkeley street last tuesday , and very much regretted that i
much as you suffer now , think of what you would have suffered if the discovery of his character had
without scruple—without apology—without much apparent diffidence , mr .
” “to be sure i am .
“i was only going to observe , that though such unfortunate circumstances do sometimes occur both to men and women
louisa burton was the daughter of a distant relation of mrs .
— “i have been here a week to-morrow—half my time .
" —said he , letting it fall , and leaning against the mantelpiece as if forgetting he was to go
me yours etc—h .
” “what am i to do ?
in having your hair cut .
feeling dreadfully , you know , one can ' t tell how ; and then i took courage , and
it might be of essential consequence .
what could be more natural than his asking you again ?
[xv] list of illustrations page mr .
, they regularly advanced , and were in the environs of portsmouth while there was yet daylight for fanny to
no , he had already done that , which no man who can feel for another would do .
had their party been perfectly agreeable , the delay would have been nothing ; but general tilney , though so
table , and in spirits oppressively high .
only keep your cousin edmund from me at such a time : i should not like to be tempted .
friend ' s not very dissimilar claims to theirs , but her sense of personal respect to her father prevented
was looking forward to with the hope of its fixing his happiness for ever .
without perceiving anything very remarkable in either .
" but i left her almost in silence .
but the fact is , that being , as i am , to inherit this estate after the death of
woodhouse , a vast deal of chat , and backgammon .
maria was indeed the pride and delight of them all—perfectly faultless—an angel ; and , of course , so surrounded
" yes , a little—not much .
with your superior talents , you have a right to move in the first circle .
i treat you without ceremony , mr .
“well , ” said she at last , trying to recover herself ; “this is a circumstance which i must
of which , as almost every door in the house was open , could be plainly distinguished in the parlour
so decidedly against her !
—“i do believe , ” she continued , “this is the most troublesome parish that ever was .
she could not imagine a man more exactly what he ought to be than mr elliot ; nor did she
darcy’s pleasure in the bingleys’ invitation to the officers ; and though this was not exactly the case , the
and john had seen more drops than they could count long before .
she had very little notice from any but him .
one ought not to repine ; —but , to be sure , it would have been such a thing for
they had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water , and every step was bringing forward
she even proceeded so far as to be concerned to find that elinor and her sister were so soon to
and now i am afraid campbell will be here before there is time to dress a steak , and we
“where am i to drive ?
, beyond that of stopping five minutes to order refreshments to be in the room by their return , was
was not she the whole day with you ?
fingers , she fondly observed , " how playful william is !
at longbourn .
first understood what was intended , when her uncle first made her the offer of visiting the parents , and
her out .
" " i understand you .
i know enough of music to speak decidedly on that point .
“from bath , norfolk , london , york , wherever i may be , ” said he ; “i will
scarcely had they worked themselves into the quiet possession of a place , however , when her attention was claimed
" " yes ; and he was up again at eight to ride to covert .
the church spire is reckoned remarkably handsome .
years no more and that he had a sister of the middle size .
there , and unsatisfactory for such an enquirer as mrs smith , who had already heard , through the short
me in so many words that he wished to reason with me on the impropriety and unkindness of allowing sir
sir walter seemed to admit it as complete apology ; and though elizabeth could not see the circumstance in quite
well , i went , left all that i loved , and went to those to whom , at best
one charm of earlier youth ; but the value of such homage was inexpressibly increased to anne , by comparing
” said jane , “they are pretty sure to be equal ; however , i am very serious in not
a day or two passed before jane had courage to speak of her feelings to elizabeth ; but at last
perry !
more than a simple question on that head ; it hardly amounted to a doubt ; nor did it occupy
and occasionally part of the stream .
woodhouse considered eight persons at dinner together as the utmost that his nerves could bear—and here would be a ninth—and
it will be bad enough for the horses .
his continuing to love her had been irresistible .
but neither charles hayter ' s feelings , nor anybody ' s feelings , could interest her , till she
knightley too , to take care of her , i cannot wish to prevent it , provided the weather be
the idea of becoming what her mother had been ; of having the precious name of " lady elliot "
" charles agreed , but declared his resolution of not going away .
elton ' s wanting to pay his addresses to her had sunk him in her opinion .
he seemed to be about four or five and twenty , was rather tall , had a pleasing countenance ,
her friends in bath without one wish of being with them .
love with his friend .
he had done it .
dread of it .
charles hayter had been at lyme oftener than suited her ; and when they dined with the harvilles there had
, he believed he should not have come at all .
the randalls party agreed to it immediately ; and after a pretty long speech from miss bates , which few
better , " was silent .
" " any acquaintance of anne ' s will always be welcome to me , " was lady russell '
i am certain she likes the fellow .
the others set off .
too little light .
nobody is fonder of the exercise of talent in young people , or promotes it more , than my father
may god support you under your share !
quiet your mind , and no longer harbour a suspicion which cannot be more injurious to your own peace than
it was a concert for the benefit of a person patronised by lady dalrymple .
i am going to london , to spend a few days with john and isabella .
, excepting for a ball , or a visit , which a few hours might comprehend .
to her brother quite as it deserved , and of her regretting that he had not rather fixed on some
i distress you ; leave me , hate me , forget me !
he is the most fearful of giving pain , of wounding expectation , and the most incapable of being selfish
at the tender age of sixteen , we shall have room for the most flattering prognostics of her future renown
people , meeting with an outward door , temptingly open on a flight of steps which led immediately to turf
' oh !
henry crawford came and sat some time with them ; and her spirits not being previously in the strongest state
is he a man of fortune ?
this invitation of mary ' s removed all lady russell ' s difficulties , and it was consequently soon settled
the clouds seem parting too , the sun will be out in a moment , and we shall have a
little , have very little in their power .
” “i never did—and it is for that reason it pleases me so much , for when one is unhappy
leave shame to her .
the evening was spent in a sort of war of wit , a display of family ingenuity , on one
i think very well of mr .
submit to my unhappy fate .
elton then turned back to accompany them .
gardiner was surprised and concerned ; but as they were now approaching the scene of her former pleasures , every
gardiner and elizabeth talked of all that had occurred during their visit , as they returned , except what had
” before they were separated by the conclusion of the play , she had the unexpected happiness of an invitation
i feel as if i had never done you justice , or loved you as you deserve .
anything , they determined to give them—a dinner ; and soon after their acquaintance began , invited them to dine
' s own country gives , and the greatest curiosity to visit it .
but there was no doing any thing , with mr .
“i am sorry to find , my love , that my father does not think you looking well—but i hope
bingley returned mr .
it will exactly suit my cross .
elton by her superiority both of mind and manner ; and that , face to face , mrs .
i am afraid of her , as i have told you before , quite afraid of her , because she
of his sister and edmund .
the letter f had been likewise invariably brought forward , and found productive of such countless jokes , that its
if , indeed , it should be so !
a window , cut down to the ground , and opening on a little lawn , surrounded by shrubs in
returning with her in a much more cordial manner than before , and proposed their going up into her room
minutes , but he was gone above an hour ; and when his sister , who had been waiting for
i shall write to mrs .
crawford ' s choice seemed to justify” said sir thomas , beginning again , and very composedly , “his wishing
chapter xxxvii mr .
, and in a moment was driven from the door .
and who did always contrive to experience some evil from the passing of the servants behind her chair , and
silly woman to expect constancy from so charming a man !
circumstances , would adopt .
especially mamma ; she is thinking so much of poor richard !
wickham did not play at whist , and with ready delight was he received at the other table between elizabeth
of feeling such a connexion for the first time , made him a little forgetful of fanny .
some parts of my past conduct .
which in so small a circle must be important .
” “very true , my dear , that is exactly what i say .
i would give anything to know the truth of it .
“i am sure , ” she added , “if it was not for such good friends i do not know
george otway ; she will love to tell you all about it herself to-morrow : her first partner was mr
father and mother , brothers and sisters , of whom she very seldom heard ; who was interested in all
, while we praise udolpho in whatever terms we like best .
i am so sorry she has not had a partner !
" with difficulty however could she prevent her from following him herself ; and to persuade her to check her
johnson ' s house , from mrs .
she was not the better pleased with his gallantry from the idea it suggested of something more .
not be in my power to satisfy .
upon what plea ?
independence was more needful than ever ; the want of it at mansfield more sensibly felt .
' said i , ' it is miss woodhouse : i am sure you will like to see her .
woodhouse ' s feelings were in sad warfare .
" is there no one to help me ?
to time in different people .
by their aunt .
—here have we been , the whole winter and spring , completely duped , fancying ourselves all on an equal
she could not foresee that colonel brandon would give me a living .
however , i thought it was proper to give myself a few airs—so i said to her— “this is all
captain wentworth , after being unseen and unheard of at uppercross for two whole days , appeared again among them
perry herself mentioned it to my mother , and the coles knew of it as well as ourselves—but it was
, “very well , mr .
had just strength enough to reach hartfield , before her spirits were quite overcome .
” said miss bates , joyfully ; “my mother is so pleased !
" " i am sorry for that , " returned the other , while her eyes brightened at the information
can you yourself , lizzy , so wholly give him up , as to believe him capable of it ?
was sure he did not mean there should be any change , and that it was only her own conscience
her sisters .
are you acquainted with mr .
confused by his notice , and blushing from the fear of its being excited by something wrong in her appearance
” elizabeth , still more affected , was earnest and solemn in her reply ; and at length , by
john knightley disperse his ill-humour .
you forced me into visiting him last year , and promised , if i went to see him , he
and all of them were gone ; for the three boys , in spite of their mother ' s entreaty
my father wished us , as schoolboys , to speak well , but he would never wish his grown-up daughters
and education had not given her so very hurtful a degree of self-consequence .
weston had very good reason for saying so .
how are the civilities and compliments of every day to be related as they ought to be , unless noted
bennet should only hear of the departure of the family , without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman’s
there is not a shadow of wavering .
why was not she to be as useful as anne ?
was determined they should not say i shut myself up because tilney was gone .
leave her friend , or her friend ' s carriage , in the lower part of the town , and
to your charms before i had time to look about me .
of dividing them from each other—of exposing one to the censure of the world for caprice and instability , and
fairfax ; and jane fairfax , though no great favourite with her in general , she was at that moment
for the abbey mill farm ; but now she feared it not .
i have no common interest in crawford ' s well-doing .
churchill could be reconciled to the engagement ' s becoming known ; as , considering every thing , she thought
the morning had passed away so charmingly as to banish all her friendship and natural affection , for no thought
xxx lady susan vernon to mr .
woodhouse , who did not like that any one should share with him in isabella ' s first day .
for a wet evening in my life , you must manage as well as you can , and not be
you did look remarkably well .
if he had not had a family of his own , i and my children must have had all his
place altogether .
netherfield .
i really know very little of sotherton .
dixon , i felt how much more probable that it should be the tribute of warm female friendship .
we were married , you know , at st .
strong impulse of affectionate sensibility , she moved after a moment , to her sister ' s chair , and
; and though such a solicitation must be waived for the present , the lady felt no inclination to trifle
their presence was a restraint both on her and on lucy .
you have qualities which i had not before supposed to exist in such a degree in any human creature .
” “something very much to the purpose of course .
you will soon be able to judge of the general credit due , by listening to some particulars which you
accompanied with a disagreable head-ake she attributed it to a cold caught by her continued faintings in the open air
frank churchill to be making such a speech as that to the uncle and aunt , who have brought him
darcy is so violent , that it would be the death of half the good people in meryton to attempt
” “you may well class the delight , the honour , and the comfort of such a situation together ,
” “if i did not know her to be happy now , ” said emma , seriously , “which ,
her breath , her skin , her lips , all flattered elinor with signs of[ _num_ ] amendment ; and
measles are a dreadful complaint .
mind the whole day ?
warmed by the sight of such a friend to her son , and regulated by the wish of appearing to
darcy , she was directly retreating .
" " you know him then , " said mrs .
did you never hear him talk of mr .
bennet , whose dislike of his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his having slighted one of her
edward , who , she was sure , had quite doted upon the worthless hussy , and was now ,
and when did you get anything to eat ?
it , you must see the importance of getting in the grass .
darcy ; the latter of whom , however , could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of
i found myself , in short , in thornton lacey .
it was only in his presence that catherine felt the smallest fatigue from her journey ; and even then ,
down to work , " and with how heavy a heart does he travel ?
being for the time thoroughly fagged , which their hot faces and panting breaths seemed to prove , especially as
some family objections on the part of my cousin , she would never give her consent to what she termed
crawford , approaching julia , said , “i hope i am not to lose my companion , unless she is
run across and entreat her to come in ; my mother will be so very happy to see her—and now
in the last few months had excited , fanny had never known so much felicity in her life , as
would not even look at her .
events and the new interests of henrietta ' s views should have placed her friend at all in favour with
xxvi mrs .
often given me .
i left her and bath yesterday , never to see either again .
but one thing may be said for me : even in that horrid state of selfish vanity , i did
he has chosen his partner , indeed , with rare felicity .
hope that his niece would find a blank in the loss of those attentions which at the time she had
he could not but wonder at her refusing to do anything for a niece whom she had been so forward
but elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not be suspected by jane , to whom she had never yet
” “but is it like what one reads of ?
she could not bear that her master should not be able to have another apple-tart this spring .
his eyes were fixed on marianne , and , after a silence of some minutes , he said , with
” “i have very little to say for frederick ' s motives , such as i believe them to have
grant would have been in a greater danger of becoming worse in a more active and worldly profession , where
the girls were now hunting for the laconia ; and captain wentworth could not deny himself the pleasure of taking
and is such a girl to be my nephew’s sister ?
the state of her spirits had probably had its share in her indisposition ; for she had been feeling neglected
let me entreat you never to think of him again , my dear catherine ; indeed he is unworthy of
the selfish sagacity of the latter , which had at first drawn robert into the scrape , was the principal
i give you this caution now , because i shall never speak to you again on the subject .
it was done ; and catherine found herself alone in the gallery before the clocks had ceased to strike .
she is a sweet creature !
a very fine woman with a large fortune , in love with him !
and anne , with some amusement at their style of driving , which she imagined no bad representation of the
up his wife , she had scarcely sinned against his character , or magnified his cruelty .
" have you finished your letter ?
they were come to bath for a few days with mrs musgrove , and were at the white hart .
mrs charles musgrove will , of course , wish to get back to her children ; but if anne will
on such a subject , " sighing heavily , " can i have little temptation to be diffuse .
while there is so much reason to fear the connection would be opposed by those friends on whom you depend
fairfax of the ——regiment of infantry , and miss jane bates , had had its day of fame and pleasure
how to be enough thankful for his release without wounding his delicacy , nor how at once to give them
“i shall be very glad to look it over , ” said he ; “but it seems long .
her own scruples ; and as she looked around her , the claims of her cousins to being obliged were
i wonder how the young man could have the assurance to ask it .
rushworth and maria are quite ready .
such a time .
you forget how time passes .
” “oh , lord !
attend her through life .
the comfort of the whole evening was destroyed .
most gradual , natural manner .
happiness , all gentle as is her mind , i have not a doubt but that she would pity your
i was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back .
she was still very poorly , and elizabeth would not quit her at all , till late in the evening
he and his friend had been out with their guns the chief of the morning , and tom had taken
they should not have burnt her—but they did .
can you mention any other measure by which i have a chance of doing equal good ?
” here mr .
martin , i suppose , is not a man of information beyond the line of his own business ?
she was not immediately able to say anything , and even when her spirits were recovered , she debated for
the drawing-room , that mr .
bertram , ' said she , with a smile ; but it was a smile ill-suited to the conversation that
how her heart swelled with joy and gratitude as she passed the barriers of portsmouth , and how susan '
and striking , and her [ _num_ ]address graceful .
a note was just then brought in , and laid on the table .
heart by a compliance , could not long even affect to demur ; especially as mrs .
tom dangerously ill , edmund gone to attend him , and the sadly small party remaining at mansfield , were
she had used him ill , deserted and disappointed him ; and worse , she had shewn a feebleness of
knowing that lord st clair was our grandfather , we agreed to endeavour to get something from him by discovering
other about it .
collins was wishing to marry you .
day long , or rather claimed as part of the family ; and , in return , she naturally fell
ten thousand a year !
she shall have all the retribution in my power to make ; if she value her own happiness as much
departure from mansfield was so near .
while you were at all in suspense i kept my feelings to myself , but now that you are so
indeed , eliza , you will be as welcome as either of them .
bennet give up the point .
, i hope , a comfortable day with you in town within this week .
my days , and which is of a kind to require the most inviolable secrecy from you .
miss vernon is to be placed at a school in london before her mother comes to us which i am
now will you listen to me ?
your lap seems full of good things , and here is a basket of something between us which has been
i am assured that it is safe at northampton ; and there it has probably been these ten days ,
make any better end the effect of good luck not to be reckoned on .
she joined charles and mary , and was tired enough to be very glad of charles ' s other arm
there i build my confidence .
of friends .
" there is nothing so bad as a separation .
robinson .
” “miss bennet i am shocked and astonished .
to talk would be only to irritate .
" she paused—and added in a low voice , " if i could but know his heart , everything would
did know her own present feelings , convinced him that he should be able in time to make those feelings
a more considerable degree of wandering attended the third repetition ; and , after completing the fourth , she immediately
in nine cases out of ten a woman had better show more affection than she feels .
at my ease and be dragged up at the expense of those noble animals .
i cannot remember the time when i did not know a great deal that she has not the least notion
—somebody talked of rain .
my feelings are not quite so evanescent , nor my memory of the past under such easy dominion as one
the difference was so great that mary and anne were not more than beginning breakfast when charles came in to
father and his friend .
marianne had now been brought by degrees , so much into the habit of going out every day , that
anne found in mrs smith the good sense and agreeable manners which she had almost ventured to depend on ,
i dare say i shall catch it ; and my sore-throats , you know , are always worse than anybody
every thing , and every body , was right ; and mr shepherd ' s clerks were set to work
that i could not give the advantage to all .
beams of a western sun gaily poured through two sash windows !
it was a dreadful picture of ingratitude and inhumanity ; and anne felt , at some moments , that no
he knew her to be very timid , and exceedingly nervous ; and thought it not improbable that her mind
hating to part with them ; hating change of every kind .
lieutenant of ireland , after having clapped his hand on his sword , and after performing many other services to
bird and mrs .
i am persuaded the gout is brought on or kept off at pleasure ; it was the same when i
she did not learn either to forget or defend the past ; but she learned to hope that it would
it is such a spur to one’s genius , such an opening for wit , to have a dislike of
secret , for you are a party concerned .
are united , it requires uncommon steadiness of reason to resist the attraction of being called the most charming girl
how thankful am i that we never let them know what has been said against him ; we must forget
” so said i , and to my opinion everyone added weight by the concurrence of their own .
many girls might have been taken in , for never were such attentions ; but i knew the fickle sex
it expedient to find her way back again to the first .
” (said my mother .
” i was overjoyed to find him yet sensible .
they must both have suffered a great deal under such a system of secresy and concealment .
mansfield shall cure you both , and without any taking in .
—how is mr .
is fulfilled .
this lock of hair , which now he can so readily give up , was begged of me with the
—is her son determined to submit to this , and to all the tediousness of the many years of suspense
and for my part , i was all in a fright for fear your sister should ask us for the
” “i will read you their names directly ; here they are , in my pocketbook .
mrs smith made no reply ; but when she was leaving her said , and with an expression half serious
yates !
rushworth , not seeming to care how he exposed or hurt him , and paying attentions to my cousin maria
so that mrs .
kindly overlooked on your side , and not lead you to reject the offered olive-branch .
the preparing and the going abroad in such weather , with the sacrifice of his children after dinner , were
, and may take possession of longbourn estate whenever it falls , without any self-reproach .
are not you wild to know ?
what fault do you find with their complexion ?
have been the real cause of his rising late .
and where are your sisters ?
from that evening , or at least from the time of miss woodhouse ' s encouraging her to think of
” the contrast between the countenance and air of mr .
ferrars ; and such ill-timed praise of another , at elinor ' s expense , though she had not any
being a d—thing to be miserly ; and that if people who rolled in money could not afford things ,
i think he values the very quietness you speak of , and that the repose of his own family circle
sit down among the rest ; though her spirits retained the impression of what had passed , the whole evening
may be his sister is worse at avignon , and has sent for him over .
crawford remembered her message to her cousin , she thought it very likely , most likely , that he would
, first , from the circumstance of her having been three years at school there , after her mother '
judgment had fixed on for beginning .
eager to save her mother from every unnecessary moment ' s horrible suspense , she ran immediately into the hall
how were people , at that rate , to be understood ?
—he was expected back every day .
those letters are convenient passports .
; and should a dislike be taken against them , should they be thought of unfavourably , on their father
" " no engagement !
not live among his parishioners , and prove himself , by constant attention , their well-wisher and friend , he
sell the no less unfortunate charles .
mrs cope and her daughter .
had nothing to say .
choice , and at the same time addressed in such a way as to oblige one to do the very
could not remain many paces from the chest .
“upon my word , fanny , you are in high luck to meet with such attention and indulgence !
the house and the garden , with all the objects surrounding them , were now become familiar , and the
well , colonel fitzwilliam , what do i play next ?
” after this speech he was gone as soon as possible .
to assist or advise miss dashwood in any emergence .
cooks had been adopted within this , their spacious theatre ; and , when the genius of others had failed
it is impossible to see the intimacy between them so very soon established without some alarm , though i can
enough for such a meeting ; and even when particulars were given and families described , he was still unwilling
i should scold her myself , if she were capable of wishing to check the delight of your conversation with
but sink it under the chill , the annihilation of a mr .
we will follow them to hartfield .
usually open to every feeling of attachment to the objects around him ; and on mrs .
' i am sure you must be , ' said he , ' and i will send you another supply
the honour of introducing him to her friends .
how does mrs .
' ” she met mr .
though , perhaps , as the chaperon of the party—i never was in any circle—exploring parties—young ladies—married women—” her mutterings
he loves any thing of the sort , and especially any thing that pays woman a compliment .
will not it be right for me to go too ?
—i assure you i think she has very extraordinary talents .
i am to have .
there are undoubtedly many who could not say the same , but thanks to lady catherine de bourgh , i
my dear love , ” before they hurried off .
mr musgrove was , in a lesser degree , affected likewise ; and when they reached the cottage , they
this was felt to be a considerable amendment ; and though they all met at the great house at rather
anne had very sincerely rejoiced in there being no means of her going .
it was first broken by mrs .
; and he was always the sweetest-tempered , most generous-hearted boy in the world .
a bright morning so early in the year , she allowed , would generally turn to rain , but a
, by the testimony so highly in his favour , and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light
as well acquainted with the particulars of this king ' s reign as i am myself .
” “my brother ' s heart , as you term it , on the present occasion , i assure you
enscombe is in yorkshire ?
marianne fixed her eyes on her with a rational , though languid , gaze .
and as for the little embellishments you speak of , they are embellishments , and i like them as such
“i am worn out with civility , ” said he .
she was persuaded that any tolerably pleasing young woman who had listened and seemed to feel for him would have
, i was once as dear to him as my own soul could wish .
she was not yet dancing ; she was working her way up from the bottom , and had therefore leisure
harry dashwood , and lady middleton ' s second son william , who were nearly of the same age .
sensibility and these are absolutely unfruitful in suggestion .
with astonishment did elizabeth see that her new acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as herself .
altogether there is a self-sufficiency without fashion , which is intolerable .
was strolling about near the two inns as they came back , should be his servant .
some inconvenience to your friends , indeed , might result from it—you would not be[ _num_ ] able to give
astonishment and doubt first seized them ; and a shortly succeeding ray of common sense added some bitter emotions of
all families within the reach of my influence ; and on these grounds i flatter myself that my present overtures
" did not you think him sadly out of spirits ?
” it was well at that moment that tom had to speak , and not his sister .
" but i always thought i should i was almost sure you would not leave london yet awhile ; though
, you know , the same tenderness of disposition—and i will not pretend to say that while she lived ,
the servant of mrs .
throw in a little improvement to the figure , to give a little more height , and considerably more elegance
the party in general .
” “but not before they went to brighton ?
the cottage were sitting quietly at work , they were visited at the window by the sisters from the mansion-house
i begged him to excuse me , and get some other partner—but no , not he ; after aspiring to
” emma understood him ; and as soon as she could recover from the flutter of pleasure , excited by
for the sake of what is more important than my comfort , a habit of self-command in you , a
anne replied , and spoke in defence of the performance so well , and yet in allowance for his feelings
while our father is fluttering about the streets of london , gay , dissipated , and thoughtless at the age
’ but afterwards she seemed to improve on you , and i believe you thought her rather pretty at one
” cried bingley .
elton which nobody else paid her .
still refuse .
to be every day .
it was a correspondence which fanny found quite as unpleasant as she had feared .
and was eagerly looking over the play , with mr .
beauty of her dress , to make the two ladies all the amends in her power , by helping them
if he wanted , he would send for her ; and even to offer an early return was a presumption
yet returned ; adding , with a significant smile , “i do not imagine his business would have called him
the only one among them , whose opposition of feeling could excite any serious anxiety was lady russell .
the compliment to herself and her sister was not unfelt .
: she was at a window , looking out for captain wentworth ; and even henrietta had at best only
i could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes .
drew from him some pleasant ridicule , which reminded anne of the early days when she too had been ignorant
” “perhaps i do .
he had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood—the sort of preference which was
sister , in seeing him almost for the first time after receiving his explanatory letter .
of her other , her older , her more established friend , isabella , of whose fidelity and worth she
are you quite sure that you understand the terms on which mr .
i observed no one in particular .
jennings , that she thought it a delightful thing for the girls to be together ; and generally congratulated her
luckily lady middleton ' s mother had arrived at barton within the last hour , and as she was a
—“and such weather for exploring !
s falsehood— " engaged to mr .
i suppose she had nothing particular to say to you , lizzy ?
i am grown too old to go out more than three times a week ; but i have a plan
” there was , indeed , so deep a blush over fanny ' s face at that moment as might
to meet her ; but , instead of the expected summons , when they approached her , she said to
; but angry people are not always wise ; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled , she
a most favourable opinion of his understanding , heart , and temper .
elinor , who knew that such grief , shocking as it was to witness it , must have its course
she is exceedingly fond of you , but so it happened to strike her .
it will be all to one a better match for your sister .
” “be satisfied madam (replied he) i do suspect it , and therefore must desire that you will both leave
she was at home .
place your dear brother has great curiosity to see , but thought i would first trouble you with these few
imagine my surprise when he was introduced to me by the name of cleveland—i instantly recognised him as the brother
you can conveniently leave town ; and we must put off the party to whitwell till you return .
and gratitude which could have been dispensed with .
her family .
civilities .
where was his reliance on my sense and goodness then ?
all alone at her carpet-work , little suspecting what was to come—for she had just been saying to your brother
looked quite red .
crawford went into norfolk before or after the _num_ th was certainly no concern of hers , though , everything
half an hour followed that would have been at least languid under any other circumstances , but fanny ' s
” “yes , yes , every hole and corner .
due attention .
and , fanny , though i hope i do justice to my sisters ' good qualities , i think it
” “at any rate , however , i am pleased that you have learnt to love a hyacinth .
elton ' s sanguine state of mind , he tried to take her hand again , as he joyously exclaimed—
of resolute firmness , as if determined at once to accustom herself to the sight of every object with which
collins’s proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could .
mary had heard herself mentioned to miss bingley as the most accomplished girl in the neighbourhood ; and catherine and
—i care for nobody as i do for you !
what a boat it is !
" [ _num_ ] " it would be impossible , i know , " replied elinor , " to convince
could the originals of the portraits against the wainscot , could the gentlemen in brown velvet and the ladies in
as it was , i was only betrayed into paying a most unreasonable visit .
if they are not perfect , i shall be surprised .
we are to walk about your gardens , and gather the strawberries ourselves , and sit under trees ; —and
" " how can you think of dirt , with such objects before you ?
arthur !
again , i will give him such a dressing as he has not had this many a day .
could have foreseen that the time would ever come when men and women might lie another ten minutes in bed
be able to get through it .
when lady middleton rose to go away , mr .
” “oh yes , sir !
with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of the evening ; and i take this opportunity
' —what does this mean ?
not always pay attention to the book .
xvii mrs .
poor lydia’s situation must , at best , be bad enough ; but that it was no worse , she
tilney says it is always the case with minds of a certain stamp .
i have been uncertain what i ought to do .
speaking their united inclinations .
i have reason to imagine she did receive serious proposals from sir james , but her removing to langford immediately
though far from clever , she showed a tractable disposition , and seemed likely to give them little trouble .
he knows , as well as you do , of what consequence it is .
could wish to see you attached to ; she has so much good sense , and is so thoroughly unaffected
he was by no means displeased with this discovery , as he had the comfort of reflecting that he should
the intermediate month was the one fixed on , as far as they dared , by emma and mr .
she was wild to be at home—to hear , to see , to be upon the spot to share with
these particulars—but as she declares she never heard a syllable of it before , of course it must have been
, that real jealousy never can exist between them ; depend upon it that no disagreement between them can be
allen thought them very pretty kind of young people ; and you were sadly out of luck too in your
it seemed as if every thing united to promise the most interesting consequences .
now , however , i see nothing in it but a very natural and consistent degree of discretion .
" " it was my friend mrs rooke ; nurse rooke ; who , by-the-bye , had a great curiosity
she was determined to see fanny alone , and therefore said to her tolerably soon , in a low voice
" i thought it my duty , " said he , " independent of my feelings , to give[ _num_
unexpected a one as her ladyship , was announced .
could no longer refrain from the gentle reproof of , “my dear catherine , i am afraid you are growing
do me the justice to beleive that i think and feel , a great deal for your sisters affliction .
chapter _num_ catherine was not so much engaged at the theatre that evening , in returning the nods and smiles
in that case , nothing could be more pitiable or more honourable than the sacrifices she had resolved on .
i must tell you what an unlucky thing happened to me , as to that .
chapter xi “harriet , poor harriet !
s manner , that he did mean to go with her .
you have now given exactly the explanation which i ventured to make for you to your friend and mrs .
this is full proof undoubtedly ; proof of every thing you were saying .
weston found all the others assembled ; and towards this view she immediately perceived mr .
wears white .
and now loved to talk of the pleasures of her visit , and describe the many comforts and wonders of
them , he was very steadily earnest in the pursuit of the blessing , and it was not possible that
i was by no means prepared for such an event , nor can i now account for her ladyship '
the baronet , nevertheless , is not unlikely to marry again ; he is quite fool enough .
he was aware that he must not expect a genius in mr .
ferrars .
feel necessary .
it distressed her a little , and she was quite glad to find herself at the gate in the pales
could not be a better time , sir walter , for having a choice of tenants , very responsible tenants
knightley used even to the woman he was in love with , how to be able to ask her to
to you about them ; he has found out something or other in one of them which he thinks--oh !
jennings on her side treated them both with all possible kindness , was solicitous on every occasion for their ease
so far was she , at the same time , from any backwardness to give elinor that credit[ _num_ ]
description of the fine country about lyme so feelingly attended to by the party , that an earnest desire to
” then after a short silence he continued : “lizzy , i bear you no ill-will for being justified in
i am sure i have not got one half so good .
we really are so shocked !
appearances of the next few days .
day gave greater kindness , made such an excuse unnecessary before it had ceased to be possible , by marianne
wilfully opposing him , insensible of half his merits , and quarrelling with him because he would not acknowledge her
if you’ll believe me , i did not once put my foot out of doors , though i was there
” elizabeth made no answer .
he took out his pencil , there was so little lead that he soon cut it all away , and
but she was always right .
” fanny could not say she did not ; and as they all persevered , as edmund repeated his wish
" cried marianne , stepping hastily forward .
” he looked as if he fully understood and honoured such a sentiment .
it would be the greatest pleasure to them , if you could allow me to attend you there .
desired that we would consider what was the most prudent step to be taken in our unhappy situation while he
with the softest cotton ; but , excepting the cotton , emma saw only a small piece of court-plaister .
elton ' s guidance , the very active patroness of jane fairfax , and only sharing with others in a
she had all the heroism of principle , and was determined to do her duty ; but having also many
” and she spoke with a warmth which quite astonished edmund , and which she blushed at the recollection of
her mind was in a state of flutter and wonder , which made it impossible for her to be collected
with his litter of books , guns , and greatcoats .
you are very much wanted .
to that of being useful to them .
he would make a good husband .
in extent , it is a mere nothing ; you would be surprised at its insignificance ; and , as
his hair , he should not be ashamed of being seen with him any where ; and the admiral ,
i am sincerely anxious for its all turning out well , and ready to hope that it may .
walter added) , who was living in very good style in marlborough buildings , and had , at his own
anne longed for the power of representing to them all what they were about , and of pointing out some
weston is almost an old man .
even now , she speaks with pleasure of being in mansfield in june ; but june is at a great
there would have been either the ostentation of a coxcomb , or the evasions of a mind too weak to
would rather dispense with ; and he did know that she would have prevented the instrument ' s coming if
pistoletta) pray papa how far is it to london ?
had spoken it hastily and in anger , she was able to believe , that he had rather said what
” “it was not till after supper .
constancy : i am not afraid of the word .
if you love mr .
“yours ever , “a .
the comfort of such a friend at that moment as colonel brandon—or such a companion for her mother , —how
she saw that he saw elizabeth , that elizabeth saw him , that there was complete internal recognition on each
perfectly gratified , she already begins to mention their return to town , and has desired us to accompany her
you are infinitely my superior in merit ; all that i know .
” “do i !
—we cannot suppose he would help it if he could .
from the dread of mr .
her pleasure in seeing him was like every other of her feelings , strong in itself , and strongly spoken
i doubt whether my own sense would have corrected me without it .
a very short time , that her not loving him now was scarcely regretted .
and newspapers lay everything open ?
children away in the maid ' s room , or swinging a cot somewhere , " they could hardly bear
” “we must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side , ” said jane : “i hope
“no , no , julia must not be amelia .
i must confess myself surprised by your application ; i did not expect it from you .
john knightley here asked emma quietly whether there were any doubts of the air of randalls .
they walked off , utterly heedless of mr .
the home agreeable to the man ; he is to purvey , and she is to smile .
she looks the part , and i am persuaded will do it admirably .
bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments .
” “i shall not pay them any such compliment , i assure you .
” “lady catherine is a very respectable , sensible woman indeed , ” added charlotte , “and a most attentive
jennings ' s heart , she is not a woman whose society can afford us pleasure , or whose protection
knightley himself would be doing nothing to assist the cure ; —not like mr .
” “i know nothing of the large parties of london , sir—i never dine with any body .
you may think , miss elliot , whether he is dear to us !
” “indeed i do .
a dab of powder at top .
with this parting cordial she curtsies off—you listen to the sound of her receding footsteps as long as the last
but mama did not think the match good enough for me , otherwise sir john would have mentioned it to
” “break it to me , ” cried emma , standing still with terror .
nothing more advantageous occurred , it would be better for her to marry you than be single .
to make it very desirable for miss elliot to have the advantage of being conveyed home in lady dalrymple '
his horses seemed not half so sluggish as before .
never .
tilney was no fonder of the play than the pump-room .
moment .
poor edward !
she hoped when clear of milsom street to have her curiosity gratified ; but she was still obliged to wait
should see that every thing were safe in the house , as usual .
no attention to bestow on anyone else ; but she found herself considerably useful to both of them in those
weston could say of their exactly equal size , that it was a little the largest .
knightley , but i am a very slow walker , and my pace would be tedious to you ; and
i never was at his house ; but they say it is a sweet pretty place .
my mother often talks of your good-nature .
“you have no regard , then , for the honour and credit of my nephew !
a tidy old woman travelling homewards from shop with her full basket , two curs quarrelling over a dirty bone
teasing , teasing , man !
this i feared was but too probably the case ; since how could it be otherwise accounted for that i
of captain wentworth than captain wentworth had been by the sight of anne .
i shall not be in any doubtful , or distant , or unapproachable region .
truth , one of the happiest of men .
—why do you smile so ?
" margaret agreed , and they pursued their way against the wind , resisting it with laughing delight for about
the business of her life was to get her daughters married ; its solace was visiting and news .
be her descent from it .
in all probability he was already the richer of the two , and the kellynch estate would as surely be
and what right had she to suppose that you would not write long letters when you were absent ?
in one moment such a change !
i am sure wickham would like a place at court very much , and i do not think we shall
she had the remembrance of all this , she had the consciousness of being nine-and-twenty to give her some regrets
one ' s[ _num_ ] fortune , as your mother justly says , is not one ' s own .
rushworth , henry crawford was looking grave and shaking his head at the windows .
" " i cannot , i cannot , " cried marianne ; " leave me , leave me , if
i think it would be much better if they would come in one afternoon next summer , and take their
has colonel brandon been with you lately ?
was signed ' f .
" i will not say that i am disappointed , my dear sister , " said john , as they
saw , felt , anticipated , and remembered just as she ought .
smith had somehow or other been informed , i imagine by some distant relation , whose interest it was to
for my part , i think they are vastly agreeable , provided they dress smart and behave civil .
had i died , it would have been self-destruction .
” “you spent your time pleasantly there ?
i was really in pain for him ; for your hard-hearted sister , miss anne , seems bent on cruelty
dixon , i mean—i do not know that she ever heard about it from any body else ; but it
my right to place myself in a situation requiring such concealment , is another question .
which followed could only be relieved by the influence of fervent prayers for his happiness .
his mother and sister would have begun .
it soothed , but it could not console her for the contempt which had thus been self-attracted by the rest
" he exclaimed , " improve this dear cottage !
but i dare say you did all for the best , and there is no defying destiny .
she seems perfectly happy , however , and in a prudential light it is certainly a very good match for
i am sure your mother can spare you very well , and i do beg you will favour me with
.
good ideas of him .
it might occur to him that mr .
we are very proud of the children , are not we , papa ?
paternal kindness , and thought it the most natural thing in the world .
she expressly conditioned , however , for paying no visits , and would do no more than accompany them to
heavily passed the night .
weston ' s loss had been important .
darcy acquainted with their fears for her sister ; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper termination
" elinor advised her to lie down again , and for a moment she did so ; but no attitude
the morning of the interesting day arrived , and mrs .
for any member of your family i must always feel a degree of affection , and i own it would
character which make it difficult for me to speak of her with the forbearance i could wish .
extraordinary degree .
i am determined at all events to be dressed exactly like you .
the last half hour before he went away !
she was always on friendly terms with her brother-in-law ; and in the children , who loved her nearly as
to see me dying , he would not think there was anything the matter with me .
“no ; but it must be done soon .
" " four years !
her behaviour to herself .
bates , the widow of a former vicar of highbury , was a very old lady , almost past every
and acknowledgements , and especially in those explanations of what had directly preceded the present moment , which were so
ferrars , just so violent and so steady as to preserve her from that reproach which she always seemed fearful
, and whom edmund had danced with ; but thought too lowly of her own situation to imagine she should
in general i can spend half the day at my toilett with a great deal of pleasure , but why
but between us , i am convinced there never can be any likeness , except in being unmarried .
for heaven ' s sake , waste no more time .
as for his going , emma did not wish him to think it possible , the hours would be too
, for he is returned .
that her manner was wrong , however , at times very wrong , her measures often ill-chosen and ill-timed ,
see sotherton again with so much pleasure as i do now .
she wished to discredit it entirely , repeatedly exclaiming , “this must be false !
state of bodily weakness , and from employing others by her want of money .
her own more favoured education had fixed in her .
their superiority of abode was no more to them than their superiority of person .
—i am afraid it is just the same with him now ; for he writes in wretched spirits .
the thing would be for us all to come on donkeys , jane , miss bates , and me—and my
[ _num_ ] " how charming it will be , " said charlotte , " when he is in parliament
the gallery was terminated by folding doors , which miss tilney , advancing , had thrown open , and passed
he was all astonishment at the appearance of my visitor , and at first observed sir james with an attention
of the very last times we ever met in it !
to go before or beyond him was impossible .
of an handsome house and large income .
—the first , was his walking with her apart from the others , in the lime-walk at donwell , where
while he devoted himself entirely to her mother , addressing her , and attending to her with the utmost politeness
i remember i wore my yellow gown , with my hair done up in braids ; and when i came
so many , and flirted with so many , infinitely her superiors ; who seemed so little open to serious
was exceedingly pleased with an acquisition so very apropos .
i say , jane , what a perfect character you and i should make , if we could be shaken
" mr shepherd laughed , as he knew he must , at this wit , and then added-- " i
attend the match .
when they sat down to supper , therefore , she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within
” “nothing ; i am much obliged to you .
while her hand was trembling under these letters , her eye running from one to the other , and her
it comes , too , in such an acceptable moment .
” (replied my mother .
” “i have never read it .
prison of his wife ; and , twice before she stepped into bed , she stole gently from her room
i have heard my sister say so forty times , when she has been extravagant in buying more than she
" replied elinor , " why should you think so ?
” “indeed i had .
elizabeth , however astonished , was at least more prepared for an interview than before , and resolved to appear
after seeing her safe off , returned to marianne , whom she found attempting to rise from the bed ,
she was faithful to her word ; and when willoughby called at the cottage , the same day , elinor
i only wish i could be more useful ; but you see i do all in my power .
under private tuition , at the most critical time of his life ?
the present should induce me to unfold to any human being .
grandmamma is always wanting to see them , for she humours and indulges them to such a degree , and
the holidays , however , are over at last : i believe no children ever had such long ones .
[ _num_ ] he cut off a long lock of her hair .
allen and mrs .
their homes were so distant , and the circles in which they moved so distinct , as almost to preclude
she is his principal correspondent , i assure you .
, when the sudden death of one of the nearest connexions of the family had destroyed the scheme and dispersed
business in town .
voice which was not like ease .
how miss crawford really felt , how she meant to act , or might act without or against her meaning
” “i would not be so fastidious as you are , ” cried mr .
if he wrote to his father ; but i thought it might have been to lady bertram or you .
from an attachment to her husband , which in itself does honour to both , she cannot forgive the endeavours
a smart , stylish girl they say , but not handsome .
, be so good as to look at this face .
“can you come to-morrow ?
i am afraid you will be angry .
everything said or done in her uncle ' s house , and earnest longing to go into northamptonshire , seemed
” “are they musical ?
“with what intense desire she wants her home , ” was continually on her tongue , as the truest description
poor little soul !
the enthusiasm of a woman ' s love is even beyond the biographer ' s .
they were cheered by the joy of the servants on their arrival , and each for the sake of the
“well , so much the better .
my eyes will be blinding for the good of others , and yours preparing by rest for future mischief .
added to the hope of the future ; and she looked forward with delight to the time when they should
enjoyed it .
only prevented from being so always , by too great an aptitude to fancy himself as much superior to people
but have you quite done ?
two such could never be granted .
but when a young lady is to be a heroine , the perverseness of forty surrounding families cannot prevent her
" poor marianne !
, neighbours , dress , dancing , and music .
; —yes , i really believe you might , even without the harp , stipulate for what you chose ;
the comfort of her father , as to seem—if not quite ready to join him in a basin of gruel—perfectly
all the best blessings of existence ; what could be increasing emma ' s wretchedness but the reflection never far
vernon , who , whatever might be her real sentiments , said nothing in opposition to mine .
they might advance rapidly if they would , however ; they must advance somehow or other whether they would or
edward the _num_ th this monarch was famous only for his beauty and his courage , of which the picture
” “i doubt our being able to do so much , ” said morland .
weston was disappointed .
crawford was the admirer of fanny price .
but the whole of their behaviour to each other has been unaccountable !
smith ' s story , however , cannot be quite correct , as she corresponds regularly with mrs .
excellent dancing indeed !
i am sure you will have the still greater goodness of going yourself into my bedroom , and bringing me
lane i stood in to the north-east , that is , to the principal road through the village , must
” harriet could just answer , “oh !
anne elliot , so young ; known to so few , to be snatched off by a stranger without alliance
not handsome—not at all handsome .
her astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum , and she could not
and as it seemed to her that her friend , though obliged to insist on turning back , was unwilling
at that instant a door underneath was hastily opened ; someone seemed with swift steps to ascend the stairs ,
in one respect he is the object of my envy .
and for their own comfort they would have retained her wholly ; but this would be selfishness : —what must
" i suppose you will not like to call at the great house before they have been to see you
all very much for the better .
moved towards the door .
as a very distinguished flirt i have always been taught to consider her , but it has lately fallen in
darcy , i am sure , ” said miss bingley ; “and i am inclined to think that you would
" elinor would not vouchsafe any answer .
teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of her life , she will soon be
' i am ruined for ever in their opinion , ' said i to myself ; ' i am shut
they stood a little aloof while he was talking to their niece , who , astonished and confused , scarcely
mr elliot ' s having any views on me will not in the least account for the efforts he made
we can do nothing without you , ” followed the first salutations ; and henry crawford was soon seated with
“for we must attribute this happy conclusion , ” she added , “in a great measure to his kindness .
she had obtained private intelligence that mr .
” “would mr .
it was but three days ; and being only a grandmother , and all happening two hundred miles off ,
quite to forget that in the common course of things it was to be rather supposed that miss taylor had
—but not a word more .
of time upon a head naturally clear , and only erring in the heyday of youth .
the laurels at maple grove are in the same profusion as here , and stand very much in the same
of money , and might perhaps , till the old gentleman ' s death , be very little benefited by
have been supposed in the secret of sir walter ' s estimate of the dues of a tenant .
dearly earned , and justly valued blessing of promotion ; who could give her direct and minute information of the
jennings , as soon as he entered the room .
it was a merry , joyous party , and no one seemed in higher spirits than captain wentworth .
what could be meant by such unsteady conduct , what her friend could be at , was beyond her comprehension
to , but to run about and make a noise ; and both boys had soon burst from her ,
after these came a second set ; among the most come-at-able of whom were mrs .
after a couple of minutes ' unbroken silence , henry , turning to catherine for the first time since her
her feelings for one and the other were soon a little tranquillised by seeing the party in the meadow disperse
still farther in[ _num_ ] confirmation of her hopes , in the interval of marianne ' s turning from one
” “suppose you take my father ' s opinion , ma ' am .
—humph !
i can never bear to think of you all there without me .
“i expected at least that the pigs were got into the garden , and here is nothing but lady catherine
glove , and let my hand just rest upon the window frame , so that he might see the ring
her character appeared absolutely changed .
occupy every spring , and remained wholly in the country , leaving sir thomas to attend his duty in parliament
knightley must take his seat with the rest round the large modern circular table which emma had introduced at hartfield
i can ; but i would rather be at home , looking over william larkins ' s week ' s
in life is most interesting to your connections ; and in the very important concern of marriage especially , there
” “and did isabella never change her mind before ?
it is a most interesting work .
they continued together with unabated regard however , till the marriage of miss campbell , who by that chance ,
it was an union that must have been to the advantage of both ; by her ease and liveliness ,
" this is very strange !
our company is now so dispersed , from the crawfords being gone home , that nothing more can be done
mary had neither genius nor taste ; and though vanity had given her application , it had given her likewise
one from woodston .
” said miss tilney , as catherine hastily closed it and turned away to the glass .
let me only be where i like and with whom i like , and the devil take the rest ,
” the miss thorpes were introduced ; and miss morland , who had been for a short time forgotten ,
abode of mr .
” “the indirect boast ; for you are really proud of your defects in writing , because you consider them
edmund spoke of with the warmest satisfaction , as so particularly desirable for her in the intimacy which he saw
instances of relenting feeling , some breathings of friendship and reconciliation , which could never be looked for again ,
actually to discover that mr .
marry him , without attacking the happiness of her father .
collins , awkward and solemn , apologising instead of attending , and often moving wrong without being aware of it
” “is not it the same thing ?
de courcy ' s arrival , and i advise you by all means to marry him ; his father '
her affrighted ear .
it may hereafter be in my power , or in yours (i hope it will) , to procure him better
" the child had a good night , and was going on well the next day .
(you do not think mrs marlowe handsome ?
sir thomas was obliged , or obliged himself , to wait till the morrow for a knowledge of what had
knightley startled her , by saying , “you will not ask me what is the point of envy .
but the son i can get away from .
“do not be frightened , my dear catherine , ” whispered isabella , “but i am really going to dance
i value not her censure any more than i should do her commendation .
thorpe drive one of his other sisters ?
it was time to have done with cards , if sermons prevailed ; and she was glad to find it
” a carriage was heard .
the extensive buildings , smoking in rain , without any wish of seeing them better ; felt their progress through
" oh , my dear miss dashwood , " said mrs .
“i will tell you what , fanny , ” said she , “i am sure he fell in love with
i know he would be hurt by my failing in such a mark of respect to him on the present
he is only a commander , it is true , made last summer , and these are bad times for
" a short pause succeeded this speech , which was first broken by miss steele , who seemed very much
” “you are fond of the sort of thing ?
elton are one as clever as the other .
i do not by any means engage for its being returned .
—the stain of illegitimacy , unbleached by nobility or wealth , would have been a stain indeed .
she knew i had no regard for her when we married .
i will bring friends with me .
” the two friends , with hearts now more united than ever , were inseparable for the day ; and
she would not take a denial .
” thought elizabeth .
altered ; but , however , she seemed to try to be very friendly , and we shook hands ,
while he staid , the martins were forgotten ; and on the very morning of his setting off for bath
ought he not to have told me of it , to have given me the power of clearing myself ?
i am not the only young woman you find who thinks it very fit for private representation .
do not you think , miss elliot , we had better try to get him to bath ?
he then returned to his former station , and went on as if there had been no such tender interruption
, sat earnestly gazing through the window .
darcy is not in the least to blame , that he cannot bear to hear george wickham mentioned , and
, captain wentworth walked into the drawing-room at the cottage , where were only herself and the little invalid charles
sprang .
i knew how soon he would come .
letter _num_ th laura to marianne one evening in december as my father , my mother and myself , were
i have entirely misunderstood lady susan , and was on the point of leaving the house under a false impression
her heart was completely sad at parting .
it was selfishness which first made him sport with your affections ; which afterwards , when his own were engaged
it is anne ' s own proposal , and so i shall go with you , which will be a
proud that in a cause of compassion and honour , he had been able to get the better of himself
in spite of this amendment , however , she requested to have a note sent to longbourn , desiring her
we may as well wait , perhaps , till the circumstance occurs before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour
doubt where you can—it will not satisfy you , i know ; but you shall not talk me out of
go to my father if you want to be complimented .
i am glad they are not on this side of the way .
that would be turning your visit into an evil indeed .
elton ' s civilities were dreadfully ill-timed ; but she had the comfort of appearing very polite , while feeling
such at least was the case till henry hervey made his appearance in sussex .
" marianne could not bear this .
her heart was sore and angry , and she was capable only of angry consolations .
a sensible man , and he had looked like a very sensible man , why should it be an object
how the trampers might have behaved , had the young ladies been more courageous , must be doubtful ; but
any regret .
we did a vast deal in that way at the parsonage : we made it quite a different place from
emma was very decided in thinking such an attachment no bad thing for her friend .
once it had , by an opening undesigned and unmerited , led him into the way of happiness .
could be no longer occupied by the incessant demands of a house full of little children , there would be
and why had she been so partial to that grove ?
under such a misfortune as this , one cannot see too little of one’s neighbours .
” “quite out of the question , quite out of the question , ” he replied ; —“but you must
“i shall never be easy till i have seen some of these places .
parted from him convinced that , whether married or single , he must always be her model of the amiable
that steadfastness in the catholic religion which reflected on her so much credit ?
moment of coming opposite to union passage , and within view of the two gentlemen who were proceeding through the
lady .
the past suspense of the morning had been ease and quiet to the present disappointment .
inaugurated miss austen ' s novels .
” “my horse !
naturally was , “my dearest creature , what can have made you so late ?
the common necessaries of life .
from getting away—and then—only think !
he did not omit being sometimes directly before miss smith , or speaking to those who were close to her
and congratulated both him and herself in warm terms on the happy prospect of their nearer connection .
had not lived to overcome those regrets which the remembrance of me occasioned .
dagger to my heart .
now , here one can step out of doors and get a thing in five minutes .
she applied to mr .
frugality retrenched only on your own comfort , you might have been suffered to practice it , but beyond that—and
it was absolutely necessary , therefore , to think of something , and in this emergence recollecting when she had
mary’s powers were by no means fitted for such a display ; her voice was weak , and her manner
to catherine ' s simple feelings , this odd sort of reserve seemed neither kindly meant , nor consistently supported
his scheme was to rent the house himself the following winter , that he might have a home of his
” the rest of the gentlemen being now in the room , emma found herself obliged to turn from him
could not avoid though the housekeeper might , fanny was worn down at last to think everything an evil belonging
” “no , papa , nobody thought of your walking .
the world has been deceived in that respect ; and i am happy to say there will be some little
; except when he is not quite frightened enough about the children .
of situation .
separate apartments to make their appearance before .
he walked by her side .
i have not had so many opportunities of estimating the minuter propensities of his mind , his inclinations and tastes
young as you are , and having seen scarcely any one , it is hardly possible that your affections—” he
' nobody was ever so fortunate as herself !
no candle was now wanted .
jones—therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been to me—and , excepting a sore throat
superior to miss grantley’s .
takes m .
more pain than you expected .
of doing nothing for his daughter .
“not serious !
the thorpes spent the last evening of catherine ' s stay in pulteney street , and nothing passed between the
the embraces , tears , and promises of the parting fair ones may be fancied .
donavan found the house in all this uproar .
soft medium of a hazy atmosphere .
darcy so bad as this—though i have never liked him .
“who could have thought it ?
realm during his minority .
supposed , they must meet ; and soon she began to wish that she could feel secure even for a
" " i declare they are quite charming .
time forgotten that any body was in the room besides herself , was luckily so near them that miss dashwood
may be from better feelings than you are supposing .
it was one of the agreeable recollections of the ball , which she walked about the lawn the next morning
i was in such a fright i could hardly breathe .
the composure of mind with which i have brought myself at present to consider the matter , the consolation that
was the day before yesterday , the very morning we were at donwell , ) when jane first heard of
affliction to them , and to be saved likewise from hearing that condemnation of edward , which would probably flow
crawford , that i had been too apt to dwell on for many months past .
as louisa improved , he had improved , and he was now quite a different creature from what he had
spent several weeks together with them , yet we neither of us had any suspicion of her real disposition .
but i believe my feelings are stronger than anybody ' s ; i am sure they are too strong for
though the uncomfortable feelings arising from all this took from the season of courtship much of its pleasure , it
there are but three seams ; you may do them in a trice .
” to these highflown expressions elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust ; and though the suddenness of their
room , she was better pleased that such a token of friendship had passed .
i am always glad to get a young person well placed out .
had there been a family to provide for , mrs .
it has been most unconsciously done , however , and i hope will be of short duration .
he confessed himself obliged to leave the regiment , on account of some debts of honour , which were very
knowing their feelings as she did , it was a most attractive picture of happiness to her .
but vanity , not love , has been my folly .
stay and give him that advice respecting his attachment to matilda which had first induced me from pure love to
norris accepted the compliment , and admired the nice discernment of character which could so well distinguish merit .
so evidently , so palpably desirable—what courts the pre-arrangement of other people , should so immediately shape itself into the
john knightley were to come down in august , and she was invited to remain till they could bring her
how blinded such writers and such readers must be to true merit , to merit despised , neglected and defamed
bennet , “and nothing can clear mr .
i send no compliments to your mother .
the crimson velvet cushions appearing over the ledge of the family gallery above .
but there was no peculiar[ _num_ ] disgrace in this ; for it was very much the case with the
tenderness , or remorse , or whatever were to be expressed , he could do it with equal beauty .
his voice was watched , and how carefully her own eyes were fixed on any object but himself , may
her kindness is not sympathy ; her good-nature is not tenderness .
son , who feels born only for expense and enjoyment .
each side as to which should be most disinterested and hospitable .
i always had a value for him .
to slight .
i cannot bear to see it .
did she , in short , want anything he could possibly get her , or do for her ?
down to a family dinner .
bordering on alarm at her lively , sportive , manner of talking to her brother .
darcy’s behaviour astonished and vexed her .
sir john would not leave the house without securing their promise of dining at the park the next day .
do not think me unkind for such an exercise of my power , nor accuse me of instability without first
and that is all that i can recollect of it—but it is very clever all the way through .
" catherine , " said he , " i am going home to-day ; i am sorry to leave you
ferrars may afford to do very well by her son , and though lucy has next to nothing herself ,
frederica immediately disappeared .
talked to , or read to , edmund was the companion he preferred .
” she longed to add , “but of his principles i have” ; but her heart sunk under the appalling
we used to jump about together many a time , did not we ?
, and boast of being married , to mrs .
at one time patty came to say she thought the kitchen chimney wanted sweeping .
others , the subject was almost immediately introduced , and she saw the blush of consciousness with which congratulations were
" " you did , indeed , " replied i very gravely ; " but i flattered myself you would
overtook the second miss thorpe as she was loitering towards edgar ' s buildings between two of the sweetest girls
” “none my lord .
all are , by some comfortable feeling of superiority from wishing for the possibility of exchange , she would not
i honour him beyond expression .
their eager affection in meeting , their exquisite delight in being together , their hours of happy mirth , and
” “i hope i am aware that they may be too noisy for your father—or even may be some encumbrance
might have listened six weeks before with some interest , and altogether to give her the fullest conviction , by
indeed , you are doing a very unkind thing in spreading the report , and you will find that you
chapter _num_ in addition to what has been already said of catherine morland ' s personal and mental endowments ,
they are sure of being well provided for .
rain of the two preceding days had occasioned .
i will not spend my hours in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back again
ma ' am , how much we want dear mrs .
as inelegant ; my face as unlovely ; and my appearance as unpleasing as yours !
to large slices of cake and full glasses of wine , for whatever unwilling self-denial his care of their constitution
so you may think what a blow it was to all her vanity and pride .
how they will rejoice !
though only twenty-four hours in the place , but he had not been able to avail himself of it ;
you may imagine what i felt and how i acted .
however that might be , she was unmanageable .
she endeavoured to believe that the delay of the marriage was the only source of isabella ' s regret ;
' this is the way in which i always consider the matter , and my mother is perfectly convinced of
has he deigned to add aught of civility to his ordinary style ?
bennet had seen her eldest daughter much admired by the netherfield party .
lesley castle letter the first is from miss margaret lesley to miss charlotte lutterell .
but before she was half way upstairs she heard the parlour door open , and , turning round , was
i wish hetty had not gone .
he loved to have the cloth laid , because it had been the fashion of his youth , but his
that will never do , believe me .
yet understand how much she has changed for the better ; but then there is moderation in all things .
grant to eat his mutton with him the next day ; and fanny had barely time for an unpleasant feeling
de courcy is going , and it is all my fault .
there are several odd-looking men walking about here , who , i am told , are sailors .
but there are hopes of her being forgiven in time .
the dignity of being " a fine girl .
“i have heard it asserted , ” said john knightley , “that the same sort of handwriting often prevails in
not one , however , started with rapturous wonder on beholding her , no whisper of eager inquiry ran round
” replied mrs .
” harriet had business at ford ' s .
bingley’s name was scarcely ever mentioned between them .
you have employed your time much better .
worth their putting in .
you should think more of yourself and less of your daughter .
much liking on harriet ' s side , as there could be any occasion for .
it had been gradually yielding to the better hopes which her looks , or words , or actions occasionally encouraged
“do you understand muslins , sir ?
, nothing till tea came—he would rather wait for tea .
pray let me know if they are coming .
equal ; but , except from some natural sensation of curiosity , he had no desire of meeting her again
possible for them to be .
“your uncle thinks you very pretty , dear fanny—and that is the long and the short of the matter .
her daughters never had been much to her .
" " i suppose you know , ma ' am , that mr .
s ?
cannot , in spite of its capriciousness , be unlovely , and seeing its increasing beauties from the earliest flowers
it is , perhaps , our fate rather than our merit .
but i will not undertake to answer the question .
tilney , within three yards of the place where they sat ; he seemed to be moving that way ,
believing it ; but i have never been satisfied .
his mother ; but i was too young , and loved him too well , to be so prudent as
an opportunity was soon to be given to the dashwoods of debating on the rest of the children , as
it is a capital one of the kind , but i am cursed tired of it .
made for him , and it is my wish to be candid in my judgment of every body .
—i quite rave about jane fairfax .
mansfield , before her feelings were at all tranquillised , before she had given up every hope of him ,
bennet was not in the habit of walking ; mary could never spare time ; but the remaining five set
luxuries and that splendor to which she had been used , and accept only in exchange the comforts and elegancies
the course of true love never did run smooth— a hartfield edition of shakespeare would have a long note on
yes ; i cannot speak well enough to be unintelligible .
sophy must write , and beg him to come to bath .
” “to be sure , my dear , that is very stupid indeed , and shows a great want of
elizabeth , at work in the opposite corner , saw it all with great delight .
it proved to be fruitless , she felt to have been highly unreasonable .
, and dignity in the world , to what i shall do ?
; and she only wanted to know how far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself , and how
“i am quite well .
—do you understand ?
neither jane nor elizabeth were comfortable on this subject .
” “did you go by the village of kympton ?
but with such a father and mother , and such low connections , i am afraid there is no chance
understand this , she began to feel that when her own release from portsmouth came , her happiness would have
she became acquainted at aberdeen (he was at one of the universities there , ) felt infinitely happier than in
she would certainly have risen to their blessings if she could , but she did not want to lessen theirs
the manners i speak of might rather be called conduct , perhaps , the result of good principles ; the
" his regard for her , infinitely surpassing anything that willoughby ever felt or feigned , as much more warm
her flattery had already subdued the pride of lady middleton , and made an entry into the close heart of
“only go and call on mrs .
" " but why should you think , " said lucy , looking ashamed of her sister , " that
” “were we ?
darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily attached to her situation , that she could , upon the
edmund , such a memento made her particularly awake to his idea , and she fancied him sitting in that
and i am sure , my name was norval , every evening of my life through one christmas holidays .
of anxiety and fretfulness on her side might be as long as it could .
a friendship between two so very dear to him was exactly what he could have wished : and to the
poor dear , it seems quite cruel to let her be alone .
indeed , mrs harville and i quite agree that we love her the better for having nursed her .
i do not mean to press you , however .
streets of london with anna bullen .
darcy has never seen the view .
biscuits and buns .
on the subject of the first of the two circumstances , she did , after a little reflection , venture
" well , " said he , " we have brought you some strangers .
the room , preserve an air of calmness , and answer the common questions of the moment .
knightley , what a sensation his coming will produce ?
in a precipitance which must leave very necessary business undone , and can be of no real advantage to yourself
patty makes an excellent apple-dumpling .
me ; and i never had two days of foul weather all the time i was at sea in her
by those who resemble you .
at the end of that period , lady russell ' s politeness could repose no longer , and the fainter
” “i hope i am not ungrateful , aunt , ” said fanny modestly .
and sweetness of temper exactly adapted her for attending to them in every way—teaching them , playing with them ,
marianne must try to comfort him .
and to have entered into a secret engagement with a young man under her uncle ' s care , the
whole time , ) what i felt is , in the common phrase , not to be expressed ; in
sure to come and see you .
prince , and miss richardson , to sup with her .
her mind in so great a degree formed by his care , and her comfort depending on his kindness ,
south end is prohibited , if you please .
their way .
” “—that you think they cannot be compared together .
i should never deserve her confidence again , after forcing from her a confession of what is meant at present
mere coincidence ; and that in sense and sensibility , as well as in the novel that succeeded it in
admire her work said in a whisper , “go to your father , he wants you in the library .
a very successful visit : —i saw all the three ladies ; and felt very much obliged to you for
she was not doomed , however , to be long in ignorance of his measures .
elinor could not be cheerful .
rushworth .
we were just in time ; my mother just ready for us .
woodhouse , and her more active , talking daughter , almost ready to overpower them with care and kindness ,
engagement will have every alleviation that is possible—i mean , as to the character and manners of the family .
harriet smith was the natural daughter of somebody .
return , and wishing to do more than she dared to confess .
" by this time the report of the accident had spread among the workmen and boatmen about the cobb ,
i am more and more satisfied with all that i see and hear of him .
i offer myself to you again with a heart even more your own than when you almost broke it ,
does it not strike you so , fanny ?
perry , whose name , i dare say , is not unknown to you , does not conceive it would
as great a gloom as possible over their dinner and dessert .
being obliged to go to randalls every day , or poor mrs .
there it was our freindship first commenced .
randalls is such a distance .
i want to talk very seriously .
i was thoroughly unwilling to let her go , and so was her uncle ; and all that could be
another momentary vexation occurred .
do not beat me .
—much of this , i have no doubt , she may thank you for .
were parting , and there was every appearance of its being soon over .
catherine trembled from head to foot .
northanger .
mother or seize upon any other odd piece of paper , she did what she could in that way ,
his duties would be established , but the wife who was to share , and animate , and reward those
“i am glad of it , ” said he , in a much brisker tone , and throwing down the
, mary was happy no longer ; she quarrelled with her own seat , was sure louisa had got a
, for hearing ; i must not say for seeing , because i appear to have seen very little .
credit for proper feeling , or esteemed so little worthy as a friend : but she had the consolation of
for then his brother ' s bow must have given the finishing stroke to what the ill-humour[ _num_ ] of
he yielded , but it was with agonies which did not admit of speech .
you could not have started a more happy idea , since you will not take comfort in mine .
a pair of stairs that went out of it led him into a room above , no less destitute ,
the idea of immediately seeing him , with the knowledge of what he must be suffering , brought back all
kindness , there is nobody whom i would fix on more than on mr .
deal of enjoyment .
in good hands will last above twenty years after it is fairly worn out .
jennings laughed heartily ; and elinor found that in her resolution to know where they had been , she had
and in return for an acknowledgment , which must give me some pain , you cannot deny me the privilege
” (replied she pointing to a neat building which rose up amidst the grove of elms and which i had
elizabeth said nothing , but it gratified her exceedingly ; the compliment must be all for herself .
extorting from him occasional questions and remarks .
previously spoken of in my own family .
he , who had always inspired in herself a respect which almost overcame her affection , she now saw the
elton , and this is the only way i have of doing him a service .
marry her , and elinor , though superior to her in fortune and birth , was spoken of as an
to hartfield , if you please , mrs .
be intolerably stupid .
my father began life in the profession which your uncle , mr .
” chapter iii this little explanation with mr .
it is you , only you , insensible fanny , who can think of him with anything like indifference .
so i would advise you two , to set off for town , when you are tired of barton ,
frank churchill had been at weymouth at the same time .
isobel was then one and twenty .
her father ' s business was to announce james ' s being gone out to put the horses to ,
i shall count every minute till your arrival .
he is very little at combe , i believe ; but if he were ever so much there , i
and as she could not even wish him successful , she heartily wished him indifferent .
i am here till claimed by colonel and mrs .
even in the midst of his late infatuation , he had acknowledged fanny ' s mental superiority .
circumstances , full of astonishment and emotion to anne , she quitted lyme .
now , in its old state ; but i do not suppose i shall .
so upon that , he smirked , and simpered , and looked grave , and seemed to know something or
no ; there would be a mrs .
sharade my first is what my second was to king james the _num_ st , and you tread on my
; and without attributing all her personal beauty , as mrs .
they talked of william , a subject on which mrs .
before this time last year i assure you we had had a delightful exploring party from maple grove to kings
” and away she went .
to miss him decidedly in the meetings which were now becoming almost daily between the families ; and on their
per cents , which will not be yours till after your mother’s decease , is all that you may ever
frisks , was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome .
now and then stumbling on something witty .
" this explains it .
i think him every thing that is worthy and amiable .
the eltons were still talking of a visit from the sucklings , and of the use to be made of
with a glow of admiration .
weston that mrs .
' annual enjoyment of the great world .
in an agony about him .
been total silence among them for some time , henrietta leaning back in the corner , with a shawl over
much better scheme followed and was acted upon .
but we considered it , we talked of it as impossible .
or of mind , she saw so little in highbury .
” “indeed , ” replied elizabeth , “i am heartily sorry for him ; but he has other feelings ,
for days together .
to a mind so much in need of help , and so much deserving it .
her sleep , though not so quiet as elinor wished to see it , lasted a considerable time ; and
till she had made herself mistress of its contents , however , she could have neither repose nor comfort ;
that the former has no real love for her daughter , and has never done her justice or treated her
" the little durands were there , i conclude , " said she , " with their mouths open to
" " i do not dislike him .
" " i have entered many a shop to avoid your sight .
" " that he is patronised by you , " replied willoughby , " is certainly in his favour ;
he attended them to the last , and left them only at the door of their own house , when
” “no , read it yourself , ” cried catherine , whose second thoughts were clearer .
i would ask you to edward street , but that once he forced from me a kind of promise never
but indeed , my dear , you need not be uneasy .
i remember saying to myself , as i drove to the house , " i like this man , pray
your case is a very unfortunate one ; you seem to me to be surrounded with difficulties , and you
said he had been mistaken , for that miss tilney was walked out .
quite a surprize to me !
of that unfortunate girl— " she stopped .
[ _num_ ] " well !
of any change in those who walk under your shade !
you should always remember the coachman and horses .
they described the drawing-room window-curtains of one of the houses on this side of the way , and this part
knightley , mr .
—dear miss woodhouse , how do you do ?
, by the sanction he had given ; and the part which he was persuaded emma had taken in the
after taking her all over allenham[ _num_ ] house , and fixing on the very rooms they were to live
sister-in-law ' s views ; and she was from that moment perfectly safe from all expectation , or the slightest
again , or the substance of it , from the open-hearted mr .
the felicities of rapid motion have once been , though slightly , felt—it must be a very heavy set that
weston was unexpectedly summoned to town and must be absent on the very day .
how very kind !
” he readily assured her of his secrecy ; again expressed his sorrow for her distress , wished it a
that is the fact , upon my honour .
it could be from only one quarter ; —of course it must be from colonel campbell .
stokes .
” “cottager ' s wife !
greater satisfaction as sisters ?
with much uneasiness did she thus leave them .
xxxviii mrs .
" colonel brandon again repeated his sorrow at being the cause of disappointing the party ; but at the same
by one measure i might have saved myself .
marriage in this way , you will never get a husband at all—and i am sure i do not know
but still i am not frightened .
, which made her think of him as now separated for ever from her family , with a tenderness ,
” “to-morrow fortnight .
the party ; lady middleton introduced the two strangers ; mrs .
more and more engaged ; and anne , wearied of such a state of stagnation , sick of knowing nothing
the housekeeper came forward , and told them it was a picture of a young gentleman , the son of
i have heard of a faithful performance .
room again and again , perhaps in the very spot where she sat now , listening with constant delight to
we do so wish that charles had married anne instead .
fanny felt for him most acutely .
she is now about _num_ , and in spite of sickness , sorrow and time is more blooming than i
what would be still more insupportable , the displeasure of mr .
my way to hear some particulars of her conduct at langford : which prove that she does not confine herself
knightley was to dine with them—rather against the inclination of mr .
what had i been saying to displease you ?
who always makes her appearance (highly rouged) at dinner-time .
mainwaring is indeed , beyond all compare , superior to reginald—superior in everything but the power of being with me
they were natural and just .
all that english abilities can do has been tried already .
before for a moment supposed it could make him unjust to the merit of another .
it can be allowable only as the thought of the moment .
" this of course made every body laugh ; and elinor tried to laugh too .
elizabeth had nothing to propose of deeper efficacy .
, made him delay the confession of it , and which finally carried him from barton .
thus much indeed he was obliged to acknowledge : that he had been constant unconsciously , nay unintentionally ; that
knightley not wanting to quarrel with her , how very happy a summer must be before her !
every guess—all that had already occurred , all that might occur in the arrangement of his affairs , comprehending income
what would you do yourself ?
before they parted , she had to thank him for another pleasure , and one of no trivial kind .
severely resentful of anything that injured only herself ; and after having twice drawn back her hand , and twice
, instead of bringing with his desire of a release any professions of regret , acknowledged no breach of faith
one cannot have too large a party .
her bitterest enemies have never denied her ; and equally low must sink my pretensions to common sense if i
he had just dismounted ; —she could not be mistaken , —it was edward .
charlotte is an excellent manager , i dare say .
as a mark of your friendship ; but as i cannot have any doubt of the warmth of your affection
” “yes , simpleton as i was !
what are you proud of ?
harriet , with just the heated , agitated look which hurrying thither with a full heart was likely to give
“what a delightful place bath is , ” said mrs .
was a mysterious cipher , in the same metal .
be offered you .
jane , who is it from ?
could he expect that her friends would not step forward ?
found that i had been giving all my attention to the youngest , who was not out , and had
his friends were disposed to do by him , he might now have been in his proper situation , and
miss vernon was mistaken in applying to me .
with an impatience which was very ill rewarded at their close ; for mary , on receiving , amongst the
explain the motives of his father ' s conduct , her feelings soon hardened into even a triumphant delight .
then to have the charge of obstinacy and ingratitude follow it , enforced with such a hint at the dependence
of yourselves ; keep a sharp lookout !
a fine girl she is .
matrimony , as the origin of change , was always disagreeable ; and he was by no means yet reconciled
but on seeing them together , she became perfectly satisfied .
being to come here so soon .
place in his carriage .
i should not be surprised if he were to change his mind at last , and not go .
spencer on , just ready to come out—i was only gone down to speak to patty again about the pork—jane
elton fidgeting behind her and watching every touch .
deserve to be in any collection of engravings of gentlemen ' s seats in the kingdom , and wanting only
society , and a little dissipation , for a ten weeks ' penance at churchhill .
what a pity it is that they are not in rhime !
it was the highest satisfaction to her to believe captain wentworth not in the least aware of the pain he
i could not bring it into play ; it was overwhelmed , buried , lost in those earlier feelings which
under the disadvantages , indeed , which both have had , is it not wonderful that they should be what
" " he would certainly have done more justice to simple and elegant prose .
it is only the palmers .
besides , if she does play so very well , you know , it is no more than she is
men are very safe with us , let them be ever so rich .
likeness of them , beyond the air and complexion , unless they are coarser featured than any of mama '
i trust , however , my dear mother , that we have no reason to fear an alteration of his
more than half my time .
give a girl an education , and introduce her properly into the world , and ten to one but she
her error .
hughes , and whom she instantly joined , with a firmer determination to be acquainted , than she might have
every body ' s attention was called , and almost every body was concerned .
bennet , in talking this way ?
miss crawford ' s style of writing , lively and affectionate , was itself an evil , independent of what
” and with a relenting smile , he added , “i come home to be happy and indulgent .
” “i wish i could convince miss crawford too .
and his own , would be speedily secured .
she was deep in the happiness of such misery , or the misery of such happiness , instantly .
she had thought only of avoiding captain wentworth ; but an escape from being appealed to as umpire was now
i must struggle through my sorrows and difficulties as i can .
—emma had never seen her look so well , so lovely , so engaging .
elton ; “knightley himself !
fanny was very anxious to be useful , and not to appear above her home , or in any way
—it led to nothing ; nothing but a view at the end over a low stone wall with high pillars
and if i am that choice , why may not i accept him ?
me i should find them here , " before he walked to the window to recollect himself , and feel
this accident of priority of issue , is , as far as we are aware , nowhere asserted .
" " certainly not ; but if you observe , people always live for ever when there is an annuity
many flights and many landing-places , brought them upon a long , wide gallery .
vernon returned on thursday night , bringing his niece with him .
when my attention was attracted by the appearance of a young man the most lovely of his sex , who
fresh from the parsonage , calling out , “no want of hands in our theatre , miss bertram .
closed their black career .
follow , i should think any from our wealthy naval commanders particularly worth attending to ; and beg leave to
“how much better is this , ” said she , as she walked to the fender—“how much better to find
she was generous , amiable , interesting : she was everything but prudent .
for anything more .
the servant , who saw only that miss marianne was taken ill , had sense enough to call one of
what gown and what head-dress she should wear on the occasion became her chief concern .
” “there is no necessity for my calling this morning , ” said the young man ; “another day would
more than she hoped they would ever surmise .
, in a tone of becoming gravity , but of less anger , “well , child , dry up your
you will set things going in a better way , i am sure .
him had appeared incomprehensible .
you like .
, “don ' t , mr .
and depress its merit .
that it could not be done ?
chapter xliii marianne got up the next morning at her usual time ; to every inquiry replied that she was
there never was a young woman so beloved as you are by everybody that knows you ; and i dare
the two houses were only a quarter of a mile apart ; and , as they walked , mrs .
good deal of marianne ' s romance , without having much of her sense , she did not , at
so he inquired who she was , and got introduced , and asked her for the two next .
; and she went to her room , and grew steadfast and fearless in the thankfulness of her enjoyment .
speaking solicitude on my face !
she had not time for such cares .
” “no—it will not be worth while .
owner of the curricle was to be seen issuing from the door amidst the bows and civilities of the household
i was repulsed indeed !
i have not known him long indeed , but i am much better acquainted with him , than i am[
she was sure that he had not been happy in marriage .
—she was extremely glad that they had come to so good an understanding respecting the eltons , and that their
oh , no , no—this is not likely .
, and hurrying by him proceeded upstairs .
he had wanted to marry , and the woman whom he had been expected to marry , she must allow
, with half a sigh , “to have any such apprehension .
” “yes , ” said jane , “we heard his kind offers , we heard every thing .
sir george is certainly married ; i was myself present at the ceremony , which you will not be surprised
my partiality does not blind me ; he certainly is not so handsome as willoughby—but at the same time ,
” “blaize castle !
” “i have not even made any inquiry ; i do not wish to make any yet .
it was not very long , though rather longer than mr .
she was feeling , thinking , trembling about everything ; agitated , happy , miserable , infinitely obliged , absolutely
persuaded into any thing by his nephew .
” “i am ready , if the others are .
” “but if you remember , before we left that first great path , we saw directly to the end
five hundred pounds would be a prodigious increase to their fortunes !
be expected , after the melancholy scene so lately gone through at rosings .
at the very hour , when the other very person was chancing to pass by to rescue her !
with all the eagerness which such a transition gives , emma resolved to be out of doors as soon as
she can have no idea of the pain she gives me by her continual reflections on him .
and was not it odd that he should always take his walk so early ?
i know you love a play ; and there is room for us all .
” “his pride , ” said miss lucas , “does not offend me so much as pride often does ,
and kind ; but still he was not in spirits .
about it , and not at all checked by hearing that her friend was unmentioned .
wanted neither pride nor resolution , was preparing to encounter her share of it with tolerable calmness .
miss fairfax ' s recent illness had offered a fair plea for mrs .
miss musgroves .
darcy !
i do not like mrs .
" all this sounds very reasonable .
“a prison indeed ?
help fearing that you may be drawn in , by the lady who has lately attached you , to a
their carriage after the said dinner visit ; “they are very elegant , agreeable girls .
” “well , ” cried her mother , “it is all very right ; who should do it but her
woman of distinction or fortune .
answer than a very plaintive—“mr .
blameless .
i am sure i do .
sitting just opposite to her in angry state , was very disagreeable .
crawford ' s regard , the probability of his being very far from objecting to such a measure would have
knightleys ; their subjects totally distinct , or very rarely mixing—and emma only occasionally joining in one or the other
you quite astonish me ; i wonder how you can—” “do i astonish you ?
oh , elinor , how incomprehensible are your feelings !
; but he was almost always with us afterwards .
help .
manner shewed the wish of self-command , and the resolution of avoiding any farther allusion .
dashwood could penetrate , and at last , without saying a word , quitted the room , and walked out
” “i am not speaking of its prudence ; merely its probability .
her look and manners were open , cheerful , and engaging as ever , but without any symptom of peculiar
chapter vi the next morning brought mr .
to avert any one of them .
there i am—thinking of him directly .
he joined her and marianne in the breakfast-room the next morning before the others were down ; and marianne ,
” he had done his duty and could return to his son .
likely to be discovered by the world in general , since jane united , with great strength of feeling ,
it was no wonder that a train of twenty young couple now walked after her to church .
mirth for some time at the expense of their dear friend’s vulgar relations .
think has he—though he will not acknowledge it .
it was not in her nature , however , to increase her vexations by dwelling on them .
i am ashamed to say that it had never entered my head , but i was delighted to act on
i am only ready whenever you are .
i know those who would be shocked by such a representation of mr elliot , who would have difficulty in
but i thought of her , i believe , every moment of the day .
in short , for any pleasing young woman who came in his way , excepting anne elliot .
he was surprised ; but after a few moments ' silent consideration of her , replied in a calmer ,
“oftentimes very convenient , no doubt , but never pleasing .
but i mean , that i was right in submitting to her , and that if i had done otherwise
this ought to be a day of pleasure .
acquaintance , and she was just in time by a side glance to see a slight curtsey from elizabeth herself
but so eager and so resolute !
crawford was devoted to the ladies of the park ; but she thought it a very bad exchange ; and
if what i have hitherto said can appear to you in the form of encouragement , i know not how
he then asked her to walk into the house—but she declared herself not tired , and they stood together on
tell her uncle that he was wrong ; “you are quite mistaken .
me , and i hope you will not think me girlishly romantic , when i say that to have some
mr elliot had not , for many years , been on such terms as to make the power of attempting
that edward should have no taste for drawing .
knowing all this , as i have now known it many weeks , guess what i must have felt on
without gaining by it—i found myself in due time in the very place which i had a curiosity to see
by jane , this attention was received with the greatest pleasure , but elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment
evils , or bestowing kindnesses among her equals , and so fearful of appearing to elevate herself as a great
it as a thing of course that they should dine with them .
his doing so drew her notice .
of mrs .
felt and felt , and rubbed , and looked grave , and spoke low words both to the father and
more might have been said but for the restraints of propriety .
” “with you , it is not , how is such a one likely to be influenced , what is
as to place her nearer agitation than she had been for the last twenty years .
elizabeth had turned from him , lady russell overlooked him ; her nerves were strengthened by these circumstances ; she
“i can never think of it without laughing .
smith ' s account of her proceedings at langford , where he accused her of having made mr .
house , under a similar confinement , was my unfortunate sister .
you must set the example .
her fortune was large , and our family estate much encumbered .
you see her every day , and therefore do not notice it ; but i assure you she is quite
” “it is a compliment which i never pay to any place if i can avoid it .
by the kindness of her first friends , the allens , she had been introduced into scenes where pleasures of
she was not to see frank churchill this morning .
your exclamation is very natural .
grant to the deanery of westminster or st .
every necessary arrangement with the utmost despatch , and calculated with exactness the time in which she might look for
you do now .
behaviour to our poor friend .
whose success he was as confident as the last , and his visit concluded with encouraging assurances which reached the
sense .
blessings of social life was just enough touched on to shew how keenly it was felt , and how much
so cheerful !
those five or six days more at lessingby might have been felt all my life .
jane was by no means better .
for a few days was so unsettled by it altogether , by what had come , and what might come
—tomorrow morning is fixed for your leaving us , and not even the hour is left to your choice ;
grounds .
and your [ _num_ ]brother and sister were not very kind !
it was so long since fanny had had any letter from her , that she had some reason to think
to attach myself to your sister , therefore , was not a thing to be thought of ; and with
my mother and i continued in the room with her , and when any intervals of tolerable composure in eloisa
—emma heard the sad truth with fortitude .
i have the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing .
, and with a heightened colour .
begin .
” “she always makes tea , you know , when my sister is not here .
but it is a heavy blow !
knowing as i do what your feelings as a sister are , i could hardly have borne that any one
morning or other .
her aunt now called her to look at a picture .
had fanny been at all addicted to raptures , she must have had a strong attack of them when she
do not you think so ?
hardly any other that i could be satisfied to have my children in : but we are so remarkably airy
did not you observe her manner of answering me ?
she knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either , or make either appear to advantage .
been won by her usefulness when they were in distress .
” “i am very glad of it , ” said catherine ; “it would have been very shocking !
his tradespeople , and the unwelcome hints of mr shepherd , his agent , from his thoughts .
inherited from her father making independence impossible .
blessed with so many resources within myself , the world was not necessary to me .
the farewell between herself and mr .
deserved not to stay , and that kellynch hall had passed into better hands than its owners ' .
she had depended on a twilight walk to the grecian temple , and perhaps all over the grounds , and
darcy’s treatment of him , she tried to remember some of that gentleman’s reputed disposition when quite a lad which
” “then you are fretting about general tilney , and that is very simple of you ; for ten to
i cannot rest—i shall not have a moment ' s peace till this is explained—some dreadful misapprehension or other .
at this moment i cannot recollect his name , though i have heard it so lately .
jennings from the other side of the room .
her happiness in going with miss tilney , however , prevented their wishing it otherwise ; and , as they
both went to quite the farther end of the shop ; and i kept sitting near the door !
and love to miss marianne , " i am , etc .
—thank you , my dear , for showing it me .
his opinion of her , i am sure , was as low as of any woman in england ; and
she was too indolent even to accept a mother ' s gratification in witnessing their success and enjoyment at the
weston shook his head , and looked solemn , and said , “ah !
, who might not have relished domestic felicity in so unusual a form , that she still was occasionally nervous
a proper establishment of servants , a carriage , perhaps two , and hunters , cannot be supported on less
you may guess how readily he came into my wishes ; and having his approbation , i made my way
them into the tops of the trees of the wilderness immediately adjoining .
he entered the room , and leading me to the dancers my character i hope was cleared from the imputation
this is such a comfort !
it was very wrong ; very indecorous .
at present , there was nothing to be done for harriet ; good wishes for the future were all that
height and size ; for that will have more weight in the argument , miss bennet , than you may
no such thing , i can tell you , for it has been known all over town this ever so
drummond gave his daughter on her wedding-day and that miss tilney has got now , for they were put by
be over .
it would surely be much more to the purpose to get yourself well established by marrying mr .
already well known , hoping—fearing—adoring—ready to die if she refused him ; but flattering himself that his ardent attachment and
as he was a york , i am rather inclined to suppose him a very respectable man .
yes , yes , i see you are the daughter of my laurina ' s eldest girl ; your resemblance
the best of it .
” “errand !
scraps to miss fanny catherine austen my dear neice as i am prevented by the great distance between rowling and
; without any attraction beyond youth and a tolerable person ; and , from the ignorance and emptiness of her
this kind of vanity was her greatest enjoyment in any of their parties .
there she fell miserably short of the true heroic height .
she restrained herself , however , from any of the reproofs she could have given , and only thanked mrs
who could it be ?
edward ' s , on proper conditions .
—highbury , perhaps , afforded society enough ?
here catherine was quite lost .
birth and good manners are essential ; but a little learning is by no means a dangerous thing in good
having regulated her thoughts and comforted her feelings by this happy mixture of reason and weakness , she was able
you ; and if i don ' t get one of you at least well married before i have done
would so abjectly degrade myself as to consider my father ' s concurrence in any of my affairs , either
she , taking me affectionately by the hand ; " i honestly own that there is something to conceal .
i will look it out for you some day or other , because i am sure it will do you
crawford like , in what manner would he chuse , to take a survey of the grounds ?
, who had been set up as a rival to jane .
" but why were you not there , edward ?
”—said emma , still perplexed .
palmer ' s , it was proposed by the latter that they should all accompany her to some shops where
in november .
they insist also on my seeing mr .
’ those were your words .
consequently am without the accomplishments which are now necessary to finish a pretty woman .
—a miss hawkins !
she saw only that he was quiet and unobtrusive , and she liked him for it .
that would only prove her affection not equal to sacrifices , which , in fact , i am scarcely justified
thorpe said ; she was vastly pleased at your all going .
she saw her mother and marianne change colour ; saw them look at herself , and whisper a few sentences
engagement ; but that one is the total silence of both on the subject , and with me it almost
“but there may be pretty good guessing .
“this requires explanation .
no , it is a meeting at the crown , a regular meeting .
little things do not irritate him .
i have been expecting to hear from you , and still more to see you , every hour of the
infer that she could taste no greater delight than in making a filigree basket for a spoilt child .
the first hope of anything better was derived from lady susan ' s asking her whether she thought frederica looked
” the influence of his voice was felt .
for thirteen years had she been doing the honours , and laying down the domestic law at home , and
pray , dear miss woodhouse , tell me what i ought to do .
bertram is certainly well off for a cadet of even a baronet ' s family .
come near them .
repaired to his imprisoned freind to lament over his misfortunes .
, she might , had these amiable qualities been properly encouraged , have been an ornament to human nature ;
to announce her engagement to the family .
four o ' clock dinner , the hero of this inimitable charade walked in again .
that he was a stuart .
as many pursuits , employments , professions , and trades as columella ' s .
allen made her way through the throng of men by the door , as swiftly as the necessary caution would
” “no , i do not , ” said fanny softly , hoping she did not err either in the
but , my dear , is not this rather out of character ?
" " very good humoured , unaffected girls , indeed , " said mrs croft , in a tone of
“i have some hope , ” resumed he , “of my uncle ' s being persuaded to pay a visit
, and her being in remarkably good looks .
you been able to decipher ' oh !
a sudden freak seemed to have seized him at breakfast , and he had sent for a chaise and set
his manners , though serious , were mild ; and his reserve appeared rather the result of some oppression of
bennet , however , with the assistance of her five daughters , could ask on the subject , was sufficient
many uncomfortable , anxious , apprehensive feelings she certainly had ; but with all these , and other claims on
sister away unseen by willoughby since his marriage , and she looked forward with hope to what a few months
she began to be surprised at being left so long , and to listen with an anxious desire of hearing
other schemes , too , came into her head .
a short , a very short time however must now decide what willoughby ' s intentions were ; in all
her visit to abbey-mill , this summer , seems to have done his business .
persuasion , joined to all the rest , made her think that she must be a little in love with
” fanny thought it a bold measure , but offered no further resistance ; and they went together into the
" she sees nothing to blame in it , " replied anne ; " on the contrary , she approves
” they went in ; and while the sleek , well-tied parcels of “men ' s beavers” and “york tan”
it should not , must not be a struggle .
dashwood was sorry for what she had said ; but it gave elinor pleasure , as it produced a reply
innocent and quiet as you sit here , you cannot have an idea of the sensation that you will be
” sir thomas looked at her with deeper surprise .
reynolds , either by pride or attachment , had evidently great pleasure in talking of her master and his sister
” he got as near as he could to thanking her for miss taylor ' s merits , without seeming
respecting that sister , in spite of this mortifying conviction .
least put myself in the way of happiness ; i could exert myself ; i could do something .
there was nothing to be done , however , but to submit quietly and hope the best .
to him .
with either of them .
to admire the spirit and freedom with which his horse moved along , and the ease which his paces ,
” “i did—and was in hopes the question would be followed up by others .
[ _num_ ] " i do not see how it can be done , " said she , " without
her face , giving the hope of her having cried herself to sleep ; when , as they were going
as for myself , i am sure i only wish our situations were reversed .
the easy assurance of the young couple , indeed , was enough to provoke him .
at any other time this would have been felt dreadfully .
ashamed for the necessity of the removal , she could not but in conscience feel that they were gone who
her activity and usefulness , and the dread of being thought to demean herself by such an office .
it for your sister .
stone .
” “bingley .
the latter was thinking only of his breakfast .
but this he declined , as he was dirty and wet .
nearly cleared , as we left particular orders with the servants to eat as hard as they possibly could ,
“to have it quite in their own family circle was what they had particularly wished .
” lady bertram made no objection ; and every one concerned in the going was forward in expressing their ready
” isabella recollected herself .
weston , “and on others , very little : and among those , on which she is beyond his reach
something of them .
she did not think very much about it , however : he pleased her for the present ; she liked
of the arrival reached them .
” “you have only proved by this , ” cried elizabeth , “that mr .
of yesterday .
norris was too busy in contriving and directing the general little matters of the company , superintending their various dresses
” “you must not be too severe upon yourself , ” replied elizabeth .
by her .
to accede to his proposal .
there was hardly any one in the house who might not have described , from personal observation , better than
she had never received from her more than outward attention , nothing beyond the observances of complaisance ; had never
there can be no doubt of its having been of the greatest service to dr shirley , after his illness
i could never doubt that you would be loved and sought by others , but i knew to a certainty
parties , there will always be those who will be glad of her acquaintance ; and there is , undoubtedly
dashwood had been informed by her husband of the solemn promise on the part of his son in their favour
she dared to say she would make a great many conquests .
—i wanted the opinion of some one who could really judge .
did you not know that she disliked sir james ?
there is nothing in that .
such was the collection of papers (left perhaps , as she could then suppose , by the negligence of a
yes , marianne , even in a man between thirty and forty .
the folly of inventing a falsehood of such a description .
the name of musgrove would have told him enough .
sense not to see all that .
little observation there was necessary to tell him that indifference was the most favourable state they could be in .
dark .
you have a look of his sometimes .
at ten o ' clock , she trusted , or at least not much later her mother would be relieved
elton , you know , (recollecting herself , ) is out of the question : and i do not wish
she had nothing to wish otherwise , but that the days did not pass so swiftly .
and we both laughed heartily at her disappointment ; and , in short , were very agreeable .
than anne conceived they could have been at all wanted , they were yet the first of the family to
i can hardly suppose—and since you push me so hard , i must observe , that i am not entirely
marianne was to have the best place by the fire , was to be tempted to eat by every delicacy
them to see as much as possible ; and mr .
said , “well , miss morland , i suppose you and i are to stand up and jig it together
of you .
like to hear .
i declare , when i got back to sotherton yesterday , it looked like a prison—quite a dismal old prison
could not help watching her closely .
catherine ' s spirits , however , were tranquillized but for an instant , for eleanor ' s cheeks were
i can understand .
and cautious : i thought her even cold .
frank churchill are hearing every thing that passes .
me ; on the contrary i enjoy them extremely and should enjoy them even more , were i not certain
, do not go .
he is now obliged to forego through the urgency of your debts .
presence had imposed , and most thankfully feel their present release from it .
when she told marianne what she had done , however , her first reply was not very auspicious .
rushworth is the sort of amiable modest young man who wants a great deal of encouragement , and there were
at least , however , i cannot be worse off than i should have been , if the other had
while much is actually given to the sight , more yet remains for the imagination .
prayers are .
she might scruple to make use of the words , but she must and did feel that her mother was
i assure you that i have long been most heartily ashamed of it .
“edmund wants her to go .
xxxiii lady susan to mrs .
us all , or nearly so .
them at the door , she started as if she had forgotten that any one was expected .
killed more birds (though without having one good shot) than all his companions together ; and described to her some
and amiable youth , i had ever beheld .
to him therefore the succession to the norland estate was not so really important as to his sisters ; for
” he heard frank churchill next say , with a glance towards jane , “i will give it to her—shall
scarlet coat and cocked hat .
them how every thing ought to be arranged .
actually married a neapolitan lady of great rank and fortune .
because i am to hope for the satisfaction of seeing you at woodston on wednesday , which bad weather ,
negligent for not writing before .
it was then disclosed in the following manner .
ever saw a girl of _num_ .
norris was by no means to be compared in happiness to her sister .
allusion to it from him .
of pride , she was pleased with him for not liking mrs clay ; and her conscience admitted that his
fanny went to bed with her heart as full as on the first evening of her arrival at the park
” but elizabeth , who had not the least inclination to remain with them , laughingly answered : “no ,
you , who had seen all the fretful selfishness of my latter days ; who had known all the murmurings
must make allowances for such a child—and i do not know that her being sorry to leave her home is
if they are anxious to see you happily married , here is a man whose amiable character gives every assurance
” isabella smiled incredulously and talked the rest of the evening to james .
” sir thomas said no more ; but when they sat down to table the eyes of the two young
bates ; but i have been so pleasantly detained !
her fancy was very active .
but as she might be useful , and that she would not allow herself to be considered in the present
as nothing was really left for the decision of mrs .
to william larkins and said every thing , as you may suppose .
she really felt , took leave .
two , as being somewhat newer and more conjectural ; and since edward ' s visit , they had never
been first agitated , as time is for ever producing between the plans and decisions of mortals , for their
it would have surprised anne if louisa could have readily answered such a speech : words of such interest ,
stupid men are the only ones worth knowing , after all .
ever had a serious thought of each other , she could only renew her former caution as to the elder
known intimately soon .
my father .
elliots as a mere matter of form , and not in the least likely to afford them any pleasure .
lucy continued .
but that was not enough ; for when people are determined on a mode of conduct which they know to
no reserves with you on this subject .
it ?
crawford , when he was gone .
” how rejoiced was elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day !
" yes , —i left london this morning at eight o ' clock , and the only ten minutes i
—for with all these symptoms of profligacy at ten years old , she had neither a bad heart nor a
rushworth was eager to assure her ladyship of his acquiescence , and tried to make out something complimentary ; but
sorts of friendship in the world , mary on something of less philosophic tendency .
between the two eldest and herself especially , there subsisted a particular regard .
give no information ; for he had been generally confined to the house , while the girls were ranging over
" i have only to add , my dear willoughby , that at barton cottage you will always be welcome
“excessively ; but what with the natural advantages of the ground , which pointed out , even to a very
be the reward of all .
, and she found herself talking of what she should do when she went home before she was aware .
were at first .
reynolds then directed their attention to one of miss darcy , drawn when she was only eight years old .
observation ; whatever were the case , though her opinion of him must be materially affected by the difference ,
she began to think that he must be in liquor ; —the strangeness of such a visit , and of
in any particular style of building ?
that , madam , is what i wish you to say .
: “mrs .
you must stay and hear your cousin ' s favourite .
but happily lady dalrymple always chooses to be farther off ; and we were exceedingly well placed , that is
jennings , " i am sure i shall be monstrous glad of miss marianne ' s company , whether miss
, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your daughter’s favour , without having paid yourself and mr .
of them .
lead to were overpowering , and she fancied herself on the point of fainting away .
, it is quite wonderful the relief they give .
wish for an instrument , and examine their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantelpiece , the interval of
belong to the present half-hour ; but the very sight of mrs .
bingley on the subject of the ball , and abruptly reminded him of his promise ; adding , that it
” “i cannot agree with you ; i am convinced that my father would totally disapprove it .
the miss bertrams laughed at the idea , assuring her that the barouche would hold four perfectly well , independent
edward , who had till then looked any where , rather than at her , saw her hurry away ,
and then , her reserve—i never could attach myself to any one so completely reserved .
the rank of a cottage , and at all the little chandler ' s shops which they passed .
but to her utter amazement she found that to proceed along the room was by no means the way to
, ” replied edmund , turning away to the fire , where sat his mother , aunt , and fanny
elinor , nothing can .
herself could ever appreciate , and as entitled to such gratitude from her as no feelings could be strong enough
to be observable .
i heard a good deal of colonel campbell ' s taste at weymouth ; and the softness of the upper
the return of winter engagements , however , was not without its effect ; and in the course of their
collins , and the convenient distance of hunsford from london .
bertram ' s calculations .
just at present it comes hard to poor james ; but that will not last forever ; and i dare
” “i suspect , ” said isabella , in a low voice , “there is no great struggle .
" " hush !
harville , or to be more deeply afflicted under the dreadful change .
being an excellent walker .
requires some apology to you , my dear sister ; though to me , as a mother , it is
long supported .
i am making a conundrum .
in that case he would return no more .
mean—if i had been treated in that forbidding sort of way , i should have gave it all up in
” “is that his design in settling here ?
behaviour to their guests .
she declared them to be very agreeable girls indeed , which for her ladyship was enthusiastic admiration .
to her what she had to do .
than she had supposed , and half inclined to suspect that the pen had only fallen because he had been
and cheerful till the usual hour of separating allowed her the relief of quiet reflection .
” “i am not ashamed to own it ; said i taking courage .
it does relate to him , and i will tell you directly ; ” (resuming her work , and seeming
” but her words were lost on thorpe , who had turned abruptly away .
for an invalid like herself to venture out .
and he had spoken in such terms of elizabeth as to leave georgiana without the power of finding her otherwise
i never would finish it , to have it apologised over as an unfavourable likeness , to every morning visitor
you will find fanny everything you could wish .
” “your feelings are singular .
small , she could not think of living with her aunt with anything like satisfaction .
the least mind for it , to put an end to the matter directly , and leave him shift for
" shyness is only the effect of a sense of inferiority in some way or other .
elliots , whose evening amusements were solely in the elegant stupidity of private parties , in which they were getting
at that moment she first perceived him , and her whole countenance glowing with sudden delight , she would have
as to excite general attention .
” “yes—what should hurt me ?
if he were to be very alert in engaging jane fairfax now , it might augur something .
she , therefore , said no more for some time .
“that will be forty miles a day .
“i feel quite stupid .
all equality of alliance must rest with elizabeth , for mary had merely connected herself with an old country family
chapter xxxix could sir thomas have seen all his niece ' s feelings , when she wrote her first letter
i will write again very soon .
my dear freind i every day more regret the serene and tranquil pleasures of the castle we have left ,
” emma amused herself by protesting that it was very extraordinary , indeed , and that she had not a
" while her father spoke , there was a knock at the door .
of the rest she saw nothing : nobody seemed to think of her ever going amongst them again , even
” emma assured her there would be no difficulty in the answer , and advised its being written directly ,
best moralists , such collections of the finest letters , such memoirs of characters of worth and suffering , as
without a reproof to him , which would be giving pain to his wife ; and she found herself therefore
irremediable infamy , was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill applied .
” he paused in hopes of an answer ; but his companion was not disposed to make any ; and
“very pretty , sir , upon my word ; to send me on here , to be an encumbrance to
it is however but justice , and my duty to declare that this amiable woman was entirely innocent of the
, it is of all parts in the world the most disgusting to me .
but i require no such proof .
you have difficulties , and privations , and dangers enough to struggle with .
the succeeding morning promised something better .
morland must take care of you .
superior pretensions , merit , and beauty of her cousins mary queen of scotland and jane grey .
" said elizabeth ; and without waiting for an answer , " and pray what brings the crofts to bath
daughters out of the house , as soon as mr .
then ; and she shall have no reason to lament the hour that first put it into my head .
” chapter xxxiv edmund had great things to hear on his return .
experience might have hoped more for any young people so circumstanced , and impartiality would not have denied to miss
" " did not you know , " said willoughby , " that we had been out in my curricle
he was not near , he was attending a party of ladies out of the room ; and mrs .
” this accounted to elizabeth for mr .
yes , mary , my fanny will feel a difference indeed : a daily , hourly difference , in the
" " you did then , " said elinor , a little softened , " believe yourself at one time
he had been conferring an obligation , which no want of delicacy on his part could make a trifle to
she cared not for mrs clay , and had nothing to blush for in the public manners of her father
her apprehensions once raised , paid by their excess for all her former security ; and the servant who sat
but was there nothing in her conversation that struck you , fanny , as not quite right ?
elton , whose judgment never fails her , saw farther than i did .
” “i want to consult .
is very rarely of use to any body .
—what did you look forward to ?
engrossed by her .
she was so eager to have them drawn that i could not refuse ; but there is no making children
” “both , ” replied elizabeth archly ; “for i have always seen a great similarity in the turn of
her tears fell abundantly—but her grief was so truly artless , that no dignity could have made it more respectable
paying his addresses—and as jane used to be very often walking out with them—for colonel and mrs .
" if we can persuade your father to all this , " said lady russell , looking over her paper
smith was there , and with no other companion than mr .
check you in your first essay—but indeed it will not do .
—yes , honourable , i think , to chuse so well and so gratefully .
more attended to , and people were carried more out of themselves by contemplating such a scene .
a word to the wise .
she loved him ; there was no withdrawing attentions avowedly dear to her .
all them to himself .
rushworth ' s wife must be to fill her house , and give the best balls in the country .
she trembled a little at the idea of anyone ' s approaching so cautiously ; but resolving not to be
them fond of each other ?
now , my sweet catherine , all our distresses are over ; you are honourably acquitted , and we shall
meditate an application to her nephew ; and how he might take a similar representation of the evils attached to
” “it is one that i shall never change , however .
” the door , however , proved not to be locked , and they were all agreed in turning joyfully
our friends or the opinion of the world .
the notice of either .
“what , has she frightened away some of your lovers ?
him into a little more rationality .
elton very agreeable .
, in being unpleasant to miss f .
my hopes are much weaker .
she was always so gentle and retiring that her emotions were beyond his discrimination .
too , from a quarter where i had least reason to expect it .
and to be kept back on such a motive !
with acquaintance she might not approve .
chapter xvii mr .
” replied sophia , “when i first beheld you the instinct of nature whispered me that we were in some
degree related—but whether grandfathers , or grandmothers , i could not pretend to determine .
i do not offer them as new .
weston , is it ?
but do you always write such charming long letters to her , mr .
when a giant dies .
it was most unlikely , therefore , that he should ever want his father ' s assistance .
; and so little did her presence add to the pleasure of the others , by any share in their
a case ; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to be so very guarded .
rushworth—now fixed to the last point of certainty could affect her as it had done before .
emma wondered on what , of all the medley , she would fix .
his wife , for her approbation , when they got home .
and he seemed quite struck with jane as she was going down the dance .
frank ' s mother would never have been slighted as she was but for her .
i am a little acquainted with captain benwick .
others .
her elder cousins mortified her by reflections on her size , and abashed her by noticing her shyness : miss
nothing was to be done that he did not do himself ; though i am sure (and i do not
" exert yourself , dear marianne , " she cried , " if you would not kill yourself and all
from the further disadvantage of lydia’s society she was of course carefully kept , and though mrs .
" " should i ?
mortification ; and the carriage drove off amid the good wishes of the two remaining ladies , and the barking
it was done , and they were gone .
” “i should not wonder , ” said mrs .
to the insipid talk of her husband .
there was a family of cousins within a walk of uppercross , in less affluent circumstances , who depended on
—should suppose himself her equal in connexion or mind !
she will feel her own sufferings to be nothing .
anne , judging from her own temperament , would have deemed such a domestic hurricane a bad restorative of the
i do not doubt but that the healthy air of the bristol downs will intirely remove it , by erasing
dashwood as soon as she could be assured that her visit would be no inconvenience ; and as this message
could pain her .
only think what grand things were produced there by our all going with him one hot day in august to
knightley passing through the garden door , and coming towards her .
nursing does not belong to a man ; it is not his province .
attachment as certain , and looked forward to their marriage as rapidly approaching .
elton , but i have not much faith in mrs .
the effect of the whole was a manner so pitying and agitated , and words intermingled with her refusal so
dixon , and the not going to ireland , she said , with the insidious design of farther discovery ,
he had expressed himself as to coming , with more than common certainty .
how to have this anxious business set to rights , and be admitted as cousins again , was the question
i have no hope of ever being settled ; and if i was to part with rebecca , i should
against the actual approach—new carriage , bell-ringing , and all .
—it certainly was very extraordinary !
similar kind , for it has been attended by circumstances which , for the sake of every one concerned in
' i will not promise even to equal the elegant terseness of mrs .
in that respect his friend had greatly the advantage .
" did you ?
she was as much convinced of his meaning to gain anne in time as of his deserving her , and
will surprise you .
sort of thing that gives me cold .
youngster , that his son was really about five years back , and that he has affected to appear ever
—supposing even that they had never become intimate friends ; that she had never been admitted into miss fairfax '
going to introduce him ?
depend upon it , whatever esteem mr elliot may have for his own situation in life now , as a
miss thorpe , however , being four years older than miss morland , and at least four years better informed
the general was flattered by her looks of surprise , which told him almost as plainly , as he soon
sunday always brought this comfort to fanny , and on this sunday she felt it more than ever .
i saw you with the very person who had guided you in that year of misery .
' s eye .
that is , his duty ; not by manoeuvring and finessing , but by vigour and resolution .
not aware of their being in town , however , i blundered on sir john , i believe , the
thorpe .
william was soon calling out from the landing-place of the second story for his mother and for rebecca .
no , these were noises which belonged to the winter pleasures ; her spirits rose under their influence ; and
between them ; and miss steele , with yet greater address gave it , as fast as she could ,
” “nothing very bad .
, there was a life , a spirit , an eagerness , which could hardily be seen without delight .
" repeated he ; " would they have me beg my mother ' s pardon for robert ' s ingratitude
vernon conclusion this correspondence , by a meeting between some of the parties , and a separation between the others
he had , in fact , been wholly unsuspicious of his own influence .
the instinct of nature was soon satisfied , and mrs .
which had been some time heard , was just coming up , and proved to be admiral croft ' s
he inquired in a friendly , though general way , after her family , and looked and spoke with the
i think , as well as more consistent with his general character ; —but i will not raise objections against
fanny ' s beauty of face and figure , fanny ' s graces of manner and goodness of heart ,
” “i dare say you will .
in general , it was a very well approved match .
he had turned away , and the horses were in motion .
" at that moment how great was my astonishment at seeing reginald come out of lady susan ' s dressing-room
a few minutes with the family , and be a witness—but that he saw nothing—of the tranquil manner in which
my father and mother ' s having no notice of it is of very little consequence .
he approached immediately , and took the seat to which her movements invited him .
my laura (returned she) avoid so melancholy a subject , i intreat you .
he calmly concluded had broken the necks of many .
” with such kinds of histories of their parties and good jokes , did lydia , assisted by kitty’s hints
to know that he has not thrown himself away , is such a comfort !
while waiting for the carriage , she found mr .
will , i believe , be everywhere found , that as the clergy are , or are not what they
could not resist her attractions .
after lamenting it , however , at some length , she had the consolation that mr .
i give you credit for it .
the communicative lady i learnt , on inquiry , for i stayed in the shop till they were gone ,
“this will not do , ” said elizabeth ; “you never will be able to make both of them good
” fanny could not avoid a faint smile , but had nothing to say .
no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men .
enforced the assertion , by observing that miss morton was the daughter of a nobleman with thirty thousand pounds ,
with grateful respect .
mark of your regard during my stay in hertfordshire .
she is also very hardy herself , which of course will influence her in her opinion of the wants of
but have you likewise heard that miss grey has fifty thousand pounds ?
what am i to tell you ?
“lady catherine de bourgh , ” she replied , “has very lately given him a living .
i do not care if it is the doctor ' s favourite colour .
bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment of her brother and sister , that they did not once sit
, except in one habitation , the vicarage .
they think themselves secure , you do no more than what is expected , and it raises no gratitude at
[ _num_ ] many were the tears shed by them in their last adieus to a place so much beloved
—did not think him at all in love—not in the least .
oh , that i knew how it was !
it was all good-humour and encouragement .
rub her hands , rub her temples ; here are salts ; take them , take them .
same time , not of any family that could fairly object to the doubtful birth of harriet .
what sister would think herself at liberty to do it , unless there were something very objectionable ?
she was afraid of talking longer of his friend ; and , having nothing else to say , was now
grant was to join them at dinner .
it had been more delightful than anybody could conceive .
him but one thing to be done ; and that “fanny must have a horse” was the resolute declaration with
tone than usual , “as far as i am concerned , sir , i would not have delayed his return
he was soon pretty well resigned .
—is it so ?
and i think she feels it .
been so fortunate as i have been in early preferment ; and i trust i am resigned .
” from that moment , emma could have taken her oath that mr .
he has a right to require ; a woman of fortune in his daughter-in-law , and i am sometimes quarrelling
you may believe i take care that it shall not be a bad one .
i have no reason , from any thing that has fallen within my observation , to do otherwise .
point as this , she could not wonder at her brother-in-law ' s breaking out .
“i am disappointed , ” said she , in a low voice , to edmund .
so frequently , so almost uniformly betrayed by herself , by your three younger sisters , and occasionally even by
weston , do not mistake me .
she had a cultivated mind , and was , generally speaking , rational and consistent ; but she had prejudices
miss crawford appeared gratified by the application , and after a moment ' s thought , urged fanny ' s
elizabeth immediately recognizing the livery , guessed what it meant , and imparted no small degree of her surprise to
” chapter vi mr .
and upon looking over his letters and things , she found it was so , and is perfectly sure that
—and i have hardly begun to enjoy myself .
her power over him must now be boundless , as she has entirely effaced all his former ill-opinion , and
mrs harville was a very experienced nurse , and her nursery-maid , who had lived with her long , and
to her being left to dine alone , though he still wanted her to join them in the evening ,
to come ; and he did come rather earlier than had been expected , in consequence of the sudden breaking-up
you feel that you have no longer any friend to whom you can speak with unreserve , on whose regard
with abundance and elegance .
that it had been in her power , without material inconvenience , just at that time to give him something
he came , not to stop , but to join them ; he was asked to go with them to
and found her way with all speed to the breakfast-parlour , as it had been pointed out to her by
thorpe was a widow , and not a very rich one ; she was a good-humoured , well-meaning woman ,
to be attended to than if the cause of her objecting had been a consciousness of his folly ; and
she was at least free from the offense of mr .
one shoulder of mutton , you know , drives another down .
&c ; which was all as politely done , and as politely taken , as possible , but her part
” elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness .
struggles for politeness , replied , “it is impossible for me to doubt any longer .
not the admiration of a person who can understand their worth .
shall only regret that you have not half a dozen daughters to dispose of .
—you may guess , dear miss woodhouse , what a flurry it has thrown me in !
as if wishing to make her feel what she had lost in refusing him .
love if he chose .
or twice in the spring , after being anxiously expected for half a dozen sundays together ; but not for
it in whatever manner he thought best , but her sister’s was involved in it , as she thought he
all manly dresses a shooting-jacket was the most becoming .
he did not come however .
” “how can you contrive to write so even ?
" the smallness of the house , " said she , " i cannot imagine any inconvenience to them ,
and this nourishment of grief was every day applied .
who had done without her so long , while she was so useful to herself .
had he left them than her feelings found a rapid vent .
i an ' t the least astonished at it in the world , for i have often thought of late
—it is a handsome present .
she meant to urge him to persevere in the hope of being loved in time , and of having his
gratitude that he should be asking her leave for it .
, after being obliged to submit to all this attention , and to being assisted and waited on by mistresses
it must be all and completely a mistake—for i did not see him once that whole morning .
cole should have done it .
” this letter gave elizabeth some pain ; but her spirits returned as she considered that jane would no longer
as marks of acquiescence , or proofs of defiance .
hundred .
and variously dispersed and disposed of , produced a noise and confusion which his nerves could not have borne under
their daughter ' s comfort .
i do think mrs .
lady catherine , it appeared , had actually taken the trouble of this journey from rosings , for the sole
spent in town , while her daughter was left in staffordshire to the care of servants , or a governess
such a research ; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman whom he must abominate and despise ,
in her usefulness , in fanny ' s excellence , in william ' s continued good conduct and rising fame
emma saw symptoms of it immediately in the expression of her face ; and while paying her own compliments to
she would not , upon any account , mention her having met with him the second time ; luckily mary
, for the admiral had made up his mind not to begin till they had gained the greater space and
it is , i believe , too little yielding—certainly too little for the convenience of the world .
a fire ready lit , than to have to wait shivering in the cold till all the family are in
well , how pleased i am !
bertram , though in her own good-nature she would not have prevented it , was lamenting the change it made
“without thinking of the south of france .
” “that is right .
” elizabeth was forced to give into a little falsehood here ; for to acknowledge the substance of their conversation
he listened to her with silent attention , and on her ceasing to speak , rose directly from his seat
she felt herself obliged to use , was not to be understood .
” and putting up her hand to screen her words from emma—“a congratulatory visit , you know .
weston ' s having mentioned it in one of her letters to enscombe , many weeks ago , with all
they wanted him to make a fine figure in the world in some manner or other .
him well , he was very much struck by his personal claims , and felt that his superiority of appearance
it would not be fair ; and yet you ought to have proof , for what is all this but
allen whether it would not be both proper and kind in her to write to miss thorpe , and explain
erase it from my memory .
that he has related of her ladyship , i suspect his gratitude misleads him , and that in spite of
i know you feel for me ; i know what a heart you have ; but yet you are—you must
had shuddered over in books , for the roll , seeming to consist entirely of small disjointed sheets , was
” she then sought her eldest sister , who had undertaken to make inquiries on the same subject of bingley
with his notions of dignity , he would probably feel that the arguments , which to elizabeth had appeared weak
” “and if the dixons should absolutely deny all knowledge of it we must conclude it to come from the
guess , then , what i must feel at the sudden disturbance of all my schemes ; and that ,
a period at sea must supply .
had he ever been in the way of learning , i think he would have drawn very well .
such another small basin of thin gruel as his own was all that he could , with thorough self-approbation ,
" i had no more discoveries to make than you would have as to the fashion and strength of any
“what if they were among them to undertake the care of her eldest daughter , a girl now nine years
though she dared not depend upon the consequence , she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour .
bennet invited him to dine with them ; but , with many expressions of concern , he confessed himself engaged
“here is his answer , if you like to see it .
and , luckily , it had been the general ' s choice .
does she know her own happiness ?
she is exactly the companion for mrs .
but his anger , i am persuaded , lasted no longer than he remained in any doubt of your sister’s
but no , ”—recollecting herself—“that could never be ; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to me ;
when you have been here a little longer , miss fairfax , you will understand that mr .
it was truly dramatic .
crawford , was at little pains to remove ; and the chances of mr .
“it is not fair , ” said emma , in a whisper ; “mine was a random guess .
he might have doubled his presumption to me—but poor harriet !
weeks since they had received pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour .
he has loved her , my elinor , ever since the first moment of seeing her .
had the late mr .
donavan thinks just the same .
the estate at winthrop is not less than two hundred and fifty acres , besides the farm near taunton ,
elinor ' s heart was full .
be easy without going , and yet it was without loving her , without ever thinking like her , without
has always been kind to him (in her way—allowing for little whims and caprices , and expecting every thing to
miss woodhouse , how you do forget !
' s generous temper , simple taste , and diffident feelings .
great deal of the heathen mythology , and all the metals , semi-metals , planets , and distinguished philosophers .
animate and do her good , but i will not have you plunge her deep , for she is as
more lucky in getting her , because she is so very handsome and agreeable , that nothing can be good
and entreating the immediate presence of her friend on a matter of the utmost importance , hastened catherine , in
they were three days on their journey , and marianne ' s behaviour as they travelled was a happy specimen
palmer ?
stood forward for admiration .
” “you came from derbyshire ?
your virtues my amiable polydore (addressing himself to my father) yours dear claudia and yours my charming laura call on
elton , though hesitating a good deal while he spoke ; “i have no hesitation in saying—at least if my
” he listened to her with perfect indifference while she chose to entertain herself in this manner ; and as
it is just as he chooses .
i came to rehearse .
elizabeth was in agonies .
“you either choose this method of passing the evening because you are in each other’s confidence , and have secret
so much more to be pitied than herself , should never , she thought , have reason to reproach her
passed away , without her seeing isabella for more than a few minutes together .
demanded , and mr .
no present intention of marrying lady susan , not that he is in no danger of doing so three months
" " i hope i am as fond of my child as any mother , but i do not know
i knew enough of your disposition to be certain that , had you been absolutely , irrevocably decided against me
now be sincere ; did you admire me for my impertinence ?
i was last month at my friend elliott ' s , near dartford .
turn for the stage .
; and every particular was deferred till james could write again .
i have been plagued ever since i came here with tiresome visits from a parcel of scotch wretches , with
but tho ' one may be majestic and the other lively , yet the faces of neither possess that bewitching
you knew i should not stir till my lord and master appeared .
so far all was perfectly right ; but lady russell was almost startled by the wrong of one part of
of sweetbread and some asparagus brought in at first , and good mr .
morland watched the progress of this relapse ; and seeing , in her daughter ' s absent and dissatisfied look
on the churchills ' to keep him to themselves .
vernon to lady de courcy churchhill .
feel and appear as usual ; but it was quite impossible for her not to look most shy and uncomfortable
he would gain cheerfulness , and she would learn to be an enthusiast for scott and lord byron ; nay
proposal particularly well timed .
i should like to see the girl married and cleveland has a very good estate .
whom she could not bear to speak of the day before was now high in her good graces .
remain in the same place and the same employment till the clock struck one ; and from habitude very little
marianne was quite angry with her for doubting it .
which she had never before entirely despaired of , they must in all probability have gained some news of them
of their plan to introduce her into what you would call good society .
i am much obliged to you , my dear friend , for your advice respecting mr .
” “my father tried it more than once , formerly ; but without receiving any benefit ; and mr .
but i will say no more on so melancholy a subject—let me entertain you with something more pleasing—matilda had a
he saw her lips formed into a no , though the sound was inarticulate , but her face was like
and saw his look , and felt what his sensations must be .
(replied my husband in a most nobly contemptuous manner) and dost thou then imagine that there is no other support
in this unchecked , equal , fearless intercourse with the brother and friend who was opening all his heart to
what it had been at first , by the sight of mr .
” “but mr .
how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she had ever encouraged , every saucy speech she had ever
another room of much better size might be secured for the purpose ; but it was at the other end
said in reply , “when you have seen more of this country , i am afraid you will think you
eye round it , to see other symptoms of recent habitation and a general air of confusion in the furniture
i am unwilling to fancy myself neglected for a young one .
on which the daily happiness of private life depends , was one of the first gratifications of each .
the court-plaister never did .
jennings ' s house ; but it was not a thing to be urged against the wishes of everybody .
it was necessary to laugh , when she would rather have cried .
the ladies had passed near it in their way along the valley , but it was screened from their view
sick for speech .
room which may be easily added , and a bed-chamber and garret above , will make it a very snug
in thus sending her away , sir thomas perhaps might not be thinking merely of her health .
" " nor i , " answered marianne with energy , " our situations then are alike .
she said the highest things in your praise that could possibly be ; and the praise of such a girl
character !
shortly afterward , sir thomas was again interfering a little with her inclination , by advising her to go immediately
i was too much shocked to be able to pass myself off as insensible even to the undiscerning sir john
disposed towards herself , and so full of civility to all her family .
effectual , he had not a doubt of their being established friends .
but he found , in reply to this question , that wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making
” “and i do envy him , emma .
have her amongst us again !
grant ' s being so well settled in life without being handsome , and expressed her astonishment on that point
like the wild young men nowadays , who think of nothing but themselves .
manners were so exactly what they ought to be , so polished , so easy , so particularly agreeable ,
wanton cruelty so evident on yours .
one moment surely might be spared ; and , so desperate should be the exertion of her strength , that
the coachman drove round to a minute ; another minute brought down the gentleman ; and as the lady had
and i am sure lucy would have done just the same by me ; for a year or two back
woodhouse , understanding but in part .
all manner of solemn nonsense was talked on the subject , but i believed none of it .
first day of his coming , and the day after i had called at mrs .
_num_ ] as will edward too , who i have told of it .
your applying , however , to reginald can be productive only of good to all parties .
i informed them of every thing which had befallen me during the course of my life , and at my
” “oxford !
”—with many other relative questions , all answered with patient politeness .
person whose society she mostly prized—and , in addition to all the rest , this roof was to be the
disparity , too great a disparity , and in a point no less essential than mind .
general , which probably was a principal motive for his doing it , since otherwise why should a man who
miss tilney , whom she most joyfully saw just entering the room with mrs .
, finding a comfortable seat for herself on the step of a stile , was very well satisfied so long
you will not be sorry to find yourself .
we are all very well pleased , however , for though it is not equal to her marrying captain wentworth
elton is a very good sort of man , and a very respectable vicar of highbury , but not at
for not one of them had ever been finished , that they might decide together on the best size for
and compliments—it had been a release to get away from him .
“to newgate gentle youth (replied i) , to see augustus .
she was obliged to recollect that her seeing the letter was a violation of the laws of honour , that
she could not , though only eighteen , suppose mr .
but marianne , in her place , would not have done so little .
catherine had seen nothing to compare with it ; and her feelings of delight were so strong , that without
“bertram , ” said henry crawford , “i shall make a point of coming to mansfield to hear you preach
she reached the house without any impediment , looked at the number , knocked at the door , and inquired
would believe what a sum they cost sir thomas every year , to say nothing of what i do for
" by all means , " said she ; " only tell me all about it , when you do
our situation with regard to lady catherine’s family is indeed the sort of extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can
” “your brother should take the part , ” said mr .
i had wept over her every day—had bathed her sweet face with my tears and had pressed her fair hands
i have not known you long to be sure , personally at least , but i have known you and
active , sanguine spirit , of more warmth than delicacy , made her affection appear of greater consequence because it
“sure he will not leave london before he has found them .
your father thought only of them and i must say this : that you owe no particular gratitude to him
and i know he has read the vicar of wakefield .
thinking aloud , " so then he went away to the laconia , and there he met with our poor
norris ; and not bearing to remain with her in what might seem a state of triumph , she followed
” the situation of affairs in the longbourn family could not be long a secret .
attention , the first to listen and to pity , the first to be admired ; and in his manner
before betsey had finished her cry at being allowed to sit up only one hour extraordinary in honour of sister
a dinner there must be .
describe !
aunt ' s in middlesex .
so it is in vain to affect ignorance .
when the card-tables were placed , he had the opportunity of obliging her in turn , by sitting down to
norris , as if reading in her two nieces ' minds their little approbation of a plan which was to
—as far as the shock of such a summons could be lessened to her , his presence , his manners
however , when you sink into this abyss again , you will have more to say .
you and papa , and my sisters , must come down and see us .
rushworth , and henry crawford were all busy with candles at the pianoforte , she suddenly revived it by turning
my dear , i wish you would not make matches and foretell things , for whatever you say always comes
sir thomas had been a good deal surprised to find candles burning in his room ; and on casting his
how do you like bath , miss elliot ?
has not my consent been daily asked by his looks , his manner , his attentive and affectionate respect ?
she was assured of his affection ; and that heart in return was solicited , which , perhaps , they
jennings , one so earnestly grateful , so full of respect and kind wishes as seemed due to her own
knightley , “whoever may have had the charge of her , it does not appear to have been any part
of secrecy , and independence , and nonsense , about her , which i would advise her to get the
you alone , which i was very desirous of doing .
now will be the time .
the smallest degree necessary at hartfield .
, might offer .
” harriet was too intent on the lines to hear .
happy creature !
for miss bertram is in general thought the handsomest .
knightley seemed determined to be heard in his turn , for most resolutely and commandingly did he say , “how
on thursday we have company at home .
edmund watched the progress of her attention , and was amused and gratified by seeing how she gradually slackened in
” edmund reverted to the harp , and was again very happy in the prospect of hearing her play .
year that she had often great enjoyment out of doors .
, less hot than the weather had lately been , edmund trusted that her losses , both of health and
in music she had been always used to feel alone in the world ; and mr and mrs musgrove '
” “i not aware !
yes , i always like news .
so i will , edmund .
alarm , or solemnity of any kind , struck her as odd and inconsistent .
it must not be !
and the middletons too , you must introduce me to them .
would the veil in which mrs .
you , that miss elizabeth bennet , would , in all likelihood , be soon afterwards united to my nephew
was proved to have much the worst of the bargain ; for when his wife died , after a three
he would have taken no pains to be on terms with mrs .
were not used to ; and a great deal more to the same purpose , to give them a knowledge
putting herself to an expense in clothes which impoverished her for two years , on purpose to secure him ,
younge , in whose character we were most unhappily deceived ; and by her connivance and aid , he so
" if elizabeth could but have heard this !
without saying much to anybody , went away .
world goes now , we shall both agree that every kind of external comfort must be wanting .
she could have supposed , seated in the carriage , and on the road to longbourn .
may was better for every thing than february .
had half[ _num_ ] my talk out .
that was a fact beyond a doubt , and without an alloy .
to an invitation to remain at netherfield for the present .
" he could only plead an ignorance of his own heart , and a mistaken confidence in the force of
, in praise of the thrush , conjectures how she would be employed , schemes for an action with some
an almost general change amongst their party , and instead of captain benwick , she had captain harville by her
i cannot descend to be tricked out of assurances , that are not really wanted .
you will like harriet .
obliged to do , because she will have to teach .
fanny went to her every two or three days : it seemed a kind of fascination : she could not
we wrote to one another on the same subject by the same post , so exactly did our feeling and
papa is only speaking his own regret .
morland ' s consent , to consider isabella ' s engagement as the most fortunate circumstance imaginable for their family
john knightley proved more talkative than his brother .
with his happiness .
but they had no curiosity to see how mr .
not comprehend how both could still keep away .
” “or if we are , miss price will be so good as to tell him that he will find
they are a vast addition always .
therefore she must have a great deal to say , her mind was so much more occupied by the important
henry ' s address , short as it had been , had more thoroughly opened her eyes to the extravagance
and , to her very great surprise , mr .
pleased , and , as she had foreseen , especially struck with the complimentary conclusion .
“yet why did he come ?
and as to the power of addressing him , she felt all over courage if the opportunity occurred .
she received a letter from edward , it was treated by the former with calmness and caution , and dismissed
with such news to communicate , and such a visit to prepare for , her departure was not to be
from harriet ' s happening not to be at hartfield , and her father ' s being present to engage
absence , with the conviction probably of her indifference , had produced this very natural and very desirable effect .
" " to be sure you did .
he had already ate , and declined staying for their meal .
i am not comfortable without it .
” cried he , turning towards her .
elegant extracts , very entertaining .
and now , my dear fanny , this subject is closed between us .
when this was done she had a less active part to play .
you are quizzing me and miss anderson .
knightley , i shall not allow you to be a fair judge in this case .
” but this detestation , though so just , was of short duration , for she looked again and exclaimed
—can it be possible ?
evil to some is always good to others .
bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal people in the room ; he was lively and unreserved
if your miss bertrams do not like to have their hearts broke , let them avoid henry .
allow nothing for a father ' s anxiety , and think themselves privileged to refuse him their confidence and slight
—i believe we drive faster than any body .
darcy , looking at the eldest miss bennet .
in the world , for attraction , i am sure it will .
his age is only so much beyond hers as to be an advantage , as to make his character and
it is the habits of wealth that i fear .
and now , do not trouble yourself to be ashamed of either my feelings or your own .
suited her to give .
their departure took place in the first week in january .
thorpe a clearer insight into his real opinion on the subject ; but she checked herself , because it appeared
it was almost enough to spread purification and perfume all the way .
—you know you could not .
—but i am quite ashamed of it now , and wish i could forget as easily as i can burn
him in disposition and goodwill towards herself .
de courcy to mrs .
i was the last man who commanded her .
; concluding with these words to mr .
only dread their health .
tiresome wretch .
i have now , as far as such a sentiment is allowable in human nature , nothing to reproach myself
to be hers .
can have no english delicacy towards the feelings of other people : nothing really amiable about him .
distant clump .
' i flatter myself with being a tolerable proficient in geography , i know not how it happened , but
here was a dangerous opening .
by the bye , ” then sinking his voice , and looking demure for the moment—“i hope mr .
i cannot get him out of my head , but you must send for him to barton , and miss
you would not like to leave him yourself , but you see i can be of no use .
, being as thoroughly the object of the admiral ' s fraternal kindness as of his wife ' s .
” cried he , with an air of awkward gallantry ; “and i am persuaded that when sanctioned by the
do you know any family of that name ?
on your person , you must put up with it , and trust to his seeing as much beauty of
if he means any thing , it must be to please you .
bingley , i always keep servants that can do their own work ; my daughters are brought up very differently
the pain which her too lively behaviour might otherwise create both for him and her brother .
—cramer .
is not it so ?
“robert martin has no great loss—if he can but think so ; and i hope it will not be long
her descendants respecting her first printed effort .
environs could be tempted to attend , were mentioned ; but he was not satisfied .
this would be a trial .
and less spoilt .
what a blessing , that she never had any children !
” “my dear , you are too particular , ” said her husband .
the united kingdoms who would not rather put up with the misfortune of being sought by a clever , agreeable
he was like them , tall , magestic—he possessed that noble grandeur which you admire in them .
i mean never to be later in rising than six , and from that time till dinner i shall divide
there is my father—another of my father—but the idea of sitting for his picture made him so nervous , that
her own vexation at her want of thought could not be surpassed by his .
i never in my life saw anything more elegant than their dresses .
, as overcame every fear of condemning him unfairly , and established as a fact , which no partiality could
gone since they ought to have been off ; the impossibility of being in tolerable time .
determined never to forfeit the good opinion they had gained in the world , in so doing , by accepting
you know very well what is right .
its possessor .
—i went over the fields too—(speaking in a tone of great ill-usage , ) which made it so much the
i always longed particularly to go to vaux-hall , to see whether the cold beef there is cut so thin
weston ' s son—but lay out half a guinea at ford ' s , and your popularity will stand upon
you have yourself expressed it) the conversation of a woman of high intellectual powers .
price plaintively ; “it would be so very shocking !
edmund was not sorry to be admitted again among the number of those who might speak and hear .
not imagined a country parson ever aspired to a shrubbery , or anything of the kind .
” “but we must first suppose isabella to have had a heart to lose—consequently to have been a very different
her account of it .
avoid every selfish comparison , and banish every regret which might lessen her satisfaction in the happiness of marianne .
but to eat without being hungry , and loiter about without anything to see , next followed—and her admiration of
wickham , and give him an invitation also , if the family from longbourn would come in the evening .
we never were so long without seeing her before , and as i was telling mrs .
her accommodations were limited to a noisy parlour , and a dark bedroom behind , with no possibility of moving
in half an hour the arrowroot was returned , with a thousand thanks from miss bates , but “dear jane
fatigue , and a recollection of her long absence , made her at length return home ; and she entered
elton had just joined them , and his wife was exclaiming , “oh !
ferrars to give up a woman like miss morton , with thirty thousand pounds to her fortune , for lucy
without thinking highly either of men or matrimony , marriage had always been her object ; it was the only
and ever since she was twelve , emma has been mistress of the house and of you all .
i acknowledge that her situation and her character ought to have been respected by me .
the evening came , the drawing-rooms were lighted up , the company assembled .
: and it was a question which , in a more rational manner , neither lady russell nor mr elliot
comfort arose on mrs .
whom he was anxious to please , he grew puzzled , and edmund was glad to put an end to
feeling its solitariness .
' but , however , she is not ; she is walking about the room .
and serious , even to sourness , in her aspect .
“this lengthened absence , these solitary rambles , did not speak a mind at ease , or a conscience void
” isabella , however , caught hold of one hand , thorpe of the other , and remonstrances poured in
four nieces of mrs .
” “you must think of somebody else too , when you wear that necklace , ” replied miss crawford .
he was a blessing to all the juvenile part of the neighbourhood , for in summer he was for ever
” unwilling however to act only from my own inadequate knowledge of the strength and abilities of horses , i
used only to a large house himself , and without ever thinking how many advantages and accommodations were attached to
—i am quite roasted .
the natural embellishments of her mother ' s active fancy , which fashioned every thing delightful to her as it
and sophia , jealous as the devil on the other hand , looking all that was—well , it does not
became acquainted with him during her stay in scotland .
indeed my dear freind , i never remember suffering any vexation equal to what i experienced on last monday when
—were this most unequal of all connexions to take place , on her must rest all the reproach of having
the delighted wilhelminus posted away immediately to his brother , and shewed him the advertisement .
" " nor do i think it a part of marianne ' s , " said elinor ; " i
such earnestness such solemnity of expression !
knightley loves to find fault with me , you know—in a joke—it is all a joke .
if you have not got your spotted muslin on !
though uncertain that any one were[ _num_ ] to blame , she found fault with every absent friend .
doing something .
with him it is entirely a matter of feeling : he claims no merit in it ; perhaps is entitled
the picture !
we measured the dining-room , and found it would hold exactly eighteen couple , and the affair was arranged precisely
“won ' t you admit them ?
—she gives a good account of her own health ; but as she never complains , i dare not depend
who regards me ?
weston ' s faithful pupil did not forget either at ten , or eleven , or twelve o ' clock
it is highly improper .
part in the events of the evening , to be noticed and admired .
and distress me .
” the clock struck twelve as she passed through the hall .
and this consideration leads me moreover to reflect , with augmented satisfaction , on a certain event of last november
” “she had better have stayed at home , ” cried elizabeth ; “perhaps she meant well , but ,
he imagined , and calmly could he imagine it , that her extravagance , and consequent distress , had obliged
i have more than once repented that i did not marry him myself ; and were he but one degree
twenty times over .
, instead of being really guided by him as to the privacy of the representation , was giving an invitation
candle ; no candle was brought , however , and he walked into the room .
sister for the other , the change in his countenance , the astonishment , the expressions begun and suppressed ,
and when you have given your ball , ” she added , “i shall insist on their giving one also
too often , alas !
it is from my cousin , mr .
wish the money unspent , to improve his spirits .
—poor eliza !
she had only learnt to think nothing of consequence but money .
in he walked , the first and the handsomest ; and after paying his compliments en passant to miss bates
having once made up his mind , the whole business was soon completed .
in her face , than he began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her
i have told you the substance of all that she said .
she vowed at first she would never trim me up a new bonnet , nor do any thing else for
collins and myself sincerely sympathise with you and all your respectable family , in your present distress , which must
from you , her mother , and so kind , so indulgent a mother , the question could not give
be infinitely cleverer and not half so conceited .
how do you do ?
continual engagements at home and abroad , however , supplied all the deficiencies of nature and education ; supported the
" " where is the green-house to be ?
if you can think me capable of ever feeling , surely you may suppose that i have suffered now .
what signifies a theatre ?
that the owner of norland was once within some thousands of having to sell out at a loss , deserves
” repeated fanny , with a frightened look .
lucy is monstrous pretty , and so good humoured and agreeable !
vernon would allow something to my affection for herself and her husband in the length of my visit , she
to recall it—and you will never offend me by talking of former times .
” “and those times are whenever he thinks it worth his while ; whenever there is any temptation of pleasure
you were all gone i do not know where .
those things are too common .
feeling , in her head and throat , the beginning of a heavy cold , because unexpressed by words ,
in favour of each .
we neither of us perform to strangers .
i shall be no support to mrs .
chapter iii mrs .
it was the natural result of the conduct of each party , and such as a very imprudent marriage almost
—the baked apples and biscuits , excellent in their way , you know ; but there was a delicate fricassee
the needlework , which at the beginning seemed to occupy her totally : how it fell from her hand while
a ready-furnished house in a favourite spot was engaged , and much benefit expected from the change .
was impossible that such a match should have answered his ideas of wealth and independence .
be early , as well as the numbers few ; mr .
” “and your assurance of it , i suppose , carried immediate conviction to him .
of pride , indeed , there was , perhaps , scarcely enough ; his indifference to a confusion of rank
i must go and see my father immediately .
i am excessively provoked , however , at the parade of propriety which prevented miss summers from keeping the girl
prevent the marriage ; and he called on elinor to join with him in regretting that lucy ' s engagement
she felt a great deal of good-will towards him .
left to shift for themselves ; and it was not very wonderful that catherine , who had by nature nothing
she cared for none of her friends ; she wanted no help of his ; she would not hear of
dictate to you , for if i am not greatly mistaken you are at this very moment unknown to yourself
, and soon drove her into a fainting fit .
i could not allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months last winter , that
before his leaving mansfield .
isabella far surpassed her in tender anticipations .
observe her eyes , as she is looking up at my father .
anne listened , but without quite understanding it .
" " that conviction must be every thing to you ; and he is undoubtedly supported by the same trust
a woman in mrs .
“you are sorry to leave mama , my dear little fanny , ” said he , “which shows you to
the card-table was then placed , and elinor began to wonder at herself for having ever entertained a hope of
she stays with her aunt .
you have given the name such reality of sweetness , that nothing else can now be descriptive of you .
the communication .
justified me .
sudden intimacy between two young ladies : such as dress , balls , flirtations , and quizzes .
i must not quarrel with a spirit of forbearance which has been so richly extended towards myself ; but ,
” eleanor ' s work was suspended while she gazed with increasing astonishment ; but henry began to suspect the
this idea struck me at the moment , and i instantly determined that an accidental dispute , in which i
disengage themselves from the crowd ; it seemed rather to increase as they went on , whereas she had imagined
see me .
to lose her walk , she explained her business at once , and observed , that if she would be
” “i grant you the name is good in itself , and lord edmund or sir edmund sound delightfully ;
he felt the disappointment of the young man , and was mortified to have been the means of promoting it
it is a pity that they were ever got over .
” “and then you have added so much to it yourself , you are always buying books .
to bath , if not wholly prevent it .
“ah dear cousin replied he , i am so well convinced of the little chance i can have of winning
—i have been used to hear her ' s admired ; and i remember one proof of her being thought
her intentions were unchanged .
his way ; but it is the way of a rich , superior , long-worded , arbitrary uncle .
he had every well-grounded reason for solid attachment ; he knew her to have all the worth that could justify
jennings ' s engagements kept her from home .
" these are done by my eldest sister , " said he ; " and you , as a man
' s account indescribable .
had his character been known , this could not have happened .
i never can be blameless .
may wish for , at the first moment .
some might think him , and others might think her , the most in luck .
poor thing !
elizabeth saw what he was doing , and at the first convenient pause , turned to him with an arch
they talked at first only of the performance .
really be as my brother imagined ?
the two ladies continued to talk , to re-urge the same admitted truths , and enforce them with such examples
” “it is a mistake , sir , ” said fanny instantly ; “it must be a mistake , it
window—she looked , —she saw mr .
under a circumstance that must be of all others the most afflicting to a parent’s mind .
as long a time as she likes .
i am sure you ought to be very much obliged to your aunt bertram and me for contriving to let
your elder sister to any other young woman in the country .
" a well-looking man , " said sir walter , " a very well-looking man .
called for from his daughters helped to conceal the want of real harmony .
if the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other or ever so similar beforehand ,
” “but i would not have him taken in ; i would not have him duped ; i would have
she was in dancing , singing , exclaiming spirits ; and till she had moved about , and talked to
" this little rectory can do no more than make mr .
the dress being settled in all its grander parts—“but what shall you have by way of necklace ?
i can have them moved to my own house and borrow a coop ; and it will be a great
a moment ' s reflection shewed her the mistake she had been under .
to alarm one .
instrumental in separating a family so affectionately attached to each other .
of finding her way in every house to the library , however it might be avoided by the family in
dr .
frederick !
again , meaning , for the rest of my life , to be only yours truly , --wm .
the change was indubitable .
all like to have it sent to mrs .
well , whatever may be his fate , we have the comfort of knowing that we have done our utmost
liveliness to put the matter by for the present .
born to the prospect of such affluence !
it farther .
sir george is _num_ and still remains the beau , the flighty stripling , the gay lad , and sprightly
would not be justified in what you have done .
a thousand alarming presentiments of evil to her beloved catherine from this terrific separation must oppress her heart with sadness
woodhouse , to betray any imperfection which could be concealed .
, when martha sharpe and i had so many secrets together , she never made any bones of hiding in
he described one miss elliot , and i thought very affectionately of the other .
and with still greater energy , " i must warn you of one thing—do not let frederica vernon be made
that would have been too dreadful !
, “this is most kind , indeed !
wednesday was fine , and soon after breakfast the barouche arrived , mr .
regiment in the east indies) she should fall ?
a standing joke with mrs .
the separation between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic .
not lightened by seeing , as she looked back , that the others were walking down the hill together to
but are you pleased , jane ?
uppercross had been furnished , to lighten the inconvenience to the harvilles , while the harvilles had been wanting them
he excused himself , however , from attending them : “the rays of the sun were not too cheerful for
“and will you promise me , never to enter into such an engagement ?
it has been so many years my province to give advice , that you cannot be surprized , mr .
“you may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night ; but i was not then master
wanted very much to be gratified by more solicitation ; but the charm was broken : he found that the
will not this manner of speaking of him , mrs smith , convince you that he is nothing to me
right person .
on the dance .
anne gave her credit , indeed , for feelings of great consideration towards herself , in all that related to
was another ' s .
you may intend to do on the[ _num_ ] occasion , but as for myself , i must say ,
very well ; time will explain .
and accordingly began by observing , that his arrival had been very unexpected—“for your housekeeper , ” she added ,
of my cousin’s triumph very sadly .
" as she ceased , the entrance door opened again , and the very party appeared for whom they were
she soon learned to think with respect of her own little attic at mansfield park , in that house reckoned
how did miss campbell appear to like it ?
to be right , by the airs and interference of such a person , or of any person i may
such a deceitful dog !
“you doubt me , ” cried jane , slightly colouring ; “indeed , you have no reason .
she will be an excellent amelia .
” miss crawford was silenced , and with some feelings of resentment and mortification , moved her chair considerably nearer
a simpler solution is probably that , of the three novels she had written or sketched by _num_ , pride
and distinguished merit .
—was all that catherine had to say , for her indiscriminating eye scarcely discerned the colour of the satin ;
the consequence of which was , that mrs .
from such a moralizing strain as this , she was suddenly roused by a touch on the shoulder , and
elton , before she could be spoken to , was ready ; and before mr .
the room .
' —i remember that perfectly .
as something was going on amongst the others , in the most overpowering period of mr .
invitation for the next ; for the lady could not be unwilling to have a listener , and every thing
” not but that she was really pleased to have fanny admired ; but she was so much more struck
—a little tea if you please , sir , by and bye , —no hurry—oh !
“well , my dear , ” said he , when she ceased speaking , “i have no more to say
he was very willing to hope that crawford saw clearer , and this was the most comfortable conclusion for his
” “and how might you learn ?
had elizabeth been able to encounter his eye , she might have seen how well the expression of heartfelt delight
but that is one great difference between us .
" this decision checked mary ' s eagerness , and stopped her short in the midst of the elliot countenance
phillips was very glad for his compliance , but could not wait for his reason .
—such an admirer of her performance on the pianoforte , and of her voice !
the park would be open to him of course , and few navy officers , or men of any other
to her infinite grief she found it was not .
she must be used to the consideration of his being in love with her , and then a return of
i own indeed that had i been inclined to fall in love with any woman , i should not have
something in his look and voice as he spoke which contradicted his words .
work myself .
i consider one as including the other .
" and when she has forgiven you , perhaps a little humility may be convenient while acknowledging a second engagement
” “those who knew any thing about it , must have felt the difference .
having visited many more rooms than could be supposed to be of any other use than to contribute to the
, that every thing considered , i think one of his sisters must have helped him .
she had been watching him the last hour , she said , as he walked up and down the street
, i would marry to-morrow .
style of painting , ma ' am ?
it was settled that he should order the carriage to the door in half an hour .
harris , or if he could not come , for some other advice , when the former—but not till after
s acquaintance with your friend , and he has known her engagement almost as long as he has known her
but she had more than fears of her own perseverance to remove : she had begun to feel undecided as
” “there , ” cried isabella , “you hear what your sister says , and yet you will not mind
i have heard so much in praise of mr .
“it leads one astray ; one does not know what to do .
weston , of a more apprehensive disposition , foresaw nothing but a repetition of excuses and delays ; and after
hands—a mere common coachman—no james ; and there it seemed as if her return only were wanted to make every
” “this was settled last night , and frank was off with the light this morning .
places ; at his own house especially , and of a sunday evening , when he has nothing to do
collins , she could not help asking him whether he intended to accept mr .
“have you ever seen the place ?
had an opportunity , to thank you—i could not thank you too much—for every wish and every endeavour to do
the event was so shocking , that there were moments even when her heart revolted from it as impossible :
every body does not hunt .
she shall not soon forget the occurrences of this day ; she shall find that she has poured forth her
mrs harville ' s exertions as a nurse .
collins sat down to quadrille ; and as miss de bourgh chose to play at cassino , the two girls
took place of the improvements of sotherton .
have not you always hated him ?
i think i see him now , trying to be as demure and composed as anhalt ought , through the
a gentleman considerably advanced in years descended from it .
" he thought of it all day long , and for many days successively , and he did not repent
it was but the day before that crawford had made himself thoroughly master of the subject , or had in
thorpe ' s ideas then all reverted to the merits of his own equipage , and she was called on
of her manner would allow jane to deceive herself no longer .
is not your being ten years older than myself which makes the difference , it is not age , but
broadwood himself .
john would have me go , for he vowed he would not drive her , because she had such thick
said not a word that could betray .
whenever i looked towards the past , i saw[ _num_ ] some duty neglected , or some failing indulged .
your sister being with you , my love , i have no scruple at all .
entirely insensible of them ourselves .
i consider it as one of the first refinements of polished society .
in the world , for henry is in norfolk ; business called him to everingham ten days ago , or
her home when it suited her .
of five , she passed the turning which led to it , and thought of henry , so near ,
referring her to the letter of comfort .
—but harriet smith—i have not half done about harriet smith .
" " perhaps , " said willoughby , " his observations may have extended to the existence of nabobs ,
) will you chuse a wife for me ?
it was shady enough in the alcove , but i declare i quite dreaded the coming home again .
” “not quite , ” returned emma , with forced calmness , “for all that you then said , appeared
” “i am afraid , ” said he , composing his features , “i am very much afraid , my
julia seems to enjoy london exceedingly .
that ' s something , is not it ?
frank could possibly have done .
to such alterations as i was suggesting just now , such as moving a bookcase , or unlocking a door
captain wentworth must be out of sight .
, or feel any of that displeasure which maria had been half prepared for .
i dare say miss nash would envy you such an opportunity as this of being married .
of her life at hartfield .
grant , occurred just after they had been married long enough to begin to want an increase of income ,
what could be more encouraging to a man who had her love in view ?
the sort of dread in which fanny now sat of seeing mr .
” “how very pleasing and proper of him !
of life to be able to consign her single daughters to the care of their sister , that she might
there was no superiority of manner , accomplishment , or understanding .
she seemed to be in the middle of some eager speech .
” “he has not been here yet , ” replied emma .
elinor could not now be made unhappy by this behaviour .
i assure you i did not above half like coming away .
are willing to perform the engagements which i have ventured to make on your side , i hope it will
in derbyshire .
dashwood , who could not think a man five years younger than herself , so exceedingly ancient as he appeared
" it is a matter of great joy to me ; and i feel the goodness of colonel brandon most
” she had half a mind to resent ; but an instant ' s observation convinced her that it was
from pleased with the necessity of the acquaintance as with the manner of its commencement .
an acquaintance of a very different description .
captain harville ' s had fixed her superiority .
say you are laid down upon the bed .
she and mr .
s post .
i hate such false friends .
one morning , about this time charles musgrove and captain wentworth being gone a-shooting together , as the sisters in
by no one else , though they were seated on different sides of the room ; " but , however
—she says she cannot bear to have the poor old vicarage without a mistress .
she had a moment ' s fear of miss bates keeping away from her .
thousand instances ; and on box hill , perhaps , it had been the agony of a mind that would
but in the central part of england there was surely some security for the existence even of a wife not
stronger than their virtue , she could easily conjecture .
i had not thought so very ill of him .
perry—how is he , sir ?
silence .
overpowered marianne .
occasion , and in concerting some plan for getting rid of them .
as made him not only totally unconscious of the uneasy movements of many of his friends as they sat ,
—assured of the love of such a woman—the disinterested love , for jane fairfax ' s character vouches for her
elton from her thoughts .
you know how i have loved you ; you can intimately judge of my present feelings , but i am
after sitting with them a quarter of an hour , she rose to take leave , and was then most
exchange of terriers between them , interest her so much as to prevent her looking very often towards that part
it will be giving him so much pleasure !
with sympathetic cordiality , observed to his wife as they drove back through the park , " i thought we
they were off ; and emma could breathe .
, was yet a dearer , tenderer recollection .
” “i do not believe there is much difference .
another quarter of an hour brought her a great deal more .
, and little betsey a great deal more , and who did seem so thoroughly without a single recommendation ,
i never could have an idea of any body else—and so i thought you knew .
collins , i think .
you are to deal , ma ' am ; shall i deal for you ?
men assured him that the subject might be gently touched again , when the ladies withdrew , with more success
active and fearless , and though rather small , strongly made , she seemed formed for a horsewoman ; and
bennet , as soon as they were out of the house , “as ever i saw .
had it , by any blessed felicity , occurred to her , to institute the comparison .
what did colonel forster say ?
, i assure you , she is an upstart .
” their journey was performed without much conversation , or any alarm ; and within four hours of their leaving
chapter xvi marianne would have thought herself very inexcusable had she been able to sleep at all the first night
, to be the case ; and after various conjectures , they could at last only suppose his visit to
if i give them a hint , as i certainly will .
elton for being there , emma guessed that there had been a little show of resentment towards jane , from
” “thank you , sir , thank you ; i am going this moment myself ; and i think the
in the evening there was another parting .
miss crawford blundered most towards fanny herself in her intentions to please .
progress of time and variation of circumstances occasion in this world of changes .
he was to be a clergyman .
preference inferred , had been unnoticed , because unsuspected , by emma .
” “but that you certainly did , for you spent the whole morning in edgar ' s buildings—it was the
he told me all about it ; that jane fairfax and mr .
whatever he might afterwards persuade her to , it was not on her side a scheme of infamy .
sir walter , elizabeth and mrs clay , returned one morning from laura place , with a sudden invitation from
with undoubting decision she directly began her adieus ; and edmund began at the same time to recollect that his
i am indeed a most unwilling messenger .
i will take my oath he never dropt a syllable of being tired of her , or of wishing to
time this fair prospect of busy tranquillity .
eldest daughter .
his son and daughter ' s observations were of a different kind .
, i am necessitated to say that in this reign the roman catholics of england did not behave like gentlemen
one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner .
reported fit for home service for a year or two , and so i was sent off to the west
call it gossip , if you will , but when nurse rooke has half an hour ' s leisure to
he might be interrupting , thinking only of his own thoughts , began with-- " if you had been a
” “here , ” resumed harriet , turning to her box again , “here is something still more valuable ,
it is only from being a little fatigued .
” cried william , “that ' s just where i should have put her myself .
eligibility of this , immediately and peremptorily , and without paying my opinion or my regard the compliment of any
evening wonder in many a family circle , with great sagacity .
” they were interrupted by mrs .
dashwood and her daughters to begin their journey .
" this speech at first puzzled mrs .
room she had one of the children with her—the youngest , a nice little girl about eight months old ,
—it was an odd tete-a-tete ; but she was glad to see it .
her heart had been long growing kinder towards jane ; and this picture of her present sufferings acted as a
dashwood was convinced that her conjecture had been just .
great must be the difference between a mrs .
former owners , fanny had never been able to approach but with some painful sensation of restraint or alarm ,
and could make out from his answers that , as far as enscombe was concerned , there was very little
the aunt was as tiresome as ever ; more tiresome , because anxiety for her health was now added to
jennings , you see .
[ _num_ ] showing her child to the housekeeper .
cole ' s carriage-horses returning from exercise , or a stray letter-boy on an obstinate mule , were the liveliest
man who possessed not the smallest atom of sensibility , who scarcely knew the meaning of simpathy , and who
those who are standing by are usually thinking of something very different .
acceptance of his hand .
” “miss elizabeth bennet !
johnson langford .
“shall not you wear your brother ' s cross ?
were sitting down together by mutual consent , while the others were dancing .
for a day or two ?
susan and an attendant girl , whose inferior appearance informed fanny , to her great surprise , that she had
—jane , jane , look !
your character was unfolded in the recital which i received many months ago from mr .
for though i told her it certainly would not , i am sure she depends upon having it done .
the latter was much more agreeable than his companion expected .
as to suppose her feelings more lasting than other women ' s , though i was the object of them
” here their conversation closed , the demands of the dance becoming now too importunate for a divided attention .
—i saw a vast deal more .
knightley , one moment more ; something of consequence—so shocked !
, they would not be[ _num_ ] married till michaelmas , and by the end of a week that it
“not the least in the world .
tolerate--which ridicule will seize .
price and his friend had seen all that they wished , or had time for , the others were ready
” words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings ; and he was obliged to walk about the room
would not speak of it to any body , for fear of its getting round to dear miss woodhouse ,
besides , i thought mrs .
my dear alicia , —you are very good in taking notice of frederica , and i am grateful for it
in each letter there had been a few lines from himself , warm and determined like his speeches .
lie down upon the bed .
tom bertram must have been thought pleasant , indeed , at any rate ; he was the sort of young
their two confidential friends , mr shepherd , who lived in the neighbouring market town , and lady russell ,
he fell my sophia , while fighting for his country in america after a most happy union of seven years—
imposed on nor gratified by mr .
i dare say i shall get husbands for them before the winter is over .
he must like him less after to-morrow ' s visit , for we shall be five hours in his company
bennet treated the matter differently .
she thanked him for his great attention , his paternal kindness , but he was quite mistaken in supposing she
' ' forty , ' replied sir basil , ' forty , and no more .
tilney in bath ?
” thursday was to be the wedding day , and on wednesday miss lucas paid her farewell visit ; and
she was disappointed , and angry with herself for being so .
each and every one is unalterable affection .
rushworth , having only his own part and his own dress in his head , had soon talked away all
she went with him to the set , may be easily imagined .
accosted her : “so , miss eliza , i hear you are quite delighted with george wickham !
ferrars , with the utmost liberality , will come forward , and settle on him a thousand a year ,
any symptom of that indigence which he had tried to infer from it ; no poverty of any kind ,
i think there is a little likeness between us .
she thinks of nothing but the isle of wight , and she calls it the island , as if there
the walls were papered , the floor was carpeted ; the windows were neither less perfect nor more dim than
a little harmless flirtation or so will occur , and one is often drawn on to give more encouragement than
chapter _num_ with a mind thus full of happiness , catherine was hardly aware that two or three days had
elinor , dreading her being tired , led her towards home ; and till they reached the door of the
when those dances were over , she returned to charlotte lucas , and was in conversation with her , when
understand her emotions .
perfectly remember mrs .
could not proceed .
he was to receive ; till , roused to resentment by his subsequent language , she lost all compassion in
walking home , and lament that highbury afforded no young man worthy of giving her independence ; nobody that she
” and rising as she thus spoke , she would have quitted the room , had mr .
everything might be possible rather than serious attachment , or serious approbation of it toward her .
very well , ” exclaimed miss bates , “then i need not be uneasy .
mary crawford was remarkably pretty ; henry , though not handsome , had air and countenance ; the manners of
them forward to the great event .
campbell , i have no idea that you will suppose her talents can be unknown .
i could not have parted with you , my lizzy , to anyone less worthy .
same melancholy , seemed to reign at hartfield—but in the afternoon it cleared ; the wind changed into a softer
letter the fifth from a young lady very much in love to her freind my uncle gets more stingy ,
she had found more to enjoy than to suffer .
to miss austen , eldest daughter of the rev .
” “yes ; where else can they be so well concealed ?
i am looking for henry every day , and as soon as he comes there will be nothing to detain
except when my uncle was in town .
his credit , if he did .
i hoped to find you reasonable ; but , depend upon it , i will carry my point .
showing her child to the housekeeper .
norris was beginning an eager assurance of the affability he might depend on , when she was stopped by sir
to a certain degree .
where there is fortune to make the expenses of travelling unimportant , distance becomes no evil .
the abbey would be always safe and dry .
—with such a woman he has a chance .
suddenly turned all his partial regard for their daughter into actual ill will , was a matter which they were
something must have been wanting within , or time would have worn away much of its ill effect .
” “yes , and what you told me on that head , confirmed an idea which i had entertained before
his acquaintance with elizabeth was very trifling .
not be talked away ; and attempting it no more , he led her directly , with the kind authority
" " take care , margaret .
elton ; but when she considered that mr .
he had vanity , which strongly inclined him in the first place to think she did love him , though
” “but it is proved by the smallness of the school , which i have heard you speak of ,
so far it was all as she had foreseen ; but on entering the house she beheld what no foresight
, so much the better .
i really think they ought .
are recovering the blessing of health , and nurse rooke thoroughly understands when to speak .
seems a sort of reward to behaviour deserving very differently ; but it was impossible to take her anywhere else
that the loss of her favourite sister , or the anger which she had herself incurred in this business ,
" mr shepherd hastened to assure him , that admiral croft was a very hale , hearty , well-looking man
” but neither the business alleged , nor the magnificent compliment , could win catherine from thinking that some very
; and i never saw such happy manners !
i am puzzled .
she did so .
no , my love ; but you will soon be tired .
we have now been here almost a fortnight , and yet he does not come .
so little disconcerted by the melted butter ' s being oiled .
coming to lesley-castle , and by a personal acquaintance with louisa , determine for yourself .
so surprised at their coming to town , though it was what she had rather expected all along ; so
the wind blows through one of the cupboards just in the same way .
miss julia and mr .
do me more harm than good .
but however insincere you may choose to be , you shall not find me so .
" " i know it all , i know it all , " cried mrs smith .
her own spirits improved by change of place and subject , by being removed three miles from kellynch ; mary
' " their first meeting in milsom street afforded much to be said , but the concert still more .
always true to her interests , and considerate of her feelings , trying to make her good qualities understood ,
” “i dare say , ” returned harriet , sighing again , “i dare say she was very much attached
preaching before her .
“he had been so fortunate as to—i forget the precise words—one has no business to remember them .
which , as a companion , make her infinitely superior to thousands of those who having only received ' the
she had heard repeatedly from his sister within the three weeks which had passed since their leaving mansfield , and
her many attractions were again dwelt on , and caroline boasted joyfully of their increasing intimacy , and ventured to
i scolded him for making love to maria mainwaring ; he protested that he had been only in joke ,
entertained a whole evening by two such young women ; sometimes with music and sometimes with conversation .
till that happened , they continued to talk of miss crawford alone , and how she had attached him ,
to the living , of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three thousand pounds , again was
dear , no , ” said her companion .
their way , which of all things was the most unlikely to occur , with a more warm , though
you both did as much as you could in planning the marriage .
in thinking him likely to be happier than he deserves : but still as he is , beyond a doubt
she gave a moment ' s recollection , as they hurried along , to the little circumstances which the same
, very well , just as you chuse , settle it your own way , i am sure i do
never passed away without the atonement of a smile .
poor james !
she had not advanced many yards from mrs .
and , you know , we shall still be sisters .
if i were you , whatever i did should be done at my own discretion entirely .
miss crawford , pleased with the appeal , gave her all her best judgment and taste , made everything easy
it is fit for miss crawford , and miss crawford only .
weston , and of moments only of regret ; and her satisfaction—her more than satisfaction—her cheerful enjoyment , was so
it is a very cold afternoon—but in this carriage we know nothing of the matter .
” “my dearest harriet !
scheming of her own , anne was enabled to place herself much nearer the end of the bench than she
chosen because it was the second volume of his , she gave a great yawn and said , “how pleasant
” catherine , though a little disappointed , had too much good nature to make any opposition , and the
matters ?
gentleness and commiseration , “let me call your maid .
that , i thought , in a man of known musical talent , was some proof .
he and i can go to the parsonage , you know , and be no trouble to our friends at
led her back to her seat , and was in the middle of his farther explanation , before she had
” fanny was quite shocked .
gardiner had hurried back in alarm , supposing by the servant’s account that their niece was taken suddenly ill ;
he has not been able to get the romance of the forest yet .
bennet to return to longbourn , as soon as he could , to the great consolation of his sister ,
sure .
” the tumult of elizabeth’s mind was allayed by this conversation .
any of us , be judged by what we appeared at that period of general folly .
it has not been so dirty the whole winter ; it is ankle-deep everywhere .
i have been waiting for you at least this age !
” “i think you said she was a widow , sir ?
there was no second letter to explain away the first from miss crawford ; there was no intelligence from mansfield
the idea of louisa musgrove turned into a person of literary taste , and sentimental reflection was amusing , but
“i think she must be here soon , ” said he .
how she might have felt had there been no captain wentworth in the case , was not worth enquiry ;
i trust , at least , that you do not think mr .
allen had no particular reason to hope it would be followed with more advantage now ; but we are told
the good luck to captivate sir thomas bertram , of mansfield park , in the county of northampton , and
” “such as vanity and pride .
my knife , mama , when i am dead and buried .
had nothing to do .
little did i then think i was ordained so soon to quit that humble cottage for the deceitfull pleasures of
now was the time for mr .
in the year for improvements .
i hope you have destroyed the letter .
marianne ' s joy hurried her into the drawing-room immediately .
you will be so good , won ' t you ?
i told captain hunt at one of our assemblies this winter that if he was to tease me all night
emma and harriet went together ; miss bates and her niece , with the eltons ; the gentlemen on horseback
elliot .
edmund ' s account of fanny ' s disposition he could believe to be just ; he supposed she had
' s , and that she was come in herself for the stilton cheese , the north wiltshire , the
her ideas are not higher than her own fortune may warrant , but they are beyond what our incomes united
a clever fancy of morland ' s and belle ' s .
her feelings , her preferences , had each known the happiness of a return .
be assured that i speak from the fullest conviction of the truth of what i say ; i know that
child ' s neck , produced from this pattern of gentleness such violent screams , as could hardly be outdone
he had the curacy of monkford , you know , sir walter , some time back , for two or
either of isabella ' s sons ; but she was convinced that a daughter would suit both father and mother
it does not bear talking of .
she had given him up to oblige others .
you may be very sure i shall always take care of them .
have you a stout heart ?
this evil had been felt and lamented , at least three times a day , by isabella since her residence
i was afterwards sufficiently keen .
the admiral , he believed , had interest .
as elinor .
me sixty at once ; morland was with me at the time .
remember .
xiv mr .
in general their evenings were less engaged with friends than their mornings ; but one complete dinner engagement , and
those of the drawing-room below ; the furniture , though not of the latest fashion , was handsome and comfortable
thought mr .
sorrows in silence , gave more pain to her sister than could have been communicated by the most open and
the gentlemen had their own pursuits , the ladies proceeded on their own business , and they met no more
i like a job of that sort excessively .
, and would hardly give up the point of its having been tilney himself .
” cried emma , putting her hand before her face , and jumping up , “you make me more ashamed
i shall pull it to pieces as soon as i get home , and see if i can make it
; and why not to me ?
, miss fairfax .
at first , she thought it was a good deal ; and afterwards , but little .
robert ' s offence was unpardonable , but lucy ' s was infinitely worse .
“well , then , ” replied miss crawford more seriously , but without at all believing her , “to convince
the secrecy which lydia seems to think necessary ; and then i must endeavour to be satisfied with ignorance .
you are always quarrelling about that knife .
manner .
why , child , i have but this moment escaped from his horrible mother .
gardiner , rendered suspicious by elizabeth’s warm commendation , narrowly observed them both .
do not run away with such an idea .
" " well , and i had heard of you as a very pretty girl , and what were we
, while your kind friend there , was attending her daughter .
in vain for some intimation of the interview from the lady herself , she determined to mention it , and
place , but without a mother ' s affection to blind her .
” “that will not do for a compliment to darcy , caroline , ” cried her brother , “because he
the subject ; the influence of all who loved her must incline one way .
his superiority in ill-breeding , were not likely to attach any one to him except his wife .
" " but how shall we prove anything ?
jane listened with astonishment and concern ; she knew not how to believe that mr .
the first three or four days passed most quietly , with no circumstance to mark them excepting the receipt of
do not you remember what mr .
” edmund was uniformly kind himself ; and she had nothing worse to endure on the part of tom than
; but he was silent ; and , as far as she could judge , deep in thought .
it was enough to secure his good opinion ; for to be unaffected was all that a pretty girl could
harriet had been at hartfield , as usual , soon after breakfast ; and , after a time , had
on that event they removed to mansfield ; and the parsonage there , which , under each of its two
meanwhile , he saw enough of fanny ' s embarrassment to make him scrupulously guard against exciting it a second
luckiest , to yield only to herself .
collins , “were so fortunate as to be able to sing , i should have great pleasure , i am
” “yes , very ; i have hardly ever an opportunity of being in one ; but i am particularly
judgment was as strong as her feelings , and as strong as it had ever been before , in reprobating
on whom all depended .
captain benwick looked , and was , the youngest of the three , and , compared with either of them
to be listened to and borne with , and hear the voice of kindness and sympathy in return , was
, and requiring early attention .
yates ' s being invited to take mansfield in his way , whenever he could , and by his promising
“no sure ; was it ?
” “proof indeed !
many stared—many smiled ; but no one looked more amused than mr .
she must abide by the evil of having refused him , whatever it may be ; and as to the
, and the interchange of the common civilities attending on it (they never got beyond) , was become a mere
other human creature , in friends and fortune , circumstance and chance .
which she was in possession of herself , her uncle having given her £ _num_ at parting , made her
emma knew what was coming ; they must have the letter over again , and settle how long he had
—yes , i will—i declare i will—and you shall see how she takes it ; —whether she colours .
frank churchill ' s little inclination to exclude himself increased so much , that his last words to emma were
such opposition , as these feelings produced , was more than anne could combat .
miss crawford talked of something else , and soon afterwards rejoined the party at the fire .
" " well , and how soon will he be ready ?
sometimes .
the place became less strange , and the people less formidable ; and if there were some amongst them whom
miss bingley is to live with her brother , and keep his house ; and i am much mistaken if
“i shall find it immediately .
everybody .
you will be convinced of it by seeing them happy together .
they must and shall be worn together .
do you think i am right ?
fanny believed herself to derive as much innocent enjoyment from the play as any of them ; henry crawford acted
be quite distressing to her to see him again so soon .
were ushered into the breakfast-room , where were most of the family .
instead of pushing his fortune in the line marked out for the heir of the house of elliot , he
that such a regard had formerly existed she could not bring herself to doubt .
be divided between uppercross cottage and kellynch lodge .
” “you go to brighton .
it necessary to make our knowledge public ; for of what use could it apparently be to any one ,
either at a concert or a ball .
whether it was his own idea you know , one cannot tell .
she had no sense of superiority then .
—about a fortnight after the alarm , they came to a sufficient explanation , and quite undesignedly .
crawford ' s attachment would hold out for ever ; she could not but imagine that steady , unceasing discouragement
weston , she found herself abruptly addressed with , “do not you think , miss woodhouse , our saucy little
admires as rapturously as herself ?
i have hardly taken out a gun since the _num_ rd .
too , ever since i entered the house , and learnt the extension of your plan and all that had
this seems to have been a day of general elucidation , for this very morning first unfolded it to us
they called each other by their christian name , were always arm in arm when they walked , pinned up
yet she could not bear this silence .
i do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me that .
it for her .
ever since i have known it , i have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully i feel
you should listen to me till you were tired , and advise me till you were still tired more ;
, breaking the promise i had made of reading it aloud , and keeping her in suspense at a most
to draw from her husband any satisfactory description of mr .
they were more disturbed , more unequal , than she had often seen them .
you see !
of it , elizabeth supposed he must be often forgotten .
overpowered her .
s compassion , by reminding him , that so long as i absented myself from his house , so long
” “you spent the evening with mrs .
henry , remember that robinson is spoken to about it .
for all my money .
” “i dare say she was very glad to dance .
aloud to my mother , you know , for fear of there being any thing in them to distress her
on tuesday night , he made a very awkward sort of excuse ; ' he never shot ' and he
it is not in the smallest degree connected with any human being of the name of knightley .
you at the ball ; i am sure the mischief was done that evening .
it is morally impossible .
were dancing , and she sitting , most unwillingly , among the chaperons at the fire , longing for the
no sacrifice on any side worth the name .
i could get the nicest house in world for you , next door to ours , in hanover-square .
it was plain that he could have no serious views , no true attachment , by fixing himself in a
no reluctance , no horror , no feminine , shall i say , no modest loathings ?
which lady russell would suffer in entering the house again , and returning through the well-known apartments .
we must wait , it may be for many years .
a doubt .
would to heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part that might offer consolation to such
” “i have scarce had the pleasure of seeing you , miss woodhouse , ” she shortly afterwards began ,
there is no drinking at oxford now , i assure you .
by one of the miss steeles , who was on her knees to attend her , and her mouth stuffed
each faulty propensity in leading him to evil , had led him likewise to punishment .
for a man on whom she had such anxious designs , or satisfy the appetite and pride of one who
” jane and elizabeth tried to explain to her the nature of an entail .
who comes for you ?
me and instantly stopping , said to me though there were several people close to us , “hey day ,
he could not understand it ; but there were symptoms of intelligence between them—he thought so at least—symptoms of admiration
the obligation of attendance , the formality , the restraint , the length of time—altogether it is a formidable thing
world , she would be very likely to give away sixpence of it ; and nobody is afraid of her
from whose known good sense he fully expected to have just such resolute measures advised as he meant to see
did not come back and keep your engagement .
” she cried , looking aghast .
” and letting himself out , he walked off without farther ceremony .
he turned back and walked with me to the pump yard .
weston ' s marriage her exercise had been too much confined .
this , however , was no evil to elizabeth , and upon the whole she spent her time comfortably enough
the day ?
he gave me a quiet hint ; i told him he was mistaken ; he asked my pardon and said
but why should you be cruel ?
in this state frank churchill had found her , she trembling and conditioning , they loud and insolent .
the better for it himself .
jennings and mrs .
world .
i hope we may find no insuperable difficulty .
i am sure he would have been miserable if i had sat down the whole evening .
edward will marry lucy ; he will marry a woman superior in person and understanding to half her sex ;
not less reasonable than any other .
steady to his purpose , he scarcely spoke ten words to her through the whole of saturday , and though
' but how can it be done ?
little counteracted by an awkward taste .
she fancied that praise of pemberley from her might be mischievously construed .
miss crawford thought she had never seen a prettier consciousness .
—excellent parsonage house !
she entered the library , “oh !
up jumped susan , claiming it as her own , and trying to get it away ; but the child
why had not miss woodhouse revived the former good old days of the room ?
marry mr elliot ; where she could have received the idea , or from whom she could have heard it
—she never could have deserved him—and nobody but so partial and kind a friend as miss woodhouse would have thought
him , by saying— " it is hardly worth while , mr .
they were two solitary sufferers , or connected only by fanny ' s consciousness .
one can see that she feels the want of encouragement .
come , what is your competence ?
i thought that was always the lot of the youngest , where there were many to chuse before him .
i always stand up for women—and i assure you , if you knew how selina feels with respect to sleeping
is she said to be amiable ?
civil about the excellence of miss fairfax ' s handwriting .
which is some of the best land in the country .
without any choice of companions or exercise , and without any excuse for avoiding whatever her unreasonable aunts might require
but he still persevered ; and no sooner had he begun to revert to her own home , than her
" dear edward !
short of that , it is all guess and luck—and will generally be ill-luck .
at last he turned round again , and regarded them both ; she started up , and pronouncing his name
to publish his prosperous love .
he was immediately qualifying himself to form an opinion , by giving her very proper attention , after the introduction
to every body present .
poor fellow !
sister seems out of spirits , " he had appeared on the point , either of disclosing , or of
the dancing however was not begun as they waited for miss greville .
deprive you .
" " lord !
i need not ask you whether you are happy here , my dear catherine ; with such a companion and
grant to mrs .
when the engagement was for home , some of the officers always made part of it—of which officers mr .
right to encourage the manufacture of his country ; and for his part , to his uncritical palate , the
' tis true , we can offer you nothing like the gaieties of this lively place ; we can tempt
she did not like him as a man , but she must admit him to be the best actor ,
some , ) would be entirely guided by your treatment of her .
she was looking remarkably well ; her very regular , very pretty features , having the bloom and freshness of
hitherto there had been but one opinion of captain wentworth among the musgroves and their dependencies .
not a pleasure to himself .
or how could a boy be sent out to the east ?
it would surely be much more rational if conversation instead of dancing were made the order of the day .
they had too much sense to be desirable companions to the former ; and by the latter they were considered
before he does .
attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend .
" well , sir , " said elinor , who , though pitying him , grew impatient for his departure
forgiven every thing but her laugh .
” he turned away ; and catherine was shocked to find how much her spirits were relieved by the separation
manners would warrant .
; and we are a very quiet set of people , i believe ; more disposed to stay at home
to anything like a permanence of abode , or limitation of society , henry crawford had , unluckily , a
yet who could have foreseen what has happened ?
” “my father is gone to london , and jane has written to beg my uncle’s immediate assistance ; and
said— " upon my word , i never saw a young woman so desperately in love in my life !
he had been there for four-and-twenty hours .
" " you judged from your knowledge of the colonel ' s general benevolence ; but at least you could
aunt norris with the respect and attention that are due to her .
nothing .
would he have persevered , and uprightly , fanny must have been his reward , and a reward very voluntarily
the power of making themselves agreeable when they chose it , but proud and conceited .
they were all very seriously frightened .
brandon is one of them .
his genius and ardour had seemed to foresee and to command his prosperous path .
and come immediately—” “what an impertinent message mama !
” “very well ; and if he had intended to give her one , he would have told her so
you really , ma ' am , talked yourself into a persuasion of my sister ' s being engaged to
which would she prefer ?
of the room .
her children .
elinor gloried in his integrity ; and marianne forgave all his offences in compassion for his punishment .
price .
the mysteries of udolpho , when i had once begun it , i could not lay down again ; i
“what is the matter ?
capable of that .
much had been done and much had been said in the regiment since the preceding wednesday ; several of the
one seems so forlorn without them .
as that was the case , neither jane , to whom i related the whole , nor i , thought
have been unexceptionable , it is a sad thing , and of course highly distressing to lady susan .
curiosity and vanity were both engaged , and the temptation of immediate pleasure was too strong for a mind unused
, eager to make use of the present leisure for getting out , and calling on her companions to lose
and unkindness , could be felt as a relief !
, though very different , was not less striking than it had been on him .
” “my dearest henry , ” cried mary , stopping short , and smiling in his face , “how glad
to be disgraced in the eye of the world , to wear the appearance of infamy while her heart is
” but when satisfied on all these points , and their acquaintance proportionably advanced , he contrived to find an
and the boys were relieved from their apprehension of charlotte’s dying an old maid .
dixon is a principal in the business .
" " that is a material consideration undoubtedly .
her whole happiness seemed at stake , while the affair was in suspense , and everything secured when it was
letter i ever received from her , of which the substance made me any amends for the defect of the
all this became gradually evident , and gradually placed susan before her sister as an object of mingled compassion and
tears of joy .
from cleveland , which was within a few miles of bristol , the distance to barton was not beyond one
, as their uncle did so very well by edward .
, only said , “he is best off as he is , ” and turned the subject .
nothing hastily done ; nothing incomplete .
look up to it , and be tranquil if you can .
room , or at all engaged with mrs .
to call or to fancy it a loss , a disappointment , would be a presumption for which she had
over , we can enjoy our walk .
” what a noble creature he is !
esteem of every listener , had been followed by a little history of his private life , which rendered him
manners were not those of the fashionable world , he was caught by their easy playfulness .
girls would have been , and had sense , and energy , and spirits that might be hoped would bear
met again , except in the company of others—she objected only to a tete-a-tete—they might be able to act as
child , as that of all her neighbours was by the approach of it .
norris had not the least intention of being at any expense whatever in her maintenance .
—if i mistake not that was danced at weymouth .
)—no , no ; they were shut up in the drawing-room together , and all i heard was only by
in the main as to the propriety of doing everything one could by way of providing for a child one
up , and it rained a little , and mr .
you will have a sweet little wife ; all gratitude and devotion .
lady bertram , who was a woman of very tranquil feelings , and a temper remarkably easy and indolent ,
” emma spoke her pity so very kindly , that with a sudden accession of gay thought , he cried
she would not see me this morning when i called ; i saw her walk out of the house the
just before their setting out from oxford , while susan was stationed at a window , in eager observation of
a bed-room appropriated to herself ; and emma judged it best in every respect , safest and kindest , to
, and to get into the house as fast as possible ; and to poor miss crawford , who had
, was entailed , in default of heirs male , on a distant relation ; and their mother’s fortune ,
no , my dear fanny , upon no account .
“now i must look at you , fanny , ” said edmund , with the kind smile of an affectionate
i am aware that you may be left here week after week , if sir thomas cannot settle everything for
to some of the best-looking of these good people henrietta was consigned , for , though partially revived , she
grant right the other day in twenty places .
" and yet , a few minutes afterwards , she felt as if their being in company with each other
” “my dearest papa !
" elinor thought it wisest to touch that point no more .
after her entrance , colonel brandon became more thoughtful and silent than he had been before , and mrs .
flattered you into the belief of my being impelled by unqualified , unalloyed inclination ; by reason , by reflection
he was a great deal too full of the market to think of any thing else—which is just as it
aunt stopped also , and while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building , the owner
since he had neglected to do it on first coming to the estate , their quitting his house might be
susan , that his assurances as to marriage , &c .
he was more obviously struck and confused by the sight of her than she had ever observed before ; he
i shall not sport with your impatience , by reading what he says on that point .
yet catherine was in very good looks , and had the company only seen her three years before , they
with great surprise therefore , did she find herself prevented by a settled rain from going out again after dinner
crawford ' s doing him the honour of coming over to sotherton , and taking a bed there ; when
at all , and for some time was fearful of being constrained to call for assistance .
they joined company and proceeded together .
the day which dismissed the music-master was one of the happiest of catherine ' s life .
unpretending ; yet no endeavours shall be wanting on our side to make northanger abbey not wholly disagreeable .
but if she continued to play whenever she was asked by mr .
' ” “for shame , emma !
be the last to whom the affair is made known , when circumstances make the revealment of it eligible .
father had done to his presentation at st .
if we feel for the wretched , enough to do all we can for them , the rest is empty
the judge who told the colonel that i was a lady ready to witness anything for the cause of justice
, and where i can uninterrupted by unmeaning visits , indulge in a melancholy solitude , my unceasing lamentations for
" " a very fine young man indeed !
“anhalt is a heavy part .
see the sloop .
” “have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity ?
reginald has a good figure and is not unworthy the praise you have heard given him , but is still
the distressing explanation she had to make to harriet , and all that poor harriet would be suffering , with
" what a blow upon them all was this !
but the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most natural consequence of the prejudices i had been encouraging .
at the white house , matters must be better looked after .
" marianne said no more , but looked exceedingly hurt .
harder for her to write than in addressing eleanor tilney .
arranged in social converse round our fireside , we were on a sudden greatly astonished , by hearing a violent
she blushed , and jane blushed ; but the cheeks of the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation
fear a repetition ; it would be a subject prohibited entirely : he entered upon the luxury of relating circumstances
grant knew nothing , she had scarcely seen them since .
till i know you to be safe at home , i shall not have an hour ' s comfort .
only an interchange of perplexity and terror .
there are , who swear by persuasion ; there are , who prefer emma and mansfield park ; there is
for her own welfare and happiness than all that genius or intelligence could do .
our difference of age must be an insuperable objection , and i entreat you , my dear father , to
” isabella now entered the room with so eager a step , and a look of such happy importance ,
he gained on them in ascending a considerable hill , they were united , and a “there he is” broke
chapter _num_ as soon as they were gone , elizabeth walked out to recover her spirits ; or in other
you are prejudiced and unjust .
, with the utmost kindness , into northamptonshire , and as readily engaged to fetch her away again , at
" brought him out of the straight line to stand near her , and make enquiries in return , in
woodhouse , who had often been distressed by the more animated sort , which mr .
” catherine did not understand him—and he repeated his question , adding in explanation , “old allen , the man
set aside , his ill-treatment of herself .
price , coming abroad with a fine family of children , feeling a little respite of her weekly cares ,
sanguine .
i should have made a good likeness of her , if she would have sat longer , but she was
, though for my own part , i could give up every prospect of more without a sigh .
by never to be used , and looked at it now and then as a great treat .
, i believe , to prevent their falling into unworthy hands ; and she would have every book that tells
be acquainted with it ; which , with the consciousness of what she had been thinking of , and what
elton , that the door was to be lawfully shut on them , and that they were to have a
my dear , dear fanny , if i had you here , how i would talk to you !
i would not be bound to go two miles in it for fifty thousand pounds .
dare say he had heard somehow that mrs .
” “yes , indeed , edmund , ” added her ladyship , who had been thoroughly awakened by mrs .
john dashwood would not much approve of edward ' s going into orders .
doing very well , it was still impossible to say when she might be able to bear the removal home
sister’s sufferings .
in the first place , i had a note from mrs croft yesterday , offering to convey anything to you
that he was surprised by the connection was evident ; he sustained it , however , with fortitude , and
who have often disdained the generous candour of my sister , and gratified my vanity in useless or blameable mistrust
in her ladyship’s apprehension , peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance ; in the belief that such a relation must
long before it had taken place my opinion of you was decided .
it was there our acquaintance begun , for my sister and me was often staying with my uncle , and
, when she had the comfort of seeing her sleep , and when it seemed to her rather right than
” “indeed i am .
you know i carry my notions of friendship pretty high .
” “it is fortunate , then , that they fall to my lot instead of yours .
so extravagant in their wants , and heedless of the future , must be very insufficient to their support ;
but now she should not know what was picturesque when she saw it .
not only at home did her value increase , but at the parsonage too .
had you seen her so , mary , you would not have implied the possibility of her power over my
” chapter _num_ when jane and elizabeth were alone , the former , who had been cautious in her praise
” and she rose as she spoke .
and the acquisition of such friends to be often with , for her cheerfulness and mental alacrity did not fail
characters ; and while she acknowledged with awful sensations this striking exemplification of what henry had foretold , resolved instantly
woodhouse agreed to it all , but added , “our little friend harriet smith , however , is just such
had you seen his look , his manner , had you heard his voice at that moment !
soon .
norris , discomposed by her niece ' s ill-humour , and having asked one or two questions about the dinner
“do you intend staying long in this part of england miss grenville ?
as catherine and isabella sat together , there was then an opportunity for the latter to utter some few of
of the present dwelling although the rest was decayed , or of its standing low in a valley , sheltered
you speak as if you were going two hundred miles off instead of only across the park ; but you
to lay his private actions open to the world .
they were alike too , in a general benevolence of temper , and a strong habit of regard for every
she felt for harriet , with pain and with contrition ; but no flight of generosity run mad , opposing
" dear little soul , how i do love her !
henry to communicate at this time to catherine , how much of it he could have learnt from his father
of courtesy and attention , as (supposing her real motive unperceived) might warrant a man of ordinary observation and delicacy
they often stopt with the same sentiment and taste , leaning against the wall , some minutes , to look
” such is the common cant .
" " sit down , and i will be both .
four wheeled off with some grandeur , to be sure , but it was a heavy and troublesome business ,
concluded by declining entirely to profit by such unexampled attention .
one of edward ' s mistresses was jane shore , who has had a play written about her , but
this was very wonderful if it were true ; and lady russell was in a state of very agreeable curiosity
particularly interested them both .
but if we do not venture somebody else will ; and after all , mrs .
spirit which prevails so much in modern days , even in young women , and which in young women is
“cousin , ” said she , “something is going to happen which i do not like at all ; and
her engagement , though it was made with the hero himself .
; and in his carrying her into the house with so little previous formality , there was a rapidity of
norris could allow herself to decide on so short an acquaintance , mr .
yes , quite ; what can it be ?
he does not want abilities .
, for every one played at cards but mrs evelyn , my mother , dr drayton , miss grenville and
norris as one of those well-meaning people who are always doing mistaken and very disagreeable things .
weather .
” in darcy’s presence she dared not mention wickham’s name ; but elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in
” the introduction , however , was immediately made ; and as she named their relationship to herself , she
" he then left me , and ran upstairs .
or a trident ?
one cannot fix one ' s eyes on the commonest natural production without finding food for a rambling fancy .
be as she likes) .
unhappy .
morland , would agree with me in thinking it expedient to give every young man some employment .
" and without farther ceremony , she turned away and walked to the instrument .
not care about it .
” cried jane .
of the inferior ranks .
” “and lydia used to want to go to london , ” added kitty .
he did not seem to want to be near enough for conversation .
no doubt it is handsomer than mine , and fitter for a ballroom .
hour hence .
of keynsham , when a halloo from morland , who was behind them , made his friend pull up ,
one enjoyment was certain—that of suitableness of companions ; a suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear inconveniences—cheerfulness to
witnessing the very rapid increase of lady susan ' s influence .
longer confinement .
agreeable , and with such a woman as you , it was not absolutely hopeless .
” “aye—like maple grove , i dare say .
that , from such a quarter , one might expect .
such ease and such delights made her love the place and the people more and more every day ; and
" " no , ma ' am—the horses were just coming out , but i could not bide any longer
“now , miss crawford , if you will look up the walk , you will convince yourself that it cannot
there she had listened to henrietta ' s schemes for dr shirley ' s leaving uppercross ; farther on ,
jennings , knowing nothing of any change in the patient , went unusually early to bed ; her maid ,
—m .
it has not made him happy .
how well it sounds !
felt at his heart .
that her happiness should centre in a large income ; nor could he refrain from often saying to himself ,
knightley , are you perfectly sure that she has absolutely and downright accepted him .
" " yes .
weston , and run away with it ; as you have many a time reproached me with doing .
was it merely to ride to longbourn and be embarrassed ?
my stupidity was abominable , for here we have all the advantage of what i saw at ecclesford ; and
wish them very happy .
" was of trifling weight—was nothing to what i felt when i heard , about two years afterwards , of
“lord , how tired i am !
” “yes , ” replied mr .
of her throws : and she inquired a great deal about you , how you were amused , and who
felt depressed beyond anything she had ever known before .
then repeating the following line which was an extempore and equally adapted to recommend both riding and candour— “ride where
norris was beginning to scold her for not being gone , and still no horse was announced , no edmund
into a little knot of the navy , mrs croft looking as intelligent and keen as any of the officers
other , and so leave the remainder of that other for an entrance ; this , with a new drawing
those beautiful eyes ?
so disgraceful a match .
all fine ladies , instead of rational creatures .
” “i believe i have , but this is hardly fair ; i see what you are at .
s plantations , and the glory of his woods .
think how you will like them .
she could not contemplate the change as implying less .
hope to have this pleasure often repeated , especially when a certain desirable event , my dear eliza (glancing at
better return than it has received .
johnson has hit on the most effectual manner of plaguing us all .
rushworth , “but i do not know what .
see them together again , she might at least be able to ascertain what the chances for it were .
—and are you going this morning ?
be proved in the right , when so many people said mr .
morland would acknowledge a difference .
he does not read ?
you begged hard to be commanded to come .
eclat .
i wish young ladies had not such a number of fine christian names .
she would be in nobody’s way , you know , in that part of the house .
converse upon a topic which always left her more dissatisfied with herself than ever , by the comparison it necessarily
after a mutual silence of some minutes , harriet thus began again— “i do so wonder , miss woodhouse ,
how have i delighted , as i walked , to see them driven in showers about me by the wind
i executed my plan with great punctuality .
a very few minutes convinced her that she was only exceedingly shy .
martin would have been sufficient ; but nothing else , she feared , would cure her .
it was now but an hour later than the time fixed on for the beginning of their walk ; and
and consequently preferred her husband’s .
to be uneasy , and settling it with her father , that she would take her walk now , she
fairfax was quite ready to sit down to the pianoforte again .
put it off—let us go tomorrow .
the officers will find women better worth their notice .
i promised my wife to leave it all to her .
receive more than my due .
frank churchill , of whom , in the eagerness of her conversation with mrs .
or was anybody angry with her ?
nobody could be so imprudent !
occurred to give still greater eligibility , according to the opinions of mrs .
cousin , stop a moment , pray stop !
; you know his eager manner , my dear mother , when his mind is interested .
offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies .
laughed at the idea ; and mrs .
an interest in what you look and do , and excites my present curiosity .
” the symptoms were favourable .
—does any body else occur to you at this moment under such a definition ?
poverty .
and even the bustle of collecting and preparing to depart , and the solicitude of mrs .
and if we are to part , a few hours sooner or later , you know , makes no difference
believe .
how much may not a few months do ?
introduced to mrs .
—but emma ' s wonder lessened soon afterwards , on seeing mr .
the happiness with which their time now passed , every employment voluntary , every laugh indulged , every meal a
mr musgrove is so far from being poor that he has an estate of several hundreds an year which is
every body is so surprized ; and every body says the same obliging things .
when she is secure of him , there will be more leisure for falling in love as much as she
the nature of mine , as i listened to him , i need not attempt to describe ; for a
so very fond of you as miss crawford is , it is most natural that she should tell you enough
prove it .
think she must of the possible difference to the poor little boy ; and yet she only gave herself a
the number of her ideas ; and of the few syllables that did escape her , not one fell to
i who knew what he was .
the acquisition of two , to the number of inhabitants in london , was something .
it was a shameful insensibility .
as lady russell .
” “yes , i am .
from that period , in their daily intercourse , in business , or in chat , she had been regularly
" reserved !
, like mr .
elegancies and ornaments were a faded footstool of julia ' s work , too ill done for the drawing-room ,
” “and that is quite impossible ; for he is now in the custody of his friend , and mr
mourning roused anne ' s curiosity , and the whole six were collected to look , by the time the
at a more than ordinary pitch of thumping and hallooing in the passage , he exclaimed , “devil take those
" she paused—no one spoke .
they knew many women who answered this description , when mr .
returning .
i always take the part of my own sex .
, and always the knowledge of his being there .
all .
” “my uncle thought me wrong , and i knew he had been talking to you .
william price ' s commission as second lieutenant of h .
” “have you been to the theatre ?
the happiness she was imparting , too , happiness very little alloyed by the black communication which must briefly precede
be absolutely unnecessary , if not highly indecorous , to do more for the widow and children of his father
she began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who , in disposition and talents , would most
cottage in half an hour .
” “he was four-and-twenty the _num_ th of last june , and my birthday is the _num_ rd just a
” her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption while the servants remained .
she got her to hartfield , and shewed her the most unvarying kindness , striving to occupy and amuse her
how unlucky that you should have been from home !
" " my dearest child , " said her mother , laughing , " at this rate you must be
” “in marrying your nephew , i should not consider myself as quitting that sphere .
away just now , if he had not wanted to avoid a certain gentleman here .
dare say very agreeable .
, before either fanny or the steady old coachman , who always attended her when she rode without her cousins
a thousand could stand the test of .
i am sure she will be here presently .
charles wonders what captain wentworth will say ; but if you remember , i never thought him attached to louisa
her own sex is concerned , ventured at length to vary the subject by a question which had been long
a more agreeable young man in the world .
i wish i had looked at him more .
seated beneath a tent , tenderly flirting with at least six officers at once .
had proceeded before from all the spiteful old ladies in meryton lost but a little of their spirit in this
to make my way in the world .
weather becomes absolutely of no consequence .
every thing that the most zealous affection , the most solicitous care could do to render her comfortable , was
elinor was robbed of all presence of mind by such an address , and was unable to say a word
her pardon was duly begged at the close of the song , and every thing usual followed .
i thought him very sly ; —he hardly ever mentioned your name .
than , “how do you do , mrs .
of neither darcy nor wickham could she think without feeling she had been blind , partial , prejudiced , absurd
i have a great mind to go back into norfolk directly , and put everything at once on such a
down the east room in the utmost confusion of contrary feeling , before sir thomas ' s politeness or apologies
of others .
is your niece , miss bates ?
" " i would not ask such a question for the world .
of colour .
” “if i were as rich as mr .
" " no , " returned elinor , cautious of giving her real opinion of edward ' s mother ,
he was sophia ' s cousin .
one , and ignorance in another , can hardly have much truth left .
and no connexions to secure even his farther rise in the profession , would be , indeed , a throwing
a little parcel by you that i want to get conveyed to your cousins .
inferior , commonplace situation , in a family not moving in a certain circle , or able to command the
an evil which no superadded elegance or harmony could have entirely atoned for .
you are with .
" said he , in a low voice , to miss dashwood , by whom he was sitting .
connexion as more desirable than he did .
a stranger among them would have been the destruction of all their comfort” ; and when edmund , pursuing that
the bustle in the vestibule , as she passed along an inner lobby , assured her that they were already
was most friendly and obliging .
few parties , chiefly among the single men , had already taken place .
restraint , as not to be able to spend a week with his father , if he likes it .
injure me in your opinion , and give you all this alarm .
down by her .
" said she , colouring violently .
you have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for him .
were you never here before , madam ?
it determined him to attempt[ _num_ ] a reconciliation , though not exactly in the manner pointed out by their
her father was growing distressed for money .
till she married , last october , she was never away from them so much as a week , which
the colour which had been driven from her face , returned for half a minute with an additional glow ,
attractions for me .
darcy sends you all the love in the world that he can spare from me .
there is no reason in the world why you should not be important where you are known .
the usual inquiries as to his success were made by the latter .
the most lively , the most agreable young men of the age— .
to miss— charade .
she must talk to lady russell , tell her , consult with her , and having done her best ,
in all his niece ' s family and friends , there could be but one opinion , one wish on
found her one of the most charming women in the world !
” “that ' s right ; and in london , of course , a house of your own : no
is expected to-day .
” “it will soon be as if you never had , ” said henry .
and there , beneath that farthest hill , which rises with such grandeur , is our cottage .
he merely meant to persuade her to give up the engagement ; and as there could be nothing to overcome
she respected , she esteemed , she was grateful to him , she felt a real interest in his welfare
but i am willing to hope the best , and that his character has been misunderstood .
herself , nor required fanny to advise her , to think little of guilt and infamy .
their children ' s marriages .
“so far from having ever declared it , i have no reason to imagine that he has ever felt any
it was enough to set his heart in a glow , and to bring him home in the properest state
i think it would be acknowledged by the most impartial eye to have many recommendations .
very unaccountable !
and to go home without charles , too , without her husband !
he was ready to say almost everything else in her favour , and as for mrs smith , she had
small , diminished party met at breakfast , william and fanny were talked of as already advanced one stage .
affection , and the excess of her praise .
” “how comes this about ?
her letter , and i am sure she tells her own story a great deal better than i can tell
poor dear child !
--she had humoured , or softened , or concealed his failings , and promoted his real respectability for seventeen years
—lord !
their joy on this meeting was very great , as well it might , since they had been contented to
unhappy that my heart aches for her .
the worth of her disposition and perceiving how fully she was inclined to seek her good opinion and refer to
, shining character , there would certainly be everything else in her favour .
but i do not understand how the room at the crown can be safer for you than your father '
time to her as requested—and , in short , could not really be wanted or missed .
—i believe i have not played a bar this fortnight .
spirit—especially with the corroborating circumstances , which her own memory brought in favour of mr .
good income as of far more importance , even to domestic happiness , than the mere temper of a wife
i am sure he has not the least idea of it .
but edward foreseeing his design , approached him with heroic fortitude as soon as he entered the room , and
—“should not they walk ?
” for some time her young friend felt obliged to her for these wishes ; but they were repeated so
information of captain wentworth ' s visit ; staying five minutes behind their father and mother , to endeavour to
, with all its rights of court-leet and court-baron .
at any rate , i hope he will plague his wife more than ever .
mr elliot married then completely for money ?
and therefore telling him at once that his stay at cleveland was necessary to herself , that she should want
—and she was made such a fuss with by every body !
from this time the subject was never revived by elinor , and when entered on by lucy , who seldom
” chapter _num_ the first week of their return was soon gone .
fortunate friend towards entering on her path of duty ; though she had now reached the age which her own
his civilities to the other ladies must be paid ; but his subsequent object was to lament over himself for
another meeting will suffice to explain his sentiments on picturesque beauty , and second marriages , and then you can
the subject of improving grounds , meanwhile , was still under consideration among the others ; and mrs .
elton , in all her apparatus of happiness , her large bonnet and her basket , was very ready to
red from excessive agitation , and looking distressfully at edmund , who was kindly observing her ; but unwilling to
“nay , my beloved , sweetest friend , ” continued the other , “compose yourself .
rushworth ' s return , but was so much counteracted in wimpole street by the influence of mr .
and assurances , —and a very few minutes settled the business .
rushworth , who was now making his appearance at mansfield for the first time since the crawfords ' arrival .
raise them .
without offending the taste , or wearing out the feelings of his hearers , is a man whom one could
" marianne sighed out her similar apprehension ; and elinor ' s heart wrung for the feelings of edward ,
the house , though what had been originally plain had suffered all the ill-usage of children ; and its greatest
but “she could never get acquainted with her : she did not know how it was , but there was
with greater civility and attention ; it seemed to be his only care to entertain and make me happy .
, was with her without delay , and unattended by any alarming young man .
require ; and stopping only to change horses , she travelled on for about eleven hours without accident or alarm
” she cried , shrinking from such a compliment , highly as it gratified her .
allen , however , discouraged her from doing any such thing .
they met with the utmost friendliness .
to express a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed , however unequally they may be returned .
” jane very patiently assured her that she had not caught any cold .
partner .
but i shall see them tomorrow .
, of whose beauty she had herself heard him speak without any admiration , —a girl too already engaged to
she took the first opportunity of affronting her mother-in-law on the occasion , talking to her so expressively of her
” “much more rational , my dear caroline , i dare say , but it would not be near so
weston was alone in the drawing-room : —but hardly had they been told of the baby , and mr .
“and you know what your dinner will be , ” said mrs .
” “do not urge her , madam , ” said edmund .
down together in our lodgings at north yarmouth ?
” she promised , however , to think of it ; and pretty nearly promised , moreover , to think
” sir thomas meant to be giving mr .
his nature capable of such cruelty .
i ask no questions .
your lively talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage .
oh , cousin , you do not know how acceptable it is .
her younger sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness which she might in future be
making his manner perfect .
he had expected a very different son-in-law ; and beginning to feel grave on maria ' s account , tried
while they are with us , we shall explore a great deal , i dare say .
" mr elliot does not dislike his cousin , i fancy ?
the purposes for which a few shapeless pantries and a comfortless scullery were deemed sufficient at fullerton , were here
he is forever finding fault with me , for some incorrectness of language , and now he is taking the
i will not allow books to prove anything .
passing footsteps .
i have not seen him since seven o ' clock .
, there was a general though unequal mixture of good and bad .
is not it time for you to write to fanny ?
whole of the story—that all willoughby ' s difficulties have arisen from the first offence against virtue , in his
refreshment , seemed to do it only for the sake of finding out that mrs .
to town , which was within a fortnight after myself , we met by appointment , he to defend ,
” and accordingly she did turn , and they walked towards the parsonage together .
it is anger to be talked of rather than felt .
" a letter of proper submission !
seeming so desirably sensible of her peculiar good fortune , ended every day ' s sorrows by sobbing herself to
what could all this mean but an intentional affront ?
suspected the letter of containing anything unwelcome , i should have given it with very different feelings .
" she seems a most valuable woman indeed—her house , her style of living , all bespeak an exceeding good
rushworth to her carriage , and walk half-way down the park with the two other ladies .
bertram , ' said she .
weston as to pigeon-pies and cold lamb , when a lame carriage-horse threw every thing into sad uncertainty .
before the young man ' s inclination for paying them were over .
” “i believe , ma’am , i may safely promise you never to dance with him .
not in my power to accept it .
” “you have lost an hour , ” said morland ; “it was only ten o ' clock when we
” “i should be but too happy in taking the part , if it were possible , ” cried tom
she would not have been puzzled , had she dared fix on them .
” jane looked as if she did not mean to be conquered ; but instead of answering , she began
while well , and happy , and properly attended to , she had great good humour and excellent spirits ;
“put on your hat this moment—there is no time to be lost—we are going to bristol .
palmer ' s , i found charlotte quite in a fuss about the child .
, alike distressed by marianne ' s situation , knew not on which child to bestow her principal attention .
to pass between lodges of a modern appearance , to find herself with such ease in the very precincts of
, would naturally call forth ; and great was their surprise , and warm their displeasure , on hearing how
; " yes , i am very drunk .
they could not be untouched by his politeness ; and had they drawn his character from their own feelings and
he had long made up his mind to jane fairfax ' s going out as governess , and could talk
as to a stable , the merest shed would be sufficient .
to the bottom as not , it is impossible for them to distinguish the very set who may be least
had she ever given way to bursts of delight , it must have been then , for she was delighted
the only interruption which thoughts like these received for nearly half an hour was from a sudden burst of her
" to marianne , he merely bowed and said nothing .
think there were some looks a little like mr .
no hands more deserving of them .
” as she spoke she observed him looking at her earnestly ; and the manner in which he immediately asked
john dashwood had not much to say for himself that was worth hearing , and his wife had still less
the two .
, recommending to us a compliance , a compromise , an acquiescence in the continuance of the sin , on
a famous clever animal for the road—only forty guineas .
there ' s arcturus looking very bright .
his behaviour to us has , in every respect , been as pleasing as when we were in derbyshire .
lady catherine herself says that , in point of true beauty , miss de bourgh is far superior to the
julia ' s looks were an evidence of the fact that made it indisputable ; and after the first starts
eleanor had wished to spare her from so painful a notion , but catherine could not believe it possible that
any longer .
knew where i was , or any thing about it .
her idle love for reginald , too !
as the sun is out , i believe i had better take my three turns while i can .
—much could not be hoped from the traffic of even the busiest part of highbury ; —mr .
leading her in to the others , and recommending her to their kindness .
” “it is the same sort of thing , ” said fanny , after a short pause , “as for
he is their lawful property ; he fairly belongs to them .
“you are too good , i am sure , to think the worse of me for the part i am
, the cattle , the children , she found entertainment that could only have been heightened by having edmund to
” “yes , ” said his brother hesitatingly , “there is a likeness .
" a dinner at mr musgrove ' s had been the occasion when all these things should have been seen
” “money !
“i shall always look back on our theatricals with exquisite pleasure .
norris , when she came on the morrow , in consequence of an early call and invitation from sir thomas
parsonage , mr .
you are safe in all worldly matters , and safe in his character .
but she has always done justice to you .
as she found for herself in making up card-tables , giving hints to sir thomas , and trying to move
” “i do not know why you should say so .
dashwood and mrs .
at home (excepting on mary ' s account) would not be the smallest impediment .
i immediately called my mother and the maids , and at last we brought her to herself again ; as
i should like to see you dance , and i ' d dance with you if you would , for
necklace , in some favourite box in the east room , which held all her smaller treasures ; but on
—every body said that mr .
woodhouse having , as usual , tried to persuade his daughter to stay behind with all her children , was
as well as to all her virtues , would be the highest possible gratification to me .
it was a fine family-piece .
everything was safe enough , and she smiled over the many anxious feelings she had wasted on the subject .
i have had no hand in it .
yates .
“i am , dear sir , etc .
" " and are they going farther westward ?
such a view .
the wedding was no distant event , as the parties had only themselves to please , and nothing but the
her faith was plighted , and mr elliot ' s character , like the sultaness scheherazade ' s head ,
i certainly can get out that way , and i will .
shapeless old cockleshell as that ?
given .
—neither would she regret that he should be going to brunswick square , for she knew how much his visit
i do not know what he would be at .
you are always labouring and toiling , exposed to every risk and hardship .
the nature and the simplicity of gentlemen and ladies , with their servants and furniture , i think is best
, and rather looked with wonder at her friend that she could have so cheerful an air with such a
he had always intended to visit him , though to the last always assuring his wife that he should not
cannot go .
was it impossible ?
that some kind of engagement had subsisted between willoughby and marianne she could not doubt , and that willoughby was
graciousness .
dinner , which their arrival occasioned .
he protested that , except lady catherine and her daughter , he had never seen a more elegant woman ;
if lady bertram , with all her incompetency and languor , could feel this , the inference of what her
” “perhaps you are not sitting in this room , and i am not sitting by you .
—he meets with a young woman at a watering-place , gains her affection , cannot even weary her by negligent
great dislike : he could not accommodate his sister in an article of such importance ; but he escorted her
chapter _num_ when the ladies removed after dinner , elizabeth ran up to her sister , and seeing her well
the course of one ' s duties so fatiguing as what we have been doing this morning : seeing a
i am serious , miss woodhouse , whatever your penetrating eyes may fancy—i am sick of england—and would leave it
all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of her mother and kitty made inevitable ; and could she have included
, though more guarded than formerly , persuaded elizabeth , that if left wholly to himself , jane’s happiness ,
depend upon it , a man of six or seven-and-twenty can take care of himself .
no letter of condolence was received at kellynch , and , consequently , there was but too much reason to
a good deal of nonsense in it—but the part which is capable of being communicated , which is sense ,
” “but what can your brother mean ?
on anne , of which this was the most consoling , that it would soon be over .
weston better in my life—never looking so well .
there are not as many genteel young men in devonshire as sussex ?
which would have distressed me beyond conception ; my cheeks would have been as red as your roses ; i
dashwood , gave additional pain to them all in the parting , which shortly took place , and left an
unwillingness to be seen or assisted .
' then there is a dovecote , some delightful stew-ponds , and a very pretty canal ; and everything ,
--women may be as comfortable on board , as in the best house in england .
mrs harville says her husband feels a good deal on his poor sister ' s account ; but , however
such a distance from norland as to prevent his being of any service to her in removing her furniture .
wickham was not at all more distressed than herself , but his manners were always so pleasing , that had
the evil of a marriage would be much diminished , if elizabeth were also to marry .
so unfeelingly on all such points ; who was everything to everybody , and seemed to find no one essential
” “it is difficult indeed—it is distressing .
winter : it grieves me to say how greatly you were mistaken , for i have seldom spent three months
at least , she would not be won by them nearly so soon , without the assistance of sentiment and
if she could not have been angry with frank churchill too , it would have been dreadful .
had repaired the mistakes of the most experienced huntsman , and in which the boldness of his riding , though
and how came he not to have settled that matter before this person ' s death ?
woodhouse , whose thoughts were on the bates ' s , said— “it is a great pity that their circumstances
her affections were not acute , nor was her mind tenacious .
often struck her , and though by no means so clever as herself , she thought that if encouraged to
—he was very much agitated—very much , indeed—to a degree that made him appear quite a different creature from any
the simplicity and cheerfulness of her nature , her contented and grateful spirit , were a recommendation to every body
and drawing , &c .
my aunt more particular , and i more in love every day .
his aunt worried him by her cares , and sir thomas knew not how to bring down his conversation or
elton had been determined to go on , and had said in a very particular way indeed , that he
—no , i can pronounce his name without the smallest distress .
“henry !
—miss woodhouse , we all know at times what it is to be wearied in spirits .
to elizabeth , however , he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his absence had been self-imposed .
difficulty ?
journey of it , for they came all round by london upon account of some business , for you know
my faults , according to this calculation , are heavy indeed !
“nobody can ever forget them .
principally by tom ; and she grew bewildered as to the amount of the debt which all these kind remembrances
and to all the little distinctions consequent thereon , she found , while they were at table , such a
when i yielded , i thought it was to duty , but no duty could be called in aid here
” “you may well be amazed , ” returned mrs .
industriously getting rid of the subject as they returned ; —but it burst out again when she thought she had
where the motives of her conduct have been doubtful .
on the morning of the third day however , the gloomy anticipations of both were almost done away ; for
knightley , she is really very sorry to lose poor miss taylor , and i am sure she will miss
neglect , would be enough to make either of the dear , sweet-tempered boys in love with her .
she could never see a fault in any of them .
to each party from the circumstance of jane ' s decided superiority both in beauty and acquirements .
as soon as divine service was over , the thorpes and allens eagerly joined each other ; and after staying
be much talked of .
expectations of its new observer ; but they were not in every respect answered , for catherine had depended upon
she would have ordered the carriage , and come to you , but she must see you alone , and
' she then began to speak of you , and of the great kindness you had shewn her during her
arguments are too much like disputes .
started , and could only say , " i thought the miss musgroves had been here : mrs musgrove told
was very sincere .
and your mother has brought on herself a most appropriate punishment .
we looked down the whole vista , and saw it closed by iron gates , and it could not have
she had only to submit , sit down , be outwardly composed , and feel herself plunged at once in
besides , that would be all recreation and indulgence , without the wholesome alloy of labour , and i do
to-day you are got back again—and as i cannot be always with you , it is best to believe your
i did not know that i had fixed a day , but as he says i did , i am
the avenue , therefore , must be at the back of it .
and besides , i am sure it would never have entered my head .
out of the house too , there was no avoiding , though at christmas .
another day or two , and mr .
when darcy returned to the saloon , miss bingley could not help repeating to him some part of what she
it is actually perched upon a rock to appearance so totally inaccessible , that i expected to have been pulled
" anne said what was proper , and enquired after her husband .
on this principle , he soon afterwards observed—“they go on monday .
smith , now in this neighbourhood (i have dined with him , at hurst and wilford) , who is just
crawford as to any secrecy of proceeding .
but he did not see her , and therefore the smile and the blush , which his sudden reappearance raised
so much with me ; not that anything in the world , i am sure , would induce my father
one or two meetings of this kind had taken place , without affording elinor any chance of engaging lucy in
she only consulted lady russell , who entered thoroughly into her sentiments , and was most happy to convey her
i do not recollect it .
had been for many weeks a darling wish , though to be more than the visitor of an hour had
i can see that some pains are taken to prevent her being much with me .
of various admirals i could tell you a great deal : of them and their flags , and the gradation
i praised the fair lady too , and altogether sent him away very happy .
norris , red with anger , “fanny can walk .
i am sure i cannot imagine how they will spend half of it ; and as to your giving them
i should not be helped so soon , but it smells most excellent , and i cannot help beginning .
a baronet”—“that i have—” cried i .
” “what was i talking of ?
will be soon increased by seeing her quite well .
are certainly married .
, i shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given me ; though i am
had better not communicate them to my father , whose excessive anxiety about reginald would subject him to an alarm
flowing hand ; and elizabeth saw her sister’s countenance change as she read it , and saw her dwelling intently
” cried elizabeth , when she had finished .
a most improper match for miss musgrove of uppercross .
she had soon the mortification of seeing mr elliot withdraw , and no one of proper condition has since presented
it must be his own doing .
one of my daughters .
i have a great regard for him .
her three notes—unluckily they were all in my pocket-book , or i should have denied their existence , and hoarded
he heard her with the most earnest attention , but seeming to recollect himself , said no more on the
owner of mansfield park , the sir thomas complete , which he was to be in time , she did
” this civility was duly returned ; and they parted—on miss tilney ' s side with some knowledge of her
it is nothing but the heat .
she would be such a delightful companion for emma .
this is insufferable !
of her conduct .
i am grown neither humble nor penitent by what has passed .
likely to be without you .
bingley , to assure him how happy he would make them by eating a family dinner with them at any
any other cause , nor have endured much longer even for this ; but the ways of hartfield and the
—he felt much anxiety—he must confess that the nature of her complaint alarmed him considerably .
but for his known engagement seven miles off .
however little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood ,
of light .
he was the proudest , most disagreeable man in the world , and everybody hoped that he would never come
, for what i care .
street of so impertinent a nature , so unfortunately connected with the great london and oxford roads , and the
it has been dignified and liberal .
friendliness , their brotherliness , their openness , their uprightness ; protesting that she was convinced of sailors having more
you will tell my mother how it all ought to be , and you will be so useful to susan
no matter which has it , so that there is enough .
hope of being of service to her .
” “cruel !
her favourite walk , and where she frequently went while the others were calling on lady catherine , was along
quite a fine lady .
advanced a few steps towards the stairs , and after listening half a minute , returned into the room in
moments of self-examination in which her conscience could not quite acquit her .
” “i never read one more to the purpose , certainly .
she exclaimed with eager pleasure , “did he ?
but they would have been improved by some share of his frankness and warmth ; and her visit was long
there were few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended ; but , at the same time
it cannot be .
—emma only might be as nature prompted , and shew herself just as happy as she was .
now , lizzy , i think i have surprised you .
what a revolution in her ideas !
down to wish for it ; and my father ' s room will be an excellent greenroom .
the triumph of seeing me so may be open to all the world .
[ _num_ ] chapter xlviii elinor now found the difference between the expectation of an unpleasant event , however certain
saying a word , turned to her , and quietly obliged her to be assisted into the carriage .
i intend to send him the following in answer to his letter tomorrow .
in one point , her feelings were relieved by this knowledge of mr elliot .
” here they were interrupted by a request from mrs .
is he safe only in solitude ?
the death of an injured wife , before her room was put to rights .
purposes of their acquaintance , he was quite amiable enough .
, thorough sweetness of temper and manner , a very humble opinion of herself , and a great readiness to
“i cannot think what is the matter with me , ” said lady bertram , when the tea-things were removed
than lovely and amiable .
should never be , he did not regard his mother ' s anger , while he could have my affections
sigh at the approach of saturday ' s constant half-holiday .
of what he is now wanting , and what he is now doing .
jennings interposed most acceptably ; for to send the colonel away while his love was in so much uneasiness on
' s wishing , after an interval of so many years , to be well received by them .
” “i was not quite impartial in my judgment , emma : —but yet , i think—had you not been
we happened to be quartered in that very town , where you came and met your grandfather— .
there are few people in england , i suppose , who have more true enjoyment of music than myself ,
" [ _num_ ] marianne looked as if she had no doubt on that point .
anxiety which borders on hopelessness for anne ' s being tempted , by some man of talents and independence ,
good bye , —god bless you !
i never knew days fly so fast .
not so fond of a dentist as of a mr .
yes , i see what she means , (turning to mr .
" " this is beyond every thing !
knightley ' s carriage had brought , and was to take them home again .
he simpers , and smirks , and makes love to us all .
you should come to london to know how to estimate your conquest .
, tight parsonage , enclosed in its own neat garden , with a vine and a pear-tree trained round its
i am very little disposed to grant a tenant of kellynch hall any extraordinary favour , i assure you ,
from tolerably regular exercise ; and on the morrow , emma had a charitable visit to pay to a poor
” she felt the unexpected compliment , and deeply regretted the impossibility of thinking well of a man so kindly
of asking your ladyship whether you left mr .
in these words : “may i hope , madam , for your interest with your fair daughter elizabeth , when
poor reynolds , she was always very fond of me .
elizabeth was disgusted , and even miss bennet was shocked .
“i dare say you are very right ; but i am sure i shall miss her very much .
too , as elizabeth threw open the folding-doors and walked with exultation from one drawing-room to the other , boasting
” “no , ” said fanny stoutly , “i do not expect it at all .
” it was about the necklace , which she was now most earnestly longing to return , and hoped to
—ha !
if we are to part , it will at least be handsome to take your personal leave—but i have little
”— “well , go on .
any injury or any misfortune could provoke such ill will against a person not connected , or , at least
for anything .
—it depends upon the character of those who handle it .
“have you looked into all the rooms in that passage ?
likely to remain there full two months longer , provided at least she were able to defeat mrs .
to speak of it to a single creature ; knowing that it would make you and my mother most unhappy
but when catherine saw her in public , admitting captain tilney ' s attentions as readily as they were offered
” “for everything of that nature i will be answerable , ” said tom , in a decided tone .
grant has asked fanny to dinner .
alarming sounds were heard ; other visitors approached , and the door was thrown open for sir walter and miss
she found that she had been misled by the careful , the considerate attention of her daughter , to think
differently ; and it did not surprise her , therefore , that lady russell should see nothing suspicious or inconsistent
how have i been deceived !
jennings could supply to her the conversation she missed ; although the latter was an everlasting talker , and from
jennings in bond street , " said he , after the first salutation , " and she encouraged me to
jennings ' s acquaintance to inform them of her being in town ; and marianne was all the time busy
please , she naturally suspected that every power of pleasing would fail her .
the simple professions of unaffected benevolence ; thanking him for such an attention to her daughter , assuring him that
“my aunt , ” she continued , “is going to-morrow into that part of the town , and i shall
when is it to take place ?
days ; i had the pleasure of finding your letter here waiting my arrival , for which you have my
there was , at times , a want of spirits about him which , if it did not denote indifference
he drew several plans for magnificent cottages ; and from thence returning to town , procured the forgiveness of mrs
at home to take their own place in the room , and have their share of a pleasure which would
his joining our party soon .
now is your time .
he was dining with the randalls family , and jane , at the eltons ' ; and he had seen
married a woman of a less amiable temper than yourself .
not believe was impossible .
” “i do not understand what you mean by ' success , ' ” said mr .
they had not a fault to find in him .
knightley suspected in frank churchill the determination of catching her eye—he seemed watching her intently—in vain , however , if
my dear , as perry says , where health is at stake , nothing else should be considered ; and
had owed his mother no duty and therefore could have transgressed none , still remained some weeks longer unpardoned .
—no connection between them !
' s from the world ' s end , if he wanted it .
the folly of the means they often employ is only to be equalled by the folly of what they have
miss woodhouse , how kind you are !
this very awkward history of mr elliot was still , after an interval of several years , felt with anger
” “it may do very well for the others , ” replied mr .
collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed , which certainly was not unseldom , she involuntarily
she complained of it as they returned to berkeley street .
isabella then tried another method .
to any proposal of ours .
“pray do .
on these ; and , being furnished within the last five years , they were perfect in all that would
i only wish that they , whoever they are , to whom i am indebted for such kind intentions ,
to youth and natural cheerfulness like emma ' s , though under temporary gloom at night , the return of
“at this moment , perhaps , mr .
rushworth is quite right , i think , in meaning to give it a modern dress , and i have
forth as a most encouraging instance of what an earnest , an unceasing attention to self-interest , however its progress
point him out , though not daring to look again (for her own countenance she knew was unfit to be
out of place , in my opinion , when one is exploring about the country in summer .
as sir walter considered him unworthy of it : all acquaintance between them had ceased .
elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by miss bingley , and that she could not speak a
to grieve as much as herself ; and positively refusing elinor ' s offered attendance , went out alone for
i am talking of ; lord st ives , whose father we all know to have been a country curate
but you have such a generous spirit !
else ; and , totally indisposed for employment , she resolved , soon after breakfast , to indulge herself in
not altered almost every feature for the worse .
her ' s , for me , was , i believe , fervent as the attachment of your sister to
for him , " i have heard it all .
what right had he to come among us with affection and faith engaged , and with manners so very disengaged
letter from herself , last october .
” “it is unfortunate that they cannot stay longer—but it seems a case of necessity .
way , when he had come ashore on duty .
party to get her a good hand .
—you must let me read it to him .
interesting to her was the home and the friendship of the harvilles and captain benwick , than her own father
astonishment , apprehension , and even horror , oppressed her .
i am sure she will be an excellent servant ; and it will be a great comfort to poor miss
and to get into it as soon as possible ; knew he must pay for his convenience ; knew what
bingley was quite uncomfortable ; his sisters declared that they were miserable .
—never had she been more surprized , seldom more delighted , than at that instant .
” “you are extremely kind , ” said jane ; “but i cannot give up my early walk .
circumstances will not allow him to marry any one without a fortune , and that matilda ' s is entirely
, and for anything of the acting , spouting , reciting kind , i think he has always a decided
remaining events that marked elizabeth ' s reign .
you mean .
the expense of her support , and the obligation of her future provision .
with all that he had yet seen , and speaking of the latter with gentle but very intelligible gallantry .
lady middleton was not more than six or seven and twenty ; her face was handsome , her figure tall
he added , looking at her with an heightened colour and an enquiring eye , — " your particular intimacy—you
express authority of both your excellent parents , my proposals will not fail of being acceptable .
not come at christmas ; now we are going to have just the right weather for him , fine ,
as his daughter elizabeth .
a little fluttered by the idea of its being colonel fitzwilliam himself , who had once before called late in
her marriage , places her disappointment not to faults of judgment , or temper , or disproportion of age ,
were softened , must always be gratifying , he should make no apology for leading her on .
norris began their career of conjugal felicity with very little less than a thousand a year .
smallridge is intimate with both , and in the very same neighbourhood : —lives only four miles from maple grove
every mile , as it brought her nearer woodston , added to her sufferings , and when within the distance
sanguine views .
it must be sitting up so late last night .
s letter to randalls communicated a change of plan .
” “dear emma bears every thing so well , ” said her father .
other it was a continual repetition of , “oh no , that will never do !
like mrs musgrove , she was feeling , though not saying , that after being long in the country ,
“yours , etc .
he started , and having attentively examined my features , raised me from the ground and throwing his grand-fatherly arms
his mother must provide for him sometime or other ; but poor edward is so cast down by it !
late hay harvest , to hire a horse and cart ?
weston might be growing older ten years hence—to have his fireside enlivened by the sports and the nonsense , the
tell me what it is , explain the grounds on which you acted , and i shall be satisfied ,
bingley , is not he ?
his sisters were anxious for his having an estate of his own ; but , though he was now only
and , fortunately , what ought to be , and must be , seemed already beginning , and in the
his liberality had a rich repayment , and the general goodness of his intentions by her deserved it .
period of our lives ; but does not the lapse of one-and-twenty years bring our understandings a good deal nearer
" your sister , i hope , cannot be offended , " said he , " by the resemblance i
" do come now , " said he— " pray come—you must come—i declare you shall come—you can ' t
” “james , ” said mrs .
” “but she is so amusing , so extremely amusing !
then i begin dreaming of mr .
he intends to quit it in a few days , and to begin his route to italy .
" she explained the situation .
” “but , my dear papa , you are no friend to matrimony ; and therefore why should you be
the colonel and i swore to its ' being the right will , and sir thomas has been obliged to
if i could but see you as happy !
the perusal of—and , above all , which she might not blush herself , if henry should chance to see
but whatever might hitherto have been her defects of that sort , her mother could not but perceive them now
influence that way , no moral effect on the mind .
him the appearance of harshness , and deprived him of her early love ; and now , on really knowing
grounds ; when , in spots where the opening of the trees gave the eye power to wander , were
open , a long stretch of the road which they had travelled on first coming to barton , lay before
will give your mother-in-law a few hints , when this desirable event takes place , as to the advantage of
the general ' s utmost anger could not be to herself what it might be to a daughter ; and
elton ' s looks also received the due share of censure .
morland endeavoured to impress on her daughter ' s mind the happiness of having such steady well-wishers as mr .
' ' sixty , ' said i , ' or perhaps sixty-two .
but while the imaginations of other people will carry them away to form wrong judgments of our conduct , and
at first , while i supposed you satisfied that colonel campbell was the giver , i saw it only as
very pretty .
she made her plan ; she would speak of something totally different—the children in brunswick square ; and she only
miss ward , at the end of half a dozen years , found herself obliged to be attached to the
devoted h .
very well that if i could think of one man more than another—he is not the person .
their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above mentioned ; and while mr .
with a heart pierced , wounded , almost broken !
; she , in some little distress ; and he , finding every thing perfect .
i should have been much surprised and much hurt by such a proceeding .
stepping aside to say something agreeable of fanny .
” “then it would not be so strong a sense .
in a very few minutes she reappeared , having scarcely allowed the two others time enough to get through a
pleasanter demands upon your time .
what is going on ?
himself , observed that he need not inquire , for her appearance spoke sufficiently on that point .
it must be impossible for them to sanction the engagement .
he thinks marianne ' s affection too deeply rooted for any change in it under a great length of time
fit to be got into , and now it is ten thousand to one but they break down before we
my dear admiral , that post !
it is not a state to be safely entered into with doubtful feelings , with half a heart .
younger brother to rest ?
yes , i am quite aware of that .
—that was the worst of all .
heroic about her , should prefer cricket , baseball , riding on horseback , and running about the country at
how much you must have gone through !
but of his minuter propensities , as you call them you have from peculiar circumstances been kept more ignorant than
, of wandering from place to place in free and luxurious solitude , she resolved to spend almost every hour
her aunt asked her , smilingly , how she liked it .
gathering strawberries the stooping—glaring sun—tired to death—could bear it no longer—must go and sit in the shade .
sir thomas listened most politely , but found much to offend his ideas of decorum , and confirm his ill-opinion
management of a high-fed hunter in an english fox-chase ; nor till he returned safe and well , without accident
almost excluded from society .
when they had been all walking together , he had so often come and walked by her , and talked
a few days , was probably as great an object of her curiosity as all the celebrated beauties of matlock
its length .
he was now the mr .
goddard in a moment , if you wish it .
fortunately , however , it did cease .
of the only possible alleviation of her wretchedness , the personal sympathy of her mother , and doomed her to
consoled !
am with all that is wonderful in a perseverance of this sort against discouragement .
“part of my lace is gone , ” said she , “and i do not know how i am to
the disclosure , however , of the great secret of james ' s going to fullerton the day before ,
with whom she has scarcely ever exchanged two words before !
there was no longer anything of tenderness due to him .
—emma ' s remark was— “there it is .
fraser , by a first wife , whom she is wild to get married , and wants henry to take
my brother , and disliked new acquaintance , it was not unnatural[ _num_ ] for me to be very often
—i , who may so soon have to guard others !
" " last night , in drury lane lobby , i ran against sir john middleton , and when he
unable of course to repress your curiosity in so favourable a moment for indulging it , you will instantly arise
" [ _num_ ] marianne had been two or three days at home , before the weather was fine enough
such a pleasure to her—a letter from jane—that she can never hear it often enough ; so i knew it
there being something to conceal .
jane actually on the point of going as governess !
jennings , laughing heartily ; " for he is one of the modestest , prettiest behaved young men i ever
weston and their son , miss bates and her niece , who had accidentally met .
i hope you will be pleased with my son ; but you must not expect a prodigy .
" " there is no hurry on my side .
open either .
she was going to remove what she really believed to be her sister ' s chief consolation , —to give
“on the subject of my last , i had actually begun a letter when called away by tom ' s
after talking a little more about mansfield , a subject in which her interest was most apparent , crawford began
for the following tuesday .
could she have believed herself not in the way , and could she have foreseen that the weather would certainly
they saw much to interest , but nothing to justify inquiry .
you have hit upon the very thing to please me .
in re-settling themselves there were now many changes , the result of which was favourable for her .
do you think they will settle in ?
” “yes—i have called there ; passing the door , i thought it better .
i will tell you why she is out of spirits .
conversation with reginald .
at the same time , however , it was a secret gratification to herself to have seen her cousin ,
, there was no one whose knowledge of a sister’s frailty would have mortified her so much—not , however ,
anne elliot , and to be preferred by her to her own family connections among the nobility of england and
we all know him to be a proud , unpleasant sort of man ; but this would be nothing if
besides , i cannot but suppose that whatever there may be to wish otherwise in dr .
ungenteel to be curious .
she felt that mrs musgrove and all her party ought to be asked to dine with them ; but she
amusement as desirable for everybody .
bless you !
he looked rather doubtingly—rather confused ; said something about “honour , ”—glanced at emma and at harriet , and then
woodhouse ' s peculiarities and fidgetiness were sometimes provoking him to a rational remonstrance or sharp retort equally ill-bestowed .
can you , in short , be prevailed on to quit this scene of public triumph and oblige your friend
former zeal , and thinking she could never do enough for one who seemed so much to want her .
when the contents of the letter were ascertained , john thorpe , who had only waited its arrival to begin
and some exaggeration , the shocking rudeness of mr .
suckling , in income .
what john had expressed .
i know not why she should choose to make herself and her family uneasy by apprehending an event which no
the terror which the woman and boy had been creating in harriet was then their own portion .
at present i will not say more ; but , perhaps , when we are better acquainted—” he was interrupted
the letter i am looking for was one written by mr elliot to him before our marriage , and happened
—consider how many of my dearest friends are now in brunswick square .
—where go i ?
anger .
frank churchill , in my opinion , as his father thinks .
crawford , as she accidentally did , coming up to the house again , and at an hour as early
for it .
at times , that he could get away , or introduce an acquaintance for a night .
“you must write to me , catherine , ” she cried ; “you must let me hear from you as
spared till after the _num_ th , for we have a party that evening .
in beauty of her own , she thoroughly enjoyed the power of being proud of her sister ' s .
though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing him , i cannot believe that ten thousand pounds , or
months later would be a much better plan ; better time of year ; better weather ; and that he
i was .
, amongst the many perfections of the family , a fondness for plays was not to be ranked ; but
often to miss watson’s as they did when they first came ; she sees them now very often standing in
who knows , or who cares , for her ?
i am sure you must have heard of her before .
well , now i have just given you a hint of what jane writes about , we will turn to
i do not believe isabella has any fortune at all : but that will not signify in your family .
by her on the delicacies of a strong sensibility , and the graces of a polished manner .
this is all in confirmation , rather , of what we used to hear and believe .
the advantage of his having to come only to uppercross , instead of going six miles another way ; of
the muffin last night—if it had been handed round once , i think it would have been enough .
” her voice faltered , and her eyes were turned to the ground as she mentioned his name .
both of spirits and hand— “i am very much obliged to you , my dear miss crawford , for your
jennings very plainly heard elinor say , and with a voice which showed her to feel what she said— "
rousing himself from a reverie at least equally painful , started up in preparation for going , and said— "
also her concern and surprise , began to inquire into miss thorpe ' s connections and fortune .
what i felt on hearing that your sister was dying , and dying too , believing me the greatest villain
pleased , if we had refused to join them .
be more of a gentleman than usual .
he would certainly think better of me , if under such a circumstance i were to give a flat denial
, feeling , moreover , his own replies , and his own remarks to have been very much to the
, now at another of the beloved circle ; but the pause was not long : in the elation of
are all to move southward without loss of time .
darcy walk into the room .
it was now her darling object .
” indeed my love (said i) you must be mistaken—for it is absolutely impossible that he should ever have left
it was forwarded to me from delaford , and i received it on the very morning of our intended party
their departure made another material change at mansfield , a chasm which required some time to fill up .
in the course of this morning ' s reflections , she came to a resolution of making her next attempt
she might have prevented the indulgence and increase of such sentiments .
and nothing should induce her to enter into any engagement at present—and so she told mrs .
weston would never marry again .
pray excuse me ; but supposing any little inconvenience may be apprehended from the intimacy , it cannot be expected
she was to accompany sir william and his second daughter .
goddard ' s , and that the intelligence would undoubtedly rush upon her without preparation .
price ' s manners were also at their best .
answered , " oh !
sir thomas sent friendly advice and professions , lady bertram dispatched money and baby-linen , and mrs .
weston joined them , and on hearing what was proposed , gave it his decided approbation .
the horror of the moment to all who stood around !
edmund would begin with miss crawford ; and the impression was so strong , that though her uncle spoke the
she has been gone longer already than she intended .
“her daughters were very much confined ; portsmouth was a sad place ; they did not often get out ;
bates , mrs .
he had , by that time , realised an easy competence—enough to secure the purchase of a little estate adjoining
loved to be inquired after) , as well as miss smith , were coming in during the rest of the
, united by mutual affection , it would appear that their dispositions were as exactly fitted to make them blessed
s kindness had then occasioned , made her hardly know how to support herself .
yes , perhaps , it had been mr elliot .
another , are sufficient proofs .
she soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding to the efforts of his aunt , who
grant and the crawfords were engaged to return for that purpose as soon as they could after dinner ; and
secrecy may be advisable ; but still i cannot help wondering at its being practiced by him .
he had a comfortable home for her , and emma imagined a very sufficient income ; for though the vicarage
to longbourn , and during the walk he particularly attended to her .
" other great and inevitable expenses too we have had on first coming to norland .
after all his objections—objections so just and so public !
you forget yourself—you take me for my friend—any message to miss smith i shall be happy to deliver ; but
“but they , ” he observed to fanny , “have a claim .
rushworth ' s account , because he had taken the opportunity , as he walked with her through the hall
" " you know her disposition , and may believe how eagerly she would still justify him if she could
not much more affected than he found them .
i was reading it to mrs .
to us , brother , i do not know what we shall do .
" the remaining five were now to draw their cards .
: a beautiful glossy nut , which , blessed with original strength , has outlived all the storms of autumn
so would poor little harriet .
one may be continually abusive without saying anything just ; but one cannot always be laughing at a man without
had spent half an hour with his sister the evening before his leaving london ; that she had sent her
and she has some true friends in it !
” for a moment or two nothing was said , and she was unsuspicious of having excited any particular interest
she is very pretty , though not so handsome as her mother , nor at all like her .
what do you think of my gig , miss morland ?
hurst had a house .
consequence ; and being very handsome , and very like himself , her influence had always been great , and
say he will be a discreeter man all his life , for the foolishness of his first choice .
chapter _num_ a very few days more , and captain wentworth was known to be at kellynch , and mr
my father and mother believe the worst , but i cannot think so ill of him .
” “it is as long again as almost all we have had before .
their voices had been oftenest joined , and sat at the instrument gazing on every line of music that he
how shall i bear it ?
through the church-yard , and resolutely turning away her eyes , that she might not be obliged to see her
, all that you have heard him to be , and as you will be such very near neighbours (for
what can have induced him to behave so cruelly ?
these powers received due admiration from catherine , to whom they were entirely new ; and the respect which they
he desires me to tell you that the present open weather induces him to accept mr .
" anne , finding she might decline it , did so , very gratefully .
the secret earlier .
compared with you , who has a right to be happy ?
would not have had you by for the world .
it was rather small , but well built and convenient ; and everything was fitted up and arranged with a
this is just what perry said .
i only want to know that mr .
i cannot but think of dear sir thomas ' s delight .
knightley would soon be over .
—she must have had much more to contend with , in carrying on the correspondence , than he could .
of a frost .
” elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was the case , and with equal
captain harville was no reader ; but he had contrived excellent accommodations , and fashioned very pretty shelves , for
and her niece , made his way directly to the opposite side of the circle , where sat miss woodhouse
to have destroyed long ago—what i ought never to have kept—i know that very well (blushing as she spoke) .
c .
pulling about !
she was shown into the breakfast-parlour , where all but jane were assembled , and where her appearance created a
, she felt dreadfully guilty .
—john and isabella , and every other friend , were agreed in approving it .
dashwood first spoke .
" writing to each other , " said lucy , returning the letter into her pocket , " is the
he was doing all in his power to quiet everything , with the hope of mrs .
but that he was for ever inconsolable , that he fled from society , or contracted an habitual gloom of
and she could not but pity them .
some time [ _num_ ]i was even determined not to call in berkeley street ; but at last , judging
done in rapid moments) captain benwick had resigned the poor corpse-like figure entirely to the brother ' s care ,
health .
" i am sure lady russell would like him .
be liable to any such misuse , when a knock at the door suspended everything .
” “i assure you she did .
pleasant surprise to herself .
quite longed to shew her .
—the intention , however , was indubitable ; and whether it was that his manners had in general so little
she was not sorry for the excuse .
we shall live within a few miles of each other , and shall meet every day of our lives .
of each other seemed to make their happiness certain—and they only wanted something to live upon .
knightley , always so kind , so feeling , so truly considerate for every body , would never deserve to
simple and common expedient , of asking what he meant ?
miss woodhouse , must you be going ?
situation not unpleasant .
are very pretty , and that one of them is going to be married to mr .
as her successor in that house , she regarded her with jealous abhorrence .
was inevitable .
” “compared with some families , i believe we were ; but such of us as wished to learn never
jennings therefore attending her up stairs into the sick chamber , to satisfy herself that all continued right , left
, except netherfield .
be mistaken .
i have already met with such success in two applications for pardon , that i may be in danger of
weston had walked in .
suckling nor me had ever any patience with them ; and we used sometimes to say very cutting things !
captain harville had taken his present house for half a year ; his taste , and his health , and
occasion for entailing estates from the female line .
“what an ample subject for reflection on the uncertain enjoyments of this world , would not that phaeton and the
—such thorough worthy people !
it is a handsome equipage , and no doubt is well known to convey a miss elliot .
i walk : i prefer walking .
” they were interrupted .
fortunately missed , pursued , and overtaken .
that fanny could not help modestly presuming that her mother meant to part with her when her year was up
you have shewn yourself very , very different from anything that i had imagined .
opinion had always been .
they heard her with surprise .
edmund , william , and fanny did , in their different ways , look and speak as much grateful pleasure
” “i dare say , ” replied mrs .
it had no park , but the pleasure-grounds were tolerably extensive ; and like every other place of the same
“for you would be more likely to disconcert me , and i should be more sorry to see you trying
some comfort ; and now was the time for a heroine , who had not yet played a very distinguished
it was impossible to banish the letter from her thoughts , and she could not relieve herself by speaking of
" " yes , " he replied gravely , " once i have .
he was on one side of her mother .
” full well could fanny guess where his thoughts were now : miss crawford ' s power was all returning
she was happy , she knew she was happy , and knew she ought to be happy .
she would take place of me then , and henrietta would not dislike that .
jennings ' s speech , neither did she think it worth inquiring into ; and therefore only replied to its
” “i speak what appears to me the general opinion ; and where an opinion is general , it is
there goes a strange-looking woman !
sigh , were necessary to dispel the agitation of the idea .
it is frank churchill ' s duty to pay this attention to his father .
engagement , than she had been in the sacrifice of it ; and this , she fully believed , had
we were speaking the other day , you know , of his being so warm an admirer of her performance
” said her ladyship .
how different to your brother and to mine !
charlotte did not stay much longer , and elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard .
in the warmth of true contrition , she would call upon her the very next morning , and it should
of the evils they were exposing themselves to .
dashwood , like her daughter , heard willoughby ' s story from himself , —had she witnessed his distress ,
of fancying so many errors , have been in love with you ever since you were thirteen at least .
who at present lived with him , and to whom she even forced lady bertram to go through ten miles
the vicissitudes of the human mind had not yet been exhausted by her .
, " and this is all ?
frost and snow upon beds of stones , it was worse than anything you can imagine , i was quite
“no (says the disagreable woman) i have once in my life been fool enough to travel i dont know how
and never parted with it again from that moment .
the resemblance between her and her mother was strikingly great .
crawford was engaged to return and dine there that very day .
it will certainly be much the best way .
—he took her hand ; —whether she had not herself made the first motion , she could not say—she might
and last summer she went with the lady who presided over it , to ramsgate ; and thither also went
sir thomas was satisfied ; too glad to be satisfied , perhaps , to urge the matter quite so far
they are jealous even of his regard for his father .
were to go , as well as your husband .
the surprise of finding himself almost alone with anne elliot , deprived his manners of their usual composure : he
ferrars is married .
very soon joined by a brother lounger of mr .
bridgets—starched up into seeming piety , but with heads full of something very different—especially if the poor chaplain were not
" here marianne , in an ecstasy of indignation , clapped her hands together , and cried , " gracious
it inspired little more than an animating curiosity .
—we shall be always meeting !
" your sister , " said he , with abruptness , a moment afterwards— " is out of danger .
the advantage of much sleep to prepare them for their journey was impossible .
—poor mrs .
thirteen , bid fair to equal her sisters at a more advanced period of life .
she now found , that in spite of herself , she had always admitted a hope , while edward remained
and given mr shepherd , in his explicit account of himself , every proof of his being a most responsible
” “now , kitty , you may cough as much as you choose , ” said mr .
, with a happy glance round the room , that after all she had gone through , nothing was so
” “but how can you think of such a thing , after what the general said ?
; for his wish at present was to have as little trouble in the business as possible .
it , which put me so exactly in mind !
henry tilney at least was not .
blue satin have seen what was going on , have been conscious of such an overthrow of all order and
” and so saying , she walked hastily out of the room , leaving awkward feelings to more than one
into a woman , and he supposed would be wanting a husband soon , seemed very much inclined to forget
who could be happier than miss price ?
norris was still in the house , there seemed little danger of her being wanted .
norris ' s more numerous words and louder tone convinced her of the truth .
more substantial , in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading .
, and after a moment ' s silence , said— " oh , edward !
diabolical motive you may have imputed to me .
literature and taste ; and , upon the whole , i venture to pronounce that his mind is well-informed ,
elton certainly did not very well know what to say .
“indeed i will .
, for otherwise it would be very wrong to say any thing about it , —but i have it from
by one or the other to remove their embarrassments and reduce their expenditure , without involving the loss of any
when marianne was recovered , the schemes of amusement at home and abroad , which sir john had been previously
much beside .
laurina an italian opera girl .
, i can suppose that she might bring herself to submit to the offices of a nurse , for the
willoughby had spent the preceding evening with them , and margaret , by being left some time in the parlour
my father would be well pleased if the gentlemen were richer , but he has no other fault to find
enough to detract something from their first admiration , by showing that , though perfectly well-bred , she was reserved
my sending it .
i believe mrs charles is not quite pleased with my not inviting them oftener ; but you know it is
in my opinion , these crawfords are no addition at all .
” chapter xii one thing only was wanting to make the prospect of the ball completely satisfactory to emma—its being
he scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper ; and before he went away , an engagement was formed ,
allen ' s admiration of his gig ; and then receiving her friend ' s parting good wishes , they
for those to whom she went ; first , in the appearance of her carriage—and secondly , in herself .
of a kind to give her neither spirits nor language .
the landed property of hartfield certainly was inconsiderable , being but a sort of notch in the donwell abbey estate
, he had to tell what every field was to bear next year , and to give all such local
anne , satisfied at a very early period of lady russell ' s meaning to love captain wentworth as she
been given her .
, of most gentlemanlike appearance , walking with another officer on the other side of the way .
a man ' s looks to the natural effect of time .
” catherine was still unconvinced ; but glad that anne should have the friendship of an emily and a sophia
to her the conference closed as satisfactorily as to him .
” “we shall often meet , i hope , in hertfordshire .
town ; but nothing would have induced fanny voluntarily to mention his name before her , till able to tell
to the more heroic enjoyments of infancy , nursing a dormouse , feeding a canary-bird , or watering a rose-bush
, in sacrificing such a situation , plunging into such difficulties , under the idea of being really loved by
" yes , " said he , " very true ; here we separate , but harville and i shall
but it ended in nothing , and i will not be sent on a fool’s errand again .
south end .
weston and i were quite agreed in thinking it very like)—only too handsome—too flattering—but that was a fault on the
her perceptions and her pleasures were of the keenest sort .
into brock street , when he had overtaken them , and were at home by this time .
did not i see them together in devonshire every day , and all day long ; and did not i
peace , and shewed his feelings only by a determined gravity .
rushworth ' s house became crawford ' s object , she had had the merit of withdrawing herself from it
been made for him .
time originally fixed .
pointed dislike , make it so delightfully absurd !
grant came in .
after welcoming their sisters , they triumphantly displayed a table set out with such cold meat as an inn larder
; charlotte tried to console her : “i dare say you will find him very agreeable .
mrs clay ' s selfishness was not so complicate nor so revolting as his ; and anne would have compounded
" you will stay , i am sure ; you will stay and nurse her ; " cried he ,
the second day ' s trial was not so guiltless .
destroy my comfort .
he took his eldest son with him , in the hope of detaching him from some bad connexions at home
i have not lost a moment , however .
was perfectly aware that none would be felt , and that in whatever cottage aunt norris might chuse to establish
comfort , and endeavour to prove her own affection in some better method than by match-making .
bingley’s continued absence .
come , come , this won ' t do , colonel ; so let us hear the truth of it
make on the subject , to your entire satisfaction .
thing in the world .
a bustle .
absurdity , of scrupling to engage my faith where my honour was already bound .
but i had ten thousand times rather have been with you ; now had not i , mrs .
, as it confessedly had been for determining on any alteration .
my affection .
of tranquility at barton might do towards restoring marianne ' s peace of mind , and confirming her own .
you will find me as good as my word .
one should be a brute not to feel for the distress they are in ; and from what i hear
lady middleton , though in the middle of a rubber , on being informed that marianne was unwell , was
i hope he will overlook it .
the engagement , to bear that she should have been in such a state of punishment .
half hour ' s discourse with himself .
” she had soon afterwards reason to believe that the beginning was already made , and could not but hope
" chapter _num_ who can be in doubt of what followed ?
she did not know what to do , or what to think .
and laughed till i did not know which way to look .
, she turned into the parlour to fulfill her parting injunction .
rushworth had no difficulty in procuring a divorce ; and so ended a marriage contracted under such circumstances as to
he thought we walked towards randalls most days .
the world ; had offended all the farmers , all the labourers , all the hay in the parish !
who did live amongst us once ; she told me so herself : sister to the gentleman who lived a
say no more against it , i entreat you .
sir thomas found it expedient to go to antigua himself , for the better arrangement of his affairs , and
, be preferred ; and , indeed , his being the eldest was another strong claim .
no doubt it had been from jealousy .
he might not have sense enough himself to estimate your kindness , but i may venture to say that it
one of the times when they were trying not to embrace , and mr .
, her good fortune seemed complete , for upon trial the one given her by miss crawford would by no
find that he had already been frequently seen by miss lucas and herself .
eagerly felt her pulse .
“but you need not imagine mr .
i mean to make my profit of mrs wallis , however .
and below them ; and in the centre , a small door , closed also with a lock and key
a very gracious invitation was returned , and the evening no longer dreaded by the fair mistress of the mansion
a brother to have done it himself ; but mr .
disappointed of what was to have been the consolation for her first disappointment , she was less and less disposed
—my dear mr .
unjust thing of any woman at all , or an unkind one of me .
contribute to obliterate from his remembrance , those disagreable events , which have lately so much afflicted him—i am happy
knightley loudly and warmly ; and with calmer asperity , added , a few moments afterwards , “no , he
to enter a state for which she held her to be peculiarly fitted by her warm affections and domestic habits
not merely from the presence of such a mistress , but the visits of her uncle and aunt from the
“i am sure there is not on his .
and the cross , and the ball , and herself , as to be finally successful .
pretty charade , and we have just copied it in .
in respectability of character , there can be no doubt that they are .
she reprobated her brother ' s folly in being drawn on by a woman whom he had never cared for
” (said he with a saucy smile .
any danger of coming back prodigies .
anne felt that she did not belong to the conversation , and yet , as captain harville seemed thoughtful and
uncle believe them to be .
motive of goodwill .
my cousin is grown up .
elizabeth , requiring no partner in his pleasure .
promising to be with them the whole of the following morning , therefore , she closed the fatigues of the
voluntary notice which this brother bestowed ; but he made no objection to her kissing him , though still entirely
a girl of fifteen !
" " i have not the smallest objection on that account , " replied anne .
he was well , but so much engaged with mr .
the first time of my ever seeing him in hertfordshire , you must know , was at a ball—and at
” during their walk , it was resolved that mr .
jennings ' s entrance , escaped with the precious card .
he is totally beyond the reach of any sentiment of justice or compassion .
i could not see him and my eldest sister in the same room without recollecting what you once told me
unreasonable if he did .
” this critique , the justness of which was unfortunately lost on poor catherine , brought them to the door
seriously , and , after steady reflection , thus— “very bad—though it might have been worse .
so far it is very true .
, in an acute mind and assiduous pleasing manners , infinitely more dangerous attractions than any merely personal might have
i could not trace her beyond her first seducer , and there was every reason to fear that she had
" " ay , that we shall .
" yes ; it is in two points offensive to me ; i have two strong grounds of objection to
, you could have little idea of his being eventually one of those most concerned in her recovery .
—no rain at all .
i have a great idea that you do not design to be cruel , when the right moment occurs .
; and though he belonged to one of the universities , he had merely kept the necessary terms , without
” “northanger is not more than half my home ; i have an establishment at my own house in woodston
that james will take you very safely .
chapter xxix the ball was over , and the breakfast was soon over too ; the last kiss was given
have had no necessary business to engage me , no profession to give me employment , or afford me any
yes , i understand the sort of mind .
like of your acquaintance with her .
and depression , to hours of occupation and enjoyment .
—i wish our opinions were the same .
" " no , " said he , " i never said any thing so irrational .
crawford ' s note to william had worn away , she had been in a state absolutely the reverse ;
in question could sit down instead—never seemed to like to hear one if he could hear the other .
saw her lay her aching head on the pillow , and as she hoped , in a way to get
she felt that jane’s feelings , though fervent , were little displayed , and that there was a constant complacency
to see him , and have so much to say , for half an hour was almost gone since his
darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing their wish of seeing mr .
my life were what i spent with her when i felt my intentions were strictly honourable , and my feelings
if you will have such ideas !
the greatest kindness you can shew me , will be to let me have my own way , and only
" you are a good soul , " cried captain harville , putting his hand on her arm , quite
i have avoided all general flirtation whatever ; i have distinguished no creature besides , of all the numbers resorting
jennings no language , within her reach[ _num_ ] in her moments of happiest eloquence , could have expressed ;
“i know my father as well as you do ; and i ' ll take care that his daughters do
, had expected singing ; and in short , must confess that he should not be sorry when it was
" it was nearly three years after this unhappy period before i returned to england .
, the sight of every thing which had given her so much pleasure the autumn before , was beginning to
” “i never saw such a woman .
” “and what is your success ?
hers hereafter .
in the hope of diverting her father ' s thoughts from the disagreeableness of mr .
” “no , not now , i thank you .
desire of having his own way , many cunning tricks , and a great deal of noise , as to
—harriet was most happy to give every particular of the evening at astley ' s , and the dinner the
hurst thought the same , and added : “she has nothing , in short , to recommend her , but
can either of us be more meetly employed ?
him , was no longer nobody .
his wife was elizabeth woodville , a widow who , poor woman !
” “poor rushworth and his two-and-forty speeches !
bingley , ” said her mother , “i beg you will come here , and shoot as many as you
invitation should be accepted ; and though fanny would not venture , even on his encouragement , to such a
her as long as she remained single , was highly agreeable ; and her chief anxiety was lest mansfield should
good an example as i now do in answering it before the end of the week— .
" " what did you hear ?
bingley’s carriage immediately , and at length it was settled that their original design of leaving netherfield that morning should
both insufferable .
darcy for herself , she would have ordered her wedding clothes .
fatigue .
, to speak to him , at michaelmas !
was glad to remain behind and gain a little breathing-time .
at length he so greatly provoked the gentle sweetness of her nature , as to induce her to revenge herself
norris began to look about her , and wonder that his falling in love with julia had come to nothing
tolerable !
observance of decorum as might warrant any man in the fullest dependence on her faith and integrity , he expressed
if it be not inconvenient to you , pray let us go in , that i may prove myself to
they were ignorant , idle , and vain .
by edmund , brought a pang with it , for it was miss crawford to whom she was obliged—it was
as they entered argyle buildings , however , she was roused by this address from her companion , “who is
elinor , too , was deeply afflicted ; but still she could struggle , she could exert herself .
weston a great deal of pleasure .
after a few minutes of entire silence between them , john knightley began with— “i never in my life saw
—the fact was , as emma could now acknowledge , that harriet had always liked robert martin ; and that
the same evening to astley ' s .
of edward and herself , that the shock might be less when the whole truth were revealed , and now
“i have not the smallest objection to explaining them , ” said he , as soon as she allowed him
" " but it rains .
it was all beyond belief !
began to lament my cruel destiny in the bitterest and most pathetic manner .
shall have a puppy .
" sir henry russell ' s widow , indeed , has no honours to distinguish her arms , but still
only give me a carte-blanche .
i am sure his sisters , rating him as they do , must have thought it so , supposing he
she continued by the side of her sister , with little intermission the whole afternoon , calming every fear ,
luckily the visit happened in the christmas holidays , when she could directly look for comfort to her cousin edmund
considerable aspect and premises of the great house , about a quarter of a mile farther on .
for her own sake she could not be rude ; and for harriet ' s , in the hope that
had it been allowable entertainment , had there been no pain to her friend , or reproach to herself ,
hazle eyes excepted , two years more might make her all that he wished .
the trouble and expense of it to them would be nothing , compared with the benevolence of the action .
a very few to-morrows stood between the young people of highbury and happiness .
she had already acknowledged it to herself , and she could not think differently , let him think of her
not long afterwards found a more willing mind in her younger sister ; and lady russell had lamented her refusal
sigh , expired— .
and it may be a very fortunate circumstance for him , for frank , i mean , that he should
well , i am much mistaken if his lovely maria will ever want him to make two-and-forty speeches to her”
however , the very same evening william larkins came over with a large basket of apples , the same sort
knightley ' no ; ' and miss bates and i that he is just the happy medium .
their being really married ?
a beautiful object .
“and of this place , ” thought she , “i might have been mistress !
passion to put aside , in my own case ; the want of connection could not be so great an
now were without material inconvenience ; but his attachment to that neighbourhood did not depend upon one amusement or one
to the person we are speaking of , as it might be natural for a woman to feel in confessing
great injury , but knew not where ; but now the collar-bone was soon replaced , and though mr robinson
churchill had made a point of it , as a token of respect to the wife he had so very
not be uneasy .
they are excellent neighbours to you in the country , i understand .
jennings (as she had of late often hoped might be the case) had ceased to imagine her at all attached
but do not despair ; perhaps you may get a hop before the evening is over .
moment ' s glance at her sister when they returned was enough to inform her , that willoughby had paid
up in the reflection of her own change of feelings and spirits since last she had trodden that well-known road
if she can hesitate as to ' yes , ' she ought to say ' no ' directly .
" i find , " he continued , his confusion increasing as he spoke , " that i have been
—have you got any thing fresh ?
—pleasant rides ?
dixon .
well , you will have opportunities enough of endeavouring to recommend yourself , for we are a great deal together
elton ' s—a neighbour of maple grove ; and , by the bye , i wonder how mrs .
i have such innumerable presents from him that it is quite impossible for me to value or for him to
steadiness in concealing its cause , filled the mind , and raised the wonder of mrs .
suffer .
ever .
she merely said , in the course of some trivial chat , “well , harriet , whenever you marry i
such as it is , however , my pleasure in presenting him to it , will be very great .
no ; she showed me over the greatest part on saturday—and we were coming here to these rooms—but only”—dropping her
just before it , and be exceedingly pretty .
allowance , because they would only enlarge their style of living if they felt sure of a larger income ,
” “she was very kind , indeed , and i am glad to have her spared” .
anxiety and hope now oppressed her in equal degrees , and left her no moment of tranquillity till the arrival
in that corner , however , it is at least out of the way .
wickham , undoubtedly by design ; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him and mrs .
from your house the second time .
” “but now really—are there towers and long galleries ?
dress for her : sir thomas gave orders , and mrs .
we must rather adopt mr .
i wonder where that boat was built !
seeking a support for your wife in the generosity of sir edward .
occurred to her at the moment as calculated to rouse and fortify the mind by the highest precepts , and
a nice old-fashioned place , full of comforts and conveniences ; quite shut in with great garden walls that are
darcy is engaged to my daughter .
” “nay , my sweetest catherine , this is being quite absurd !
he had ridden home through the rain ; and had walked up directly after dinner , to see how this
dashwood , from foreseeing at first as a probable event , had brought herself to expect as a certain one
there were not merely no grammatical errors , but as a composition it would not have disgraced a gentleman ;
fanny ' s thoughts were now all engrossed by the two who had left her so long ago , and
she doted on him .
—yes .
” “in nursing your sister i am sure you have pleasure , ” said bingley ; “and i hope it
“i have spent four days in the same house with him , and i think him very disagreeable .
the rocks and mountains , as if they were not to be upset the next moment , which they certainly
, from her age and disposition , greater steadiness than most first attachments often boast ; and so fervently did
elevate her with the hope of influencing his felicity ; sensible that if such an idea had been suggested ,
she had only meant to oppose the too common idea of spirit and gentleness being incompatible with each other ,
knightley coolly , and resuming the letter .
but , mary , do not fancy that maria bertram cares for henry .
she would not betray her trust , i suppose , without bribery and corruption , for she really did know
it is not every body that would have stood out in such a kind way as she did , and
my heart misgave me instantly .
that they were false , the general had learnt from the very person who had suggested them , from thorpe
to be more fully agitated , and mrs .
good qualities .
found amiss ; though its being " so entirely out of season , " and the " no thoroughfare of
you say , she had made up her mind to close with nothing till colonel campbell ' s return ,
chosen that happiness should depend .
”—but mrs .
to play well : —a man , a very musical man , and in love with another woman—engaged to her—on
elton was proving himself , in many respects , the very reverse of what she had meant and believed him
received the same compliment .
but it was a hope shortly checked by other considerations , and she soon felt that even her vanity was
she retreated from the window , fearful of being seen ; and as she walked up and down the room
grant and miss crawford came in .
how very provoking !
isabel letter _num_ nd laura to isabel altho ' i cannot agree with you in supposing that i shall never
lady russell could not hear the door-bell without feeling that it might be his herald ; nor could anne return
no , no , henry must have donwell .
when he talked , she heard the same voice , and discerned the same mind .
he was so busy the last time he was at kingston that he quite forgot it , but he goes
anywhere , so that jane is not in a draught .
addressed them on the occasion with rather an injudicious particularity .
cole does not want to be wiser or wittier than his neighbours .
you see how it has carried away her freckles .
it was a good spot for fault-finding .
it would be a great pleasure to know robert martin .
now , you and i and dr .
years ago , the larger number , to judge by their performance , must have thought reading was reading ,
” emma made no answer , and tried to look cheerfully unconcerned , but was really feeling uncomfortable and wanting
but it is all—all too late now .
” “a famous thing for his next heirs .
that ' s the worst of him .
said to have a finer face than her ladyship , and yet what with the charms of a blooming complexion
before his return mrs .
i understand the parsonage is almost close to the mansion-house , ) it is particularly important that he should be
the netting-box , just leisurely drawn forth , was closed with joyful haste , and she was ready to attend
to be pitied , ” were the kind responses of listening sympathy .
yours sincerely .
when i am quite determined as to the time , i am not at all afraid of being long unemployed
were great to a high worldly establishment ?
" —he cried , after hearing what she said— " what could be the colonel ' s motive ?
weston ' s to receive them .
day was settled too .
but this must be learned to be endured .
you know ?
rent a ready-furnished house of that consequence might fetch ; should not have been surprised if sir walter had asked
i would not have been out of the way for a thousand pounds .
bennet were dead .
qualifications .
elton looked all alarm on the occasion , as he exclaimed , “a sore-throat !
had cared for .
i wonder he does not marry , to secure a lasting convenience of that kind .
what was likely to be—it would be ungenerous , it would be really wrong to expose her to it .
her words a suspicious tendency .
you have proved your heart less wicked , much less wicked .
pass very pleasantly which would otherwise be spent in endeavouring to overcome my sister-in-law ' s reserve , and listening
” “my beauty you had early withstood , and as for my manners—my behaviour to you was at least always
it had cleared , but would be back again soon , and that the strictest injunctions had been left with
with them he is remarkably agreeable .
the history of jane fairfax .
she and her cousin will unite the two estates .
” “well , other people must judge for themselves , and those who go to london may think nothing of
known to you , elinor ?
; for charles musgrove was the eldest son of a man , whose landed property and general importance were second
that ' miss austen stands almost alone .
aim at more than the credit of projecting and arranging so expensive a charity ; though perhaps she might so
i dare say the lace upon mrs .
, “e .
, to leave to him all the trouble of seeking an explanation , and to enlighten him on the past
, and anne continuing fully sensible of his being less at ease than formerly .
but it cannot really happen to me .
jane was beyond competition her favourite child .
journey : “the day was fine , and he was anxious for her seeing as much of the country as
so many good neighbours and friends , and a home that wanted for nothing .
—well , i declare—” they walked off , followed in half a minute by mr .
darcy , after inquiring of her how mr .
“he could not flatter himself he added , that the adorable henrietta would condescend for his sake to resign those
“her uncle , she understood , meant to fetch her ; and as her cousin ' s illness had continued
, as she could not recover from , till enabled by the entrance of mary and the miss musgroves to
was long enough for the time his measured manner needed ; and very little of her state could be known
had known on first hearing of his death .
” “the all will soon be told , ” cried tom hastily , and with affected unconcern ; “but it
for a short time he sat deep in thought , after elinor had ceased to speak ; —at last ,
what she would engage to do towards augmenting their income was next to be considered ; and here it plainly
cannot have a proper way of thinking .
have done with .
he had imagined himself indifferent , when he had only been angry ; and he had been unjust to her
there must be some mistake of person or name .
i do not say so .
to dislike , a motive will never be wanting ; and as to money matters it has not withheld him
she gave the history of her recent visit , and now her raptures might well be over ; for edmund
if not quite so unseasonable , and accordingly she hurried down to welcome him .
each other ' s train for the dance , and were not to be divided in the set ; and
, was all set out and ready , and moved forwards to the fire , before she was aware .
to see the struggle between returning tenderness and the remains of displeasure .
—and you have never any odd humours , my dear .
elizabeth , after all the misery of the morning , found herself , in a shorter space of time than
bennet’s eyes sparkled .
" elinor blushed for the insincerity of edward ' s future wife , and replied , " this compliment would
elton , whether the uncertainty of our meetings , the sort of constant expectation there will be of his coming
emma ' s spirits were mounted quite up to happiness ; every thing wore a different air ; james and
to hint at the expediency of an early walk .
" " nothing remarkable .
we shall be most happy to consider you as one of the party .
“yes , mary , ” said he , drawing her arm within his , and walking along the sweep as
no change .
" i was simple enough to think , that because my faith was plighted to another , there could be
they met mr .
poor eleanor was absent , and at such a distance as to return only to see her mother in her
his inspection , by remaining unconscious of it all ; for she was as well able to collect her thoughts
your christian name .
wanted the means .
when you have the happiness of bestowing your sweet little catherine , some years hence , on a man who
my feelings in every respect forbid it .
i had no notion but he would go a-shooting , or something or other , and not disturb us with
i can safely say that he has never gave me one moment ' s alarm on that account from the
i grant you , that any of them but charles would be a very shocking match for henrietta , and
burst on her ; but still it must be talked of , she must make enquiries , she must regret
—she felt its inconsistency ; but mr .
instead of forgetting him , his behaviour was such that she could not avoid the internal suggestion of “can it
up her work again ; and julia , who was in high good-humour , from the pleasures of the day
she was sure sir thomas had never intended it : and she must say that , to be making such
affection , wherewith to pity her .
on his majesty ' s death he was succeeded by his son charles .
mainwaring ' s sister deprived an amiable girl of her lover .
the quiet , the retirement of such a life would have answered all my ideas of happiness !
or plea , or privilege , she must be wanting to assist and befriend her .
i shall not forget it in a hurry .
she has cousins here , you know , and many acquaintance , which would make it cheerful for her ,
you do not often overpower me with it .
but it was a black morning ' s work for her .
marianne , when called on for her ' s , offended them all , by declaring that she had no
at last jane began , and though the first bars were feebly given , the powers of the instrument were
i took up my residence in a romantic village in the highlands of scotland where i have ever since continued
you saw what she said .
angry as she was with edmund for adhering to his own notions , and acting on them in defiance of
dashwood , not less watchful of what passed than her daughter , but with a mind very differently influenced ,
" anne ' s shudderings were to herself alone ; but the miss musgroves could be as open as they
" " nothing , for you have anticipated my answer .
do for any one of the rest .
i hear the young man well spoken of ; and though no one can really deserve you , my dearest
know , they visit no newcomers .
contest , where victory itself was painful , and was heartily rejoiced therefore at neither seeing nor hearing anything of
though he felt and delighted in all the excellencies of her character and truly loved her society , i must
“this is not a very promising beginning , ” said mrs .
harriet listened , and emma drew in peace .
can you fail to have understood my wishes ?
hour of my marriage .
to visit him in a spunging-house , where he was confined for debt ; and there , in the same
do you know , she says she does not want to learn either music or drawing .
her want of education ; and till her last letter reached him , he had always believed her to be
i was so astonished when she first told me what she had been saying to mrs .
” “and are you altogether pleased with bath ?
had his visit lasted two hours , soon afterwards went away .
that i shall be so much more attached to my dear morland ' s family than to my own .
my dear alicia , —there needed not this last fit of the gout to make me detest mr .
, and a very material part of the scheme , which had been happily engrafted on the beginning .
; but it wants openness .
now what have you to say ?
i really wish you to call with me .
she speaks a little too quick .
you have learnt about mr .
very uncomfortable not having a carriage of one ' s own .
i thank you ; i have quite done , just done ; it will be ready in a moment ;
" elinor had given her real opinion to her sister .
that it would be of no use to teaze him .
me to repose in you , my confidence .
her anxiety on the subject made her press for an early visit to london ; and mr .
elinor was much more hurt by marianne ' s warmth than she had been by what produced it ; but
mansfield park .
] fancy to me .
jennings too , an exceedingly well-behaved woman , though not so elegant as her daughter .
room ; and even afterwards , so much were his spirits affected , she could distinguish nothing but these words
johnson , but now the extent of my aversion is not to be estimated .
at length there was a pause .
” not yet , however , in spite of her disappointment in her husband , did mrs .
separation from willoughby—in an immediate and irreconcilable rupture with him .
” elizabeth was surprised , but agreed to it immediately .
misconstrued , and as it must be equally desirable to both to have every subordinate arrangement concluded as soon as
just returned from her first excursion from home , was odd enough !
told them of it .
i do not know her , even by sight .
at such a distance as that , you know , things are strangely misrepresented .
happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance .
miss elliot .
next to being married , a girl likes to be crossed a little in love now and then .
built .
less contemptibly weak i certainly should : but i must own myself rather romantic in that respect , and that
his proposal for both your sakes .
with tolerable civility to the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make .
—“but , with common sense , ” she added , “i am afraid i have had little to do .
profession with a view of better support , she would do all in her power to prevent him advancing in
pleasure , would be soon made good .
high in the rank of her most serious and heartfelt felicities , was the reflection that all necessity of concealment
“shall you be at the cotillion ball tomorrow ?
bad thing ; and that it is much more advisable to mix in the world in a proper degree ,
crawford would have half the reason which my poor ill-used aunt had to abhor the very name , i would
" had not she better be carried to the inn ?
, ' i often say , ' rather you than i .
there was no want of discourse .
its chance .
at that instant she could not help exclaiming , " oh , elinor , it is willoughby , indeed it
” “indeed , mr .
as for lucy steele , she considered her so totally unamiable , so absolutely incapable of attaching a sensible man
it in the other room .
a widow mrs smith ; and who was her husband ?
well , i wish you a good journey .
ample cause .
brother-in-law of wickham !
but we never did .
but i could not reconcile it to myself to force frederica into a marriage from which her heart revolted ,
my charge would be much more concise than her ' s , and probably not much in the same spirit
i should not go , you may be sure , if i did not feel quite at ease about my
fanny was by this time crying so bitterly that , angry as he was , he would not press that
“it is not fair to urge her in this manner .
who can afford to marry without some attention to money .
supposed it to be possible that , when called into action , she would have sacrificed every better feeling to
you will not want to be talked to .
lady bertram had been telling her niece in the evening to write to her soon and often , and promising
expectation of the event .
louisa could not listen at all to his account of a conversation which he had just held with dr shirley
when my mother removes into another house my services shall be readily given to accommodate her as far as i
miss woodhouse , do talk to me and make me comfortable again .
sake that she attempted it .
in his joints—i must go and see him to-day ; and so will jane , i am sure , if
the gentleness , modesty , and sweetness of her character were warmly expatiated on ; that sweetness which makes so
going of both seemed regarded , and the ecstasy of susan herself , was all serving to support her spirits
catherine , at any rate , heard enough to feel that in suspecting general tilney of either murdering or shutting
weston—(laughing affectedly) i must protest against that .
” elizabeth thanked him from her heart , and then walked towards the table where a few books were lying
—and good mr .
his engagement .
” “did you ?
one meeting was unavoidable .
another long reach of gallery , when the general , coming forwards , called her hastily , and , as
the wisest and the best of men—nay , the wisest and best of their actions—may be rendered ridiculous by a
have attained it .
in the world as any other man .
a day or two might shew the difference .
i shall tell sir thomas that i am sure it was done that evening .
you are happy at portsmouth , i hope , but this must not be a yearly visit .
, could not , to the great detriment of the post office revenue , be continued any longer .
; and since julia ' s leaving them they had been met by the gardener , with whom she had
here is morland and i come to stay a few days with you , so you must look out for
you can , dismissing the recollection of everything unpleasant .
remarkable places through which their route thither lay ; oxford , blenheim , warwick , kenilworth , birmingham , etc
his own arch significance as he named her ; but yet it was captain wentworth not comfortable , not easy
but what was that , when such friends were to be met ?
it must not be , if by any fair interference of friendship , any representations from one who had almost
to the general , of course , he would not dare to speak ; but to eleanor—what might he not
in emma ' s eyes—and she listened to her and tried to console her with all her heart and understanding—really
” emma was a good deal surprized ; but begged her to speak .
at supper , and repeatedly fearing that he crowded his cousins , had more to say than he could well
finally settled , that had given them so many previous months of suspense and vexation .
” “yes , sir , on wednesday .
she had been wont with such pride of heart to feel and say , and this conclusion of it almost
hill began instantly to express her joy .
and sixteen , and tall of their age , had all the grandeur of men in the eyes of their
was now on the point of accomplishment , and her thoughts and her words ran wholly on those attendants of
—they must begin with some quickness of sight and hand , and exercise improves them .
a chair for me by herself wherever we are , and be all animation when i take it and talk
charles had been born since fanny ' s going away , but tom she had often helped to nurse ,
ever since monday .
the house must be turned to front the east instead of the north—the entrance and principal rooms , i mean
there can be no doubt of your being a gentleman ' s daughter , and you must support your claim
she must escape from him and mansfield as soon as possible , and find consolation in fortune and consequence ,
encouragement in my power .
it will be quite delightful !
perhaps he only pretended to call , for the sake of being travelling at the same time that you were
her sister , though comparatively but little removed by matrimony , being settled in london , only sixteen miles off
his warm regard , his kind expressions , his confidential treatment , touched her strongly .
grant , who was anxious to pay his respects to sir thomas , and at rather an early hour they
hurst and miss bingley both cried out against the injustice of her implied doubt , and were both protesting that
what she was kind enough to bestow on herself .
she was sure of a pleasant reception ; and her friend seemed this morning particularly obliged to her for coming
one five minutes brought a note , the next a parcel ; and anne had not been there half an
” she found something else must be done .
receive it on my judgment .
friend and securing her affection .
she was of strict integrity herself , with a delicate sense of honour ; but she was as desirous of
she has a great deal too much of the elliot pride .
everything that could be done for her .
” “as to the circumstances of her birth , though in a legal sense she may be called nobody ,
" all this , however , " he continued , " was urged in vain .
“but the face of any country however beautiful said i , can be but a poor consolation for the loss
the friends of her children were always welcome there , and entreating him to say not another word of the
but she had seen enough of him to join in all the admiration of the others , and with an
” “it was a subject which they could not mention before me .
she reached home without seeing anything more of the offended party ; and now that she had been triumphant throughout
; admired the graceful spirit of her walk , the fashionable air of her figure and dress ; and felt
” do you ride as much as you used to do ?
of pronouncing it , and in his addressing her sister by her christian name alone , she instantly saw an
colonel brandon rose up and went to them without knowing what he did .
she immediately drew back with a decided negative , he was not to be induced to sit down again .
the neglect had been visited on the head of the sinner ; for when poor lady elliot died herself ,
maria , wanting henry crawford ' s animating support , thought the subject better avoided .
credit for—and still am disposed to give her credit for , in spite of this one great deviation from the
i have a much greater respect for those that are honest and rich .
but your arts and allurements may , in a moment of infatuation , have made him forget what he owes
day abruptly , and very unexpectedly by them , asked the elder misses dashwood to accompany her .
she was seated in her mother ' s lap , covered with kisses , her wound bathed with lavender-water ,
no advice under such circumstances .
this circumstance was a growing attachment between her eldest girl and the brother of mrs .
her know it .
he had been apt to gain hearts too easily .
degree of importance , it had its open shrubbery , and closer wood walk , a road of smooth gravel
she hated herself more than she could express .
there will be work for five summers at least before the place is liveable .
lucy came very shortly to claim elinor ' s compassion on being unable to see edward , though he had
tell him i must see him again—must speak to him instantly .
of what future complaisance and companionableness to mrs .
weston was following ; but mrs .
that in me mirth would be improper and i know my own heart too well not to be sensible that
or limb to that amount .
echo can reach you—and when , with fainting spirits , you attempt to fasten your door , you discover ,
opposition well : you must support and encourage me ; you must urge the necessity of reproof if you see
” said edmund ; “captain marshall ?
norris paid her with as many smiles and courteous words as she had time for , amid so much occupation
the miss bertrams were now fully established among the belles of the neighbourhood ; and as they joined to beauty
books at all .
“of music !
but upon her leaving the room again soon afterwards , he spoke of her beauty with very decided praise .
i wonder what curacy he will get !
“ ' i heard you were in town , ' said she ; ' i wanted to see you .
miss nash had been telling her something , which she repeated immediately with great delight .
be to listen ; and a conversation followed almost as deeply interesting to her as to himself , though he
from her bed in more need of repose than when she lay down in it .
; for , in reconciling reginald to me , i was not able to save that ill-fated young man ;
they really put me quite out of countenance .
if edward might be judged from the ready discharge of his duties in every particular , from an increasing attachment
lady susan is surely too severe , for frederica does not seem to have the sort of temper to make
i must tell you , that just after we parted yesterday , i saw a young man looking at you
” “my dear , you flatter me .
grieved to be losing even a quarter of an hour .
he could not see her in a situation of such danger , without trying to preserve her .
” “it is only a quarter past four” showing his watch—“and you are not now in bath .
that is the faulty part of the present system .
" marianne was surprised and confused , yet she could not help smiling at the quiet archness of his manner
proceed from conscious innocence .
holford ' s , and did not recollect her .
ten minutes more made it certain that a bright afternoon would succeed , and justified the opinion of mrs .
i assure you i have .
by ceaseless repetitions of miss hawkins ' s happiness , and continual observation of , how much he seemed attached
my regard for her , for yourself , for your mother—will you allow me to prove it , by relating
for , what with her board and pocket allowance , and the continual presents in money which passed to her
weston and his son .
no means desirable : it takes away one ' s independence .
and the only literary pursuit which engaged harriet at present , the only mental provision she was making for the
but the pearls of the book must be allowed to be that egregious amateur in toothpick-cases , mr .
" the notions of a young man of one or two and twenty , " said he , " as
harriet ' s cheerful look and manner established hers : she came back , not to think of mr .
how completely it meant , ' why should my picture be drawn ?
refined susceptibilities , the tender emotions which the first separation of a heroine from her family ought always to excite
" " yes , you have certainly removed something—a little .
been as anxious on that account as on others to get him out of town , and had engaged him
to feel with some anxiety , that all her best manners , all her lately acquired knowledge of what was
you know , the connection must be impossible .
being out , they had , in fact , nothing to do elsewhere .
—she could not endure the thought !
seen them , had passed undiscerned by her who now heard them ; but the two latest occurrences to be
i am all amazement !
her real disposition , than the liveliness—often artificial , and often ill-timed of the other .
” was repeated by them all , two or three times over .
that will be done by the removal of the farmyard ; for , independent of that terrible nuisance , i
is there anything in my present entreaty that you do not understand ?
it is no reflection on you ; it is no more than what the greatest admirals have all experienced ,
it must have been a real indulgence .
" whether he would have proceeded farther was left to anne ' s imagination to ponder over in a calmer
turned away two housemaids for wearing white gowns .
to own the truth , henry and i were partly driven out this very evening by a disappointment about a
but two advantages will proceed from this delay .
mary was in excellent spirits , enjoying the gaiety and the change , and so well satisfied with the journey
—to bath , or to clifton ?
, and taking his seat , to drive off .
fletcher and i mean to get a house in leicestershire , against the next season .
what beautiful hyacinths !
he had only himself to please in his choice : his fortune was his own ; for as to frank
the church , were it possible that he could ever be in a situation to receive it , and accepted
” “forty !
he began speaking of harriet , and speaking of her with more voluntary praise than emma had ever heard before
had not elinor , in the sad countenance of her sister , seen a check to all mirth , she
you dare not , you cannot deny , that you have been the principal , if not the only means
i am going to live entirely with my aunt norris .
sensations on the first day of hearing of william ' s promotion .
" was sir walter ' s cold suspicious inquiry .
she ought to the stock of their scanty comforts .
lydia was occasionally a visitor there , when her husband was gone to enjoy himself in london or bath ;
the cousins .
but a week must pass ; only a week , in anne ' s reckoning , and then , she
she and the harvilles came on tuesday very safely , and in the evening we went to ask her how
and at others , what a heap of absurdities it is !
will not appear , after all the dreadful delays occasioned by the general ' s cruelty , that they were
able to speak of the affair without embarrassment , and to give her judgment , as she believed , with
then expressing his wish to examine the effect of some recent alterations about the tea-house , proposed it as no
chapter _num_ a moment ' s glance was enough to satisfy catherine that her apartment was very unlike the one
get up and go over all the rooms in the house if you like it .
the full use even of the time he could stay—but that there had been misunderstandings he decidedly said .
he felt that he ought not to have allowed the marriage ; that his daughter ' s sentiments had been
—it is not likely .
" " i cannot agree with you there , " said elinor .
they were too much like joy , senseless joy !
it is a tragedy and therefore not worth reading .
lady middleton frequently called him to order , wondered how any one ' s attention could be diverted from music
as unstudied an air as possible .
from our own observation can bear witness to her having received every possible attention which could spring from the affection
when we talked of her last night , you none of you seemed sensible of the wonderful improvement that has
jane’s temper was not desponding , and she was gradually led to hope , though the diffidence of affection sometimes
which would not be the less grievous to you , from having been entirely unknown and unthought of before .
they all walked about together , to see that every thing was as it should be ; and within a
“your examination of mr .
my power , i have given up the very article by which our quarrel was produced , and at best
it was possible that he might stop in his way home to ask them how they did .
very lately , and so light of heart , they had passed along .
not a word passed between the sisters concerning bingley ; but elizabeth went to bed in the happy belief that
so she thought at first ; —but a little consideration convinced her that every thing need not be put off
as yet , you have seen nothing of bath .
“it was certainly never brilliant , but she would not allow it to have a sickly hue in general ;
the possibility of mr .
how soon any other wishes introduced themselves i can hardly tell , but i believe in about half an hour
either bathing has been of the greatest service to her , or else it is to be attributed to an
on the discovery of his attachment , must acquit her on that article with any mind of common candour .
elizabeth was , in fact , revolving a great measure .
the home he offered , there would be the hope of more , of security , stability , and improvement
elinor had just been congratulating herself , in the midst of her perplexity , that however difficult it might be
there was a kind of cold hearted selfishness on both sides , which mutually attracted them ; and they sympathised
i must think your statement by no means fair .
” he laughed rather consciously ; and though denying the sentiment , emma was convinced that it had been so
perry was an intelligent , gentlemanlike man , whose frequent visits were one of the comforts of mr .
" have you been lately in sussex ?
bingley’s name had been the last mentioned between them ; and , if she might judge by his complexion ,
—better not move at all , better stay in london altogether than travel forty miles to get into a worse
shall certainly have your approbation , though mr .
netherfield because the miss bennets were come away , when her civility was claimed towards mr .
in short , that one could wish for ; and , moreover , [xiv] it is close to the church
touched upon his respect for miss smith as her friend , —but acknowledging his wonder that miss smith should be
, she had nothing to do but to listen ; and her tranquillity remained undisturbed the rest of the evening
but she was convinced that lydia wanted only encouragement to attach herself to anybody .
by ; and catherine ' s interest in the deceased mrs .
at last able to express some sense of her kindness , by saying , " poor elinor !
her eye half met captain wentworth ' s , a bow , a curtsey passed ; she heard his voice
epicurism .
on the very day of janetta ' s escape , as sophia was majestically removing the _num_ th bank-note from
knightley called one morning , and jane was eating these apples , and we talked about them and said how
avowal to himself .
ill to trifle , and must entreat him to set off for enscombe without delay .
" " did not colonel brandon know of sir john ' s proposal to your mother before it was made
but it was not to be .
—no—mr .
" poor old gentleman .
—what !
you do not mean it ?
just old enough to be formal , ungovernable , and to have the gout ; too old to be agreeable
i have no notion of people ' s making such a to-do about money and greatness .
” he went ; but there was no reading , no china , no composure for fanny .
but since he must be absent some time or other , i do not perceive how he can ever be
” “i am glad of it , for we shall all be there .
with them the next day—which he did—and in the course of that visit (as i understand) he found an opportunity
bennet was quite in the fidgets .
be carried away by her imagination on any interesting subject , and therefore instead of an inquiry , she passed
i beg you would not .
had for basis the excellent understanding , and super-excellent disposition of jane , and a general similarity of feeling and
its fixing on anything serious .
she told me that having a considerable taste for the beauties of nature , her curiosity to behold the delightful
does about jane fairfax .
sitting , and though nearer to captain wentworth ' s table , not very near .
the lock was silver , though tarnished from age ; at each end were the imperfect remains of handles also
and entreating her to persuade her friend lizzy to comply with the wishes of all her family .
weston was quite mistaken in that surmise .
way home .
chapter xxxiii the conference was neither so short nor so conclusive as the lady had designed .
as to render her in comparison with the elegant height of matilda and myself , an insignificant dwarf .
to speak , she was sure would be to betray a most unreasonable degree of happiness .
examine his papers , i found it with others still more trivial , from different people scattered here and there
allow ; catherine , however , kept close at her side , and linked her arm too firmly within her
of unquietness , but prevented him even from seeing the expression of the face on which his own eyes were
elizabeth , by introducing the subject of it ; and she was pleased to find that she had said enough
grant , who were together in the drawing-room .
of yet .
was as much pleased with her manners as her person , and quite determined to continue the acquaintance .
allen says it is nine , measured nine ; but i am sure it cannot be more than eight ;
it was felt as such things must be felt .
" in telling you all this .
” “aye , so it is , ” cried her mother , “and mrs .
you ?
if , as i conclude will be the case , you send me full powers to act in your name
would bend to his .
afraid it is a custom gone for ever .
, and i acknowledge that they did not meet as friends .
neither robbers nor tempests befriended them , nor one lucky overturn to introduce them to the hero .
intimacy began on her side .
connexion , or accomplishment , or good quality in the person , who have found themselves entirely deceived , and
rushworth still think she wished to come , till mrs .
knightley and herself , in procuring him the proper invitation .
my uncle talked of two months .
" what is this ?
[ _num_ ] " why do you not ask marianne at once , " said she , " whether she
brief summaries of sense and sensibility and pride and prejudice .
but it is not in my power to delay my journey for one day !
” cried harriet , coming eagerly into the room—“is not this the oddest news that ever was ?
effect , in short , of those doctrines which it is their duty to teach and recommend ; and it
these were the contents— “my dear fanny , —excuse me that i have not written before .
' s fears that it should be the last .
be a shocking thing to disappoint dear annamaria after all .
her affections were evidently strong .
“i have a great curiosity to see mrs .
be unwelcome .
this neighbourhood , i believe there are few neighbourhoods larger .
convinced that i could not be mistaken in my conjecture i instantly sprang from the carriage i had just entered
cry , or had given her some proof of affection which made her tears delightful ; and the whole was
" " if i thought it would not tempt her to go out in sharp winds , and grow coarse
but if you will listen to his letter , you may perhaps be a little softened by his manner of
she was not long at leisure , however , for such considerations .
him many others .
or bad , his boast of his dogs , his jealousy of his neighbours , his doubts of their qualifications
she had the kindest " good morning , god bless you !
on his side were the inquiries , —“was she a horsewoman ?
' almane on la comtesse d ' ostalis , in madame de genlis ' adelaide and theodore , and we
domestic happiness is out of the question .
than robert martin ?
“nay , why do you ?
he could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in the room
” emma was delighted , and only wanted him to go on in the same style ; but his mind
“it was something to feel that all the rest of my time might be given to hartfield .
her imagination , her memory , and all her ideas in as much of uppercross as possible .
" lucy looked at elinor again , and was silent .
her sorrow , her disappointment , her deep regret , when i told her that i was obliged to leave
shall conceal it under that of talbot .
“you quite mistook mr .
he stays till to-morrow , and miss fairfax has been persuaded to spend the day with us .
he had always been lucky ; he knew he should be so still .
not be any longer in the house without just looking into his own dear room , every agitation was returning
as bingley’s friend and your husband , there can be only bingley and yourself more dear to me .
” “you are speaking of letters of business ; mine are letters of friendship .
her father had no ward , and the squire of the parish no children .
, discovered that it was the place where he kept his papers of consequence and amongst them some bank notes
to have been described long ago to a recent acquaintance , by nameless people , is irresistible ; and anne
a theatre , precisely the shape and length for it ; and the doors at the farther end , communicating
i have made him sensible of my power , and can now enjoy the pleasure of triumphing over a mind
is not it a fine old place , just like what one reads about ?
what a man suffers when he takes a last look at his wife and children , and watches the boat
mankind , as was here collected in one individual .
she was quite wild to go .
“for i gave him only £ _num_ .
present erected in its place .
afterwards , when familiarised with the visions of enjoyment so suddenly opened , she could speak more largely to william
i am glad the church is not so close to the great house as often happens in old places .
which she could not think lightly of ; but she checked herself and let it pass ; and tried to
them now , when they are exceeding their first plan in every respect ; but i can think of no
the young ladies , as well as their mother , were perfectly satisfied with having two entire strangers of the
my remaining here cannot give that pleasure to mr .
—she will give you all the minute particulars , which only woman ' s language can make interesting .
you know i am always ready to pay them any attention in my power , as my taking them out
in the intervals of her discourse with mrs .
necessity of doing something .
" marianne was rejoiced to find her sister so easily pleased .
she is choosing a friend and companion exactly where she ought , and i am glad her love of money
thoughts to wander .
and on my own account too—so dear as he is to me—i don ' t think i could be equal
ever since i left you this morning , emma , my mind has been hard at work on one subject
elton engross jane fairfax and slight herself .
fanny , to warn you against giving the least credit to it , should it spread into the country .
you have not discovered my business yet .
the close bonnet and demure air you describe so well (and nothing was ever juster) , tell one what is
confirm all the daughter ' s views of happiness in being with her—convincing her that she should now find a
family profiles , thought unworthy of being anywhere else , over the mantelpiece , and by their side , and
that puzzles me .
but , i assure you , i have never been in the house above twice in my life .
passed him , “you must dance with me , fanny ; you must keep two dances for me ; any
, that it was a play she wanted very much to see .
” darcy mentioned his letter .
and i hope she will be better off in one respect , and not be induced to go away after
lady susan has certainly contrived , in the space of a fortnight , to make my brother like her .
by yourself .
if you were sensible of your own good , you would not wish to quit the sphere in which you
church .
” “you are comfortable because you are under command .
" " you will wonder , " said she , " what has been fixing my eye so long ;
two maids and two men , indeed !
—how very beautiful !
steele that had nothing at all ; and i had it from miss sparks myself .
to her taste—though never in her life before had she beheld half such variety on a breakfast-table—made it impossible for
of three to old superannuated servants by my father ' s will , and it is amazing how disagreeable she
crawford into the dockyard , which mr .
and it would be difficult to say whether most valuable as a convenience or an ornament ; and perhaps ,
her father asked him to do them the honour of taking his mutton with them , and fanny had time
good spirits of sir john , and gave exercise to the good breeding of his wife .
a variety of evils crossed his mind .
i do not pretend to be a wit .
sir william lucas , and his daughter maria , a good-humoured girl , but as empty-headed as himself , had
and from strong features and want of health , looking much older than captain wentworth .
took a hasty range over it .
escaped ; her letter engrossed her .
hurst , principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and rings , joined now and then in her brother’s conversation
to be a better manager .
such a look of reproach at edmund from his father she could never have expected to witness ; and to
fearing , on more serious reflection , that , like many other great moralists and preachers , she had been
they were in the environs of mansfield long before the usual dinner-time , and as they approached the beloved place
knightley to do the sort of thing—to do any thing really good-natured , useful , considerate , or benevolent .
” “i am sorry to hear you say so , sir ; but i assure you , excepting those little
imagine that i knew exactly how she would appear to those , who saw her last in this world .
henceforward i know nothing of the matter .
what was there to interest or amuse her ?
said that it meant something very earnest , very pointed .
squeeze of the hand or a smile of affection .
your ultimate happiness too .
had the most generous and forgiving heart in the world , she knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice
but i want to set your heart at ease as to mrs .
in the present instance , this last-arrived lady allowed her fancy to so far outrun truth and probability , that
she will make him a very proper wife .
what a delightful girl !
has fully shown ; ) and nothing can be said in his vindication , but that his abolishing religious houses
“he could be still amiable , still pleasing , to my uncle and aunt , when he was in town
the affection of the whole family , the warm attachment of miss campbell in particular , was the more honourable
towards her offspring were viewed therefore by lady middleton without the smallest surprise or distrust .
” harriet was standing at one of the windows .
rushworth to her son , “i believe the wilderness will be new to all the party .
scarcely , however , had she convicted her fancy of error , when the noise of something moving close to
attention was an irresistible proof of his great good sense , and a most welcome addition to every source and
with the kindest concern he came on to longbourn , and broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most
it was too pleasing a blunder for a reproach .
she assured her , and with great sincerity , that she did pity her—to the utter amazement of lucy ,
i felt for my sister most severely .
however long , and for whatever cause , his attentions had been withdrawn , her vanity would be gratified ,
they saw him often , and to his other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve .
the change of countenance , the fidget , the hem !
her nose wants character—there is nothing marked in its lines .
in short my dear charlotte it is my sensibility for the sufferings of so many amiable young men , my
be above his connexions , and to care very little for any thing but his own pleasure , from living
' said he , ' i do think i can fasten the rivet ; i like a job of this
he was a particular friend of sir john ' s .
" yet it certainly soon will happen .
declare , that mr .
found herself necessarily overhearing the discourse of mrs .
i dare say you have seen enough of edward to know that he would prefer the church to every other
common working table , when a letter was delivered to marianne , which she eagerly caught from the servant ,
at least they have common sense ; and we are not to be addressing our conduct to fools .
, till she found , towards the close , that mr .
standing in chat with dr .
they are such charming women !
her minute inquiries , that though jane always struggled to support her spirits , there were periods of dejection .
, and one “dearest catherine .
when you are tired of eating strawberries in the garden , there shall be cold meat in the house .
the little vestibule .
evening .
his name was richard—and he had never been handsome .
" family connexions were always worth preserving , good company always worth seeking ; lady dalrymple had taken a house
here , leading the way through every walk and cross walk , and scarcely allowing them an interval to utter
had she been a person of consequence herself , he would have come i dare say ; and it would
call out : “what is that you are saying , fitzwilliam ?
and he is a very clever boy , indeed .
place , i fancy .
been influenced by any one rather than by me .
him to wait till sir thomas ' s return , and then sir thomas might settle it all himself .
weston , at dinner , he made use of the very first interval in the cares of hospitality , the
norris died .
strong was the recollection of all that had so recently passed on harriet ' s side , so fresh the
talk to me for ever .
you have not heard all that you ought to hear .
here , than go to ireland , if she is unwell .
make haste !
” “i certainly shall not .
there is no comparison between them .
he came back gay and self-satisfied , eager and busy , caring nothing for miss woodhouse , and defying miss
everything that revolts other people , low company , paltry rooms , foul air , disgusting associations are inviting to
” “yes , yes , my darling isabella , ” said mrs .
those sort of discoveries .
he was full of ' to-morrow , ' and it is very evident that i have been full of it
' ” “poor girl !
he might have softened his father ; but all , perhaps all , would think her selfish and ungrateful .
" why , their visit is but just begun !
people who suffer as i do from nervous complaints can have no great inclination for talking .
there must be some deeper cause : something was to be done which could be done only while the household
" said anne , suddenly struck by an idea which made her yet more anxious to be encouraging .
“i declare , i do not know when i have heard any thing that has given me more satisfaction !
for all that lady scudamore .
or , in other words , i believe there are few country parsonages in england half so good .
i am sure there was some great neglect or other on their side , for she is not the kind
relief which a fresh mode of treatment must procure , with a confidence which , in a lesser degree ,
” “oh , quite enough , ” cried mr .
it is not right ; and i wonder mrs .
than their treatment of you ; —but as that was not the case— " " i guessed you would say
it was within four miles northward of exeter .
heard of her being gone , was a question of force and interest to rise over every other , to
to one as to the other in her vindication , had no means of knowing .
” replied kitty , “it looks just like that man that used to be with him before .
of everybody , hardly excepting even her sister , and could not like them ; though their kindness to jane
i pity her .
you saw it all ; and was not you quite struck with it ?
tone , touch , and pedal , totally unsuspicious of that wish of saying as little about it as possible
' my friend knightley ' had been so often mentioned , that i was really impatient to see him ;
me to what must be .
' i suppose no time can ever wear out the impression i have of his looks and voice as he
what was the name of its proprietor ?
in his present behaviour to herself , moreover , she had a fresh source of displeasure , for the inclination
weston was chatty and convivial , and no friend to early separations of any sort ; but at last the
when they were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger , and elizabeth happening to see the countenance of
; an inconstancy , if real , the most contemptible and abominable !
perhaps he wanted to speak to her , of his attachment to harriet ; he might be watching for encouragement
i am only kept back by my natural awkwardness .
—the sphere in which she moves is much above his .
week .
was too well convinced of the impossibility of engaging lucy ' s attention to attempt it .
accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me .
" why should you imagine , elinor , that we did not go there , or that we did not
i do not call tunbridge or cheltenham the country ; and november is a still more serious month , and
seeing him there again the next day , to make his proposals .
these races were to call him away not long after their acquaintance began ; and as it appeared that the
is there one among the sex , who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to
, and endeavoring , by placing around them books and other possessions , to form themselves a home .
my visits to mrs .
” “it is certainly very well regulated .
yes dear resemblance of my laurina and laurina ' s daughter , sweet image of my claudia and my claudia
is , i dare say , all afloat , all employed in his stock , and so forth ; and
” “none at all .
it is all very well , i used to say , for young people to be engaged , if there
the sad change at hartfield since she had been there last .
said to do emma good .
do it , and to fear that delay might be even weakening her claims , was hard to bear .
not really think they bear the least resemblance to their father !
she had better do the old countrywoman : the cottager ' s wife ; you had , indeed , julia
and fifty pounds a-year would supply them with the comforts of life .
his daughters absent and herself not consulted !
this nine hundred they always kept in a drawer in one of the tables which stood in our common sitting
world , excepting that trunk and the direction , was consequently a blank .
all have been , or at least all have believed themselves to be , in danger from the pursuit of
edmund smiled and shook his head .
first seemed strange to me as well as to you .
there being nothing to eat , he could only have some play ; and as his aunt would not let
difficulty that she could summon enough of her usual self to be the attentive lady of the house , or
means reconcile her more to her lot ; nor did the particulars which he entered into while they were standing
they were far from being an irritable race ; far from any quickness in catching , or bitterness in resenting
nobody , who has not been in the interior of a family , can say what the difficulties of any
weston ' s on the subject , as much as possible .
you will be having a charming mother-in-law , indeed ; and , of course , she will always be at
, i felt no doubt of their happiness together .
him , remained , when all the others were invited or persuaded out , his patient listener and sympathiser .
catherine , the many sleepless nights i have had on your brother ' s account !
act macbeth by themselves , and took the road to sterling , where we spent our little fortune with great
this discovery she imparted to me ; and having agreed together that it would be a proper treatment of so
going into company in this sort of way , or ever dining out at all ; and it is what
“she must have some motive , more powerful than appears , for refusing this invitation , ” was emma '
this was the only visit from frank churchill in the course of ten days .
we seemed to understand each other .
darcy did not wish for cards ; and mr .
i cannot produce written proof again , but i can give as authentic oral testimony as you can desire ,
of the street .
should give up the place entirely , for then we might possibly get a settled family there .
elton himself appeared , she had been much occupied by it , continually pondering over what could be done in
to that dear mother , [ _num_ ] whom she so much wished to see , in a more eligible
they had taken out a young dog , who had spoilt their sport , and sent them back early .
there had remained only a general impression of roughness and loudness ; and now he scarcely ever noticed her ,
the ladies had not been long in the drawing-room , before the other ladies , in their different divisions ,
meant it to be a sort of panegyric , of compliment to yourself—and yet what is there so very laudable
” whatever effect sir thomas ' s little harangue might really produce on mr .
his fear of her not finding london agree with her .
if her aunt ' s feelings were against her , nothing could be hoped from attacking her understanding .
large party to them , with all the eagerness of inclination , but it would only do to be talked
with so much true merit and true love , and no want of fortune and friends , the happiness of
mamma will never forgive me , and i shall be worse off than ever .
" " you surprise me ; i should think it must nearly have escaped her memory by this time .
” “very nicely dressed , indeed ; a remarkably elegant gown .
had she been different when i did see her , i should have made no complaint , but from the
” “indeed i think you may .
return mortification—but i cannot .
thomas being happily able to give his friend an income in the living of mansfield ; and mr .
" " and yet this woman—who knows what her art may have been ?
but the woods are fine , and there is a stream , which , i dare say , might be
us the atonement he thinks our due , the wish is certainly to his credit .
sharp is the word , you see !
see the house ?
the breakfast-room was gay with company ; and she was named to them by the general as the friend of
knightley , however , shewed no triumphant happiness .
in your heart which nothing else can occupy .
she inquired into charlotte’s domestic concerns familiarly and minutely , gave her a great deal of advice as to the
but if her uncle were to be a great while considering and deciding , and with very grave looks ,
after having so nobly disentangled themselves from the shackles of parental authority , by a clandestine marriage , they were
” “what else have you been spunging ?
afflicting manner , by constantly placing willoughby before her , such as she had always seen him there .
and when the party had all reached the gate of exit , the carriage advancing in the same direction ,
i am amazingly glad you did not keep to your word .
the oddest dreams in the world—but if i am questioned about it , i must acknowledge that there was such
own uncle ?
for them , and everything to hope for her , from the association .
, “has agitated us exceedingly , and we cannot prevent ourselves from being greatly alarmed and apprehensive for the poor
elinor ; that marianne ' s affliction , because more acknowledged , more immediately before her , had too much
bingley with having promised on his first coming into the country to give a ball at netherfield .
john thorpe had first misled him .
he reads the agricultural reports , and some other books that lay in one of the window seats—but he reads
i have a thousand things to say to you ; but make haste and get in , for i long
be paid , to settle whether she were very pretty indeed , or only rather pretty , or not pretty
” “a straightforward , open-hearted man like weston , and a rational , unaffected woman like miss taylor , may
lodging as i did in bond street , there was hardly a day in which i did not catch a
of distant moans .
elton , the subject was so completely past that any reviving question from her would have been awkward .
when the tilneys were gone , she became amiable again , but she was amiable for some time to little
perry is not gone .
she should put it off as long as she could ; " but was not easy till she had talked
south end is an unhealthy place .
well as she could , while marianne still remained on the bed , was ready to assist her into the
every five minutes , by removing some of the crowd , gave greater openings for her charms .
in a week or two , i suppose , we shall be going ; and , i trust , edward
i must confess it is a recommendation to me .
same kind office done for him !
this , by the prospect of another visitor , whose approach he could allow to be quite enough to support
i am sure she will be pleased with the children .
rushworth , shall we summon a council on this lawn ?
elton is a very pretty young man , to be sure , and a very good young man , and
hastily ran to the dear youth and kneeling on each side of him implored him not to die— .
frank churchill again .
it would be a secret satisfaction ; but the consciousness of a similarity of prospect would certainly add to the
, at times , hold out the strongest hope of success , though it remained for a later period to
voice—“your father was with us .
view than what was acknowledged ; but she still thought him partial to jane , and she wavered as to
a large part of his income was unsettled , seemed to her very unjustifiable .
if i could persuade myself that my manners were perfectly easy and graceful , i should not be shy .
they will read together .
woman wish for its continuance ; and miss lucas , who accepted him solely from the pure and disinterested desire
the whole was tied up for the benefit of this child , who , in occasional visits with his father
” in vain was her “pray , sir , don ' t ; pray , mr .
the consequence of this , upon a mind so young , so lively , so inexperienced as mrs .
you know him too well to doubt the rest .
well , the sooner the better ; and i wish you success .
—every other part of her mind was disgusting .
that you know—(nodding towards her father)—humph !
you might , some time or other , be differently affected towards him .
" we have made very few changes either , " continued the admiral , after thinking a moment .
“do not give way to useless alarm , ” added he ; “though it is right to be prepared for
—i doubted her affection .
received it at northampton .
elizabeth went away with her head full of him .
weston was disengaged and emma began again—“mr .
by a robert martin ' s riding about the country to get walnuts for her might very well be conquered
collins by jane’s introduction of him .
thoughts , when he more seriously described the woman he should wish to meet with .
the cruel reply was passed on to the other , and he immediately walked away .
i have no doubt , some time or other ; only a little premature .
it fair to stand out any longer , for charles hayter was quite wild about it , and henrietta was
am strongly inclined to hope the best .
mary was not so repulsive and unsisterly as elizabeth , nor so inaccessible to all influence of hers ; neither
” “my father and mrs .
he came ; and he would have been delighted to shew his uniform there too , had not cruel custom
she thought he did , but she wanted to be assured of it .
four selves , still was it not too small for any comfortable supper ?
” miss crawford was soon to leave mansfield , and on this circumstance the “no” and the “yes” had been
as the first proof of amity , she was soon invited to accept an arm of the eldest miss thorpe
" materials were at hand , on a separate table ; he went to it , and nearly turning his
no : whatever might have been the general ' s crimes , he had certainly too much wit to let
be always insisting on it .
—always deceived in fact by his own wishes , and regardless of little besides his own convenience .
” “to have so kind-hearted , so affectionate a sister , ” replied henry warmly , “must be a comfort
to assist us in such a resolution i feel that absence will be necessary .
are you going much farther ?
with the others while every song lasted .
his affections seemed to reanimate towards them all , and his interest in their welfare again became perceptible .
[ _num_ ]that i will never consent to .
it is as true as that i sit here .
jennings ' s side , and in laughter without cause on mrs .
" " certainly : captain benwick .
her aunt and grandmother , and all their set .
i had not walked many yards from it before i was overtaken by a stage-coach , in which i instantly
ferrars at longstaple ?
account ; much rather , i confess .
reappeared , when anne had to listen to the opinions of her brother and sister , as to which was
and this was the end of it !
he has encouragement enough to proceed , without our sighing out our souls over this charade .
” she gave me such a look , and turned away in a great passion ; while i was half
he must enter into all my feelings ; the same books , the same music must charm us both .
but , however , i found afterwards from patty , that william said it was all the apples of that
he walked away again immediately , and she was left to fret over her own want of presence of mind
however , i do not mean to set up my opinion against yours—and i am sure i shall not wish
you cannot have been always at longbourn .
" what is the gentleman ' s name ?
brown—not fair , and—and not very dark .
she was awake the whole night , and she wept the greatest part of it .
“here it is .
i have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a
” “not see him again !
that may chance to be going .
another , by her retailed explanation , as had at first been called forth in herself .
i should not have used the expression .
passed so rapidly through every gradation of increasing tenderness that there was shortly no fresh proof of it to be
” “i do not know indeed .
excellent spirits , and tried to impart them to her ; but she was a great deal too much frightened
harris , and despatching a messenger to barton for her mother .
first appearance to captivate , there was , at least , nothing to disgust her relations .
“had we better not go and see who it is ?
room , “always overcareful for every body ' s comfort but your own ; i see you now in all
affectionate smile , to wickham , who followed his lady ; and wished them both joy with an alacrity which
it holds nine .
paid her sister the compliment of preferring her style to that of any printed author .
you ought to be satisfied with her two cousins .
” “yes , and her petticoat ; i hope you saw her petticoat , six inches deep in mud ,
sir john was ready to like anybody , and though mr .
why does she not come in ?
—the iron gates and the front-door were not twenty yards asunder ; —they were all three soon in the hall
other .
she had always wanted to do every thing , and had made more progress both in drawing and music than
come to me immediately , and explain what is at present absolutely incomprehensible .
undertake to harangue all the rest upon a subject of this kind .
” “the count has two-and-forty speeches , ” returned mr .
kitty runs away .
” “yes , except as to his writing her such short letters .
a few days .
for it is not five minutes since i received mrs .
from all three .
her hat .
than such an object would have detained me half the time from mansfield .
wentworth , that we hope to see them both .
collins , ” cried elizabeth with some warmth , “you puzzle me exceedingly .
—emma could now imagine why her own attentions had been slighted .
became fully satisfied of his not caring for louisa at all , he must regard himself as bound to her
look up to you , that i am quite laughed at about it , for everybody considers it as my
she could almost be angry herself at such angry incivility ; but she checked the resentful sensation ; she remembered
it was meant and done by mrs .
; but he was obliged to acknowledge that only at uppercross had he learnt to do her justice , and
of every decent-looking person that we passed “if they had seen my edward ?
, leaving them at first little leisure for calm curiosity , they were all seated round the tea-table , which
i am charged with a most agreeable office (breathing rather faster than usual as she spoke .
far from now meaning to marry the elder , she did not even want to attract him beyond what the
expected with solemn awe to afford a glimpse of its massy walls of grey stone , rising amidst a grove
on this rencontre they all returned to the house together , there to lounge away the time as they could
his friends may all advise him against it .
had been entirely a match of affection , when he was now obliged to part with miss taylor too ;
variation of form , face , temper and understanding .
of inclination to take the trouble of being agreeable , which make men clergymen .
encouragement should be given .
” “and why cannot he afford it ?
we are sometimes a little in want of animation among ourselves : my sisters seem out of spirits , and
jennings ' s entreaty was warmly seconded by mr .
i am sure i must have been as white as my gown .
chapter xxiii “but why should mrs .
he was at that time a very young man , just engaged in the study of the law ; and
knightley and i both saying we liked it , and mr .
but , then , if mrs .
there is nothing of tragedy about her .
we do ?
her friend in a lecture and been a great simpleton herself , till they were happily seated at the dinner-table
” “yes , madam , ” said mrs .
she wrote also with great pleasure of her brother’s being an inmate of mr .
in all likelihood see him somewhere .
” “you would know what you were about , of course ; but that would not suit me .
was introduced likewise .
did not incline her to a very gracious reply , when john thorpe came up to her soon afterwards and
perry does not call it altogether a sickly season .
gold mohrs , and palanquins .
here i am , you see , staring at a picture .
early , that we may have time to look about us .
she doubted whether she had not transgressed the duty of woman by woman , in betraying her suspicions of jane
her as a sister should .
” he looked with smiling penetration ; and , on receiving no answer , added , “she ought not to
chapter _num_ elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her letter as soon as she possibly could .
jennings wrote to tell the wonderful tale , to vent her honest indignation against the jilting girl , and pour
elton , speaking louder , said , “yes , here i am , my good friend ; and here i
pratt .
” “for one night , fanny , for only one night , if it be a sacrifice ; i am
, or be waited for , that before the gentlemen , as they stood at the door , could do
” “yes , yes—but i am amused that he should have seen so far into my feelings .
tilney ' s sister .
the least likely to happen , brought up as they would be , always together like brothers and sisters ?
while i , to blind the world to our engagement , was behaving one hour with objectionable particularity to another
but , even supposing it is so , allowing mr .
” he had a great deal to say in return , and very entertainingly ; but emma ' s feelings
let me hear from you very soon .
the offices and the stairs .
goddard , and the teachers , and the girls and the affairs of the school in general , formed naturally
weston , with a very good grace , immediately exclaimed , “my dear madam !
marianne was not in spirits for moving about , she and elinor luckily succeeding to chairs , placed themselves at
marianne ' s joy was almost a degree beyond happiness , so great was the perturbation of her spirits and
they found mrs musgrove and her daughter within , and by themselves , and anne had the kindest welcome from
, for mr .
—you mean the crown ; you come from the meeting at the crown .
" and yet , " said anne to herself , as they now moved forward to meet the party ,
knightley perhaps , from being used to the large parties of london , may not quite enter into our feelings
this observation would not have prevented her from trying to talk to the latter , had they not been seated
s sake , “they can write long letters .
have with her , while she could preserve the good opinion and affection of her earliest friends .
i do not know what i write , but it would be a great favour of you never to mention
” “no really , ” replied elizabeth ; “i think there cannot be too little said on the subject .
very unfeeling !
i thought how likely it was that you should come together .
' for six weeks , i allow bath is pleasant enough ; but beyond that , it is the most
weston ' s visit this morning was in another respect particularly opportune .
i cannot be dictated to by a watch .
i shall not give it up till a quarter after twelve .
heart as any in the kingdom ; and i declare and protest to you i never was so shocked in
de courcy may be worth having .
but what is that to me ?
—the dignity of miss woodhouse , of hartfield , was sunk indeed !
; but it would have been the loss of a friend to me .
it was no longer in emma ' s power to superintend his happiness or quicken his measures .
everybody had as much to say , or to hear , on the subject as usual .
“since they can consent to part with you , ” said he , “we may expect philosophy from all the
she had only navy lists and newspapers for her authority , but she could not doubt his being rich ;
the eldest miss bennet , beyond a doubt ; there cannot be two opinions on that point .
has he a house at allenham ?
” “we are not in a way to know what mr .
let those who would be happy be firm .
“there is my news : —i thought it would interest you , ” said mr .
she was safe in the breakfast-room , with her aunt , when miss crawford did come ; and the first
wallis does them full justice—only we do not have them baked more than twice , and mr .
disingenuousness and double dealing seemed to meet him at every turn .
put them next to your great-uncle the judge .
goddard ' s acquaintance .
and catherine augured from it everything most favourable to her wishes .
have borne it with exemplary patience , i am sure you must be sick of all our noise and difficulties
my dear jane , mr .
i flatter myself the poor sufferer will soon be able to bear the removal without material inconvenience or injury .
—never seen him in her life before , and call him knightley !
" " my love , " i replied , " do not think it necessary to apologize to me on
a most obliging , placid look , and appear quite satisfied with the curtailed license of devoting herself only half
” “yes , vanity is a weakness indeed .
to repel the ill-natured attack , she presently answered the question in a tolerably detached tone .
collins readily assented , and a book was produced ; but , on beholding it (for everything announced it to
but how shall i do ?
—is not there a little mistake ?
wickham’s circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be .
but still he would be her husband .
one does not know what to think .
but while she did so , the gentleman retreated , and her partner , coming nearer , said , “i
under pretence of fetching marianne , to leave the others by themselves ; and she really did it , and
gardiner added in his letter , that they might expect to see their father at home on the following day
her early impressions were incurable .
bad .
will you let me speak to you a moment ?
which they could possibly wish for , without the smallest delay , the children were never allowed to be long
—i feel now as if i could think of nothing but these poor creatures all the rest of the day
be inevitably at hand ; while mr .
william ' s concerns must be dearest , they always had been , and he had every right .
fair sister of yours , a fine girl of fifteen , who was of the party on the ramparts ,
and even mary could assure her family that she had no disinclination for it .
” lady bertram made no opposition .
the thorpes and james morland were there only two minutes before them ; and isabella having gone through the usual
do not let any reflection fall on the principles or the care of the friends who brought me up .
not speak , even her eyes were fixed on him with the same impatient wonder .
your countenance perfectly informs me that you were in company last night with the person whom you think the most
he had enquired after her , she found , particularly ; had expressed his hope of miss elliot ' s
you told me to observe him carefully , and let his behaviour be the rule of mine—and so i have
a little difficulty to be overcome was no evil to henry crawford .
do not , my dearest elinor , let your kindness defend what i know your judgment must censure .
mentioned earlier , that it is the particular advice and recommendation of the very noble lady whom i have the
but then he is your cousin , which makes all the difference .
to be forming any attachment which would be creating such difficulties on poor mr .
west indies .
as it united with the subject which already engaged her mind .
and she only wanted to know how far , after what had passed , an apology might properly be received
nobody to put him in the way of doing anything yet .
total silence .
after very little farther discourse , it was finally settled that the invitation should be fully accepted .
if the errand were not a pleasure to me , it could be done , as it always is when
i am perfectly serious in my refusal .
it seemed too precious an offering for any degree of publicity .
churchill lived , i suppose there could not have been a hope , a chance , a possibility ; —but
are you quite sure that you feel what you ought to do ?
jane was quite longing to go to ireland , from his account of things .
indulgence of taste or pride .
' s .
hearing that she were better .
he would , after seeing your brother .
but to make her the object of a coarse joke .
fanny wrote to offer herself ; and her mother ' s answer , though short , was so kind—a few
concerned at her own neglect ; and “shall i play to you now ?
by all accounts , almost broken-hearted , at oxford .
but it would not do ; he had not come to the point .
, whose character and manners could authorise a hope of the domestic happiness she had there learned to estimate ,
was not to lose a day ' s exercise by it .
“catherine grows quite a good-looking girl—she is almost pretty today , ” were words which caught her ears now and
he sat a little while in doubt .
quarter of an hour , when they both returned , and an explanation was given , by henry ' s
not a hope of imposition or mistake was harboured anywhere .
but , poor fellow !
bates had a bad cold about a month ago .
he always speaks to the purpose ; open , straightforward , and very well judging .
lady russell had not been arrived five minutes the day before , when a full account of the whole had
you will only think i feel more than i ought to do , when i tell you all .
—they will live so cheap !
dine with him at the admiral ' s .
” catherine had nothing to oppose against such reasoning ; and therefore , to show the independence of miss thorpe
, hearing what one does not understand , admiring what one does not care for .
; but yet , harriet , more wonderful things have taken place , there have been matches of greater disparity
she could not stay .
" " his character , however , " answered elinor , " does not rest on one act of kindness
it had every recommendation to him ; and while honouring her for what she had done under the influence of
of harriet .
tall ; her figure particularly graceful ; her size a most becoming medium , between fat and thin , though
grove by one lady , to ireland by another .
' was my answer .
of your character .
they were to meet .
selfish and ungrateful !
” “did you indeed ?
some contrivance , the whole party , with all their boxes , work-bags , and parcels , and the unwelcome
that very evening brought your most unwelcome uncle .
fate .
situation .
his time of life .
sir thomas had been quite indifferent to mr .
" " i am sorry to find you unwell , " replied anne .
" this increased the mirth of the company , and margaret was eagerly pressed to say something more .
but i have done it .
minute or two i remained in the same spot , overpowered by wonder of a most agreeable sort indeed ;
" cried elinor .
terribly like a would-be lover , and made it some effort with her to preserve her good manners .
very well .
with you .
make such a present .
so strong , still as strong as her own , and with a mind tormented by self-reproach , which must
“i tell you , mr .
norris ' s inclination for it , or any of her activity .
he knows i have a thorough regard for him and all his family , and , i believe , considers
she is probably by this time as tired of me , as i am of her ; but as she
if there is anything disagreeable going on men are always sure to get out of it , and charles is
could she feel less than herself !
norris was in high spirits about it ; and mrs .
would keep him on the topic of the theatre , would torment him with questions and remarks relative to it
thoughtless and indiscreet i can easily believe him , but this step (and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing
i ought to have sent you an account of your cousin ' s first party , but i was lazy
she is very angry with you , fanny ; you must be prepared for that .
little more than hints of what might be hereafter , of a possible attachment on his side , of the
“it might be all a lie , ” he acknowledged ; “but so many fine ladies were going to the
their presence always gave her pain , and she hardly knew how to make a very gracious return to the
bertram was in the room again ; and though feeling it would be a great honour to be asked by
she must not appear to think it a misfortune .
just and so apparent , that emma , well as she knew her father , was sometimes taken by surprize
” “and do you like her ?
warrant strong suspicion in a predisposed mind .
" " yes , ma ' am—but not to bide long .
miss dashwood , you cannot have an idea of the comfort it gives me to look back on my own
to excite a thought in her sister .
so , i should do just the same in her place .
” and was at last forced to add , “is it a good letter ?
[ _num_ ] against the interest of her own individual comfort , mrs .
that collection of washing-bills , resulting from a long visit at northanger , by which my heroine was involved in
don ' t you , mr .
" well , " —he replied— " once more good bye .
” “no , indeed ; i should be too much frightened to do any such thing .
your sister i also watched .
where ?
“i am trying to make it out .
allen thinks her the prettiest girl in bath .
“i do not wonder , miss woodhouse , ” she resumed , “that you should feel a great difference between
any place would do , of about three or four hundred a year ; but however , do not speak
' s letter , read as follows : [ _num_ ]— " bond street , january .
” “a great deal of good management , depend upon it .
must further say that your friendship towards me is more particularly gratifying because i have reason to believe that some
“it was very hard that she was not to have her own knife ; it was her own knife ;
no use at home , to shut himself up .
to him who has , it might not be so easy to burst forth at once into perfect independence ,
that he would do as little , and think as little about it , as any father could do ,
) and on that account is eager to get him away ; and that the business which she sends him
palmer would visit him , for he is in the opposition , you know , and besides it is such
was influenced , and how she must act .
” persuaded as miss bingley was that darcy admired elizabeth , this was not the best method of recommending herself
and one day when anne was walking with only the musgroves , one of them after talking of rank ,
could mount him without the slightest inconvenience to himself , and with only some scruples to obviate in sir thomas
dashwood and elinor then followed , and the others were left by themselves , to talk of the travellers ,
time to feel astonished at all this , before there were sounds from the billiard-room to astonish him still farther
she was disgustingly , was suspiciously reserved .
now they came to an understanding .
state ; she should be able to think of him as in london , and arranging everything there , without
s advice and go out for a quarter of an hour .
that of music and dancing he was passionately fond , she gave him such a look of approbation as secured
, and i am inclined to think very well of her disposition .
mutual enquiries on common subjects passed : neither of them , probably , much the wiser for what they heard
” (i looked as cunning as i could when i said it , in order to shame him) .
, might be filled again with all that was happy and gay , all that was glowing and bright in
was it part of your last sermon ?
collins has yet expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us ; but i am very certain you
susan , mr .
she liked him , however , upon the whole , much better than she had expected , and in her
say something now , mr .
i was not explicit enough with him before .
am convinced , my eldest son has not .
expecting him .
” repeated sir thomas , in a tone of most unanswerable dignity , and coming farther into the room .
how it happened .
yes , i found myself , by insensible degrees , sincerely fond of her ; and the happiest hours of
accompanying her rejection .
, and may be as sensible and pleasant as any body else .
—“emma , that i fear is a word—no , i have no wish—stay , yes , why should i hesitate
by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence .
to be distinguished for elegance and accomplishments , the authorised object of their youth , could have had no useful
" said he .
as much money as she chooses to buy them , after they are married .
received as an acquaintance already .
his own college , of the name of thorpe ; and that he had spent the last week of the
" " i can give you no account of them .
fanny sighed alone at the window till scolded away by mrs .
he would go , though i told him how ill i was .
so equal , under particular circumstances , to act up to it .
with whom they had appointed to take their last walk about lyme .
and she dared not explain the motive of her own disinclination for going to london .
—i have no motive for wishing him ill—and for her sake , whose happiness will be involved in his good
i have engaged captain wentworth .
of meeting , she was with him as he entered the house , and the first minutes of exquisite feeling
the circumstance itself , and many of the circumstances of the preceding day , opened to them a new idea
and captain wentworth returned to his window .
” “indeed it does : i cannot like it .
—how long it may have been premeditated , and how deeply contrived by her !
” “yes , ” added maria , “and her spirits are as good , and she has the same energy
was the best judge of the difficulties , and the most solicitous for accommodation and appearance .
this preservative she had now obtained ; and at the age of twenty-seven , without having ever been handsome ,
was making use of your inkstand to explain my errand .
, nothing but suffering , which was by no means the case at lyme .
a gentleman ' s family is all that i should condition for .
were you not blinded by a sort of fascination , it would be ridiculous in me to repeat the instances
do you mean with regard to this letter ?
at present , if i could be satisfied on one point , if i could be allowed to think that
it will all end right .
—“not near so often , my dear , as i could wish .
elinor paid her every quiet and unobtrusive attention in her power ; and she would have tried to sooth and
on him with an evident wonder and a secret admiration which equally sprung from his appearance , he apologized for
norris was talking to julia , and did not hear .
; her folly , though evident was not disgusting , because it was not conceited ; and elinor could have
my plan was laid at westminster , a little altered , perhaps , at cambridge , and at one-and-twenty executed
” “i recommended the shrubbery to fanny as the driest place , ” said sir thomas .
churchill , was only growing to dislike him more .
have i not explained everything to you with respect to myself which could bear a doubtful meaning , and which
i saw the word , and am curious to know how it could be so very entertaining to the one
martin had told her one day (and there was a blush as she said it , ) that it was
come and look for herself , but anne did not mean to stir , and tried to be cool and
and now i can see it in no other light than as an offering of love .
disappointed , however , and vexed as she was , and sometimes displeased with his uncertain behaviour to herself ,
attempt , till it were proved against them ?
the lie to his actions .
and always remaining till after supper ; unless when some barbarous neighbour , who could not be enough detested ,
she had seen only mrs .
is no real squire ' s house to dispute the point—a circumstance , between ourselves , to enhance the value
averse to moving , and yet is certainly by no means mended by her residence here .
dullness is as much produced within doors as without , by rain .
not take it for her own .
i left them there and came on to hartfield , impatient for your opinion , and hoping you might be
than to me .
up their last hill , anne found herself all at once addressed by captain wentworth .
she was too much provoked and offended to have the power of directly saying any thing to the purpose .
let me hear from you as soon as you arrive , and in particular tell me what you mean to
woodhouse) , your father ' s state of health must be a great drawback .
" said she , " he is come—sir james is come , and what shall i do ?
jennings should be abandoned to the mercy of marianne for all the comfort of her domestic hours .
william cox letting himself in at the office-door , mr .
these bitter accusations might have been suppressed , had i , with greater policy , concealed my struggles , and
they brought with them their country habit of being almost always together .
” come , fanny , taking her hand , “do not be dawdling any longer , or the dance will
hard upon his patience ; but melancholy was the state of the person by whom the expectation of family opposition
charles is very rich i am sure ; when a man has once got his name in a banking-house he
daughter ' s .
, the glow of fanny ' s cheek , the brightness of her eye , the deep interest , the
what !
poor niece to sit and cry over what had passed , with very wretched feelings .
woodhouse—how was mr .
” “indeed i have ; and did you ever hear a story more pathetic ?
tell her from me , that she cannot expect to excel if she does not practice a good deal .
of her being settled so well .
, fearless smiles , now addressing all the young ladies of the place , to whom , a few weeks
bath .
“i had not been long in hertfordshire , before i saw , in common with others , that bingley preferred
and as for fanny ' s just stepping down to my house for me—it is not much above a quarter
have their share of society and amusement , because the elder may not have the means or inclination to marry
it is very odd that two pretty women tho ' actually mother and daughter cannot be in the same house
excuse the liberty ; but take care how you talk to me .
; and she left to cheer her father with the spirits only of ruined happiness .
; but in passing it they gave the history of the large room visibly added ; it had been built
and that mrs .
to jane , he could be only a man whose proposals she had refused , and whose merit she had
might have given the most acute observer a conviction that , however amiable her temper , her heart was not
is so prevalent that i confess i cannot help trembling .
as for marianne , i know her greatness of soul , there would not be music enough in london to
some suggestions as to the duty and benefit of struggling against affliction , which had naturally grown out of their
—to be sure , julia is dressed by this time .
" " elinor , for shame !
they now walked on in silence , each of them deep in thought .
risk anything rather than her displeasure ; and if you find it likely to be raised by your coming to
him to do anything he did not like .
, as left her only just so much solicitude as the human mind can never do comfortably without .
to my eldest daughter .
i made the best of it , however , and told my story with great success to mrs .
man is more robust than woman , but he is not longer lived ; which exactly explains my view of
, a look , a speech , a removal from one chair to another , a compliment implied , a
, and the continually improving detail of all the embellishments which were to make it the most completely elegant of
—some faults of temper john knightley had ; but isabella had connected herself unexceptionably .
to it , or at least i should not have now to lament it .
woodhouse had been safely seated long enough to give the history of it , besides all the history of his
i am perfectly comfortable to-day .
did henry ' s income depend solely on this living , he would not be ill-provided for .
of miss crawford without pain .
that every appearance i make in public but rivetts the chains of those unhappy beings whose passion it is impossible
i am very sorry for it ; but really i thought i was in very good time .
to the right is the steward ' s house ; he is a very respectable man .
sees the absurdity of it .
with mixed feelings , she seated herself at a little distance from the numbers round the instrument , to listen
her mind into a sober state , and incline her to a juster estimate of the value of that home
—has he really given it to edward ?
, without there having been a single preliminary difference to modify of all that " this indenture sheweth .
” then turning to isabella , who had not been attending before—“you must know , my dear mrs .
but when they did arrive at something more like conversation , it was sufficiently clear to her friend that she
through the village as he rode into it .
it—“come , fanny , ” she cried , “these are fine times for you , but you must not be
place at all in the way she could desire , that she was more disposed to wonder and rejoice in
” “i only heard a part of the letter ; it was to my uncle ; but i believe it
it had come with a fare from london ; and as he thought that the circumstance of a gentleman and
” “for—for very little more than opportunity .
“miss woodhouse has given her friend the only beauty she wanted , ”—observed mrs .
norris gave the particulars of the letters , and the subject was dropt ; but after tea , as miss
lady bridget darkwood and her sister-in-law , miss jane are expected on friday ; and colonel seaton ' s family
if miss austen[viii] re-christened elinor and marianne before she changed the title of first impressions , as she well may
the hill , crowned with wood , which they had descended , receiving increased abruptness from the distance , was
; they ever recur to augustus .
the plan had reached this point , when anne , coming quietly down from louisa ' s room , could
” “already arisen ?
dashwood immediately took all that trouble on herself ; and elinor had the benefit of the information without the exertion
my children begin now to claim all my attention in different manner from that in which they have been used
he gave her a very plain , intelligible account of the whole ; a narration in which she saw a
” he then told her of georgiana’s delight in her acquaintance , and of her disappointment at its sudden interruption
” harriet could not long resist so delightful a persuasion .
this moment—but the cutting the finger , and my recommending court-plaister , and saying i had none about me !
to give one , beyond the nothing-meaning terms of being “elegantly dressed , and very pleasing .
what all her family suffered on his going away , she did not adopt the method so judiciously employed by
remedies .
" [ _num_ ] the rest of the company soon dropt in .
out of the room , but speaking plain enough to be very intelligible to emma .
but i thought you blamed me .
they must speak of the accident at lyme .
the workmen , elinor , as usual , broke through the first positive resolution of not marrying till every thing
it was reasonable , however , to hope that they would not continue long .
nothing could console and nothing could appease her .
after waiting a few moments he said , and as if it were the result of immediate feeling , "
it was a great object with me at that time to be at sea ; a very great object ,
bennet wished to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of her younger girls ,
i cannot put her off .
acquaintance with the thrush , nothing of all that they had planned and depended on .
, that i am sincerely attached to him , for it is no disgrace to love a handsome man .
come home , and try an air that always agrees with her ; and they have no doubt that three
“smith ' s place is the admiration of all the country ; and it was a mere nothing before repton
a great deal in the summer , and in winter dressed their chilblains with her own hands .
do you think of my husband ?
and maids , being also obliged , on returning downstairs , to be fixed in their drawing-room for an hour
allen , who owned the chief of the property about fullerton , the village in wiltshire where the morlands lived
” “i should not have had to follow her if she had staid .
taken place in her looks within the last six weeks .
have been her sensations ?
what might be ; and how many walks up and down stairs she might have saved her , and how
knightley ' s .
his business was so nearly concluded as to justify him in proposing to take his passage in the september packet
woman , was she to be consenting the next to a proposal which might have made every previous caution useless
—as to your continuing here as i hoped for many , many weeks longer , how can i tell you
his politeness , she began , as they met , to admire the beauty of the place ; but she
was over , charles had proposed coming with him , and mrs harville had seemed to like the idea of
long , ” said miss lucas , “but i wish he had danced with eliza .
afraid of me .
declined , and they parted on each side with utmost politeness .
i am extremely pleased with him .
“as to that , my sweet catherine , there cannot be a doubt , and you know me well enough
there were many other men about him , many groups walking the same way , but there was no mistaking
the case , you see , is—(but this is quite between ourselves : i did not mention a syllable of
his heart , and striving to avoid his confidence , she should be able to reason herself into a properer
better than i deserve , and i write now to beg an immediate answer .
merely situation in life , fortune , and character , but with more than common agreeableness , with address and
, all her convictions , all her prophecies for the last six weeks .
certainly be at home .
his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character
allen , he supposed , must feel these inconveniences as well as himself .
we had such a good piece of fun the other day at colonel forster’s .
" --reciprocal compliments , which would have been esteemed about equal .
the sanguine hope of good , however , which the benevolence of her heart suggested had not yet deserted her
he was roused from the reverie of retrospection and regret produced by it , by some inquiry from edmund as
pleased to improve their cousins .
lady bertram does not bid a dozen .
they were all thoughtless or indolent .
attending it , and occasionally from some peevish allusions of her mother .
mrs musgrove could not give , could be properly interesting only to the principals .
we all know the difference between the pronouns he or she and thou , the plainest spoken amongst us ;
" she was determined to drop his acquaintance immediately , and she was very thankful that she had never been
" had i known as much half an hour ago—but since i am here , " —speaking with a forced
all the best plays were run over in vain .
be indulgent—especially to any one who leads the way .
, and scarcely staying to hope she would find it comfortable , left her with an anxious entreaty that she
in the absence of jane , he always attached himself to elizabeth , for the pleasure of talking of her
, or to refrain from wearing it .
" " ay , true enough , " (with a deep sigh) " only june .
“the loss of her ladyship ' s company would be a great drawback , and she should have been extremely
” “no ; not immediately here .
" " to be sure i did ; very often .
the gentleman offered his services ; and perceiving that her modesty declined what[ _num_ ] her situation rendered necessary ,
you are endeavouring to disarm me by reason , and to convince me against my will .
though , as his brother ' s widow , and in narrow circumstances , it was proper to render her
a man is in greater danger in the navy of being insulted by the rise of one whose father ,
” “and this is your real opinion !
she distrusted him .
solitariness of her cottage , as to be obliged to take daily refuge in the dining-room of the park .
but a proper licence , for here we are altogether , and nothing in the world could be more snug
i think he is an ill-looking fellow .
their dinner in tolerable ease of mind ; and then it was , just before they parted , that the
“nay , ” said elizabeth , “this is not fair .
as fanny would like to associate with .
, whatever it might be , that any thing but the most disinterested affection was her inducement ?
in the drawing-room with general tilney , his son , and daughter .
i see no advantage in consulting miss bates .
” betsey went with alacrity , proud to shew her abilities before her fine new sister .
she was then taken into a parlour , so small that her first conviction was of its being only a
john dashwood was obliged to submit not only to the exceedingly great inconvenience of sending her carriage for the miss
i rather wished , than believed him to be sincere ; but , at any rate , was perfectly ready
the apples themselves are the very finest sort for baking , beyond a doubt ; all from donwell—some of mr
a doubt of her regard , supposing him to feel it , need not give him more than inquietude .
allen was not inattentive to it : “well , my dear , ” said she , “suppose you go .
other people ' s actions .
in the choice of the house which they were going to secure , was very unwilling to have her hurried
cousin , charles hayter was an eldest son , and he saw things as an eldest son himself .
i live in the hope of seeing her irrisistable brother to night , as we are going to lady flambeaus
the envyings and heartburnings of dozens and dozens ; the wonder , the incredulity that will be felt at hearing
a friend of mine and i had such a lovely cruise together off the western islands .
of mind and sweetness of character , which must have placed her high with any people of real understanding ,
, and each found it necessary to talk of something else .
éclat .
in spite of their numerous and long arranged engagements in exeter , in spite of the absolute necessity of returning
her own sex without that person ' s being suspected to be either her determined enemy , or her professed
he has a most excellent mother .
is every thing finally settled ?
if we can but put willoughby out of her head !
elinor wished that the same forbearance could have extended towards herself , but that was impossible , and she was
her being there would have been a general good .
waiting .
play , and with you .
" " no , i just know his name .
out , she heard miss bates saying , “well , my dear , i shall say you are laid down
place at churchhill , with the vernons .
—and when he comes again , if his affection continue , i must be on my guard not to encourage
the rights of seniority , and the mistress of a very pretty landaulette ; but she had a future to
been in the room five minutes before she began introducing it with all that openness of heart , and sweet
palmer and two elderly ladies of mrs .
it was as follows : “my dear sir , “i feel myself called upon , by our relationship , and
i am afraid you will be very angry with me , but indeed i had no idea it would end
as for colonel brandon , she was not only ready to worship him as a saint , but was moreover
, and ornaments of rich carving might be pointed out : having gained the top , they turned in an
whatever might be its effect , however , she must stand the brunt of it again that very day .
—in addition to all the rest , there had been the shock of finding her so very unwell , which
no theatre , no rooms to prepare for .
" nothing can be going on better than the child , " said he ; " so i told my
, and he consequently looked forward with the hope of being with his beloved family again early in november .
she talked with a great deal of reason , and at least equal affection—but she had too much to urge
” “yes ; and every delay makes one more apprehensive of other delays .
sooner you go the better .
" his fortune too !
goddard , three ladies almost always at the service of an invitation from hartfield , and who were fetched and
they came .
” “and ought it not , ” reflected catherine , “to endear it to her husband ?
edmund , particularly struck by the alteration in fanny ' s looks , and from his ignorance of the daily
“she is my youngest girl but one .
something more than what he owned to us must have happened .
john knightley was a pretty , elegant little woman , of gentle , quiet manners , and a disposition remarkably
all the overpowering , blinding , bewildering , first effects of strong surprise were over with her .
harris appeared .
in the habit therefore of telling lies to increase their importance , or of asserting at one moment what they
john dashwood had then leisure to consider how much there might prudently be in his power to do for them
the enscombe family were not in town quite so soon as had been imagined , but he was at highbury
” emma even jumped with surprize ; —and , horror-struck , exclaimed , “jane fairfax !
bennet’s heart , but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his own future property .
miss bertrams ' going away—an intimacy resulting principally from miss crawford ' s desire of something new , and which
, or in the rapid decrease of a promising young brood , she found fresh sources of merriment .
how delightful !
” and touching miss bates , who at that moment passed near—“miss bates , are you mad , to let
morland , thinking it probable , as a secondary consideration in his wish of waiting on their worthy neighbours ,
how inconsiderate , how indelicate , how irrational , how unfeeling had been her conduct !
bears pain with such patience that i have not the common excuse for losing my temper .
in a very humble way , unable even to afford herself the comfort of a servant , and of course
” “and what are they ?
their father is a clergyman , and their brother is a clergyman , and they are all clergymen together .
comfort of both to the utmost , was the question .
and yet you loved him !
an object to him of such close and peculiar interest , dearer by all his own importance with her than
determined to set out for cleveland on that very day , without waiting for any further intelligence , and had
“i come from dr .
) “victuals and drink !
” said i—“go maria—” replied she—accordingly i went and was obliged to stand there at her ladyships pleasure though the
unconsciously it must be , for isabella ' s attachment to james was as certain and well acknowledged as her
—very well .
the lane made a slight bend ; and when that bend was passed , mr .
elton ' s offences , and long , very long , did they occupy her .
look at those hills !
” “news !
at one moment she was absolutely indifferent to the observation of all the world , at another she would seclude
him to be seated .
in marriage , the man is supposed to provide for the support of the woman , the woman to make
her behaviour to my dear charlotte is charming .
” “which makes his good manners the more valuable .
elizabeth had succeeded , at sixteen , to all that was possible , of her mother ' s rights and
elinor sat down to her drawing-table as soon as he was out of the house , busily employed herself the
table , he drew out a letter from under the scattered paper , placed it before anne with eyes of
” “shall i indeed ?
had ever presumed to hope for at the moment , she was able to fix her wedding-day—and mr .
but where am i wandering to ?
much my conviction as my wish .
that tooth of her ' s and those freckles .
could a linguist , could a grammarian , could even a mathematician have seen what she did , have witnessed
unable to answer your question .
—with one who so injured the peace of the dearest of our friends , and the best of men !
if there were but such another man for you !
usually correct .
, and by the readiness and propriety of his apologies , that he was a man of exceedingly good manners
“i am sure , ” said she , “i cried for two days together when colonel miller’s regiment went away
he was determined to prevent it , if possible , though his mother , who equally heard the conversation which
” anxious to separate herself from them as far as she could , she soon afterwards took possession of a
dear ma ' am , only look at her face at this moment ; how different from what it was
elizabeth had received none since her return that could come from pemberley .
” repeated elizabeth , in utter amazement .
marianne gave one glance round the apartment as she entered : it was enough—he was not there—and she sat down
many friends , yourself not the least among them , whose great kindness i shall always thankfully remember , [
after having attended my lamented freind to her early grave , i immediately (tho ' late at night) left the
consider what it would be to act amelia with a stranger .
to be sure i do .
” “i have not a doubt of mr .
woodhouse made us promise to have them done three times—but miss woodhouse will be so good as not to mention
i am confident that she would have performed delightfully .
i have not seen a creature the whole morning !
two companions would have been the same .
the distinction was too great .
of their personal charms he had not required a second interview to be convinced .
to aspire with success to the adorable henrietta who has had an offer from a colonel and been toasted by
i could not get rebecca to give me any help .
despair .
look around her , and wonder at the new buildings .
, in the whole course of his life , had he seen one of that class so unintelligibly moral ,
” when she thought of her mother , her confidence gave way a little ; but she would not allow
" " and how does dear , dear norland look ?
i would wish every thing to be as much to your taste as possible .
a connexion had she been preparing for mr .
to caroline’s assertion of her brother’s being partial to miss darcy she paid no credit .
thought herself entitled to the occasional holiday of a tea-visit ; and having formerly owed much to mr .
why should he pay her such attentions as to make her quarrel with my brother , and then fly off
, she turned away her head .
julia ' s , tom ' s , edmund ' s ; there a yet longer pause .
i am sometimes disposed to repent that i did not let charles buy vernon castle , when we were obliged
and i declare if she is not gone away without finishing her wine !
he knows that he is a very handsome young man , and a great favourite wherever he goes ; and
" ferrars !
—no , —have you forgot what passed in town ?
but then it was such a dead time of year , no wild-fowl , no game , and the lady
i had not been so very weak and vain and nonsensical as i knew i had !
no more of a girl whom he was violently in love with only a few days before .
she began , however , seriously to turn her thoughts towards its accomplishment , and had already mentioned their wishes
some part of his conduct we cannot excuse .
exquisite flutter of happiness , and such happiness moreover as she believed must still be greater when the flutter should
in fact , anne could never see the crape round his hat , without fearing that she was the inexcusable
mother .
you will not be hysterical again .
” that “the poor beetle , which we tread upon , “in corporal sufferance feels a pang as great “as
churchill ' s removal to london had been of no service to the wilful or nervous part of her disorder
received a partner only through a series of inquiry , and bustle , and interference , which would have been
could speak again , he had handed her in .
churchill at enscombe , it is settled .
” the horror of a mind like fanny ' s , as it received the conviction of such guilt ,
what are harriet smith ' s claims , either of birth , nature or education , to any connexion higher
fanny ' s spirit was as much refreshed as her body ; her head and heart were soon the better
” “ha !
she had no wish of her recovering immediately , as her restoration to health would probably remove her from netherfield
farther .
, to be a sailor , was invited to spend a week with his sister in northamptonshire before he went
a matter in which her disinterested spirit took no concern .
i knew what all this meant , for the servants ' dinner-bell was ringing at the very moment over our
, even to her friend—to fancy , to hope she could perceive a slight amendment in her sister ' s
it , was particularly welcome .
jennings was the widow of a man who had got all his money in a low way ; and fanny
when they came within the influence of sotherton associations , it was better for miss bertram , who might be
rushworth in a supernumerary glass or two , was all joyous delight ; for she had made the match ;
” “i suspect they do not satisfy mrs .
do you often dance at st .
weston , you would be quite laid up ; do not let them talk of such a wild thing .
the palmers were to remove to cleveland about the end of march , for the easter holidays ; and mrs
well !
bless me !
bingley arrived .
" [ _num_ ] " as moderate as those of the rest of the world , i believe .
" " westgate buildings must have been rather surprised by the appearance of a carriage drawn up near its pavement
had not good ground for hope .
the family were now seen to advantage .
and a fifth presented nothing new .
change of circumstances , because with such an husband her misery was considered certain .
” “have you never been there ?
her mind was all disorder .
that she should receive an offer of marriage from mr .
sentiment with a little variation of words three times over , his sister eagerly interrupted him with , “ah ,
you must do a good deal .
from miss fairfax so lately ?
i , and only i , knew your heart and its sorrows ; yet to what did it influence me
bath than yourself .
inform you that i like none of their faces so well as i do your own .
they look upon it as quite their own , i dare say , whenever that happens .
do with mainwaring .
wife .
and elizabeth continued her walk alone , crossing field after field at a quick pace , jumping over stiles and
norris , who had begun to redden , was appeased ; and , for a little while , other subjects
” “but if you have got them to-day , ” said elizabeth , “my mother’s purpose will be answered .
totally ignorant of my being in town last spring !
i never could have supposed it .
her aunt is a good creature , but , as a constant companion , must be very tiresome .
for a moment the gratification was exquisite .
jennings was kept away by the indisposition of her youngest daughter ; and for this party , marianne , wholly
“when is your next ball to be , lizzy ?
slight , formal apology , for not calling before , said not a word of wishing to see me again
it appears to me a most perfect resemblance in every feature .
upon these occasions , a lady ' s character generally precedes her ; and highbury has long known that you
i sincerely hope your christmas in hertfordshire may abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings , and that
is not a little disguised , or a little mistaken ; but where , as in this case , though
elizabeth was excessively disappointed ; she had set her heart on seeing the lakes , and still thought there might
the situation of the house excluded the possibility of much prospect from any of the rooms ; and while fanny
" " well , if you do not think it too late to give notice for yourself , suppose you
mr elliot has sense to understand the value of such a woman .
let us drop the subject .
he avoid observations which , unless it were like cowper and his fire at twilight , “myself creating what i
she was without any power , because she was without any desire of command over herself .
” “perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very often .
” “so do i , ” said mrs .
politeness with which he talked of his doubts , he did not , upon the whole , expect a very
for an hour and a quarter did we continue in this unfortunate situation—sophia fainting every moment and i running mad
” “how unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give , and that i should be so reasonable
yates , indeed , exclaimed against his tameness and insipidity ; and the day came at last , when mr
” replied emma , unable to guess , by look or voice , whether harriet could indeed have received any
” “if you believed it impossible to be true , ” said elizabeth , colouring with astonishment and disdain ,
for the truth of everything here related , i can appeal more particularly to the testimony of colonel fitzwilliam ,
nobody else to look at ; and therefore , if you do set about a flirtation with her , you
rushworth was sometimes very jealous .
it is very small and delicate—hartfield pork is not like any other pork—but still it is pork—and , my dear
in everything else she is as good-natured a girl as ever lived .
and they will not hear me ; but when i have put them in good-humour by this concession , i
" oh , don ' t be so sly before us , " said mrs .
the stiffness of the meeting soon gave way before their popular manners and more diffused intimacies : little groups were
no , my dear edmund , that will not quite do .
crawford has too much sense to stay here if he found himself in any danger from maria ; and i
ought he not to have felt assured that i must have unanswerable motives for all that i had done ?
me good) one very material thing i had to say from henry and myself—i mean about our taking you back
it became absolutely necessary for her to get to fanny and try to learn something more .
to those who were wanting her !
must go home .
” was the next question ; and while this branch of the subject was under discussion , maria , who
whenever i see her , she always curtseys and asks me how i do , in a very pretty manner
her wish of shewing you attention could not be doubted , and his being a disengaged and social man makes
gladness at beholding an old and valued freind from whom thro ' various circumstances he had been separated nearly twenty
weston has some little claim .
" " your indifference , however , towards that unfortunate girl—i must say it , unpleasant to me as the
no ; i was pleased with my own perseverance in asking questions ; and amused to think how little information
pounds , ) i cannot picture to myself a more wretched condition .
at that time indeed i used to wonder at her choice .
i am afraid he has been very imprudent , and has deserved to lose mr .
and with him the daughter had lived .
have been overlooked , had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the scruples that had long
i hope it does not distress you very much , fanny ?
do not you pity me ?
” “that is very likely .
in themselves , but still maintained that , as a family connexion , as good company , as those who
” “know him !
be that as it may , however , frederica is returned on my hands ; and , having nothing else
, a defect which time seemed to have increased ; nor could he pretend to say that ten years had
yes , these were characteristic sounds ; they brought to her recollection a countless variety of dreadful situations and horrid
weston , and generally both , either at randalls or here—and as you may suppose , isabella , most frequently
her joyful feelings .
this long letter , full of my own concerns alone , will be enough to tire even the friendship of
we understood that you were not immediately expected in the country .
" i declare , charles , i never heard him mention anne twice all the time i was there .
again i demand an explanation of it .
representations of her mother , to acknowledge the probability of many , and hope for the justice of all .
elton being the adoration of all the teachers and great girls in the school ; and it must be at
” he still reasoned with her , but in vain .
[ _num_ ] they sang together .
i am not qualified to form one .
bingley when he comes into the neighbourhood .
“unworthy grandfather !
it was , moreover , such a promising thing for her younger daughters , as jane’s marrying so greatly must
and mr elliot had manoeuvred so well , with the assistance of his friend colonel wallis , as to have
of yielding to truths , half a sense of shame , but habit , habit carried it .
german play , no matter what , with a good tricking , shifting afterpiece , and a figure-dance , and
” their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them .
i perfectly see how the hours passed : that you had always something agreeable to listen to .
the two dances were scarcely concluded before catherine found her arm gently seized by her faithful isabella , who in
reflection had given calmness to her judgment , and sobered her own opinion of willoughby ' s deserts ; she
native air , for the recovery of her health , than on any thing else .
" " there now ; you see how droll he is .
woodhouse ' s entertainment .
she was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of bringing them together ; that the whole of
know how to class among the common meaning ; in any other man , at least , she would have
“why , my dear , you must know , mrs .
mere trifle , and quite unworthy of being dwelt on , “it might be distressing , for the moment ,
” fanny was too urgent , however , and had too many tears in her eyes for denial ; and
look at that creature , and suppose it possible if you can .
jennings might be expected to be .
her own good sense would have dictated , in spite of the very natural wish of a little change .
is not general incivility the very essence of love ?
a change as became very alarming , when such a man as captain wentworth was to be regarded as the
she perceived him soon afterwards looking at herself , and speaking familiarly to her brother ; and had just determined
they arrived at bath .
it would be much better in every respect that eleanor should know nothing of the matter .
morland and my brother !
his niece , was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it , which went sorely
lines , and shall always remain— " your sincere well-wisher , friend , and sister , " lucy ferrars .
more and more partial to the house and environs—never spoke of going away without a sigh—declared his time to be
' s marrying edmund than it had ever been before .
” eleanor saw that she wished to be alone ; and believing it better for each that they should avoid
knightley ' s returning your affection ?
much interest in the circumstance , and enter as warmly into mr .
affront ?
speak .
for the distress of those around her .
the weather does not look well , and grandmama will be uneasy .
having so satisfactorily settled the conviction her note would convey , she could not but be astonished to see mr
” “that is exactly what i say ; he never thinks of you .
rushworth acknowledged herself very desirous that her son should marry , and declared that of all the young ladies she
he shall be mercenary , and she shall be foolish .
” “i believe , ” said fanny to her aunt bertram , “there will be three acts rehearsed to-morrow evening
in a quiet way , very little attended to , she paid her tribute of admiration to miss crawford '
poor perry is bilious , and he has not time to take care of himself—he tells me he has not
elton is shewing your picture to his mother and sisters , telling how much more beautiful is the original ,
cockade as you would wish to see .
by a present of game .
i hope you will like the chain itself , fanny .
but to her being , after all , less affluent than many of her acquaintance , especially than her sister
colonel brandon must be the man ; and no civility shall be wanting on my part to make him pleased
— " elinor told him that it was .
at christmas every body invites their friends about them , and people think little of even the worst weather .
bennet , who had calculated on her daughters remaining at netherfield till the following tuesday , which would exactly finish
gone home to return again to dinner : she returned , and sooner than had been talked of , and
the frequent exclamations , amounting almost to oaths , which adorned it , and catherine was left , when it
came from tetbury .
jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little miss de bourgh ate , pressing her to try some other dish
they are very well behaved , good kind of girls ; and i think the attention is due to them
his own humble abode , and the improvements it was receiving , he was happily employed until the gentlemen joined
” “i know you never do , my dear ; and you will always find your reward in the affection
no , no ; —every feeling revolts .
marianne , now looking dreadfully white , and unable to stand , sunk into her chair , and elinor ,
i am only ashamed of his asking so little .
—look down upon her friend , so well understanding the gradations of rank below him , and be so blind
” “law !
dispositions lead them too much into society for my present situation and state of mind ; and i impatiently look
having been out some time , and taken a different route to the house , they had not met him
at your house , or ours .
again , and keep to my resolution .
to , during the greatest part of the evening , her hand being so eagerly sought after that her indefinite
she looks very bad .
which she represents however as wholly unavoidable , that i am forced to recollect how many successive springs her ladyship
likewise not to hope .
“it is as a dream , a pleasant dream !
truth , with wickham !
but , however , that shan’t prevent my asking him to dine here , i am determined .
nature gave you understanding : —miss taylor gave you principles .
first behold him , than i felt that on him the happiness or misery of my future life must depend
edward ferrars , it seems , has been engaged above this twelvemonth to my cousin lucy !
jennings returned , she continued on the bed quiet and motionless .
she longed to inquire of the housekeeper whether her master was really absent , but had not the courage for
months since they had been seen in a regular way by their surry connexions , or seen at all by
elton in vain—by the surrender of all the dangerous pleasure of knowing herself beloved by the husband of her friend
the housekeeper declared she knew nothing of my being expected .
they walked on , without knowing in what direction .
elinor was obliged to turn from her , in the middle of her story , to receive the rest of
” “it is probable that she will neither love so well , nor flirt so well , as she might
it would be such a delicious scheme ; and i dare say would hardly cost anything at all .
had intimated the preceding one .
her plan of sitting with lady russell must give way for the present .
to confirm his account , by mentioning her prior knowledge of it from charlotte herself ; and endeavoured to put
she was on the point of sending again for mr .
now emma could , indeed , enjoy mr .
“but i can assure you , ” she added , “that lizzy does not lose much by not suiting his
i am impatient to see him .
her father was a clergyman , without being neglected , or poor , and a very respectable man , though
of her mother and cousins the following evening .
i hope you like your house , miss marianne .
her spirits had been so long exerted that at present she felt unequal to more , and fit only for
look , nor think , when the last moment came with him ; and it was not till it was
he keeps a man-servant , does he ?
she could see in only one light .
confusion of frederica entirely engrossed him ; and though a little private discourse with lady susan has since had its
, and a string of dawdling children round the baker ' s little bow-window eyeing the gingerbread , she knew
; and as a whist-table was formed after tea—formed really for the amusement of dr .
it gives me sincere satisfaction .
you shall hear what she says .
to give such intelligence to a person who could not be interested in it , even if it were true
than to any sense of shame at her eloping and living with wickham a fortnight before they took place .
" now you are talking nonsense , mary , " was therefore his answer .
s destination .
she could not endure that such a friendship as theirs should be severed unfairly .
how great was her disappointment !
however , i shan ' t say anything against them to you ; and to be sure they did send
“but indeed i would rather have nothing but tea .
" " no , no , it is not man ' s nature .
their being in the back ground was a support to anne ; she knew nothing of their looks , and
i expect my surveyor from brockham with his report in the morning ; and afterwards i cannot in decency fail
glories to do , for the sake of these treasures of his existence !
from this moment i make no difficulties .
mainwaring herself .
marianne ' s indignation burst forth as soon as he quitted the room ; and as her vehemence made reserve
allen he must not be in a hurry to get away .
prettier musings of high-wrought love and eternal constancy , could never have passed along the streets of bath , than
prudent to let me get you a chair .
my mother desires her best love , and hopes to hear from you soon .
brunton (whose self-control came out in the same year as sense and sensibility) , he does not scruple to declare
figures of the miss lesleys , and something agreably lively in the appearance of their pretty little mother-in-law .
she had a letter from him herself , a few hurried happy lines , written as the ship came up
dashwood was !
of the family , —something which the late event at richmond had brought forward .
well ; and mary , at the end of a long concerto , was glad to purchase praise and gratitude
this king married margaret of anjou , a woman whose distresses and misfortunes were so great as almost to make
—she had no hope , nothing to deserve the name of hope , that he could have that sort of
" he held out his hand .
emma found that it was not mr .
“i am not very sanguine as to our play , ” said miss crawford , in an undervoice to fanny
rushworth and mrs .
amidst all my lamentations for her (and violent you may suppose they were) i yet received some consolation in the
knowing that her intentions were good , and of being able to say to herself , that could mr .
he would be so very .
sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements .
before the end of the day ?
not be surprised at any effect produced on the heart of man by such loveliness and such abilities ; and
distress !
consider how important every moment is in such a case .
indulgence appear in shameful contrast ; and he wished he had been a william price , distinguishing himself and working
weston must be quiet , and every thing deliberately arranged .
and as for wedding clothes , do not let them wait for that , but tell lydia she shall have
collins arrived on tuesday , addressed to their father , and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a
i had been smarting under year after year .
more than she really knew or believed .
the letter was from this gentleman himself , and written in the true spirit of friendly accommodation .
tenant , instead of an honest man , to whom i have given half a promise already .
to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly foolish .
anxieties and fears which must be all to herself .
must call upon her soon .
my illness has made me think .
and she would not , upon any account , retract .
relief , from observing how much the beauty of her sister re-kindled the admiration of her former lover .
she did not repent what she had done ; she still thought herself a better judge of such a point
collins , did i tell you of lady metcalf’s calling yesterday to thank me ?
” “here you are in pursuit only of amusement all day long .
even without help .
i will not dissemble what real pleasure his sight afforded me , nor how strongly i felt the contrast between
; i only wish it were more valuable .
its being a gift of my brother ' s need not make the smallest difference in your accepting it ,
he looked more than usually grave , and though expressing satisfaction at finding miss dashwood alone , as if he
if not originally theirs , by what strange events could it have fallen into the tilney family ?
crawford too !
” “what , is it really a castle , an old castle ?
conscious must have been procured by some theft or contrivance unknown to herself .
your first sermon .
an affection which i had already taken such pains to[ _num_ ] display .
such a thought would never enter[ _num_ ] either sir john or lady middleton ' s head ; and therefore
everybody was pleased to know how much they had always disliked mr .
they ought .
” “and i have another favour to ask you .
” emma could not suppose any such thing , knowing as she did , that both the mr .
you not to talk of the sea .
, etc .
was much done at sotherton ; but it was a hot day , and we were all walking after each
“you cannot doubt your being missed by many , ” said she .
not otherwise have entered elinor ' s head .
there we went , and there we came home again ; and what was done there is not to be
would not be satisfied without its being sent back ; it was a thing she could not take—and , moreover
” was her address on catherine ' s entering the box and sitting by her .
to you very naturally appear insufficient , i have not yet learnt to condemn them .
—this letter tells us—it is a short letter—written in a hurry , merely to give us notice—it tells us that
" " but i hate to hear you talking so like a fine gentleman , and as if women were
—delightful to gather for one ' s self—the only way of really enjoying them .
i dare say i shall see them soon here .
—of that kind of love which i suppose him to have felt .
you see we have been wedging one leg with paper .
crawford ' s manners to you .
” “you need not hurry when the object is only to prevent my saying a bon mot , for there
you are your mother ' s self in countenance and disposition ; and if i might be allowed to fancy
henry dashwood had one son : by his present lady , three daughters .
seen , in a momentary glance beyond them , a narrower passage , more numerous openings , and symptoms of
she was a dear old asp to me .
dixon , which she had not only so foolishly fashioned and harboured herself , but had so unpardonably imparted ;
but now , do not stand upon ceremony .
collins and maria were gone on business into the village , when she was startled by a ring at the
an hour together without striking it out .
, and that i hope you will give it up .
' s freind he should be happy to see me there also .
“lovers ' vows !
i take any part you chuse to give me , so as it be comic .
and so did mrs .
in revolving these matters , while she undressed , it suddenly struck her as not unlikely that she might that
comfort ; and to complete the picture of good , the acquisition of mansfield living , by the death of
but for her folly .
after listening one morning to their effusions on this subject , mr .
are highly commendable , and that the circumstance of my being next in the entail of longbourn estate will be
jennings to be called , only tortured her more , by hints of what her mistress had always thought .
this very evening is fixed on as their first entree into life , as we are to drink tea with
strengthened by the sight of present upon present that she had received from them .
nothing could have done it away to my feelings .
” and , taking her hand , he would have given it to mr .
' s imagination around his person and manners , and increased her anxiety to know more of him .
no indeed !
come at all hours , and placed suddenly on a footing which must do away all restraints .
“whatever you say is always right , ” cried harriet , “and therefore i suppose , and believe , and
tilney ' s actual decease .
elton as a model .
jane ran to her uncle and aunt , and welcomed and thanked them both , with alternate smiles and tears
, it might be done .
she bitterly regretted not having sought a closer acquaintance with her , and blushed for the envious feelings which had
” “i think you must like udolpho , if you were to read it ; it is so very interesting
” “indeed you injure me if you suppose me unconvinced .
" " i am afraid it is but too true , " said marianne ; " but why should you
the abbey , and driven so rapidly along a smooth , level road of fine gravel , without obstacle ,
a little impatience , a judicious mixture of all on the lover ' s side , might work their usual
like discourse with him , by talking of their present residence , its conveniences , &c .
—could it really be meant for me ?
a few unintelligible hints .
” “it must have been his sister’s doing .
but i dare say you will go for all that .
" dear , dear norland !
was there one of the family , excepting edmund , who had not in some way or other continually exercised
, i suppose , upon this point .
your dear mother was so clever at all those things !
have discovered the truth .
suspected of a much nearer connection with her .
“advise” was his word , but it was the advice of absolute power , and she had only to rise
woodhouse and emma , till mr .
lady ' s side of meaning to leave them .
but here again , i met with nothing but disappointment and surprise .
you wish to think all the world respectable , and are hurt if i speak ill of anybody .
elinor saw , and pitied her for , the neglect of abilities which education might have rendered so respectable ;
father to me .
of his admiration , but which , from his manner , emma was immediately convinced must be his own .
children from the cottage , expressly arrived to amuse them .
herself she could hope for nothing .
compassionate emotion ; " you ought not to speak in this way , either of mrs .
norris is too just—but you know i am a woman of few words and professions .
bragge ' s ; but mrs .
rushworth was worked on .
rather a late hour at the abbey , before they quitted the supper-room on the day of henry ' s
so considerate !
pangloss for himself ; and very earnestly , but very unsuccessfully , trying to persuade the others that there were
he told me the whole story .
her father .
that has been stumbling at miss price for at least the last six weeks—i cannot let my brother go without
her were shut up , or wholly occupied each with the person quite dependent on them , at this time
best wishes for the recovery of her health and spirits that can be offered by her affectionate freind e .
i hope it is not too fine ; but i thought i ought to wear it as soon as i
the leg it will be another thing .
but there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you , who is very pretty , and i
memory of mary i should pity her .
to be at that fellow ' s in the market place .
” his good friend perry , too , whom he had spoken to on the subject , did not at
that is the reason of her writing out of rule , as we call it ; for , in the
what can you suppose ?
s thought .
” “i have heard him lamenting her having no instrument repeatedly ; oftener than i should suppose such a circumstance
i was ready to die of laughter .
in eager expectation , and remembering how often she had been falsely accused of being arch , thought the present
go without fears for their conduct .
) “i am of your opinion ; (said my father) it certainly does appear to proceed from some uncommon violence
where was this superfine , extraordinary sort of gallantry of yours then ?
you cannot imagine how suddenly it has come on me !
she had seen too much of the world , to expect sudden or disinterested attachment anywhere , but her illness
" " i did .
sooner if he would .
i shall have done in five minutes .
gardiner , “i begin to be of your uncle’s opinion .
and with her hand at her side , gave his orders for her sitting down entirely .
her curiosity was all awake , and she ran through it with an eagerness which was suspended only by intervals
my dear , did you change your stockings ?
in the affair .
he could not say that he was sorry on his own account ; his very cheerful look would have contradicted
but why should you dislike him ?
” he was very warmly thanked both by mother and daughter ; to escape a little from the latter ,
by these reductions ; and that the true dignity of sir walter elliot will be very far from lessened in
such were elizabeth elliot ' s sentiments and sensations ; such the cares to alloy , the agitations to vary
she had a large acquaintance , of course professionally , among those who can afford to buy , and she
elton ; “it would indeed be a delight !
saw who i was , for the first time these two months—he spoke to me .
chapter _num_ anne recollected with pleasure the next morning her promise of going to mrs smith , meaning that it
them sitting down out of doors to eat would inevitably make him ill .
it was settled that there should be a dance in the evening , [ _num_ ] and that every body
how well she walks !
they had by dint of being so very much together , got to speak to each other with a considerable
when the time proposed drew near , mrs .
the churchills might not have a word to say in return ; but then , you would have no habits
your restoration to peace will , i doubt not , speedily follow this act of filial obedience , and i
i was saying so to emily and sophia when you overtook us .
to be guided by second-hand conjecture is pitiful .
he tried to smile as he replied , " your sister ' s engagement to mr .
from herself , in almost every respect the very reverse of what she could have wished .
i have had a little knowledge of their methods of doing business ; and i am free to confess that
we instantly quitted our seats and ran to the rescue of those who but a few moments before had been
i knew he would manage everything !
distinguished him on the right hand pavement at such a distance as to have him in view the greater part
dashwood can spare you both for so long a time together !
, as well as she could , that the same brother must still be in question .
jennings would have persuaded her , at its conclusion , to take some rest before her mother ' s arrival
i would have everything as complete as possible in the country , shrubberies and flower-gardens , and rustic seats innumerable
" lady middleton is really a most elegant woman !
such tender consideration , replied , “you are very kind—but you are mistaken—and i must set you right .
sir john could do no more ; but he did not know that any more was required : to be
once she felt that he was looking at herself , observing her altered features , perhaps , trying to trace
norris , he was mistaken in supposing she would wish to make any .
that he might not be irritated into an absolute fever , by the fire which mr .
dashwood would have been secured by any act of attention to her child ; but the influence of youth ,
attempted to elope ; at least , i cannot otherwise account for her doing it .
mind is as clear and decided , as my wishes on the subject have been ever since i knew you
elton in love with me !
grew talkative and gay , making her his first object .
” catherine took up her work directly , saying , in a dejected voice , that “her head did not
very long has it possessed a charm over my fancy ; and , if i dared , i would breathe
” “refuse him ?
elton as one cannot but value .
we will endeavour to do our duty by her , and she will , at least , have the advantage
” “you can now have nothing further to say , ” she resentfully answered .
—very good-natured , i declare .
dashwood was too much astonished to speak , and another pause succeeded .
i shall sit by you .
mentioning it to any body but you , but he said you knew it .
and lucky may she think herself , if she get another good night ' s rest in the course of
felt the necessity of appearing more like herself .
but he is an ugly fellow !
emma shall be an angel , and i will keep my spleen to myself till christmas brings john and isabella
essentially hurt by it .
not leave the country without confiding them , and i trust you will not esteem them unreasonable .
boys , anne was at liberty .
, indeed !
as the weather was fine , they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile across the park .
—perhaps scarcely less an object of pity !
welcome her dear emma .
even to see mr .
” “such an imagination has crossed me , i own , emma ; and if it never occurred to you
him by name .
a room at an inn was always damp and dangerous ; never properly aired , or fit to be inhabited
he is not a gallant man , but he is a very humane one ; and this , considering jane
” “i have said no such thing .
at mansfield ; she had never seen him so agreeable—so near being agreeable ; his behaviour to her father could
i shall be at your service in half a minute .
kind as to wish to hear what she says ; —but , first of all , i really must ,
i have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of the right honourable lady catherine de bourgh
she saw that the infatuation had been created , the mischief settled , long before her quitting bath , and
none but those who invite from the heart could think capable of accommodating so many .
" he shortly afterwards drew a chair close to her ' s , and , with [ _num_ ]a look
i can easily believe that letters are very little to you , much less than to me , but it
there was nothing less for lady russell to do , than to admit that she had been pretty completely wrong
crawford not to understand his manners ; if he understood me as well , he would , i dare say
what is all this ?
be a little tranquillised and subdued—and in the course of the sleepless night , which was the tax for such
” said charlotte , as soon as he was gone .
they passed the drawbridge , and entered the town ; and the light was only beginning to fail as ,
dixon ' s name as well as her own , to press their coming over directly , and they would
wished to return with him to pulteney street .
i could wish the stairs were handsome .
and , in fact , you have heard all the essential already .
" after attending louisa through her business , and loitering about a little longer , they returned to the inn
william and fanny were the most detached .
a whole family miserable .
examine some improvements , and a charming game of play with a litter of puppies just able to roll about
she saw , that in persuading herself , in fancying , in acting to the contrary , she had been
i think , miss woodhouse , you and i must establish a musical club , and have regular weekly meetings
to all she must have saved some trouble of head or hand ; and were it only in supporting the
such a number of looking-glasses !
to hartfield , he was become perfectly reconciled , and not far from thinking it the very best thing that
” “so they will , my dear .
of the lady it may be added that , without his being a man of the world or an elder
we were engaged , every thing in preparation , the day almost fixed—but i am talking like a fool .
what is her character ?
norris ran about ; but all this gave her no trouble , and as she had foreseen , “there was
it directly .
woodhouse ' s fire , looking very deplorable .
” “no ; but they were to be put into the spare room to dry ; and , unluckily ,
s manner of living did not suit her situation or feelings , i might have believed that concern for the
” “this is the consequence , you see , madam , of marrying a daughter , ” said elizabeth .
imagine that (acquainted with the marriage and arrival of edward) to see me was a principal motive to it .
some way of being useful .
we are rather out of distance of the very striking beauties which attract the sort of parties you speak of
and so this is her attraction after all !
she and your brother choose to go , and you will be only getting ill will .
reynolds could interest her on no other point .
she came away from marlborough buildings only on sunday ; and she it was who told me you were to
pattens , she made no complaint .
fire , without knowing that she received warmth from one , or discerning objects through the other ; and marianne
” “it is amazing to me , ” said bingley , “how young ladies can have patience to be so
meaning .
elizabeth felt jane’s pleasure .
the expectation it raises .
if such goodness does not make her miserable now , she will never deserve to be happy !
they were soon within thirty yards of the gentleman .
four scenes to be let down ; nothing more would be necessary on such a plan as this .
that marianne wore his picture round her neck ; but it turned out to be only the miniature of our
but thirty-five has nothing to do with matrimony .
dinners ; few people in bath do ; lady alicia never does ; did not even ask her own sister
you know i have a pretty good spirit of my own .
more of mr .
i have heard him speak with great animation of a large family of young ladies that his sisters are intimate
they will have no carriage , no horses , and hardly any servants ; they will keep no company ,
she communicated to her eldest sister , when they were next by themselves .
mary exclaimed , " bless me !
except your society , my dearest friend ; but we will hope , at some future period , to enjoy
unhappy day in which augustus was arrested and we were separated—” “i will” (said he) and instantly fetching a deep
the admiral hates trouble , and scorns asking favours ; and there are so many young men ' s claims
] " how then , " asked her sister , " would you account for his behaviour ?
jennings , with a wine-glass , full of something , in her hand .
” “she was just sitting down to supper ma ' am .
churchill does every thing that any other fine lady ever did .
elinor even advised her against it .
they crossed it by a simple bridge , in character with the general air of the scene ; it was
while supposed to be writing only to captain benwick , he had been also addressing her !
she stared , coloured , doubted , and was silent .
weston ought to have found more in it , for she had a husband whose warm heart and sweet temper
be said at the close of every air .
it was unknown how much he had cost his uncle ; and , indeed , it would make some difference
my sins , my sins !
marianne , though without knowing it herself , reaped all its advantage ; for neither mrs .
“the party seemed so well selected , so suitable one with the other .
charles hodges will plague me to death , i dare say ; but i shall cut him very short .
you must give him your own answer : we cannot expect him to be satisfied with less ; and you
their father then went on to the library to write , and the girls walked into the breakfast-room .
getting rid of it .
darcy often acknowledged himself to be under the greatest obligations to my father’s active superintendence , and when , immediately
” “to be sure not .
“there is a lady , it seems , a mrs .
gardiner could not but be deeply afflicted .
my dear mother , —your letter has surprized me beyond measure !
one knows nothing of .
of this kind , given by a young man of character , to respectable people , can have any evil
" i think lady russell would like him .
bennet the next morning , but the post came in without bringing a single line from him .
“elegant , agreeable manners , i was prepared for , ” said he ; “but i confess that , considering
” “they are blended , ” said he , “i acknowledge ; and , were she prosperous , i could
you would rather talk of her person than her mind , would you ?
till now , i could not have supposed it possible to be mistaken as to a girl ' s being
wickham with a look which did not escape her .
had courage to command , had she not been urged by the disappointment of the day before .
“i can scarcely beleive you to be serious (returned he) when you speak of their persons in so extroidinary a
my dear mother , —i am very sorry to tell you that it will not be in our power to
” “do you mean literally or figuratively ?
my first care , when i did arrive , was of course to seek for her ; but the search
“my father and maria are coming to me in march , ” added charlotte , “and i hope you will
now near at hand , and spending the whole evening away from him .
—mrs .
the disproportion in their fortune was nothing ; it did not give her a moment ' s regret ; but
and that her agitation , her doubts , her reluctance , her discouragement , had been all received as discouragement
extend it a little farther , and it will make me happy .
she had long resolved that one-and-twenty should be the period .
to censure it .
the heir presumptive , the very william walter elliot , esq .
she has not often a gratification of the kind , and i am sure , ma ' am , you
an hour , be termed , by the courtesy of her hearers , an explanation ; but scarcely , within
his former acquaintances had been numerous ; but since he had been in the militia , it did not appear
it must have the strangest appearance !
" then she has forgiven me before she ought to have done it .
we shall be wanted , and i am determined to go directly .
” they were now on the second floor , and the appearance of a housemaid prevented any farther conversation .
the moment of her release from him was ecstasy .
jemima is so careful ; and she could send us word every hour how he was .
dashwood ' s income would be so trifling in comparison with their own , she should have any handsome article
” in vain did elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable , and jane to make her resigned .
it was quite a sudden thing our coming at all , and i knew nothing of it till the carriage
you ought all to have learned .
as any eligible purchase offers .
splendour , and more real elegance , than the furniture of rosings .
confidential discourse of the two ladies was therefore at an end , to which both of them submitted without any
our weather must not always be judged by the calendar .
you feel , i suppose , that in losing isabella , you lose half yourself : you feel a void
near elizabeth , began inquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood , with a good humoured ease which she felt
i gave him hopes of frederica ' s relenting , and told him a great deal of her improvements .
he had seen her eyes sparkle as she spoke of the dear friend ' s letter , which claimed a
the heat was excessive ; he had never suffered any thing like it—almost wished he had staid at home—nothing killed
her father fondly replied , “ah !
” “very well ; i will not plague you any more .
after the hints you gave just now , which did but confirm my own observations , the last time i
did not see any reason why she was to be considered so much at home as to lose her place
the neighbourhood , to suspect any part of what had really passed between mrs .
“no ; not quite a month .
—your own excellent sense—your exertions for your father ' s sake—i know you will not allow yourself— .
i cannot but wonder , however , at her having any such fears now , because , if he had
matches of greater disparity (those were your very words) ; —i should not have dared to give way to—i should
” “you are mistaken .
allen , with perfect serenity , “it is very uncomfortable indeed .
unshaken , her appearance of cheerfulness as invariable , as with regrets so poignant and so fresh , it was
a closet , or behind a chimney-board , on purpose to hear what we said .
“why do you put such things into my head ?
mine .
must feel it—you must suffer .
' i constantly applauded even every country-dance , she played , yet not even a pidgeon-pye of my making could
after the bustle of the eltons ' departure , and was ready to speak , she was very tolerably capable
i should not pay him half so much deference .
i believe i owe it to my character to complete the match between my daughter and sir james after having
elton ' s absence just at this time was the very thing to be desired .
it is very often nothing but our own vanity that deceives us .
” “very likely , ” said emma—“nothing more likely .
as had puzzled him before ; and when their visitors left them , he went immediately round her , and
with us , which we were lucky enough with the help of our landlady , her husband , and their
one could not be connected with better people .
i deserved none .
a deficiency of information , or (smiling) of something else .
to pretend to know him very well .
john knightley only was in mute astonishment .
i must conclude , for i cannot be long from my poor mother .
left almost everything in the world to them .
" she blushed at this hint ; but it was even visibly gratifying to her ; and after a ten
” “is there nothing i can do for you in town ?
” “well , well , we will take our chance some one of those days .
sir john , could not have thought it possible .
i am come on to give you notice , that papa and mamma are out of spirits this evening ,
” “but were there roses enough to oblige her to go twice ?
elinor wished very much to ask whether willoughby were then in town , but she was afraid of giving him
as soon as she came to her own name , it was irresistible ; every line relating to herself was
" mr .
i can safely say i owe you no ill-will , and am sure you will be too generous to do
but now she liked it not .
jennings ' s last illness , and what he said to his wife a few minutes before he died .
see .
—for her own advantage indeed , it was fit that the utmost extent of harriet ' s hopes should be
the key was in the door , and she had a strange fancy to look into it ; not ,
" it is mr .
" my love you contradict every body , " said his wife with her usual laugh .
—sad business for him .
he invites matilda and me to pay him a visit to italy and to bring him his little louisa whom
it is like a woman ' s writing .
denoted the feelings of an older acquaintance than he really was , strongly enforced the invitation .
how trifling they make every thing else appear !
pains you took to disguise yourself , your feelings were always noble and just ; and in your heart ,
a letter from a young lady , whose feelings being too strong for her judgement led her into the commission
temper .
the game will be yours , ” turning to her again ; “it will certainly be yours .
“so , lizzy , ” said he one day , “your sister is crossed in love , i find .
bennet , accompanied by her two youngest girls , reached netherfield soon after the family breakfast .
face as well as she could with her handkerchief , she darted across the hall , jumped into the chaise
in a moment , half smiling again , added , " the day has produced some effects however ; has
yes , ” said elizabeth drily ; “mr .
—she could not have believed it possible that the taste or the pride of miss fairfax could endure such society
your husband i abhor , reginald i despise , and i am secure of never seeing either again .
there had been a time also when emma would have been sorry to see harriet in a spot so favourable
your sisters are engaged , and there is not another woman in the room whom it would not be a
her carriage remained at the door , and elizabeth saw that her waiting-woman was in it .
the compliment was just returned , coldly and proudly ; and , under indescribable irritation of spirits , she was
maid to assist her ; too late , of course , to be of any use .
grant , really eager to get any change for her sister , could , by the easiest self-deceit , persuade
before the middle of the day , they were visited by sir john and mrs .
fanny will be so truly your sister !
other of my sisters .
” “you are mistaken , indeed , ” returned eleanor , looking at her most compassionately ; “it is no
as long as she was happy , they would always be satisfied .
you could not have met with a person more capable of giving you certain information on that head than myself
every attention is due to mr elliot .
inquiry myself , and should be sorry to have any made by my friends .
with miss bennet .
brother ' s , and fanny devoted to her aunt bertram , returning to every former office with more than
kitty and me were to spend the day there , and mrs .
neither sickness nor sorrow seemed to have closed her heart or ruined her spirits .
who i know will enter into all my feelings .
would consider it as the proudest moment of his life .
it was very strange that he should come to longbourn instead of to lucas lodge ; it was also very
it quite delights me .
how can you ask the question ?
she did it with wretched feelings , but it was inevitable .
strength .
he was delighted with every thing ; admired hartfield sufficiently for mr .
as soon as she could , she went after mary , and having found , and walked back with her
of the eight already in being .
that gentleman knows your name , and you have a right to know his .
” catherine assented—and a very warm panegyric from her on that lady ' s merits closed the subject .
this point was just arranged , when a visitor arrived to tear emma ' s thoughts a little from the
as to mr .
at length , however , the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind aroused her , and she
" — elinor tried to make a civil answer , though doubting her own success .
sit here that nothing would have come of it ; for mr .
” emma grieved that she could not be more openly just to one important service which his better sense would
let us have the luxury of silence .
which we were yesterday informed by a letter from hertfordshire .
" " i rather think you are mistaken , for when i was talking to her yesterday of getting a
from this subject she made a short digression to the instability of human pleasures and the uncertainty of their duration
she acknowledged it to be very fitting , that every little social commonwealth should dictate its own matters of discourse
with your good sense , to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others !
his horse in motion again , when captain wentworth cleared the hedge in a moment to say something to his
why did she draw back and look so grave at me ?
though lydia’s short letter to mrs .
(said she) the servants are out .
from his sister , opened and read by her , on another account , with the most anxious curiosity :
i was quite astonished .
but you really frightened me .
” “to be sure , ” said harriet , in a mortified voice , “he is not so genteel as
herself , it seemed a peculiarly cruel necessity that was to be placing her in such a state of unmerited
her name .
but in dancing , their duties are exactly changed ; the agreeableness , the compliance are expected from him ,
ribbon to settling her accounts ; from finding her keys , and assorting her trinkets , to trying to convince
i shall press you no more .
but i thought , at the time , that you would most likely change your mind when it came to
if you can get him away it will be a good thing .
the brightest glow was instantly spread over isabella ' s features , all care and anxiety seemed removed , her
i began to think you would never come .
feel that to flatter and follow others , without being flattered and followed in turn , is but a state
she looked suspiciously at her sister ; maria ' s countenance was to decide it : if she were vexed
walked off .
she had raised herself from the ground , but her foot had been twisted in her fall , and she
just had it in a letter from harville , written upon the spot , from uppercross .
when they get to our age , i dare say they will not think about officers any more than we
for miss tilney .
—though always objecting to every marriage that was arranged , he never suffered beforehand from the apprehension of any ;
she never did before .
how well she looked last night !
it was nothing more than that my father—they were just preparing to walk out , and he being hurried for
he , indeed , i have lately thought , has seen the woman he could love , which , i
" " disappointment ?
of intimacy subsisting between them , implied by the discussion of such a subject .
i remember it perfectly .
at least tolerably domestic and quiet ; and at any rate , there was comfort in finding his estate rather
be but small .
she would have gone directly after breakfast , but that mrs clay was also going out on some obliging purpose
i am very sorry for it , for unexceptionable as you are in every respect , with a pretty estate
she was overpowered by shame and vexation .
she was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a proper situation for her daughter , and , without knowing or
waiting neither for salutation nor inquiry , instantly gave the joyful relief ; and her mother , catching it with
what light this ball was , in general , considered respecting her , it would very much have lessened her
it was made a great favour of ; and altogether it was more than i could bear ; and so
jane , you have never seen mr .
what a happy creature william must be !
only have been so good as to let us know you were going out .
about in the flower-garden , that did the mischief .
and she was sorry to find from mrs .
now used to the sight of him in his suffering , helpless state , and hearing only the best ,
” “if we thought alike of miss bingley , ” replied jane , “your representation of all this might make
the room as she spoke , from a consciousness that she ought to offer to stay at home herself .
drinking ?
” yet the misery , for which years of happiness were to offer no compensation , received soon afterwards material
, to secure it , the matter was settled by mrs .
tilney might be as a dreamer or a lover had not yet perhaps entered mr .
which it was so essential to obtain every twenty-four hours .
and never go to london but on business .
, beautiful animal .
letter this morning you might have been spared the vexation of knowing of reginald ' s being gone to london
up to the door , henry , with the friends of his solitude , a large newfoundland puppy and two
, had never been wanting in comforts of any sort , had never borne a bad character in her time
when people come in this manner on purpose to ask us , how can one say no ?
she nor her friend had taken cold the day before , " &c .
” “i did not mean , i was not thinking of the slave-trade , ” replied jane ; “governess-trade ,
was not so very hot .
" " my dear madam , " said lady middleton , " recollect what you are saying .
grant , pretending to whisper across the table to mrs .
miles : such was the distance of northanger from bath , to be now divided into two equal stages .
weston ' s wedding-day ; but mr .
' the consequence , ' said she , ' has been a state of perpetual suffering to me ; and
, more talent and taste than mr .
as a counsellor she was not wanted ; but as an approver , (a much safer character , ) she
we had great amusement with those letters one morning .
of every thing ' s being dull and insipid about the house !
there is nothing so likely to give it as standing and stooping in a hot sun ; but i dare
henry is different ; he loves to be doing .
but it is so strange !
she felt anew the justice of mr .
colonel campbell is a very agreeable man , and mrs .
i hope we shall have her here next week .
she was the youngest of the two daughters of a most affectionate , indulgent father ; and had , in
captain wentworth talked of going there again himself , it was only seventeen miles from uppercross ; though november ,
perhaps by and by i may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones .
i was the most miserable wretch !
of what i felt .
they want to get their tumble over .
at his being now seeking the acquaintance of some of those very people against whom his pride had revolted in
should be extremely merry all day long .
the whole .
i ' ll play to him and sooth him in his melancholy hours—beware ye gentle nymphs of cupid ' s
were chiefly to her husband ; and he murmured , in reply , “very true , my love , very
; and when at length they turned in at the lodge , her spirits were in a high flutter .
but with respect to any other leading characteristic , i do not imagine that much has been unfolded .
“if i were at portsmouth i should be at it , perhaps .
tell what to think myself ; and i believe in my heart lucy gave it up all for lost ;
john dashwood had so much confidence in her husband ' s judgment , that she waited the very next day
" but unfortunately in bestowing these embraces , a pin in her ladyship ' s head dress slightly scratching the
she had been forced into prudence in her youth , she learned romance as she grew older : the natural
him directly (with a great deal about sweet and love , you know , and all[ _num_ ] that—oh ,
every circumstance in favour of it which has occurred within our own circle ; many of which circumstances (perhaps those
or other her destroyer , affected her even to tears .
—i think she might see us ; and i am sure we would not speak a word .
that he was very particular in his eating , she had , by her own unassisted observation , already discovered
reginald is only repeating after her ladyship .
she had been used to affluence : it was gone .
, the other from that friend to himself , by which it appeared that his lordship had the very great
his still refusing to tell her what he had gone for was but the promotion of gaiety ; a day
she does not yet leave her dressing-room .
” “a general deficiency of subject , a total inattention to stops , and a very frequent ignorance of grammar
while the family were in this confusion , charlotte lucas came to spend the day with them .
, i dare say , in the course of the spring ; and your eldest cousin , and the rushworths
this weather is all from the south .
” “not a walk in the rain , i should imagine .
—how she could dare to fancy herself the chosen of such a man till actually assured of it !
should set off again , and walk half a mile to another man ' s house , for the sake
—but two such offers in one day !
” “i hope i am , madam .
—i am sure if ever you tell your sister what i think of her , you cannot speak too high
a man ought to be punished .
” “there does , indeed , seem as little to tempt her to break her resolution at present , ”
what wild imaginations one forms where dear self is concerned !
too good , too excellent creature !
how could you say you saw them driving out in a phaeton ?
forgive me ; and if you persist in indifference , do not make me your confidante .
robert ferrars ?
vernon to mr .
wingfield , she was quite eager to have harriet under her care .
extent of his income , as either leaving his brother too little , or bringing himself too much ; —and
not been thought very pretty before ; but the truth is , that your uncle never did admire you till
which i believe i ought to have made long ago .
gratifying , however , and stimulative as was the letter in the material part , its sentiments , she yet
seclusion exactly suited her brother , whose feelings must always be of great importance to his companions ; and he
very plain terms to her partner .
dashwood , can ever reprobate too much , —i was acting in this manner , trying to engage her regard
he merited no kind one .
, she hoped to make it practicable for him to chuse his own subject in the adjoining room .
” she could say no more ; her breath was almost gone .
after dinner , when he and his father were alone , he had fanny ' s history ; and then
“how could i ever think her like her nephew ?
so heavy , so multiplied , so rising in dreadful gradation !
bertram , you must excuse me .
bingley’s love ?
she had tasted of consequence in its most flattering form ; and he did hope that the loss of it
she wanted strength for a two hours ' saunter of this kind , coming , as it generally did ,
but you men are all so immoderately lazy !
not with such calmness was he answered by the latter : “oh !
, which the sight of him would have made ; and ending with reflections on the churchills again , found
endanger the lives of himself , his companion , and his horse .
be to leave relations to whom you are so much attached , and are so dear .
and all this was said with a truth and sincerity of feeling irresistible .
effect of its influence on his habits , the picture of repose and domestic happiness it presented , made it
ever be ascertained ; for who would take her assurance of it on either side of the question ?
he had passed out of the room without a look !
life !
lydia left a few lines for his wife , informing her of their intention .
for a little while emma persevered in her silence ; but beginning to apprehend the bewitching flattery of that letter
it now because it is all over—so improperly by poor mr .
i observe we never disagree .
' s private apartment , without comprehending their connection , or being able to turn aright when she left them
is very good-humoured and pleasant in his own family , and i do not think him so very ill-looking as
" " if the impertinent remarks of mrs .
i will not be alarmed though your sister does play so well .
weston had , of course , formed a very favourable idea of the young man ; and such a pleasing
miss dashwood had a delicate complexion , regular features , and a remarkably pretty figure .
lengthen the two hours into four .
in bond street especially , where much of their business lay , her eyes were in constant inquiry ; and
" " her guardians , my dear .
to bring away some fresh conviction of its being impossible among so many dishes but that some must be cold
increased by the farther knowledge of her character , which half a year ' s residence in her family afforded
and it is such a good joke , too , that you should have gone this morning and never said
modest , gentle nature , to repulse mr .
they could have been understood only by her mother , who might have felt nearly the same .
how shall you like it ?
cannot wonder at my wishing to avoid any encouragement of my own partiality , by believing or calling it more
here are children in abundance , and what benefit could have accrued to me from his purchasing vernon ?
knightley , and residing in the parish of donwell—very creditably , she believed—she knew mr .
greater pleasure in bestowing it ; but , upon my word , you owe nothing to my solicitation .
than that of his regret at her secession from their company ; and mr .
her manner , to be sure , was very kind and proper , and mr .
lucy spoke first .
” “let me entreat you , ” cried mr .
” “udolpho !
held out by henry ' s willing hand .
” “and besides , miss bertram is engaged .
she believed every body spoke well of him .
i think her the very worst sort of companion that emma could possibly have .
papa—that is what you never have been able to accomplish , and i do not think you ever will .
phoo !
but poor mrs clay who , with all her merits , can never have been reckoned tolerably pretty , i
up any better .
bennet protested against any description of finery .
gardiner this moment , on business that cannot be delayed ; i have not an instant to lose .
the stream is as good as at first ; the little rubbish it collects in the turnings is easily moved
i wonder you should think it possible for me to have such feelings .
sick family , who lived a little way out of highbury .
i am still doubtful at times as to marrying ; if the old man would die i might not hesitate
weston and harriet , ) whose thoughts i might not be afraid of knowing .
marianne ' s performance brought her these words in the colonel ' s calm voice , — " i am
i know not who is the lady .
” “i dare say he does ; and i do not know any man who is a better judge of
; that she was wretched , and should probably find this day but the beginning of wretchedness .
brother ; and elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with mr .
at their request went through the chief of the songs which lady middleton had brought into the family on her
—am i to suppose then ?
the longer he stays , the worse it will be for him at last .
i am excessively attentive to all those things .
" i had not thought of that .
knightley so placed as to see them all ; and it was his object to see as much as he
i was sure that would come out , if it was so .
jennings was in hopes , by this vigorous sketch of their future ennui , to provoke him to make that
every time they met , it was more decided and remarkable .
all the agitations which she had merely laid her account of tasting a little before the morning closed .
it confesses that you have long understood me .
no , hers is not a cruel nature .
i hope you are not very tired .
his own property as he chose , but , in consequence of it , we have been obliged to make
” here fanny interposed , however , with anxious protestations of her own equal ignorance ; she had never played
she must be courteous , and she must be compassionate .
” “i saw her answer !
knightley could not have observed him as she had done , neither with the interest , nor (she must be
the first feeling was disappointment : he had hoped better things ; he had thought that an hour ' s
, for he was in a line of admiration of miss crawford , which might lead him where fanny could
might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune .
i shall walk to meryton to-morrow to hear more about it , and to ask when mr .
she could see nothing but evil in it .
" " you are very good , i hope it won ' t hurt your eyes : —will you ring
the ball , too—such an evening of pleasure before her !
it is not my way to find fault with people because they are poor , for i always think that
her sister , which in spite of all that she knew before of marianne ' s imprudence and want of
chapter xv emma was not required , by any subsequent discovery , to retract her ill opinion of mrs .
for it , as the residence of a family of such true gentility , untainted in blood and understanding .
whatever i can do , as you well know , i am always ready enough to do for the good
miss harville only died last june .
everybody declared that he was the wickedest young man in the world ; and everybody began to find out that
emma could not regret her having gone to miss bates , but she wished she had left her ten minutes
at them , and abused them for coming , began with-- " well , mother , i have done something
his first proposition and request , that the dance begun at mr .
" " but you must go , charles .
have added are infinitely superior to what she received from nature .
have been greatly[ _num_ ] injured , and long unhappy .
look !
uniformly open and unreserved .
darcy had voluntarily done for lydia .
and been trodden under foot , is still in possession of all the happiness that a hazel nut can be
young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other sex by undervaluing their own ; and with many men
now was not it so ?
three years .
maria is nobly married ; but had mr .
morland knew so little of lords and baronets , that she entertained no notion of their general mischievousness , and
him gone .
norris could not possibly keep to herself , put an end to all intercourse between them for a considerable period
i was sometimes quite provoked , but then i recollected my dear elizabeth and jane , and for their sakes
her seeing them all in due time disposed of in marriage .
life , and in his profession , he should not have many acquaintance in such a place as this .
; but , as the whole of the profits of his mercantile life appeared so very moderate , it was
crawford smiled his acquiescence , and stepping forward to maria , said , in a voice which she only could
just reached this point , when anne , as she sat near the window , descried , most decidedly and
of him as a good-humoured , well-meaning , respectable young man , without any deficiency of useful understanding or knowledge
the event acquitted her of all the fancifulness , and all the selfishness of imaginary complaints .
elton had very readily acceded to it , so it was to be , if she had no objection .
impatience , his sorrowful look and total want of spirits when he did come might redeem him .
were you , i would not give him up to my younger sister , in spite of all this tumbling
frank churchill writes one of the best gentleman ' s hands i ever saw .
" " and i am sure , sir , " said mrs musgrove , " it was a lucky day
her greedy eye glanced rapidly over a page .
the danger was beginning to fail her already .
progress , her mind became so pleasantly occupied in superintending the fortunes of her eldest niece , as tolerably to
family ?
to the including her in those delightful exploring parties which are to take place in the barouche-landau .
i will not tease you .
the play had been lovers ' vows , and mr .
—well , here we are at the passage .
he was , at that time , a remarkably fine young man , with a great deal of intelligence ,
and lord help ' em !
levity in her mother ; but yet i can pronounce her disposition to be excellent , and her natural abilities
what could it contain ?
through two centuries at least , and were now spending from two to three thousand a year in .
to dupe me , and worse than simple to let him give me a hard-hearted , griping fellow for a
be said between the brother and sister about bath , so much between the two young men about hunting ,
, on which an humble man might have looked with pride .
beyond his remembering the catchword , and the first line of his speech , and being able to follow the
” “and what has been done , what has been attempted , to recover her ?
i will not torment myself any longer by remaining among friends whose society it is impossible for me now to
i have a right to talk on such subjects , without being suspected of introducing robert martin .
we were always glad to see him at hartfield .
behind the fire , and i wish you to see me do it .
wickham ; no , i certainly am not .
do the duty of the day .
could it be an impartial one ?
“it is a pleasure to see a lady with such a good heart for riding !
of the way to the apartment she was now perfectly mistress ; and as she wished to get it over
“william did not like she should come away ; he had told her he should miss her very much indeed
—she who could do any thing in highbury !
everything honourable and soothing , every present enjoyment , and every future hope was contained in it ; and her
miss crawford had a claim ; and when it was no longer to encroach on , to interfere with the
looking at her sister , and saying , " i must not tell , may i , elinor ?
had been so long promised it—mr .
the present was that captain wentworth would move about well in her drawing-room .
acquainted with the whole village , and found matter of commendation and interest much oftener than emma could have supposed
elton led the way , mr .
crawford this could not have happened .
of alarm ; but she was vexed by the manner of his return .
cole is very bilious .
incidental complaints , she recommended his taking some refreshment ; he would find abundance of every thing in the dining-room—and
it will be felt so great an attention !
, and on his making harriet his very first subject , was ready to listen with most friendly smiles .
” the bitter feelings occasioned by this speech , the many bitter feelings , made the utmost exertion necessary on
fanny was tempted to apply to them dr .
” elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of his behaviour to wickham ; and therefore
with what arose from the conviction of being missed by her best friends , and the longing to be useful
his readiness , however , in agreeing to dine at the parsonage , when the general invitation was at last
“the arrival of this pianoforte is decisive with me .
jennings much more than civility ; and civility of the commonest kind must prevent such a hasty removal as that
her , for she presently added , " do you not think they are something in miss morton ' s
” elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table , and they went up stairs together .
not be obliged to lay out anything on furniture himself— .
it was put an end to by mrs .
knightley , do not foretell vexation from that quarter .
willoughby thought the same ; and their behaviour at all times , was an illustration of their opinions .
residence , without any very heavy expense , and that must suffice me ; and , i hope , may
description , can have had such a range ; but what restrictions i might impose on the use of the
him " poor richard , " been nothing better than a thick-headed , unfeeling , unprofitable dick musgrove , who
how would he bear to have miss bates belonging to him ?
to him , had in all likelihood been given also .
i wish we had a large acquaintance here .
but though i may not exactly make converts of you young ladies , i am sure your father , miss
—but now , i am at such a distance from her—is not it hard , miss woodhouse ?
—of the same age—and always knowing her—i ought to have been more her friend .
john knightley ' s , and was destined , if she could please herself , to hold a very honourable
the black gentleman when any thing is to be done ; most likely they will be there to-morrow or saturday
encouragement which her hopes drew from it .
; there was no occasion to determine whether she ought to keep edmund and mary asunder or not .
— “i have to inform you , my dearest fanny , that henry has been down to portsmouth to see
with myself for suffering you to form a connection so imprudent ; but the influence of reason is often acknowledged
any gate , was ready to do as mary wished ; but " no !
had great pleasure in praising it .
then , perhaps , you cannot tell me what sort of a woman she is ?
on tiptoe she entered ; the room was before her ; but it was some minutes before she could advance
in frank ' s last letter she complained , he said , of being too weak to get into her
other could equally share , an apparent composure of mind , which , in being the result as she trusted
a person may be proud without being vain .
churchill ; every body knows mrs .
” “may i ask to what these questions tend ?
to secure any pleasure for her sister ; and mary , properly pressed and persuaded , was not long in
no wit amuse ; or allowing the attentions of mr .
as near to mrs smith ' s lodgings in westgate buildings , as anne chose to be taken .
but now , poor girl , her peace is cut up for some time .
” “i did , ” replied emma , “and they cannot forgive me .
safety , congratulating them with sincerity on it , and reading aloud the most material passages of her letter with
on the contrary , there is something pleasing about his mouth when he speaks .
their housekeeping will be nothing at all .
jane was already so much recovered as to intend leaving her room for a couple of hours that evening .
susan was growing very fond of her , and though without any of the early delight in books which had
i am extremely sorry for it ; for i know him to be a very good-hearted creature , —as well-meaning
your retrospections must be so totally void of reproach , that the contentment arising from them is not of philosophy
which sprang the following question , thoroughly artless in itself , though rather distressing to the gentleman : “but ,
her colour changed , and she said no more .
i often think of mr .
to be sure that did seem as if he admired her—indeed i rather believe he did—i heard something about it—but
persuaded him not merely to forget but to justify her conduct .
they strongly resembled each other in that total want of talent and taste which confined their employments , unconnected with
long will do any such thing .
this was a hard duty , and she was never summoned to it without looking at william , as he
—at any rate , it would be a proof of attention and kindness in herself , from whom every thing
he had been some days in town , before he was able to discover them ; but he had something
dashwood , who felt obliged to hope that he had left mrs .
with a friendly shake of his son ' s hand , and an eager voice , he instantly began—“ha !
the match .
—she could really almost fancy herself at maple grove .
crawford , it raised some awkward sensations in two of the others , two of his most attentive listeners—miss crawford
catherine had expected to have her feelings worked , and worked they were .
breathed , was afterwards matter of wonder to herself .
" as for the house itself , to be sure , " said she , " it is too small
she had left the instrument on the dancing being over , and he had sat down to try to make
bennet , you are wanted immediately ; we are all in an uproar .
bennet had time to tell him of their having seen his aunt , of which her daughter sat in momentary
when she was half-way up the set , the whole group were exactly behind her , and she would no
how many days was it , my dear , between the first time of my seeing you and our sitting
my dear emma , i am longing to talk to you .
greatest attention from them .
” said she , with a conscious look .
with such matters to ponder over , and arrange , and re-arrange , edmund could not , on his own
i am in very good anchorage here , " (smiling at anne , ) " well supplied , and want
“then , who taught you ?
” “i should think my aunt norris would be on your side .
loved her so dearly .
them into her house , they would have taken up their abode with her .
, my dear charlotte and i will now tell you what those reflections were .
it likely to conciliate her .
it is not so grand as northanger .
cole , that every thing was rapidly clearing away , to give proper space .
never worth remembering .
but , if i were you , i would stand by the nephew .
fanny was disposed to think the influence of london very much at war with all respectable attachments .
she had been particularly unwell , however , suffering from headache to a degree , which made her aunt declare
as the door opened she was heard , “so very obliging of you !
she was most forcibly struck .
darcy was writing , and miss bingley , seated near him , was watching the progress of his letter and
_num_ ] an ' t .
” “no .
for the present you have only to tranquillise yourself .
after a pause of perplexity , some eyes began to be turned towards fanny , and a voice or two
believed it might be of service , might lessen her regrets , i would not have suffered myself to trouble
i think like you there .
but at least it shows that she was serious on the subject of their journey .
, she immediately said— " they are very pretty , ma ' am—an ' t they ?
weston added , “that he could only allow himself time to hurry to highbury , after breakfast , and take
elton ' s seeming resolved to learn to like it too .
did you ever read such a master-piece of writing ?
it was “dear john” and “dear catherine” at every word ; “dear anne and dear maria” must immediately be made
our little family circle , ever since .
henry , in an agitation of mind which many solitary hours were required to compose , had returned almost instantly
elinor was disappointed too ; but at the same time her regard for colonel brandon ensured his welcome with her
the strength of these feelings , however , was far from assisting her pen ; and never had it been
taken on shore by the favour of his captain , and in the course of seven years had known every
acquaintance in common .
” such sensations , however , were too near akin to resentment to be long guiding fanny ' s soliloquies
the glory of heroism , of usefulness , of exertion , of endurance , made his own habits of selfish
" from captain harville , but from him not a word , nor a look !
it ' s the best berth at spithead .
“well , ” continued her philosophic mother , “i am glad i did not know of your journey at the
weston ' s disposition and circumstances , which would make the approaching season no hindrance to their spending half the
just now .
if he does , however , they will leave me in peace , which may be a decent equivalent for
but she would not allow herself to stay with her sister , or say half that remained to be said
she could not come .
my father was at first highly displeased at so hasty and imprudent a connection ; but when he found that
”—yet he would be so anxious for her being perfectly warm , would be so interested about her father ,
, but a state of dependance on the caprice of sir reginald will not suit the freedom of my spirit
at bath his old aunts would have nursed him , but here it all falls upon me ; and he
i should not wonder if it were to bring on the declaration .
weariness , health and sickness .
the impertinence of these kind of scrutinies , moreover , was generally concluded with a compliment , which though meant
, exactly in front of miss fairfax , she could absolutely distinguish nothing .
but the removal of his alarm did his niece no service : as her unaccountableness was confirmed his displeasure increased
” the very next day however produced some proof of inspiration .
i saw her placed in comfortable lodgings , and under proper attendants ; i visited her every day during the
return to northanger , and thence made him the bearer of his consent , very courteously worded in a page
, and had mr .
“but what , ” said she , after a pause , “can have been his motive ?
he had meant to forget her , and believed it to be done .
appearance of insinuating sweetness , by a father who but too well knew , that to be married , would
; and though not the very happiest being in the world herself , had found enough in her duties ,
those , whom as child and boy he has been looking up to all his life .
elton insisted on being authorised to write an acquiescence by the morrow ' s post .
with affectionate eagerness , was a sight to awaken the best feelings of catherine ' s heart ; and in
ferrars can never forget that edward is her son .
elton , and when mrs .
through her mother’s hands , lydia’s expenses had been very little within that sum .
” catherine blushed and disclaimed , and the gentleman ' s predictions were verified .
her good .
did call on him in her return through london , and there relate her journey to longbourn , its motive
he approached , and addressing [ _num_ ]himself rather to elinor than marianne , as if wishing to avoid her
but i should like to know why , at that time of his life , he should slight my father
horses , see the postilions and try if anything could be made out from them .
one does not see much of this influence and importance in society , and how can it be acquired where
ay , so it always is , i believe .
—as far as the man is concerned , you could not wish your friend in better hands .
they were of a respectable family in the north of england ; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories
lady bertram seems more of a cipher now than when he is at home ; and nobody else can keep
i cannot bear reproaches : my spirits are not so high as to need being repressed .
companionableness : but dear emma was of no feeble character ; she was more equal to her situation than most
—she looked round for a moment ; he had joined mr .
” “do not act anything improper , my dear , ” said lady bertram .
“don’t keep coughing so , kitty , for heaven’s sake !
her mother (of whom he was the darling) in every distress .
he did look at it , and into it for half-an-hour—was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms ,
on that head , therefore , it was not for her to oppose her mother ' s intention of removing
i hope he will like my answer ; it is as good a one as i can write though nothing
i shall now know how to act .
convinced that the place might suit her better than her father .
conclusion ; for to return in such a manner to fullerton was almost to destroy the pleasure of a meeting
now was the moment for her resolution to be executed , and , while her courage was high , she
she had had difficulties of every sort to contend with , and in addition to these distresses had been afflicted
” thorpe told her it would be in vain to go after the tilneys ; they were turning the corner
they will be all wanting a home .
but you shall hear it all .
me the report , is passing under her eye—that the whole blunder is spread before her—that she can attend to
you may see the end of the house .
fanny !
he begged to know further particulars of what he was indebted to his brother , but was too angry with
i wish i had settled with mrs .
i take london in my way to that insupportable spot , a country village ; for i am really going
the courtier and fine gentleman to like his daughter the less .
inadequate proof of his resentment towards herself , and his contempt of her family .
we have only to hope that such a period may arrive .
i never was so long in company with a girl in my life , trying to entertain her , and
regulation of subject , a propriety , an attention towards everybody which there was not here .
bennet still continued to wonder and repine at his returning no more , and though a day seldom passed in
she had never taken a country walk since her arrival in bath .
edmund , i wish you would be so good as to say that i suppose i shall soon hear from
reflection must be reserved for solitary hours ; whenever she was alone , she gave way to it as the
she even addressed him once , and looked at him more than once .
elton , and any other of his neighbours .
her escape from being one of the party to clifton was now an escape indeed ; for what would the
bennet , you must not expect such girls to have the sense of their father and mother .
no time in hurrying into the shrubbery .
to his visit , receiving from her again the same grateful acknowledgments , and leaving her full of compassion and
perry and the children , how are they ?
heard so much .
at .
his neighbours ; farmer ' s man breaking into his orchard ; wall torn down ; apples stolen ; caught
" " yet you wrote to him ?
” “we must go out on the lawn for that .
you must not , indeed you must not” (turning to her) .
a very wrong one .
—had she not , with a folly which no tongue could express , prevented her marrying the unexceptionable young man
offering .
my dear alicia , —i yield to the necessity which parts us .
elinor only laughed .
modern ease often disgusts me .
, nor attention to his wishes ; for we very well know that if he could , he would have
knightley is coming too .
he had business at the crown about his hay , and a great many errands for mrs .
she was evidently displeased ; looked up , and seeing herself watched , blushed more deeply than he had ever
” “no trouble , i assure you , madam .
an early breakfast hour , and set off very punctually , it was so much past noon before the two
” as soon as a general buzz gave him shelter , he added , in a low voice , directed
fanny , not able to refrain entirely from observing them , had seen enough to be tolerably satisfied .
” “he is very handsome indeed .
to be left to walk with mr elliot as anne could be , and it was discussed between them with
“yes , it is an horrible east wind—said her mother—i assure you i can hardly bear the window down—but you
been overcome or overlooked ; and elinor , in spite of every occasional doubt of willoughby ' s constancy ,
his cheerfulness will counteract this .
wickham’s attention was caught ; and after observing mr .
how much time she might , in her own fancy , allot for its dominion , is another concern .
the point of marriage—would yet never ask that other woman to sit down to the instrument , if the lady
” “for the liveliness of your mind , i did .
acquaintances whom she did not prefer , his coming would furnish one comparatively new to look at in their rosings
simply and honestly the chief points on which willoughby grounded his apology ; did justice to his repentance , and
the gentlemen spoke of his horse .
that boy is fit for a boatswain .
i would have everybody marry if they can do it properly : i do not like to have people throw
as on the day before .
” “since a little before dinner .
—when had he left them ?
windows .
time , but had not said a word , lest it should make mr .
because he believes many people pretend to more admiration of the beauties of nature than they really feel , and
the answer was , " oh , no ; never ; she has quite given up dancing .
—i was tempted by his attentions , and allowed myself to appear pleased .
when i got to mr .
and lydia .
advice whose regard for you , joined to superior age , perhaps superior judgement might authorise her to give it
weston , “ever since september : every letter has been full of it ; but he cannot command his own
it certainly may secure all the myrtle and turkey part of it .
, before any inquiry so direct as to demand a positive answer was addressed to her .
but sir john ' s satisfaction in society was much more real ; he delighted in collecting about him more
“dear eloisa (said i) there ' s no occasion for your crying so much about such a trifle .
by his travelling companion ; but she had resolution enough to refrain from making any answer at all .
his journey to london , prepared to set off .
if there is a good fortune on one side , there can be no occasion for any on the other
; his attentions were wholly marianne ' s , and a far less agreeable man might have been more generally
its walls .
she had never heard of him before his entrance into the ——shire militia , in which he had engaged at
he told fanny of it .
“what do you mean , mr .
a dance at home would be more eligible ; and if—” “ah , my dear sir thomas !
” cried emma .
if this is the case , it may also be affirmed that he did not kill his wife , for
the two whole hours that were spent on the hill , there seemed a principle of separation , between the
as soon as they left the dining-room , elinor enquired of her about it ; and great was her surprise
feelings as she had formerly known .
ferrars will visit[ _num_ ] now ; —and mrs .
" said marianne , on her leaving them .
" " it is strange , " replied elinor , in a most painful perplexity , " that i should
for no sooner had they entered their common sitting-room , than marianne turned her eyes around it with a look
a curtain—and i am much mistaken if you do not find it draw up into very handsome festoons .
your sister is an amiable creature ; but yours is the character of decision and firmness , i see .
brother ' s great expectations , of mrs .
grant , with sudden recollection , turned to her and asked for the pleasure of her company too .
the amiable , obliging , gentle mr .
she has been taught nothing useful , and is too young and too simple to have acquired any thing herself
poor susan was very little better fitted for home than her elder sister ; and as fanny grew thoroughly to
he called it a sacrifice , and demanded it of her goodness and self-command as such .
gentle and embarrassed glance , and a " good morning to you !
all her concern for what her husband was to suffer , suffered a great deal more herself .
i am not afraid of her dying .
what ever she might feel of brighter hope , she betrayed nothing .
to continue the acquaintance no longer .
“it is to be a secret , i conclude , ” said he .
she rides only for pleasure ; you for health .
hurst and miss bingley they were noticed only by a curtsey ; and , on their being seated , a
bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts , sarcastic humour , reserve , and caprice , that the
he was prevented , however , from even looking his surprise by his father ' s entrance .
chapter xi mr .
protegee as a favour ; but all that was uncomfortable in the meeting had soon passed away , and left
” “i am very glad you like it answered she ; to be sure there was a great deal of
i have never before mentioned the likelihood of its taking place to anyone , because i thought that whilst frederica
man ' s nature , which has done the business for captain benwick .
i assure you , mr elliot had not the share which you have been supposing , in whatever pleasure the
—nobody could have written so prettily , but you , emma .
my dear hill , have you heard the good news ?
as he has done by poor wickham .
knightley ; and by mr .
he must have had a wet ride .
disposed as herself to take advantage of any that occurred ; for the weather was not often fine enough to
when sir thomas comes , i dare say he will be in for some borough , but there has been
to the charms of nature , and very well able to express his admiration .
i do not know what you and mr .
seen with astonishment the suddenness , continuance , and extent of his attention ; and though latterly , from some
" a man who has nothing to do with his own time has no conscience in his intrusion on that
was acquainted with everybody , and had so many favourites .
' s success , whatever the event of that affection might be , and at the same time wished to
" you have asserted nothing contradictory to what mr elliot appeared to be some years ago .
young woman , who was ushured into the room at the door of which i had been listening .
" " a letter from uppercross cottage , sir .
they were confined for the evening at different tables , and she had nothing to hope , but that his
” “upon my honour , ” said he very seriously , “it does not .
and so she began inquiring after her directly , saying , ' i know you cannot have heard from jane
“well , ” said she , “and you soon silenced mr .
you will not like staying late .
only in motion .
" her love made no answer ; and after slightly bowing to the ladies , began complaining of the weather
she was disturbed by no fear for her felicity , nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct .
many pretty women in the room , and which he thought the prettiest ?
, and having , on the very instant of their entering , pulled the bell with violence , ordered “dinner
to a gentleman in a great way , near bristol , who kept two carriages !
generous , good man , i am afraid he has distressed himself .
cold-hearted elinor !
there was no rest for his benevolent nerves till it was all gone .
better sized room , and had a more pleasant aspect ; but she soon saw that her friend had an
being now in her twenty-first year , maria bertram was beginning to think matrimony a duty ; and as a
there is a beauty in every family ; it is a regular thing .
night ; —let me live them over again .
he and his wife had taken their intended drive , and were returning home .
to the sound of every carriage .
“will you take the trouble of reading to us the passages which concern my brother ?
i shall never be in want of something to talk of again to mrs .
though julia was yet as more pardonable than maria as folly than vice , he could not but regard the
in spite of the mischief of his attentions , she owed him gratitude and regard , perhaps compassion .
smith must be obliged , and her business will not detain you from us long i hope .
—she would soon be well , and happy , and prosperous .
perhaps you will hardly think the better of me , —it is worth the trial however , and you shall
i shall not be far off , if you want me .
, i may meet with another mr .
—exactly so , indeed .
now i am secure of you for ever .
“i see your design , bingley , ” said his friend .
elton , and found nothing so interesting as the discussion of his concerns ; and every report , therefore ,
i believe , " she added in a low voice , " he would have been very glad to have
their fortune on both sides is splendid .
i feel it so very due .
that very little of your plan for thornton lacey will ever be put in practice .
no conversation , no affection towards herself ; no curiosity to know her better , no desire of her friendship
presently , struck by a sudden thought , charles said-- " captain wentworth , which way are you going ?
darcy , will readily comprehend how sincerely i must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume even the appearance
go and prepare a dinner for you , to be sure .
rushworth is a most amiable man .
crawford ' s estate , or a tenth part of his merits .
plantation to shut out the churchyard , just as dr .
she is still extremely ill , and her physicians are greatly afraid of her going into a decline .
knightley , and , i am afraid , gave you pain .
at netherfield .
smallest inconstancy of mind towards her cousin .
that was a great deal too smart for me .
esteemed pleasure , during the whole of her life , for she declared herself displeased with being appointed queen ,
” “he is very obliging , ” said emma ; “but is he sure that harriet means to marry him
darcy is over , i presume , ” said miss bingley ; “and pray what is the result ?
elton ' s being to stoop in marrying her , than she now seemed of mr .
own good qualities .
; and if not pursuing their usual studies with quite so much vigour as when they first came to barton
ungracious girl !
sat down to write her mother an account of what had passed , and entreat her directions for the future
he had never been in the room at the crown in his life—did not know the people who kept it
" [ _num_ ] elinor then heard willoughby say , in a low voice to marianne , " there are
elegant nuptials , fine muslins , new carriages , and servants .
, there is a new family come to barton cottage , i hear , and mama sends me word they
the bank notes from the drawer .
" " i wish it could be so easily settled .
" mary need not have feared her sister ' s being in any degree prepared for the news .
took a place , determined to proceed in it to edinburgh , where i hoped to find some kind some
rain would come to nothing at present , and adding , " i am only waiting for mr elliot .
” it was precisely what emma would have wished , had she deemed it possible enough for wishing .
it—in no one convenience or inconvenience about it , should the least variation be perceptible .
to her presently , for i am sure she will not have the least objection in the world to seeing
" " i cannot imagine how they will spend half of it .
he stood his chance for the rest ; wrote up for leave of absence , but without waiting the return
" " yes , i made the best of it ; i always do : but i was very far
the air of a letter of haste and business .
and what claims has lydia—what attraction has she beyond youth , health , and good humour that could make him
us in this manner is highly objectionable , the more than intimacy—the familiarity .
substance !
the greatest inconveniences and hardships rather than be otherwise .
who attended her into the room , and hung enamoured over her accents , seemed to distinguish every thing that
" he was four years with my uncle , who lives at longstaple , near plymouth .
emma , in the meanwhile , could not be satisfied without a dinner at hartfield for the eltons .
—do not you think her cure does perry the highest credit ?
in nothing had she approached the degree of excellence which she would have been glad to command , and ought
ferrars	 _num_ drawing him a little aside	 _num_ in a whisper	 _num_ " you have heard , i suppose "
nobody is healthy in london , nobody can be .
such a subject i certainly will not .
yet she soon began to rejoice that she had heard them .
soon afterwards said , “so you have been settling that i should marry jane fairfax ?
knightley ' s eyes had preceded miss bates ' s in a glance at jane .
you would have heard of balls and parties .
be with you .
sitting down all the discredit of wanting a partner .
edward ferrars .
if there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew , i shall certainly not be kept from it
it is a pity that great ladies in general are not more like her .
dashwood ' s strains were more solemn .
—that is , no—i do not know—but i believe he has read a good deal—but not what you would think
it was certainly very provoking .
to good reading , however , she had been long used : her uncle read well , her cousins all
my coachman can tell you where you had best cross the street .
i have often known it done myself .
darcy , who was leaning against the mantelpiece with his eyes fixed on her face , seemed to catch her
nobody can be more devoted to home than i am .
you hate me one degree less than you do now .
ever , and of her being particularly disgusted with his mother , till they were more in private .
” but as we drove too rapidly to allow them to answer my repeated enquiries , i gained little ,
, in every thing given to his view or his feelings , to stay at home himself , and keep
she will not even listen to your questions .
martin would ever marry any body but what had had some education—and been very well brought up .
“that is a very foolish trick , fanny , to be idling away all the evening upon a sofa .
in the course of nature .
darcy ?
" i have no conception whom you can mean , shepherd ; i remember no gentleman resident at monkford since
” continued crawford .
collins’s return into hertfordshire was no longer a matter of pleasure to mrs .
—and that other , a man who had suffered no less than herself under the event of a former attachment
“there could be no harm in her liking an agreeable man—everybody knew her situation—mr .
” “i assure you , madam , ” he replied , “that she does not need such advice .
what were my sensations ?
and miss bates loved to be called on , and she knew she was considered by the very few who
her desire to be acquainted with woodston ; and her heart was still bounding with joy when henry , about
” “we shall get nothing more serious from him now , miss morland .
—i cannot comprehend a man ' s wishing to give a woman any proof of affection which he knows she
the consequence was , that elinor set out by herself to pay a visit , for which no one could
i need not have been afraid of disclaiming the compliment .
chapter _num_ the next day opened a new scene at longbourn .
“and what , ” said fanny (believing herself required to speak) , “what could you say ?
to be sure that a much smaller income would satisfy me .
this was certainly enough to put any one in a passion ; however , i was as cool as a
i can see nothing at all extraordinary in him now .
” “my dear , it is only a beautiful little heath , which that nice old gardener would make me
the enclosure of norland common , now carrying on , is a most serious drain .
] and then they may be more easy to define and to justify than they now are , by any
of conversation which might again remind her of augustus .
there was not one lord in the neighbourhood ; no—not even a baronet .
things did not seem—that is , there seemed a little cloud upon the spirits of some .
in the perusal of the following pages your sensibility will be most severely tried .
as far as walking , talking , and contriving reached , she was thoroughly benevolent , and nobody knew better
emma ' s first resolution was to keep her father from the knowledge of what had passed , —aware of
only think how useful he was at sotherton !
the subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their parents , about a twelvemonth ago , was now brought
what is it ?
all that i can promise you , therefore , is not to be in a hurry .
i should never look at it till it was complete .
” such , for half an hour , was the conversation—interrupted only once by mrs .
were to remain only one more week in bath themselves , her quitting them now would not long be felt
and he who can do it , where there is no doubt of her regard , must , i think
, than any other man .
has he written to you ?
a glass of wine ; shall i get you one ?
your situation to me , and be assured that you shall never have reason to repent it .
norris often talks of her luck ; what will she say now ?
it was ages since she had had a moment ' s conversation with her dearest catherine ; and , though
" we spent such a day , edward , in harley street yesterday !
and you must be aware , fanny , that it is every young woman ' s duty to accept such
the cruelty of mrs .
she has time enough before her ; and her going now is quite out of the question .
you are not well enough ; you cannot go yourself .
and what an acquaintance has it been !
" said lady dalrymple .
” “this is not to be borne .
having now a good house and a very sufficient income , he intended to marry ; and in seeking a
the dread of being awakened from the happiest dream , was perhaps the most prominent feeling .
i should dearly love to settle you both in this country ; and therefore , henry , you shall marry
i really am quite wild with impatience .
” “she has only one daughter , the heiress of rosings , and of very extensive property .
it is just what i used to say to a certain gentleman in company in the days of courtship ,
it was owing to her persuasion , as she thought his being out in bad weather did him a great
a situation it was my greatest comfort .
what lucy really felt for edward , whether there were any sincerity in her declaration of tender regard for him
but i will not allow myself to dwell on them ; they will strike you sufficiently .
they were the two on whom it would fall most horribly .
accordingly , when she retired at night , she asked the chambermaid whether pemberley were not a very fine place
' s skeleton , when her friend prevented her , by saying , “for heaven ' s sake !
indeed , i must do ourselves the justice to say , that the few alterations we have made have been
than when her husband united them together in one noisy purpose , immediately accepted the invitation ; margaret , with
” “this is quite shocking !
jennings for two or three days ; she was a great wonderer , as every one must be who takes
of their grandpapa , when the great iron sweep-gate opened , and two persons entered whom she had never less
—for she is to be three months with us at least .
he , who had undoubtedly been always so much the most in love of the two , were to be
grant foresaw in her ; and being a warm-hearted , unreserved woman , mary had not been three hours in
she should be justified .
endeavoured to reproach sophia with ignobly defrauding him of his money .
i am very miserable about sir james martin , and have no other way in the world of helping myself
bertram would have thought little about it ; or perhaps might have caught from mrs .
business without delay ; though , on fanny ' s account , he almost dreaded the effect of the communication
" the rest of mrs .
, and she had the mortification of seeing mary , after very little entreaty , preparing to oblige the company
allen for confirmation of her hopes , but mr .
how very , very kind of him .
various sources of mortification preparing for them !
he gave her a momentary glance , a glance of brightness , which seemed to say , " that man
we were last night at lady middleton ' s , where there was a dance .
” “i am so glad to see the evergreens thrive !
too far in your case .
his understanding and temper , though unlike her own , would have answered all her wishes .
both present and future , as much as possible .
in observing the direction of the wind , watching the variations of the sky and imagining an alteration in the
consider from how partial a quarter your information came .
” “and had you really some at hand yourself ?
” “certainly—very strong it was ; to own the truth , a great deal stronger than , if i had
if i had my senses about me i might have called in conduit street in my way home , and
further advice .
” this wish was levelled principally at julia , who had just applied for permission to go to town with
“next time you call , ” said she , “i hope we shall be more lucky .
her would be less .
it was only said , ‘lately , george wickham , esq .
saw also with sympathetic acuteness of feeling all that must be hourly grating to a girl like susan .
adieu , dearest of friends ; may the next gouty attack be more favourable !
” “my object then , ” replied darcy , “was to show you , by every civility in my power
” “upon my honour , ” said james , “in these public assemblies , it is as often done as
” she smiled , but made no answer .
” “a woman can never be too fine while she is all in white .
she was afterwards looking for her shawl—frank churchill was looking also—it was growing dusk , and the room was in
when did you begin to think seriously about her ?
i did the three witches and philander acted all the rest .
for i ought not to have mentioned the subject .
“so prettily done !
but much was still owing to sir thomas ' s more than toleration of the neighbourly attempts at the parsonage
fit to be seen .
bennet was not so well pleased with it .
musgrove .
mrs smith had been carried away from her first direction , and anne had forgotten , in the interest of
again they all sat down , and for a moment or two all were silent ; while marianne was looking
—she had then been only daring to hope for a little respite of suffering ; —she was now in an
who pulled her about , tore her clothes , and put an end to every kind of discourse except what
” but this could not impose on fanny .
we must go , for the westons come to us next week you know .
she was so fond of it , fanny , that she would have it lay by her in bed ,
wishing to promote her father ' s getting great acquaintance was more than excusable in the view of defeating her
the general , perceiving his son one night at the theatre to be paying considerable attention to miss morland ,
his spirits .
mansion ; and she lay awake two whole hours endeavouring to make them out .
their representation of it as a circumstance almost too interesting .
” “do you think the church itself never chosen , then ?
it was in the reign of henry the _num_ th that perkin warbeck and lambert simnel before mentioned made their
but now , after such dishonorable usage , who can tell what were his designs on her .
; and he told her such charming things of what william was to do , and be hereafter , in
the garrison chapel , which was exactly what he had intended , and they all walked thither together .
morning , in short .
you are never sure of a good impression being durable ; everybody may sway it .
the name seemed to strike them all ; and , after speaking to her with great civility , the eldest
" i am so glad we are got acquainted at last , " continued charlotte .
mind , and the excellence of her principles .
the shortness of his visit , the steadiness of his purpose in leaving them , originated in the same fettered
mr millar observed (and very justly too) that many events had befallen each during that interval of time , which
” “i cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind .
check it , from believing that , though there were on each side continual subjects of offence , neither family
mary , ” said she , “i wish you had gone with us , for we had such fun !
towards the evening marianne became ill again , growing more heavy , restless , and uncomfortable than before .
to compleat such unparalelled barbarity we were informed that an execution in the house would shortly take place .
parties , and she might be amused in seeing how hopeless miss bingley’s designs on him were , by his
elizabeth accepted their company , and the three young ladies set off together .
as more than the commonest flirtation , and he is tolerably appeased .
she is gone out of harbour already ; three days before we had any thought of it ; and i
jennings .
quick pulse of a fever ?
you are too obliging , my dear miss woodhouse ; but we really must take leave .
the comfort of .
the difference of age , and to introduce them together into public .
the superior attractions of another woman , the chance of being able to make a worthy man completely wretched .
of the ill effect of a contrary practice as had fallen within their observation , but anne heard nothing distinctly
" no , no , no , it cannot be , " she cried ; " she cannot feel .
his not having behaved well to her .
to come to them .
” “ah , catherine !
what you are thinking of , the pianoforte .
as on this unexpected meeting .
to be dressed till sunday , because i know how much more dr .
weston do not trifle with me .
tho ' indeed my own misfortunes do not make less impression on me than they ever did , yet now
” “i would rather find him private secretary to the first lord than anything else , ” was william '
norris could not speak with any temper of such grievances , nor of the quantity of butter and eggs that
but yours—your regard was new compared with——fanny , think of me !
and at the same time procure for fanny the immediate means of exercise , which he could not bear she
she was very much vexed , and meant to make her apology as soon as possible .
beyond what is known to be pleasant .
john dashwood to the good opinion of lady middleton did not suit the fancy of mrs .
nothing so easy as for a young lady to raise her expectations too high .
” “but they like it , papa ; there is nothing they like so much .
i assure you he is very detestable ; the admiral ' s lessons have quite spoiled him .
between various schemes .
—and mrs .
having carried her point so far , than to repine at the counteraction which followed .
' tis james !
in the world ; but what could she do ?
bennet was beyond the reach of reason , and she continued to rail bitterly against the cruelty of settling an
' s direction , were arranged round the other .
twelvemonth , prevented their coming lower .
he was anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins , from a conviction that if they saw him depart
he was here only a quarter of an hour , and in a state of agitation which did not allow
had my mother given me some active profession when i was removed at eighteen from the care of mr .
, he had satisfied the inquiries of his mistress as to the event of his errand , this was his
would it not be worse than simple ?
if these are your only objections , " cried mrs smith , archly , " mr elliot is safe ,
for we are so much in love that we cannot live asunder .
i exclude extremes , of course ; and a very close resemblance in all those points would be the likeliest
younge was , he knew , intimately acquainted with wickham ; and he went to her for intelligence of him
while settling this point , she was suddenly roused by the sound of the door-bell , and her spirits were
” she was obliged to break off from these very pleasant observations , which were otherwise of a sort to
or any cook to dress it if there were , or any servant to wait , or any knife and
see her in their way , though with no advantage of manner in receiving her .
” “highbury gossips !
sort occurred .
she often told herself it was folly , before she could harden her nerves sufficiently to feel the continual discussion
on their own property , without the torment of trying for more ; it is only their lot , i
—but he has left my picture in bond-street .
formed the distance of their view from the cottage , from a spot which they had never happened to reach
the general ; nay , that he was even looking at the side-table for cold meat which was not there
his enquiries , however , produced at length an account of the scene she had been engaged in there ,
i mean to offer some kind of explanation , some kind of apology , for the past ; to open
the complaints and the distresses of most of them .
a great deal too kind !
the miss steeles kept their station at the park , and were to quit it only with the rest of
in vain did she entreat him to stand up with somebody else , and offer to introduce him to any
" no .
i will say that for you .
there was no possibility of rest .
” with proper civilities the ladies then withdrew ; all of them equally surprised that he meditated a quick return
down upon ; but as we are quite among friends , i will take you in this way , if
" are you ill , miss dashwood ?
her own behaviour had been so very improper !
charlotte’s first letters were received with a good deal of eagerness ; there could not but be curiosity to know
—and i should think you might now venture so far as to profess some concern for having ever formed the
anne was too much engaged with lady russell to be often walking herself ; but it so happened that one
martin , or to be suspected of it .
i shall think you a great blockhead , frank , if you bring the aunt without the niece .
it could only be imputed to increasing attachment .
wife or mother .
and almost promised to answer her letter .
heart enough to be really in love without encouragement .
it is wonderful how many families i have been the means of supplying in that way .
elton might never get safely to the end of it , and saw nothing extraordinary in his language .
putrid fever at cleveland—a letter that morning received from mrs .
lesser occasions had endeavoured to give elizabeth the advantage of her own better judgement and experience ; but always in
—miss w .
anne entered it with a sinking heart , anticipating an imprisonment of many months , and anxiously saying to herself
morland were all compliance , and catherine all happiness .
in the present instance , she confessed and lamented her want of knowledge , declared that she would give anything
grant was entitled to respect , which could never have belonged to her ; and that , had she received
or two of cowper ' s tirocinium for ever before her .
through mansfield , and she was beginning to suppose that she might never know whether mr .
man ' s boasted power and freedom , all are flown ; lord of the earth and sea , he
she is a sweet girl , and deserves a better fate .
offence .
window .
well , my dear catherine , the case seems to be that you are determined against poor john—is not it
both master and man being in mourning assisted the idea .
i certainly should have represented it to edward in a very strong light .
collins , all praise of me will be unnecessary .
expecting such a very fine young man ; you have only had my account you know ; i dare say
edward have got some business at oxford , he says ; so he must go there for a time ;
” but isabella became only more and more urgent , calling on her in the most affectionate manner , addressing
he had a heart for either of the miss musgroves , if they could catch it ; a heart ,
; but she may be ' prenticed out at a small cost , and then what does it signify ?
miss crawford was too much vexed by what had passed to be in a humour for anything but music .
" this was quite a new idea to mrs .
open carriages are nasty things .
crawford into norfolk .
all the room ; and , as to miss bennet , he could not conceive an angel more beautiful .
but before they heard again from mr .
only think , my dear sir thomas , what extraordinary advantages you and i have been the means of giving
she smiled , and said how she had changed her name since she was in these parts .
knightley , at this little remains of office .
the general , between his cocoa and his newspaper , had luckily no leisure for noticing her ; but to
rushworth—that wish of avoiding particularity !
” “oh yes , papa .
o ' clock , and your sister is not used to these sort of hours .
for several months , she could not be easy if her daughter were not with her for masters , &c
” “yes , very soon .
but she shall be punished , she shall have him .
something , he supposed , might be attributed to his connection with them , but yet he had never met
lady elliott , do not be uneasy .
better accommodations , he can promise them , and not a less grateful welcome than at randalls .
it is a sort of pain , too , which is new to me .
” “you are not serious , tom , in meaning to act ?
" but at least , mamma , you cannot deny the absurdity of the accusation , though you may not
i cannot understand even now what she would be at , for there could be no need of my being
” elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference to her authority proceeded ; but it was
you and as long as my health and spirits will allow me , you will find me a very constant
to give the feelings or the language of mrs .
to prevent being in the dark ; and then had a delightful drive back , only the moon was not
and though sir thomas , had he known all , might have thought his niece in the most promising way
” this was an order to be most joyfully obeyed ; this was an act of kindness which fanny felt
her sister .
i see no sign of attachment—i believe nothing of the pianoforte—and proof only shall convince me that mr .
woodhouse had so completely made up his mind to the visit , that in spite of the increasing coldness ,
the night was cold and stormy .
his curate does all the work , and the business of his own life is to dine .
was but two days before lucy called and sat a couple of hours with me .
, i saw every eye was upon us .
bingley was ready , georgiana was eager , and darcy determined , to be pleased .
his hopes from both gentleman and lady suffered a small depression in consequence ; but when he looked at his
forbearance .
but i tell you , miss lizzy—if you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of
feelings of gratitude .
she took to herself all the credit of bringing mr .
to promise me many particulars that could not be given now .
they knew he was to dine in lansdown crescent .
nor can i think it wrong that it should .
this weather will keep many sportsmen in the country .
—playing a most dangerous game .
it was a bad business .
” sir william only smiled .
and the grass was the longest and wettest , had—assisted by the still greater imprudence of sitting in her wet
i solicit for the honour of a private audience with her in the course of this morning ?
sailors work hard enough for their comforts , we must all allow .
would follow , had taken place .
herself , she should never want that again ; and no reproach seemed conveyed to the equally satisfied mother ,
she could not command her attention as she wished .
swiftly therefore shall her post-boy drive through the village , amid the gaze of sunday groups , and speedy shall
but you know they were your own words , that more wonderful things had happened , matches of greater disparity
revive a little local agitation ; and when they parted , emma observed her to be looking around with a
between him and his wife .
” emma was quite at a loss .
elton , so obliged to you for the carriage !
know , sister , and fanny will stay at home with you .
tilney augmented with every question , whether answered or not .
i take offence !
but i can remember nothing ; —not even that particular riddle which you have heard me mention ; i can
they will have ten thousand pounds divided amongst them .
flow of his meaning immediately .
been as good as my word .
bring her a brother .
in your opinion .
servant in the place whence she had taken them) which had filled her with expectation and alarm , and robbed
bertram , if you write to your brother , i entreat you to tell him that my harp is come
perfectly justify the unqualified bitterness of mrs smith , proved him to have been very unfeeling in his conduct towards
nothing can be easier .
lanes , while the others went on the downs .
, much as i value the impudence and hypocrisy of my son-in-law .
i know how he is likely to be influenced .
there was comfort , however , soon at hand .
grant for thinking of you , and to your aunt for letting you go , and you ought to look
he called it a bad thing , done in the worst manner , and at the worst time ; and
he made it his business to go to lyme , and his account was still encouraging .
the manner , perhaps , may have as little to recommend them .
amazement or variety[ _num_ ] of speculation , her wonder was otherwise disposed of .
let me know every thing that i am to know , without delay .
and allow a spare room for a friend , of which she made a very particular point .
, and of how she is likely to conduct herself in critical situations , than i can be .
the hardness of the pavement for her feet , made him less willing upon the present occasion ; he did
price was only calling out , “come , girls ; come , fan ; come , sue , take care
in her air and manner not often united with great sensibility .
they are to be new set .
two blinded companions .
but the martins occupied her thoughts a good deal ; she had spent two very happy months with them ,
sinking under her aunt ' s unkind reflection and reproach .
till mrs .
” “you are very cruel , ” said her sister , “you will not let me smile , and are
we must have mrs .
mind , and which he seemed to want to be encouraged even by her to resolve on .
, might she have gone in uninvited and unnoticed , to hear the harp ; neither could she wonder that
take care of themselves ; the young people will find a way .
are wild to be admitted into our company , and there are one or two that would not disgrace us
he looked very well , not as if he had been suffering in health or spirits , and he talked
creditable to his heart .
to despise myself for the weakness on which their strength was founded .
she is a shrewd , intelligent , sensible woman .
how will a conundrum reckon ?
—and her situation is so calculated to affect one !
every thing was so far settled in their future abode as to enable mrs .
they will soon be back again , and then they ' d be sure and call here .
a few more to-morrows , and the party from london would be arriving .
, nor my astonishment at not having received any answer to a note which i sent you above a week
" said he at last .
another .
charming a man , seemed always a check upon his children ' s spirits , and scarcely anything was said
hope to hear again .
had no reason to suppose his eye wandering towards her while he spoke , anne felt the utter impossibility ,
by chance into mr elliot ' s company , and fell in love with him ; and not a difficulty
, trusted , like marianne , to the certainty and efficacy of sleep , and felt no real alarm .
but there was still something lurking behind , of which prudence forbade the disclosure .
" i found , " said he , " that i was considered by harville an engaged man !
” catherine was disappointed and vexed .
of the world made her judgment very generally and deservedly looked up to by all the young people of her
thoroughly uncomfortable till she does accept him—but enough of this tiresome girl .
dearest jane , in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness of so many ?
more serious , that the difference of even twelve years becomes in comparison of small amount .
these were her internal persuasions : " old fashioned notions ; country hospitality ; we do not profess to give
ladies and gentlemen , i am ordered by miss woodhouse (who , wherever she is , presides) to say ,
here begins the village .
they are gone down to newcastle , a place quite northward , it seems , and there they are to
she listened most attentively to all that passed between them , and gloried in every expression , every sentence of
i hope my mother is now convinced that i have no more talents than inclination for a public life !
that horrid girl of mine has been trying to run away .
i wish i could conjecture how soon i shall make this rivet quite firm .
could have been entertained by mrs .
; and from the best , the purest of motives , might now be denying herself this visit to ireland
prevent his friend’s marrying her sister , and which must appear at least with equal force in his own case—was
i only hope they may have half my good luck .
" well , it would serve to cure him of an absurd practice of never asking a question at an
” “oh yes , yes !
yes ; i think it must be compliments .
worse .
of silver , broken perhaps prematurely by some strange violence ; and , on the centre of the lid ,
i feel it quite impossible to do anything but love you .
manner , such a dread of giving a distinct idea about any body , is apt to suggest suspicions of
happy house , could you know what i suffer in now viewing you from this spot , from whence perhaps
bennet , “looking as unconcerned as may be , and caring no more for us than if we were at
jennings had the satisfaction of discovering to be her relations , and this was enough for sir john to invite
good luck ; while she must withdraw with infinitely stronger feelings to a retirement and reproach which could allow no
" elinor would not contend , and only replied , " whoever may have been so detestably your enemy ,
” “he did not talk to me of his own arts , ” said fitzwilliam , smiling .
forgive me for having taken up so much of your time , and accept my best wishes for your health
will you allow me , or do i ask too much , to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during
you pass it over very handsomely—but you were perfectly right .
not seriously !
” “no , not at all ; but if you think it wrong , you had much better change .
one could have admitted of such difference of conjecture , steady and matter of fact as i may call myself
" " indeed i shall be very much obliged to you for your help , " cried lucy , "
with the second-rate and third-rate of highbury , who were calling on them for ever , and therefore she seldom
she looked about her with due consideration , and found almost everything in his favour : a park , a
“how d ' ye do ?
and there had been so much going on every day , there had been so many walks between their lodgings
she knew it well ; and she remembered another person ' s look also .
: and as for susan , now unexpectedly gratified in the first wish of her heart , and knowing nothing
” “no trouble in the world , ma ' am , ” said the obliging mrs .
own solitude , married a young and illiterate fortune-hunter .
it spoke such perfect amity .
what can it hold ?
this was the fact .
” “i do not mind his not talking to mrs .
i would give any money for it .
” “a particular friend of mine had an account of it in a letter from london yesterday .
" marianne was softened in a moment .
as soon as we had dispatched this letter , we immediately prepared to follow it in person and were stepping
there is no occasion for talking to him , except just now and then .
she could not determine how her mother would take it ; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur would
purchase randalls , and the sale of randalls was long looked forward to ; but he had gone steadily on
” “never (replied she) that i remember—he has always left the room indeed when his visit has been ended ,
but not so easily did elinor recover from the alarm into which it had thrown her .
” catherine hoped so too , and tried to feel an interest in her own amendment , but her spirits
donwell and randalls had received their invitation , and none had come for her father and herself ; and mrs
churchill ' s decease , emma was called downstairs to mr .
darcy were by no means over .
it was only the last time they met that he had offered him one of folly ' s puppies !
heat and animation of a public room was necessary to kindle his modest cousin ' s vanity ; he found
—very true ; he did not come till miss fairfax was here .
he deserves to be publicly disgraced .
—i was rather disappointed that i did not hear from her again speedily ; but i made excuses for her
i have met with two instances lately , one i will not mention ; the other is charlotte’s marriage .
it was all known at the parsonage , where he loved to talk over the future with both his sisters
it does not advance their felicity in the least .
in a few minutes mr .
bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings , though
she liked his open manners , but a little less of open-heartedness would have made him a higher character .
are you lost to every feeling of propriety and delicacy ?
bring about this marriage .
oh , d—— it !
jennings , however , assured him directly , that she should not stand upon ceremony , for they were [
man , than have him driven away by the vulgarity of her nearest relations .
pray advise him for his own sake , and for everybody ' s sake , to leave bath directly .
he is a most amiable , charming young man , i believe .
i am very , very sorry we are to part—so soon , and so suddenly too ; but i am
" " and for your own sake too , or you are carrying your disinterestedness beyond reason .
where can you look for a more suitable match ?
not at any time lately slipped down , and got a blow on her head ; that she was perfectly
was certainly the finest sloop in the service—and there were several improvements in the dockyard , too , which he
—and can you believe me to be so , while i see you so wretched !
—how to understand it all !
but , alas !
do you think him so very plain ?
her , were in a moment out of sight round the corner of laura place , and in another moment
weston , employing him to write for you one day ?
take the liberty of presenting it to them .
” “i have been , ” said catherine , looking down , “to see your mother ' s room .
her aunt bertram had recollected her on this occasion with an unusual degree of wakefulness .
there were the pencilled marks and memorandums on the wainscot by the window .
we must have two chairs at hand for you to bring forward to the front of the stage .
occasion ; and upon elinor therefore the whole task of telling lies when politeness required it , always fell .
it did not appear to him that sir walter could materially alter his style of living in a house which
edmund was at the parsonage every day , to be indulged with his favourite instrument : one morning secured an
such were her propensities—her abilities were quite as extraordinary .
and spread the bread and butter , or she did not know when they should have got tea , and
her enjoyment , however , was for herself alone .
each .
yes , dearest , sweetest fanny .
you remember him , i am sure .
whately deals mainly with mansfield park and persuasion ; his predecessor professed to review emma , though he also gives
no sooner had she expressed her delight in mr .
he had thought her wretchedly altered , and in the first moment of appeal , had spoken as he felt
union with sir james as not very distant , i had intended within a few days to acquaint yourself and
what you had resolved against , and what you are known to think will be disagreeable to my uncle .
she had read and read the scene again with many painful , many wondering emotions , and looked forward to
he had never walked anywhere arm-in-arm with colonel wallis (who was a fine military figure , though sandy-haired) without observing
of safety , not of risk .
pronounced to be ready .
" said anne ; " but we should not suit .
felt—i could only be certain that there was a preference—and a preference which i never believed him to deserve .
it is not to be supposed that there was much affection in the case .
of this nervous distress , that he instantly changed his seat to one close by lucy steele , and gave
secret provision of comfort within his own breast to help the joy , he found in it a source of
did not always read only poetry , and to say , that she thought it was the misfortune of poetry
he begged to be shewn the house which his father had lived in so long , and which had been
” this was a most unjust reflection , but fanny could allow for it , and let it pass :
letter from jane fairfax .
campbell were very particular about their daughter ' s not walking out often with only mr .
ford , could not you ?
to his wife and his home , and from the regular cheerfulness of his spirits , he might be supposed
no—what an impudent dog i was !
i soon perceived that tho ' lovely and elegant in her person and tho ' easy and polite in her
anne and me are to go the latter end of january to some relations who have been wanting us to
there was no help for it , however .
the park was almost closed from her view before she was capable of turning her eyes towards it .
as soon as they entered , bingley looked at her so expressively , and shook hands with such warmth ,
be had ; and as she was no horsewoman , walking was her only alternative .
” “is she not to live with you ?
he was brilliant , he was headstrong .
all his sanguine expectations , all his confidence had been justified .
possible , and have taken great pains to overcome her timidity .
“where did you leave miss crawford , fanny ?
another , while mrs .
i will answer for it that we shall find no inconvenience from narrow roads on wednesday .
be honest and poor , by all means—but i shall not envy you ; i do not much think i
' s assiduities , and the natural workings of her own mind .
entirely at the mansion house ; and she had the satisfaction of knowing herself extremely useful there , both as
, and her attentions to mr .
she will be taken good care of .
physic .
her feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation .
have the greatest dislike to the idea of being over-trimmed—quite a horror of finery .
forster , the delight of mrs .
“i see what you think of me , ” said he gravely—“i shall make but a poor figure in your
asking her to live there ; and i am sure she is better off here ; and besides , i
pleasure-grounds , is another thing .
knightley ' s absence , or when it came to the point her heart would have failed her , and
” and by carefully giving way to the inclination of the leaves , he did find it , or within
never met with a girl who looked so grave on me !
it was mr .
but i ought to have gone before .
caprice were the cause , of all that jane had suffered , and still continued to suffer .
i shall go abroad for a couple of years—and when i return , i shall come to you for my
miss woodhouse looks as if she did not want me .
the first month after their marriage was spent with their friend at the mansion-house ; from whence they could superintend
affords little to write about .
it is to spend an evening in this way !
mamma says he was in love with your sister too .
“but they cannot be very far off , and i think i am equal to as much as maria ,
” fanny sighed , and said , “i cannot see things as you do ; but i ought to believe
norris , however , as most attached to maria , was really the greatest sufferer .
“i must now mention a circumstance which i would wish to forget myself , and which no obligation less than
her pulse was much stronger , and every symptom more favourable than on the preceding visit .
her astonishment and confusion were very great on his so sudden appearance .
" " well then ; i guess that mr .
she counted the days that must intervene before their invitation could be sent ; hopeless of seeing him before .
and while my cousins were sitting by without speaking a word , or seeming at all interested in the subject
it began , on lady bertram ' s part , with—“i have something to tell you that will surprise you
at that moment occurred to me that his resolution of going might be occasioned by a conversation in which we
" " but mrs .
cole had just been there , just called in for ten minutes , and had been so good as to
norris would willingly have answered for his being so , they would neither authorise the liberty nor run the risk
she wished to be able to decline it ; but the tears , which a variety of feelings created ,
elinor , persuaded that he had some communication to make in which her sister was concerned , impatiently expected its
her husband , as it had once been to willoughby .
that he had been ever voluntarily absenting himself ; that he had not been acting a part , or making
” he then recollected her embarrassment a few days before , on his reading mr .
would have been ashamed to own .
had such a character of hospitality and ancient dignity to support .
“it was my mother ' s favourite walk .
with letters of business , and i could hardly get a word or a look from the young lady—nothing like
make her uneasy , and at the same time , (which was still more common , ) to make her
” elizabeth looked archly , and turned away .
so anxious to pay your respects to a bride ?
one hates to be officious , to be giving bad impressions , making mischief .
” he bowed .
to sell it ; but it was a trying circumstance , especially as the sale took place exactly at the
“you must give us more than half your time , ” said he .
it had been , as he before presumed , too hasty a measure on crawford ' s side , and
with respect to wickham , the travellers soon found that he was not held there in much estimation ; for
write to me by return of post , judge of my anxiety , and do not trifle with it .
i thought myself sure of you at seven !
party of gentlemen and ladies , evidently his acquaintance , and whom he must have joined a little below milsom
with a look of much respect , he immediately rose , and being introduced to her by her conscious daughter
woodhouse thought it no hardship for either james or the horses .
as they always see each other in large mixed parties , it is impossible that every moment should be employed
” “this is very strange !
, spoke of something almost as unpromising .
what i advise is , that your father be quiet .
marianne ' s performance was highly applauded .
now , mr .
chapter _num_ not all that mrs .
himself , if he were already self-destined for another .
no additional agitation should be thrown at this period among those she loved—and the evil should not act on herself
find a seat for her in the barouche-landau in some of our exploring parties .
, the same hard-hearted indifference to any of the evils it might bring on her .
" anne could not help laughing .
which they had either seen or heard of , and the superiority was not less in the style of the
knightley looked as if he were more gratified than he cared to express ; and before he could make any
so you may be as creep-mouse as you like , but we must have you to look at .
meeting her mother or the miss dashwoods again .
be overlooked .
proportions , fore-shortening .
at all .
be safer for both , to have the judicious law of her own brain laid down with speed .
she had a most harmless delight in being fine ; and our heroine ' s entree into life could not
laughing , that she could not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him further ,
elton , and she was so completely surprized that she could not avoid a little start , and a little
if he is to die , there will be two poor young men less in the world ; and with
shall i go , mrs .
given of him , on his return from lyme before , his warm praise of him as an excellent young
that is the way to spoil them .
woodhouse ' s family , less as a governess than a friend , very fond of both daughters , but
collins , being in fact much better fitted for a walker than a reader , was extremely pleased to close
of course , he cannot be aware of the importance to me .
say , you know , how soon it may be wanted ?
” there was a look , a start , an exclamation on hearing this , which astonished sir thomas ;
several minutes of supplication and waiting .
price could never tire ; and mr .
i was sorry for him that he should have so mistaken his powers , for he was no more equal
pardon me .
order , " she never had the smallest temptation to say , " very true .
ten , by the mere aid of a good-humoured smile , became immediately the less awful character of the two
“ha !
she could only offer one solution ; it was , perhaps , for elizabeth ' s sake .
than conviction , for lady bertram was convinced of very little more than that sir thomas thought fanny ought to
do help me .
closed the interview .
the general had had nothing to accuse her of , nothing to lay to her charge , but her being
i shall ever despise the man who can be gratified by the passion which he never wished to inspire ,
palmer , in her way , was equally angry .
, how nonsensical some persons are about their place , because all the world knows how easy and indifferent you
he had , very soon after their engagement ceased , got employ : and all that he had told her
” “yes , i would .
woodhouse , who could not be induced to get so far as london , even for poor isabella ' s
it is a pity they are not handsome !
so ended all danger to anne of meeting captain wentworth at kellynch hall , or of seeing him in company
conclusion of their first difficulties , and present promising state of affairs ; relating everything with so blind an interest
no ; cautious as a minister of state .
so plain as you expected to do !
when he was gone , they were certain at least of receiving constant information of what was going on ,
she is a handsome girl , about fifteen or sixteen , and , i understand , highly accomplished .
she must tell you herself what she is—yet not by word , for never was there a human creature who
tilney—but that is a settled thing—even your modesty cannot doubt his attachment now ; his coming back to bath makes
" marianne spoke inconsiderately what she really felt ; but when she saw how much she had pained edward ,
turned the lock in desperation , and the lights of the drawing-room , and all the collected family , were
let me soon hear from you , dear catherine ; you are my only friend ; your love i do
bennet , before you take any or all of these houses for your son and daughter , let us come
a silence of several minutes succeeded their first short dialogue ; it was broken by thorpe ' s saying very
it seemed too much ; just at that time to be giving her such an indulgence was exciting even painful
” she began , and fanny joined in with all the modest feeling which the idea of representing edmund was
the inn , or get into lodgings , as it suited , and there remain till dear louisa could be
it must be very difficult to keep anhalt from appearing a formal , solemn lecturer ; and the man who
” away ran the girls , too eager to get in to have time for speech .
" " he has only two thousand pounds of his own ; it would be madness to marry upon that
promise me , therefore , to come to hunsford .
he must think himself a most agreeable fellow ; i could not do such a thing .
, lest she might hear too much .
she might be in the midst of their noise , or retreat from it to the solitude of the east
present recollect any thing of the riddle kind ; but he had desired perry to be upon the watch ,
of attaching her ; and his behaviour declared his wishes to be in that respect as earnest , as his
anne hoped the gentlemen might each be too much self-occupied to hear .
ferrars ' s views for you at present , edward ?
it was a clear thing he was less in love than he had been .
but it is not to be a display of that sort .
had he wished ever to see her again , he need not have waited till this time ; he would
—the affection , which he had been asking to be allowed to create , if he could , was already
her resistance had not injured her with the gentleman , and he was thinking of her with some complacency ,
can quite comprehend .
i called to take leave of her , i remember that i was within a moment of confessing the truth
gave them time to see how heartily they were wished away by some of the family .
saying a great deal at my mother ' s time of life—and it really is full two years , you
allen , he repaired directly to the card-room , and left them to enjoy a mob by themselves .
” this was readily agreed to , with only a proviso of miss tilney ' s , that it did
to see marianne , i felt , would be dreadful , and i even doubted whether i could see her
a curious dialogue , and was exactly in union with her opinion of each .
butler , and began to be impatient to be acting ; and every day thus unemployed was tending to increase
he drove through the park very fast , and they were soon out of sight ; and nothing more of
knightley and robert martin was , at this moment , so strong to emma ' s feelings , and so
netherfield , and the servant waited for an answer .
s ideas ; by the strong effect on her mind which the finding herself in the east room again produced
” cried elizabeth , with the greatest satisfaction .
i cured him at last ; but he was very bad all the winter—and this was such a day ,
, and more intent on telling the news than giving them any help , immediately began with , “the thrush
catherine took the advice , and ran off to get ready .
" elinor confirmed it .
give the explanation of the second necklace : the real chain .
“i have no reason , i assure you , ” said he , “to be dissatisfied with my reception .
” it vexed her to see him expose himself to such a man .
mother by alluding to her for the world .
sight of my augustus in so cruel a confinement—my feelings are sufficiently shocked by the recital , of his distress
supposed .
entirely against his judgment , a scene-painter arrived from town , and was at work , much to the increase
' ” “oh !
norris had no affection for fanny , and no wish of procuring her pleasure at any time ; but her
much forgotten .
ever walked this way .
the young men of this age .
at it than almost any other man .
if i have wounded your sister’s feelings , it was unknowingly done and though the motives which governed me may
winding round a plantation , led to the front , the lawn was dotted over with timber , the house
she would not let jane say , ' no ; ' for when jane first heard of it , (it
a woman there .
naturally would during a four years ' engagement , your situation would have been pitiable , indeed .
and catherine , angry and vexed as she was , having no power of getting away , was obliged to
the children are all hanging about her already , as if she was an old acquaintance .
i assure you i began to think my caro sposo would be absolutely jealous .
edward will be in when he hears of it !
weston , i could not have believed it of you !
weston was ready , on the first meeting , to consider the subject in the most serviceable light—first , as
bell !
after listening to this full description of mr elliot , anne could not but express some surprise at mrs smith
” “say , rather , that he has not thought at all upon serious subjects , which i believe to
she does not depend upon his coming so much as i do : but she does not know the parties
—“but they would have done better had they given her notice of it .
his , might be easily led aright and turn out very well .
oh no ; we all felt that we were going to be only half a mile apart , and were
all possibility of wronging him .
his profession was all that could ever make her friends wish that tenderness less , the dread of a future
i have loved none but you .
” “my godfather !
prayers and preach , without giving up mansfield park : he might ride over every sunday , to a house
james was the sufferer .
to give him any assurance that he might form a home for himself , without strictly attending to her views
he must love somebody .
give me the book , i will write it down , and then there can be no possible reflection on
opinion , of all things the most natural .
“more than an attachment , indeed , ” resumed mrs .
legs enough for the number ; but the morlands had little other right to the word , for they were
they contained a noble piece of water—a sail on which was to a form a great part of the morning
niece—entirely unexpected ; that at first , by miss bates ' s account , jane herself was quite at a
for her .
acceptance , with only the saving clause of papa and mamma ' s approbation , was eagerly given .
many articles of tasteful attire ; could discover a flirtation between any gentleman and lady who only smiled on each
—when it was thus settled on her sister ' s side , emma proposed it to her friend , and
my poor mother does not know how to bear it .
he had been thinking it over most deeply , most intently ; he had at first hoped to induce mr
' s is much beyond it .
did seem to like him .
she was humble , and wishing to be forgiven ; and mr .
only by his own dissipated course of life , and that brother ' s integrity , was confirming her most
composure with a witness !
william , her brother , the so long absent and dearly loved brother , was in england again .
we all like a play .
conversation ; a few clever things said , a few downright silly , but by much the larger proportion neither
woodhouse ' s carriage .
" " do you know where they came from ?
martin the very next day , as they were walking on the donwell road .
they have some of the finest woods in the country .
she could scarcely eat any dinner , and when they afterwards returned to the drawing room , seemed anxiously listening
so unwilling to appear as the benefactress of edward , that she acknowledged it with hesitation ; which probably contributed
—yours , etc .
yet in spite of all these temptations , let me warn my cousin elizabeth , and yourself , of what
a wonderful woman .
he had since heard her express herself differently , with other feelings , more chequered feelings : he had heard
elizabeth silently attended her .
have him ?
else should say for him .
feared , might give a sudden turn to his constitution , and carry him off as rapidly as before .
post : ) sir , i accept your offer .
she reflected on the affair for some time in much perplexity , and was more than once on the point
she had lived with him to be reproached as the ruin of all his happiness in fanny , and carried
” “you are certainly under no obligation to marry him answered her ladyship , except that which love himself will
why don ' t he repair it ?
, for her sake , forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well ?
” the idea of mr .
them ; and on reaching that point , they stopped to look around them , and examine a prospect which
emma knew that she had , but would not own it ; and mr .
engaged in watching the occasional appearance of some trout in the water , and talking to the man about them
but they have a great many to provide for ; and among the thousands that may just as well go
the cheeks which had been pale now glowed , and the movements which had hesitated were decided .
the circumstances , probably , which first opened your eyes to his character .
every room on the west front looked across a lawn to the beginning of the avenue immediately beyond tall iron
by that her eye was instantly caught and long retained ; and the perusal of the highly strained epitaph ,
journal tomorrow .
though she would not own it .
he wanted to animate her curiosity again as to how and where he could have heard her formerly praised ;
who i am certain would not hesitate in receiving me .
but you are not thinking of me .
her character will be fixed , and she will , at sixteen , be the most determined flirt that ever
walk home in tolerable comfort .
” “exceed their income !
harriet certainly was not clever , but she had a sweet , docile , grateful disposition , was totally free
degrading by their contemptuous censure the very performances , to the number of which they are themselves adding—joining with their
” “yes : but a young lady—a bride—i ought to have paid my respects to her if possible .
you tear them to pieces .
this was his only secret exception , when he said to his sister , in answer to her suppositions :
a word , a look , will be enough to decide whether i enter your father ' s house this
it the best aspect in the world , sloping to the south-east .
“am i to understand , ” said sir thomas , after a few moments ' silence , “that you mean
she supposed she must say more before she were entitled to his clemency ; but it was a hard case
fairfax the first time after any considerable absence , without feeling that she had injured her ; and now ,
tell her nieces what they already knew , that mr .
price resulted from it .
something more than merely malice against herself ; and might be brought , by time and address , to do
—miss woodhouse , this is not like our friend knightley !
so altered—so faded—worn down by acute suffering of every kind !
they must retrench ; that did not admit of a doubt .
tilney , how frightful !
pushed back too , as if meant to be out of sight !
edmund ' s deep sighs often reached fanny .
his first plan had comprehended , and was now able to congratulate himself upon it , and to feel that
woodhouse was resigned .
the addition of jane fairfax , at any time , the least inconvenient .
after a short silence , the lady first spoke .
“i believe you are right , fanny , ” was his reply , after a short consideration .
he had called in camden place ; had called a second time , a third ; had been pointedly attentive
” “no , no , ” said she , “you are quite unreasonable .
once so much to each other !
had done .
of her friend ; for mrs .
" fanny looked very angry too , and her husband was all in a fright at his sister ' s
and jane fairfax , too , of all women !
; the only thing at which she rather seemed to hesitate was our assertion that she must be attached to
he was quite as good-looking as he had appeared at lyme , his countenance improved by speaking , and his
knightley ' s air is so remarkably good that it is not fair to compare mr .
bestowed , within a reasonable period from edmund ' s marrying mary .
thought , surprised her by its extravagant testimony of both .
for her wish of bringing marianne and colonel brandon together was hardly less earnest , though rather more liberal than
she was convinced that margaret had fixed on a person whose name she could not bear with composure to become
” “very well , then , fanny may go , edmund .
for general tilney ' s judgment ; he could not propose anything improper for her ; and , in the
i wonder whether it will be a full ball or not !
vanity , to avarice ?
i had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such a way .
“when frank left us , ” continued he , “it was quite uncertain when we might see him again ,
followed by warmer wishes and higher commendation , than were most voluntarily bestowed by my uncle after the evening they
” fanny ' s feelings on the occasion were indeed considerably more warm and genuine than her aunt ' s
street , and , assuring her that fanny would be very glad to see her , invited her to come
walk !
she was already greatly displeased with mrs .
of which he heard nothing but the perfectly good and agreeable .
it was with the daughter of mr shepherd , who had returned , after an unprosperous marriage , to her
you know the weak side of her character , and may imagine the sentiments and expressions which were torturing me
yes , very .
what would be the consequence ?
” to complete the favourable impression , she then told him what mr .
hughes i declare—and mrs .
” elizabeth was so much caught with what passed , as to leave her very little attention for her book
i wish they met more frequently !
” “then why did not you ?
i suppose you have had as little to vex you since you came into this house as any creature in
the style of the letter was much above her expectation .
he had devised .
the grandeur of the house astonished , but could not console her .
woodhouse trembled as he sat , and , as emma had foreseen , would scarcely be satisfied without their promising
meeting was over , and to give her the impression of his not being improved by the mixture of pique
she is almost three-and-twenty !
they set forward ; and , with a grandeur of air , a dignified step , which caught the eye
distant from her mind , that it had been all her own work ?
as soon as they were out of the house , his enquiries began .
" " nay , " cried mrs .
who is to dance ?
you know the distance to sotherton ; it was in the middle of winter , and the roads almost impassable
thorpe , the lady had asked whether any message had been left for her ; and on his saying no
she immediately answered , without any embarrassment , that he had been kind enough to call on her on monday
consulted the postilion , who was entirely of my opinion concerning the affair .
of an establishment , cared not how soon that establishment were gained .
, while many letters and memorandums of real importance had been destroyed .
he was suffering from disappointment and regret , grieving over what was , and wishing for what could never be
came !
it was designed only to express his participation in all that interested her , and to tell her that he
they would doubtless be congenial with the generality of female minds .
if the weather should happen to be cool , i should not object to taking you both , as you
prepared .
but think so .
had a right to be equally positive in their opinion , and to repeat it over and over again as
i think nobody can justly accuse me of sparing myself upon any occasion , but really i cannot do everything
" oh , lord !
with such an opinion , no wonder that .
—harriet undoubtedly was greatly his inferior in understanding ; but he had been very much struck with the loveliness of
liberty , all walked out .
” starting , the lady instinctively moved a step or two , but recovering herself in a moment , affected
his name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece ; and the kind of half-expectation which mrs
too late he became aware how unfavourable to the character of any young people must be the totally opposite treatment
general .
i am very fond of hearing miss bates talk .
” was his reply , but not at all in anger .
" oh , don ' t think of me !
but it is capable of much more .
but honestly now , do not you rather expect it than otherwise ?
midst of something i was saying , by exclaiming in a most theatrical tone— yes i ' m in love
it would only be giving trouble and distress .
wickham ; “his estate there is a noble one .
he held the card in his hand after they were gone , as if deeply considering it .
cole ' s did not seem to contradict , that when he next entered highbury he would bring his bride
“emma , ” said she , “this paper is worse than i expected .
content her .
over , to be no farther incommoded by any troublesome topic , and to wander at large amongst all the
i do not remember her name among the ladies at court .
beginning thus— “my dear fanny , —i take up my pen to communicate some very alarming intelligence , which i
an open , pleasant countenance , and frank , unstudied , but feeling and respectful manners , and such as
xxxiv mr .
i could not have stopped myself had i begun .
fanny soon learnt how unnecessary had been her fears of a removal ; and her spontaneous , untaught felicity on
“and may i not , in my turn , ” said he , as he pushed back the folding doors
why was it so much worse that harriet should be in love with mr .
for the marriage at once , with all its evils , to be clear of mr elliot ' s subtleties
at the expense of a journey from sussex to do them honour .
uppercross excited no interest , kellynch very little : it was all bath .
she had known it would irritate and distress her ; she had known it her duty to keep away .
” “as to that—i do not—” “oh !
tell me she is well .
it would be something to be loved by such a girl , to excite the first ardours of her young
elton , by calling you mr .
it was so long since emma had been at the abbey , that as soon as she was satisfied of
compliment her on her brother ' s attachment , and even to appear to believe it serious .
, kissed her affectionately several times , and then gave way to a burst of tears , which at first
it did not suit his sense of propriety , and he was silenced , till induced by further smiles and
" " i am flattered by his commendation .
” he was obliged to pause more than once as he continued .
he promised to join me here , and pay his respects to you .
be a good deal the case .
she calls you , knightley—what can she do for mr .
at the head of a different staircase .
till he came and had examined the child , their apprehensions were the worse for being vague ; they suspected
could stay no longer .
” “have you no message for anybody ?
common failing , i believe .
i never can sufficiently regret that i wrote to you at all .
” “i will not be interrupted .
exactly how far he loved and esteemed isabella .
was well assured that i had no other person to provide for , and i could not have forgotten my
the merits and the happiness of elinor and marianne , let it not be ranked as the least considerable ,
what cannot you get a partner ?
his regard for her was quite imaginary ; and the possibility of her deserving her mother’s reproach prevented his feeling
the wish of a numerous acquaintance in bath was still uppermost with mrs .
” “they walked , i conclude .
own way , and a disposition to think a little too well of herself ; these were the disadvantages which
a ball at meryton ?
to the society of hertfordshire ; her mild and steady candour always pleaded for allowances , and urged the possibility
i am not romantic , you know ; i never was .
weston , he had not the smallest doubt of being highly interesting to every body in the room .
yates were in the billiard-room .
they had a concert bill between them .
talk between the gentlemen , noise rising upon noise , and bustle upon bustle , men and boys at last
them , before the light and warmth of the day were gone .
” “you have not !
they had gone , in short—and very great had been the evident distress and confusion of the lady .
was defrauded of her due by a woman ten years older than herself .
cole had moved away , and her attention could be restored as before , she saw frank churchill looking intently
but catherine could be stubborn too ; and mrs .
our situations .
; but instead of the gay acquiescence expected by isabella , catherine looked grave , was very sorry , but
what are young men to rocks and mountains ?
let me recommend you , however , as a friend , not to give implicit confidence to all his assertions
with perfect convenience .
and the same may be said of mrs .
nonsense !
the conversation soon turned upon fishing ; and she heard mr .
' s , i had a great curiosity .
—i assure you that i have heard the news with the warmest interest and satisfaction .
he looked completely astonished , but not more astonished than pleased ; his eyes brightened !
to leave them little leisure for serious employment .
jennings had attributed to a very different cause ; —but whatever minor feelings less pure , less pleasing , might
palmer ; — " not that i ever spoke to him , indeed ; but i have seen him for
it had not been very great ; he had lost every point ; but when mrs .
in having this cause of uneasiness so pleasantly removed , the force of the other was likewise weakened .
they could not but be missed .
have not i some right to complain ?
they had mr elliot too .
i have known a great deal of the trouble of annuities ; for my mother was clogged with the payment
not that he wanted merely to dance , he wanted to be with me .
that ' s a very good thought , very good , indeed .
the shutter , felt the strongest conviction of the wind ' s force .
“then she had better come to us , ” said lady bertram , with the utmost composure .
” “yes , she was agreeing exactly with her sister .
she would have laughed if she could .
than the dinner-table here , how infinitely better it would have been !
grant ' s non-attendance was sad indeed .
” “i think , indeed , ” said john knightley pleasantly , “that mr .
” “about a week , sir , ” replied catherine , trying not to laugh .
” elizabeth , having rather expected to affront him , was amazed at his gallantry ; but there was a
may not have heard that my brother is lately married to—to the youngest—to miss lucy steele .
just been contemplating the dismal rain in a very desponding state of mind , sighing over the ruin of all
such an evening !
principal rivers in russia—or , she never heard of asia minor—or she does not know the difference between water-colours and
” “yes , ” he replied , and without the smallest apparent embarrassment .
of the thousand poetical descriptions extant of autumn , that season of peculiar and inexhaustible influence on the mind of
, gave it all the negative of great astonishment , great coldness , great silence , and a professed resolution
time than he knows how to employ , and two new coats every year .
, by the sudden swell of a cold gust shaking down the last few yellow leaves about them , to
bingley , but without seeming to have noticed what passed , took leave and rode on with his friend .
dashwood entered into all their feelings with a warmth which left her no inclination for checking this excessive display of
command , and growing up with no advantages of connexion or improvement , to be engrafted on what nature had
you in the same way .
no , no .
was truly welcome .
she had been for three months her companion , was still under her care , and she was known to
tom , as cottager , was in despair .
but if i had more room , i should take a prodigious delight in improving and planting .
price now received his daughter ; and having given her a cordial hug , and observed that she was grown
, described its deficiencies , and told her what he meant to do himself towards removing them .
goddard .
their box at astley ' s , my brother took charge of mrs .
miss nash had told her all this , and had talked a great deal more about mr .
her own view of the subject .
fanny was most conveniently in want of rest .
as no one felt a doubt of his most cordial pleasure in the connexion , the intercourse of the two
few interruptions of tyranny ; she was moreover noisy and wild , hated confinement and cleanliness , and loved nothing
tell him the whole delightful and astonishing truth .
" elinor was very angry , but marianne seemed entirely insensible of the sting ; for she calmly replied— "
which required no explanation to her , repeated , " devonshire !
why were not they more punctual ?
guineas to mr .
" i hope , marianne , " continued elinor , " you do not consider him as deficient in general
i met him just now .
anne enquired after captain benwick .
” sir thomas immediately improved this compliment by adding , “very true .
” “i either depend more upon emma ' s good sense than you do , or am more anxious for
regret having asked more than jane fairfax to partake of it .
to fanny herself it appeared a very simple and natural circumstance .
after much thinking , she could determine on nothing better , than harriet ' s returning the visit ; but
knightley returned to his reading with greater alacrity .
—she had not thought her old friend could have made so indifferent a suitor .
was sufficiently recovered to think it prettier than any pleasure-ground she had ever been in before , though there was
gardiner’s house , where they were to remain a few days .
attended to her conversation with others .
bennet at conversation , and by so doing threw a languor over the whole party , which was very little
” “yes ; when i left her i told her so .
again she passed through the folding doors , again her hand was upon the important lock , and catherine ,
by captain wentworth , she saw that he was gone .
and thought of them , and felt for them , with a degree of affectionate regret which they had never
it was some relief , however , that they were to return to the rooms in common use , by
this was the page at which the favourite volume always opened : " elliot of kellynch hall .
everybody is disgusted with his pride .
much on the strength of your own imagination , that the commendation i am able to give of him is
” harriet looked grave .
her own heart , that principle of right , which had not formed any essential part of her education ,
—it is a sad change indeed .
” with this answer elizabeth was forced to be content ; but her own opinion continued the same , and
but there are other points to be considered besides his inclination .
milsom street by that hour .
it is ill placed .
as i was sensible myself , that i had always behaved in a manner which reflected honour on my feelings
, and i can hardly tell which would have been worse for her .
you must be satisfied with such admiration as i can honestly give .
and , perhaps no man can be a good judge of the comfort a woman feels in the society of
in a few minutes , mrs .
this must be his state .
” “no , ”—he calmly replied , —“there is but one married woman in the world whom i can ever
even in moments of languor or restraint , a sense of general happiness preponderated , and she could think of
the evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family .
darcy is impatient to see his sister ; and , to confess the truth , we are scarcely less eager
her eager defence of her brother , her hope of its being hushed up , her evident agitation , were
of course .
marianne did not continue to gain strength as she had done ; but while her resolution was unsubdued , and
after travelling for three days and six nights without stopping , they arrived at the forest and following a track
, she had pursued her own judgment rather than her friend ' s , in making very light of the
i instantly saw that something was the matter ; his complexion was raised , and he spoke with great emotion
' tis a sad business .
but is not this a sudden scheme ?
all your friends , must share ; and likewise as a proof of his high esteem for your general character
sir thomas approved of it for another reason .
rushworth will be here in a moment with the key .
bingley , who came from the dance for a few minutes , to press his friend to join it .
churchill was recovering , and he dared not yet , even in his own imagination , fix a time for
i should have visited admiral croft , however , at any rate .
been wishing ever since to see you , to explain the reason of such incivility ; but perhaps i can
who are your uncles and aunts ?
but in matters of greater weight , i may suffer from want of money .
and her £ _num_ , _num_ , any one who could satisfy the better taste she had acquired at mansfield
change .
i call on you , dear alicia , for congratulations : i am my own self , gay and triumphant
her nerves and fill her mind ; —and she was therefore glad to be spared from the necessity of saying
clear of every subject which her feelings connected with him .
than any other person .
and i see very few pearls in the room except mine .
crowds , and threading the gutters of that interesting alley , they were prevented crossing by the approach of a
“by the bye , ” said frank churchill to mrs .
goddard , if not mrs .
her to dance .
the plan was that she should be brought up for educating others ; the very few hundred pounds which she
the independence she settled on robert , through resentment against you , has put it in his power to make
his importance at enscombe was very evident .
while talking to each other , she had observed with some surprise that john thorpe , who was never in
grant , inclined to credit what she wished , and maria by the hints of mr .
but little had she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there .
” “yes , very true , ” cried frank , “very true .
m .
test !
she was particularly struck by his manner of considering mr .
” “neither duty , nor honour , nor gratitude , ” replied elizabeth , “have any possible claim on me
tenderness of manner , be continually advising her in vain .
what do you think of him ?
the peace turned him on shore at the very moment , and he has been living with us , in
amiable princess of my heart farewell—of that heart which trembles while it signs itself your most ardent admirer and devoted
” “yes , and i hope to engage you to be serious likewise .
remark ; but quick was the consolation of there being nothing like practice .
i am in a fine mood for gaiety .
all these good resolutions on the side of self-government , she seized the scrap of paper on which edmund had
maria , she also thought , acted well , too well ; and after the first rehearsal or two ,
to do but to calculate the disproportion between thirty-six and seventeen , brought him to barton in a temper of
such fickleness !
a prize indeed would kellynch hall be to him ; rather the greatest prize of all , let him have
impelled by an irresistible presentiment , you will eagerly advance to it , unlock its folding doors , and search
but the wonder of it was very soon nothing ; and by the end of an hour he was not
" " i believe she does .
she had before conjectured him to be a stranger like themselves , and determined that a well-looking groom , who
they were always engaged in some sentimental discussion or lively dispute , but their sentiment was conveyed in such whispering
or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others ?
this parish , where it shall be my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her ladyship ,
i am sure if i knew of any thing she would like , i would send all over the town
she must not walk .
—i would not stay for the servant .
but she felt that it was so , long , long before she could feel his influence less .
it is very fit they should have daughters ' shares ; and i am sure he has always been a
he has no feeling for others .
sir thomas , mrs .
will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself .
the kindness , the unceasing kindness of mrs .
elizabeth did not quite equal her father in personal contentment .
he is highly esteemed by all the family at the park , and i never see him myself without taking
” “no—i do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did .
could oppose when he gave way , there was no help for it ; the change of mary for anne
kind ; and as she held her candle , the yellow had very much the effect of gold .
” “but this was something of real consequence ; and i do not think you would have found me hard
mine made every thing easy .
at last , with some hesitation , harriet said— “miss woodhouse , as you will not give me your opinion
” replies the young lady , while she lays down her book with affected indifference , or momentary shame .
company again .
say , and all that , but i think her very ill-tempered and disagreeable—i shall never forget her look the
any further definition of his merits must be unnecessary ; the most charming young man in the world is instantly
—could he be a sensible man , sir ?
” “oh well !
doing good all their lives , wearing out their last days in a place like uppercross , where , excepting
it would grieve me indeed to be obliged to think ill of you ; but if i am to do
poor sick child ; and not a creature coming near us all the evening !
“we have all been more or less to blame , ” said he , “every one of us , excepting
fanny ' s friendship was all that he had to cling to .
' s house , with nothing to say or to hear that was not said and heard yesterday , and
chose , for nobody would think it worth their while to observe me ; but sir walter elliot has eyes
to those , however , he was very well disposed to attach himself .
' s cheeks and fixing her eyes on the ground .
—well !
; she was too precipitate by half a second , she fell on the pavement on the lower cobb ,
” “i should no more lay it down as a general rule that women write better letters than men ,
the quarrels of popes and kings , with wars or pestilences , in every page ; the men all so
you ought certainly to forgive them , as a christian , but never to admit them in your sight ,
” “and is that to be my only security ?
passion , i should at present detest his very name , and wish him all manner of evil .
it was the last of the regiment’s stay in meryton , and all the young ladies in the neighbourhood were
" " i will not oppose such kind politeness ; but i should be sorry to be examined by a
i remember him .
—i am no flatterer .
yes—but how they were conveyed hither ?
it was over , and she had escaped without reproaches and without detection .
—whatever strange things i said or did during that fortnight , you have now a key to .
jennings repeated her assurance that mrs .
and , unshackled by business , occupy himself solely in being civil to all the world .
acquainted with her own feelings , was perfectly aware that , had she known nothing of darcy , she could
she felt its application to herself , felt it in a nervous thrill all over her ; and at the
collins did not think it right to press the subject , from the danger of raising expectations which might only
resolved to disallow , have been unanswerably proved to me ; nay more , i am assured that a connection
my beau , indeed !
disappointment , some vexation , which just at this moment seems important , but which i can hardly suppose you
” asked isabella in the plaintive tone which just suited her father .
flagrant open crime could have been worse .
elton ' s going to london produced a fresh occasion for emma ' s services towards her friend .
but i confess , as soon as i read his letter , i thought it a very foolish , imprudent
neatness !
unless it were an acceptance even more to be deprecated , demanding such sacrifices of situation and employment on his
some unaccountable bias in favour of beauty , he was the husband of a very silly woman , —but she
power to make them happy , which will be enough for isabella ; and happiness must preclude false indulgence and
her christian name : i always forget her christian name .
i told him the distance and the road , and i told him of the church ' s being so
been delayed to a later period ; —if your engagement had been carried on for months and months , as
' —if he would say so to her at once , in the tone of decision becoming a man ,
pray , how violent was mr .
fear of giving alarm or inconvenience from expressing in her note how much she longed for such a visit ,
and what did mr musgrove say to this ?
sir james is one of the most frequent of our visitors , and is almost always of our parties .
take the part with a good grace , and let us hear no more of the matter , i entreat
the touch seemed immediate .
because he could not endure a longer total separation .
much as she had suffered from her first conversation with lucy on the subject , she soon felt an earnest
she therefore satisfied herself with common-place remarks or quiet attention , and the admiral had it all his own way
called elinor and marianne , which she re-christened sense and sensibility .
with the fortitude of a devoted novitiate , she had resolved at one-and-twenty to complete the sacrifice , and retire
not , in his public capacity , honour enough .
an affectionate mother who will make the most of it .
you will not tell me .
forbidden by sir thomas , they felt themselves immediately at their own disposal , and to have every indulgence within
” “well , my dear jane , i believe we must be running away .
but who was your mother ?
she was here shown successively into three large bed-chambers , with their dressing-rooms , most completely and handsomely fitted up
her father—and harriet .
own in that neighbourhood ; and it was not merely for the use of it in the hunting-season (as he
to make any sacrifice to right : he resolved to defer his norfolk journey , resolved that writing should answer
did not i tell you what he said of you the other day ?
herself as they ought to be admired .
elinor , who did justice to mrs .
allen and my father ; and i have two brothers who do not dislike it .
received , the blush of guilt which accompanied the name of “my excellent friend colonel campbell .
her disorder turned to a galloping consumption and in a few days carried her off .
harriet may pick and chuse .
knightley , who had nothing of ceremony about him , was offering by his short , decided answers , an
of serious reflection , must eventually lead her to contentment and cheerfulness .
london , and persuaded myself that you would understand my silence .
“if i had known you were going out , i should have got you just to go as far as
likely to be easily touched .
information from mary : -- " captain wentworth is not very gallant by you , anne , though he was
them think me a blackguard one .
miss mason and said loud enough to be heard by half the people in the room , “pray miss maria
” “to be sure—our discordancies must always arise from my being in the wrong .
if not wise or refined herself , she would have connected him with those who were ; but miss hawkins
his companions suggested only what could palliate imprudence , or smooth objections ; and by the time they had talked
captain wentworth was gone , for the present , to see his brother in shropshire .
reprieve , the rejoicing , deep and silent , after a few fervent ejaculations of gratitude to heaven had been
knew that this kind of blunder was too common for any sensible man to be lastingly hurt by it .
last thirty minutes of expectation , and the first of fruition ; it was some time even before her happiness
harriet smith refuse robert martin ?
—it always has quite hurt me that jane fairfax , who plays so delightfully , should not have an instrument
known would not have recognized it for mr .
till dinner was on the table , they all left her to vent all her feelings on the housekeeper ,
chapter xxvi elinor could not find herself in the carriage with mrs .
, and tried at once to make her feel the blessing of what was , and prepare her mind for
in this age of literature , such collections on a very grand scale are not uncommon .
, r .
don ' t talk so , don ' t talk so , ” cried fanny , distressed by more feelings
dearest , dearest william !
and how singularly strange that it should fall to her lot to discover it !
suckling ' s seat ; ”—a comparison of hartfield to maple grove .
fine young man , and advised fanny to get his picture drawn before he went to sea again—she could not
my dear , do not you think these silk gloves wear very well ?
a girl who wanted only a little more knowledge and elegance to be quite perfect .
” “yes , sir , i was at the play on tuesday .
have been in : and mamma had ordered me never to speak to you or my uncle about it ,
it would have all ended in a regular standing flirtation , in yearly meetings at sotherton and everingham .
miss woodhouse , i am quite concerned , i am sure you hit your foot .
or their comforts but for the better ; and she was very sure that he would be a great deal
' " here he stopped to be thanked ; which being done , he went on .
oh !
engagement with him was in continual perspective .
established her superiority in wretchedness .
the black mare was blameless ; they were right who had named mrs .
” “i never can think such tremendous , knock-me-down figures in the least degree elegant , and as for their
to the theatre accordingly they all went ; no tilneys appeared to plague or please her ; she feared that
' the loss of mary i must consider as comprehending the loss of crawford and fanny .
be expressing fanny ' s secret feelings too .
frank churchill might have—i do not mean to say that he did not dream it—i am sure i have sometimes
i behaved shamefully .
to herself .
bad , they were always wishing away .
” “do not flatter yourself , my dearest mary .
been in town these three months .
, that all his professions and vows of unshaken attachment might have as much hope to sustain them as possible
at it , i have a reason of my own for wondering at it .
to amuse her , and be agreeable in her eyes , seemed all that he cared for—and emma , glad
time or other known the same agitation .
harriet was to sit again the next day ; and mr .
” “lucky , lucky girl !
which the family habits seemed to produce , of everything being to be communicated , and everything being to be
their circle of friends : a great comfort to know that there was one who would meet her without feeling
she resolved on not answering isabella ' s letter , and tried to think no more of it .
their mutual affection will steady them ; and i flatter myself they will settle so quietly , and live in
edward and to see him as little as possible ; she could not deny herself the comfort of endeavouring to
but , however , triumph there certainly will be , and i must brave it .
the officers may not be so pleasant in general ——’s regiment .
one i can apply to for the truth , his sisters not being within my reach .
, before it begins—but as for the ball , it is quite a settled thing ; and as soon as
weston pays her visit , i may be allowed , i hope , ” said frank churchill , “to join
had i then had any pursuit , any object to engage my time and keep me at a distance from
no ; perry shall have all the credit .
it was a melancholy change ; and emma could not but sigh over it , and wish for impossible things
and fanny .
the silence of the lady proved it to be unanswerable .
” “how long were you together ?
the carriage was at the door ready to take my poor cousins away , and they were just stepping in
, brought them to four o ' clock , when catherine scarcely thought it could be three .
but i think , my dear , you said you had got it .
i have no idea of it .
she had at first imagined could ever be , that the sitting down to the same table with him now
” returned mr .
grant , “i have thought of something to make it complete .
him since , with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration .
plan appeared so eligible to mrs .
and the doctor is a single man , i warrant you .
well , he is a very undeserving young man—and i do not suppose there’s the least chance in the world
he has done for himself completely , —shut himself out for ever from all decent society !
why they are your cousins , you know , after a fashion .
her fair friend , who was absolutely out of breath from haste , when there was not the least occasion
there are people , who the more you do for them , the less they will do for themselves .
” “not expect me !
to a carriage of her own .
there was no denying that those brothers had penetration .
november was the black month fixed for his return .
a couple of good beds somewhere near .
” jane had come to highbury professedly for three months ; the campbells were gone to ireland for three months
collins had promised ; and , as he had likewise foretold , he took his seat at the bottom of
a most severe and unexpected blow at once destroyed every sensation of pleasure .
she has been so kind as to promise it .
the cook makes a blunder , is out of humour with his excellent wife .
elton were together .
they are known to the largest part only as preachers .
—his aunt is in the way .
which could so early distinguish justly , than to censure severely the faults of conduct to which it led .
in such spirits before in her life .
i thought i heard a carriage last night , while we were drinking our tea , but it never entered
, it is infinitely better than charles hayter ; and mr musgrove has written his consent , and captain benwick
was sitting in his own dressing-room down stairs , thinking about writing a letter to his steward in the country
and maintained—or to deserve to be slighted by the person , whose counsels had never led her right .
—this , though very undesirable , would be no matter of agony to her .
reflection , soon after they were seated at table : “this is a most unfortunate affair , and will probably
yates ; and mr .
and they both long to see you of all things , for they have heard at exeter that you are
by john thorpe , who stood behind her .
remarkably clever , good kind of young man .
but i know they will , because it is a family that a certain lady , of some consequence ,
lady bertram agreed to it all with a calm “yes” ; and at the end of a quarter of an
" " of one thing i may assure you .
all the privilege i claim for my own sex (it is not a very enviable one ; you need not
you must have heard every thing to be sure .
tho ' pleasing both in her person and manners (between ourselves) she never possessed the hundredth part of my beauty
of means—the house in town had yielded greater profits , and fortune in general had smiled on them .
end of the first act .
that we would certainly avail ourselves of it , whenever we might have no other place to go to .
the dews of a summer evening are what i would not expose any body to .
song—i am going to have my dinner , after which i shan ' t be thinner , i wish i
jennings , was the easiest means of atoning for his own neglect .
he seemed to be looking in her countenance for that explanation which her lips did not afford .
for you that you will like .
except a few of the officers , who , in comparison with the stranger , were become “stupid , disagreeable
in[ _num_ ] short , it is a kind of thing that , " lowering his voice to an important
" cried mrs .
she was in no hurry at all .
another step .
bennet by admiring mrs .
and as to conceit , he is the farthest from it of any man i know .
she was introduced here and there by her uncle , and forced to be spoken to , and to curtsey
thus much was settled before edmund , who had been out all the morning , knew anything of the matter
of her work for her .
his spirits required support .
and of home , on that event , imagining its certain consequence to herself would be greater severity and restraint
—you told us it would be so .
who should come on tuesday but sir james martin !
day after day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the report which shortly prevailed in meryton
" " i can hardly tell myself .
that would be enough for us to marry upon , and we might trust to time and chance for the
but even this encouragement failed , for he would go ; and lucy , who would have outstayed him ,
you cannot go to town till tomorrow , brandon , that is all .
, as you think now .
” “only those very insignificant ones of victuals and drink .
opinion .
lady dalrymple and miss carteret--they would soon be innoxious cousins to her .
their daughter is married , i suppose colonel and mrs .
--three girls , the two eldest sixteen and fourteen , was an awful legacy for a mother to bequeath ,
wickham—when she read with somewhat clearer attention a relation of events which , if true , must overthrow every cherished
we must trespass a little longer on your kindness .
earnest desire for their happiness ; nor could elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable .
the general pause which succeeded his short disquisition on the state of the nation was put an end to by
were chiefly with jane , in the argument ; and on leaving randalls , and falling naturally into a comparison
, has but this instant reached me— .
allen ' s opinion , respecting young men ' s open carriages , made her blush at the mention of
her with my mother i took down the remains of the ham and chicken , and sent william to ask
, here were the chairs .
” “emma , ” said mr .
a day , and a very early day , was actually fixed for the crawfords ' departure ; and sir
the matter myself .
at such a time much might have been said , and silence was very awkward .
have been presented to her as her future niece ; nor could she think , without a smile , of
well known already , by description , to be captain and mrs harville , and a captain benwick , who
reconciled to the change than mine .
” “i think it would be very wrong .
not , i know it will be read with candour and indulgence .
frank churchill and miss fairfax ?
, by turning very red and saying in an angry manner to margaret— " remember that whatever your conjectures may
to contrast , she was quite persuaded of his being astonishingly more gentle and regardful of others than formerly .
” “no—why should he ?
somebody else with twenty , or with ten .
in that case , so liable as every body was to meet every body in bath , lady russell would
he was not hungry ; it would only make him hotter .
willoughby ' s pointer , than he could describe to her the shades of his mind .
" " it is .
of his coming to randalls again this spring .
mrs musgrove interposed .
—no , i have never had such an idea , and i cannot adopt it now .
, i cannot so readily credit what lady susan has made him , and wants to make me believe ,
told her you had sent me to say that , having just recollected a prior engagement of going to clifton
civility to mrs .
they ought to have balls there at least every fortnight through the winter .
he pressed her hand , looked at her , and was gone .
tilney for their consent to his marrying their daughter was , for a few minutes , considerable , it having
for miss ——— , read miss smith .
though her late conversation with her daughter-in-law had made her resolve on remaining at norland no longer than was unavoidable
lydia was a stout , well-grown girl of fifteen , with a fine complexion and good-humoured countenance ; a favourite
, as always happened if he was not with them , spent the long , long evening there ; and
my head that it could be them .
she had this morning a letter from the lady with whom she has placed her daughter , to request that
a manner which he is likely to suffer from all his life .
" cried margaret , " how happy i should be !
that as far as it is carried , it should be so trifling and so unworthy of you , is
you know the ease and the pleasure with which this would be done .
" do you know that you are quite rude ?
” “excuse me my sophia for having thus unwillingly offended you—” replied i—and then changing the conversation , desired her
he was recalled from wit to wisdom , not by any reproof of her ' s , but by his
" " bless me !
—dreadful !
” “no , my dear , i think not .
you have had every care and anxiety upon yourself alone .
she was ashamed to think how much .
errand hither was to fetch her away ; and , miserable as it made the poor girl , it was
two gentlemen most elegantly attired but weltering in their blood was what first struck our eyes—we approached—they were edward and
i have , by raising myself to affluence , lost every thing that could make it a blessing .
but " no , she would go down ; she could bear it very well , and the bustle about
regard ; and i shall certainly endeavour to guard myself against their influence , if not accompanied by something more
morland was himself patron and incumbent , of about four hundred pounds yearly value , was to be resigned to
i soon forgot all my vexations in the pleasure of dancing and of having the most agreable partner in the
but the rain was also a mere trifle to mrs clay ; she would hardly allow it even to drop
” “yes , ” replied harriet modestly , but not fearfully—“i must say that i have .
bennet’s visit , and determining when they should ask him to dinner .
of the delicacy , discretion , originality of thought , and literary taste which marked the reasonableness of that attachment
that is court .
the first heedless scheme had been to go in the morning and return at night ; but to this mr
him really happy on the occasion , was very far from thinking it a bad match for her .
so i said , i was very much obliged to him : you know i could not do less ;
they are gone back to kellynch , and almost made me swear to visit them this summer ; but my
i met her frequently at weymouth .
soon cease to belong to highbury .
“how could you begin ?
when is it to be ?
how eloquent could anne elliot have been !
i have been slaving myself till i can hardly stand , to contrive mr .
i do not like having such things so long in hand .
—what will you say , emma—what will any body say , when it is known that frank churchill and miss
the other two her distress was equally visible .
true merit .
” “you have made her too tall , emma , ” said mr .
to regard it , in the enjoyment of his .
she could not bear to see him suffering , to know him fancying himself neglected ; and though her understanding
" your promise makes me easy .
i have known him too long and too well to be a fair judge .
not a soul of all my relations know of it but anne , and i never should have mentioned it
she talked to bingley of nothing else for half an hour ; and when mr .
" had you ?
goddard , emma could not have allowed her to leave the house .
" precisely such had the paragraph originally stood from the printer ' s hands ; but sir walter had improved
miss bertram ' s engagement made him in equity the property of julia , of which julia was fully aware
the first had regarded her with a kindness which ensured her a large share of her discourse .
no doubt she had been suffering a great deal : more than any body had ever supposed—and continual pain would
norris ' s power to take any share in the personal charge of her .
; and , with the interest of a road entirely new to her , of an abbey before , and
so , do not put yourself to inconvenience .
shall i ?
gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the longbourn family .
very overflowing ; and that he did mention , without its being much to the purpose , that on quitting
you have been walking too far .
i thought you had settled it with sir thomas .
" " yes , yes , i see you are .
and saying to herself , while harriet was puzzling over the paper in all the confusion of hope and dulness
” “they are taller than you are indeed .
" how do you do my dear ?
no longer hope that tomorrow would find her recovered ; and the idea of what tomorrow would have produced ,
grant , who are always quarrelling , and that poking old woman , who knows no more of whist than
" " for shame , for shame , miss dashwood !
most mortifying conviction of the imposition i have been under , and the absolute necessity of an immediate and eternal
the other side of the street , and there are a great many houses ; you might be very much
words could have done , that he was exactly the coxcomb she had heard him described to be by lucy
the whole family , in short , were properly overjoyed on the occasion .
—just what she ought , of course .
goddard ' s drawing-room ; and of her having an upper maid who had lived five-and-twenty years with her ;
kindness of her aunt had reserved for them .
certainly , ” cried his faithful assistant , “no one can be really esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass
she hardly knew yet what mr .
emma is spoiled by being the cleverest of her family .
her talents will be wanted in amelia .
weston wants to see you .
she could not but be thankful .
they must encounter each other , and make the best of it .
even pleasure , you know , is fatiguing—and i cannot say that any of them seemed very much to have
good-bye ; i wish you a pleasant journey to-morrow .
every constitution , and pretty severe philippics upon the many houses where it was never met with tolerably ; —but
i do not think they improve at all as neighbours .
evening assemblies ; neither at the upper nor lower rooms , at dressed or undressed balls , was he perceivable
” was her anxious inquiry , as she pointed them out to her companion .
, that barton cottage were inhabited !
a man of half mr .
, the principal street almost hurrying into the water , the walk to the cobb , skirting round the pleasant
be sure to give me intelligence of the letter as soon as possible .
to support the least exertion , that she has been in tears all this morning merely from having taken leave
darcy .
heartily ashamed of their own abominable neglect and unkindness .
my dear isabella , what do you mean ?
, i know it is the same with them all : they are all knocked about , and exposed to
she wanted , rather , to be quiet , and out of temptation ; but still , as it was
such subjects as most people , he did look upon a tolerably large eating-room as one of the necessaries of
most bitterly did she cry .
is merely words of course .
—they parted thorough friends , however ; she could not be deceived as to the meaning of his countenance ,
me in today , accidentally seen a letter in his hand , directed to mr .
her astonishment at what she heard was at first too great for words ; but at length forcing herself to
of[ _num_ ] fatigue , and made her only fearful of betraying herself to her sister .
” and there was a half-smile with the words , which meant , “i do not think you would answer
concern with .
i have travelled so little , that every fresh place would be interesting to me ; but there is real
she was ashamed of herself , quite ashamed of being so nervous , so overcome by such a trifle ;
vernon ' s invitation to prolong his stay in sussex , that they may have some hunting together .
how can you talk so ?
can feel at this moment , however justly great , can be more than i myself—but i must not talk
it was a pity , perhaps , that he had not come last night ; for , though the child
john himself was no skulker in joy .
, they did not attempt to oppose it , for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold
cut off a long lock of her hair	 _num_ " i have found you out in spite of all your
downs , the others cultivated and woody .
something quite new to me .
i have not forgot , you see ; and i assure you , i was very much disappointed that you
is to his sister , whatever anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural and amiable .
may as well be now .
till its success might be known likewise ; for though feeling almost secure , and with reason , for charlotte
“i do suspect that in the midst of your perplexities at that time , you had very great amusement in
the venison was roasted to a turn—and everybody said they never saw so fat a haunch .
—not to any compassion that could benefit you or myself .
she is a great reader , and has no pleasure in anything else .
weston at the same time , walking briskly with long steps through the passage , was calling out , “you
rushworth and his mother , and expose her sister to the whispered gallantries of her lover , while mrs .
but why should not i wear pink ribbons ?
the door	 _num_ both gained considerable amusement	 _num_ " of one thing i may assure you " 	 _num_ showing
you are extremely troublesome .
—but , mr .
i cannot attempt either .
young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these ; but i think i may defy even your sagacity
here she is with a poor old grandmother , who has barely enough to live on .
” “no , ” said mr .
evil to my friend as to me .
each was thoughtful .
but he is , beyond all comparison , the most agreeable man i ever saw—and if he becomes really attached
—heaven knows what i should have done without your friendship .
over her paper , with the pen in her hand , till broken in on by the entrance of edward
felt .
above five feet eight , or he will be expecting a well-looking man .
still mrs .
miss woodhouse was so great a personage in highbury , that the prospect of the introduction had given as much
so charmingly mended , before i left bath , that one can hardly see where it was .
isabella was so determined not to dance .
with the view imputed to him by his brother .
it might be weeks , it might be only a few days , before the horse were useable ; but
" mary is good-natured enough in many respects , " said she ; " but she does sometimes provoke me
but his intention , the kindness of his intention , was thankfully acknowledged : quite thankfully and warmly , for
all herself , attention was necessary , which elizabeth believed to be lucky for her ; or , with a
, by shewing a curiosity and pleasure in his information which he must wish his own daughters to feel .
i doubted it more the next day on box hill ; when , provoked by such conduct on my side
pray heaven , reginald may not be in town again by that time !
i was very well yesterday ; nothing at all the matter with me till this morning .
not be obliged to go into company more than she liked .
but colds were never so prevalent as they have been this autumn .
lady jane grey , who has been already mentioned as reading greek .
“this is a somewhat heavy call upon your brother ' s fortitude , ” observed the general to eleanor .
jennings , who had watched them with pleasure while they were talking , and who expected to see the effect
her behalf— “one cannot wonder , sister , that fanny should be delighted : it is all new to her
it was at first her intention that frederica should accompany her , for the benefit of masters , but we
—she looks very unwell , has lost her colour , and is grown quite thin .
engagements but in one quarter .
large as was the building , she had already visited the greatest part ; though , on being told that
most grievously was she humbled .
draw on herself , if (as would probably be the case) she consented to this increase of establishment , marianne
on one side you look across the bowling-green , behind the house , to a beautiful hanging wood , and
” harriet seemed ready to worship her friend for a sentence so satisfactory ; and emma was only saved from
of some intelligent person whose taste could be depended on ; and isabella , the usual doer of all commissions
the invitation from mr .
morland with the real delicacy of a generous mind making light of the obligation ; and mrs .
send back your answer as fast as you can , and be careful to write explicitly .
if a woman may ever be said to be in safety from the determined perseverance of disagreeable lovers and the
—i should be extremely displeased if wright were to send us up such a dinner , as could make me
jennings , " we might see whether it could be put off or not .
resignation to inevitable evils is the duty of us all ; the peculiar duty of a young man who has
groom , from whom he had just parted .
" now he felt astonished himself that he had never yet been to the place .
” “the country , ” said darcy , “can in general supply but a few subjects for such a study
least an hour , hoping for her return , and almost resolving to walk after her till she could be
of an hour .
i am a pretty good dancer in my way , but i dare say you are a better .
i have three very particular friends who have been all dying for him in their turn ; and the pains
but he had ended his speech in a way to sink her in sad mortification , by adding , “if
true cause , must be imputed to the fullness of their own minds .
this instance , i have known him long enough to answer for his having many , very many , good
received so wretched an education , could not be a very desirable companion here .
during all this time he was evidently struggling for composure .
he endeavoured , long endeavoured , to soften my resentment ; but that woman is a fool indeed who ,
he was a tall , heavy-looking young man of five-and-twenty .
dashwood , when he was leaving them .
jennings ' s description of delaford— ' a nice place , i can tell you ; exactly what i call
such was her situation , with a vacant space at hand , when captain wentworth was again in sight .
part of every winter she had been used to spend in bath ; but bristol was her home , the
on miss dashwood ' s part , either present or future , would ever surprise her , for she believed
the proper sport of boys and girls , but a single woman , of good fortune , is always respectable
collins , she addressed a variety of questions to maria and elizabeth , but especially to the latter , of
pale , and her manner greatly agitated .
people and parties that fill up my time .
i am sure she would argue so .
“if my horse should dance about a little at first setting off .
you would not come in and sit with us in this comfortable way , if you were married .
i grieve to find , however , that colonel f .
saw it : as soon as i heard she had married an emigrant , i was sure i should never
“i had only my own family to study from .
which had been designed for him , he applied to me again by letter for the presentation .
autumn morning to such a willing mind as fanny ' s ; and while there was a gleam of sunshine
prevailed on her , when she went to bed , to try one or two of the simplest of the
weston to implore her assistance , “would not she give him her support ?
i , who am owing all my happiness to you , would not it be horrible ingratitude in me to
” “it was her very particular friend , you know .
without studying the business , however , or knowing what he was about , edmund was beginning , at the
elton must compose his joyous looks , and mr .
was shortly subdued ; and she promised not to tempt her mother to such imprudent kindness by mentioning the offer
, &c .
informing any one , she did resolve to give occasional hints to susan , and endeavour to exercise for her
and lydia looking out of a dining-room up stairs .
i must think this matter over a little .
probably were , her having one uncle who was a country attorney , and another who was in business in
she seemed determined to be interested by nothing else .
i only wonder that i am alive after what i have suffered for edward ' s sake these last four
subject of their journey , for when the mode of it came to be talked of , and mrs .
duberley or dr .
" " i hope we shall see you at barton , " added her ladyship , " as soon as
agreeable young men : i do not know that one is superior to the other .
belongs solely to each other for that time .
miss crawford ' s attractions did not lessen .
but i dare not hope it .
sufficient proofs , not to mention her solemn protestations of innocence , the weakness of the charges against her ,
, and then induce a voluntary separation .
s , and say that we are settled here quite to our liking , and have no fault at all
talking , which must make all the little crowd in the shop understand that lady dalrymple was calling to convey
to think of not finding room for two or three besides , supposing they might wish to stay ; though
” “and then their uncle comes in , and tosses them up to the ceiling in a very frightful way
of her fond attachment , could be aware of ; but that he should forego any enjoyment on her account
he afterwards married the king ' s daughter catherine , a very agreable woman by shakespear ' s account .
as she sat one morning , looking forward to exactly such a close of the present day , a note
spent , and he might find himself continuing , improving , and perfecting that friendship and intimacy with the mansfield
she had talked her into love ; but , alas !
" no , except when she thought of her mother , and remembered where she had been used to sit
a form of words perfectly intelligible to me .
were ladies just arriving to be attended to , and with happy smiles must hurry away .
“do you consider the forms of introduction , and the stress that is laid on them , as nonsense ?
it ; isabella was too much like emma—differing only in those striking inferiorities , which always brought the other in
them .
of contrast , to place a yet higher value on the sweetness of her temper , the purity of her
miss price , i give way to you with a very bad grace ; but i sincerely hope you will
henry the _num_ th it would be an affront to my readers were i to suppose that they were not
i am always watching her to admire ; and i do pity her from my heart .
i am my dear emmas sincere freind e .
bennet , how can you abuse your own children in such a way ?
my own will .
ferrars and fanny still more , did not see the necessity of enforcing it by any farther assertion ; and
jane fairfax did look and move superior ; but emma suspected she might have been glad to change feelings with
, it increases the wonder .
willoughby ' s inconstancy , urging her by every plea of duty and affection to demand from marianne an account
crawford ' s interpretation ; for though nothing could have tempted her to turn her eyes to the right hand
i would keep a pack of foxhounds , and drink a bottle of wine a day .
how may my honesty at least rise to any distinction ?
allow me to stay here a little while , and do have the goodness to hear me my third act
young man--but they could not say whether it was seven or eight years ago , was a new sort of
colonel forster came yesterday , having left brighton the day before , not many hours after the express .
away .
veal was terribly underdone , and the curry had no seasoning .
—he was to come there with wickham , you know .
by speaking , in so quiet a way , of my own feelings .
he wanted to marry well , and having the arrogance to raise his eyes to her , pretended to be
but i , who live in a small retired village in the country , can never find greater sameness in
delaford living could supply such an income , as anybody in his style of life would venture to settle on
“why should you caution me ?
—she was forced to speak , and to speak cheerfully too .
" chapter vi the first part of their journey was performed in too melancholy a disposition to be otherwise than
one or two affectionate letters , was very ready to oblige the whole party by consenting to a prolongation of
for , though your accusations were ill-founded , formed on mistaken premises , my behaviour to you at the time
your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic ; i do not know what to say to you .
pretty woman can bestow .
very cross—and of thinking that the rest of the visit could not possibly pass without bringing forward the same information
his chance for the kellynch estate was something , but all the honour of the family he held as cheap
mainwaring , who , for your comfort , has fretted herself thinner and uglier than ever , is still here
under that peculiar sort of dry , blunt manner , i know you have the warmest heart .
" " i will not trust to that , " retreating to her own room .
i would rather not be tempted .
plainly that it ended no better than it began .
” “i shall not give you any advice , harriet .
and , and—we think very differently of the nature of women , if they can imagine a woman so very
” “did not he abscond ?
of finding him pleasant , of being liked by him to a certain degree , and a sort of pleasure
phillips a very attentive listener , whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she heard , and who was
” “i wish we had a donkey .
which his father looked his most perfect approbation of—and it then appeared that mrs .
i am certain that the pantry cannot be cleared in less than a fortnight .
would sir thomas have consented to eat , she might have gone to the housekeeper with troublesome directions , and
bring back a supply of clothes .
your mother is quite anxious about it , but cannot very well spare time to sit down herself , because
she had sources of delight that must force their way .
together , how little they had thought of meeting in bath , and what a pleasure it was to see
i can imagine , that if you , as you are , mr .
” “oh , the journey is nothing .
" as to that , " said he , " i must rub through the world as well as i
s fond partiality for their own daughters ' performance , and total indifference to any other person ' s ,
three hours and and a half indeed coming only three and twenty miles !
catherine was probably the only one of the party who did not understand him .
” fanny struggled for speech , and said , “i am very sorry that anything has occurred to distress you
it will be the last time , you know ; the last morning .
" before sir walter had reached this point , anne ' s eyes had caught the right direction , and
the carriage , that she had been crying , she saw only an emotion too natural in itself to raise
therefore , after such an ungracious delay as she owed to her own dignity , and as served to prevent
could you have believed such a thing possible ?
in observing mr .
right to the expedient , and been governed by motives of selfishness and worldly wisdom .
they saw him step into his carriage , and in a minute it was out of sight .
i was not without apprehensions for myself .
jennings one morning for half an hour .
with all due respect to such of the present company as chance to be married , my dear mrs .
his large book , and go .
freind never will i comply with your request till i may be no longer in danger of again experiencing such
she was now left a good deal to herself , to get acquainted with the house and grounds as she
this mighty affair is now happily over , and my girls are out .
knightley , who , for some reason best known to himself , had certainly taken an early dislike to frank
soon followed by distinguishing notice ; the history which he had to give mrs .
it was seen by some farmer , and he told the miller , and the miller told the butcher ,
so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence .
he put the letter into elinor ' s hands .
minutes ' interval of earnest thought , she came to her sister again , and said with great good humour
” “historians , you think , ” said miss tilney , “are not happy in their flights of fancy .
morland never did—they had been too kind to exact any promise ; and whenever catherine received a letter , as
by one of the fires in the octagon room .
dashwood could spare them perfectly well ; and elinor , who now understood her sister , and saw to what
my dear harriet , what do you mean ?
there again next summer .
merely a cottage , he assured her that everything should be done to it which she might think necessary ,
but then , it had been taken up by his father and mother .
of the street , as being the handsomest and best hung of any in bath , but could not recollect
the less worthy females were to come in the evening , with miss bates , miss fairfax , and miss
my dear sir , as my mother says , our friends are only too good to us .
nobody can fasten themselves on the notice of one , without injuring the rights of the other .
” in they both came , and mrs .
she longed to speak , but could think of nothing to say ; and after a short silence mrs .
she could hardly believe it .
servants through an ante-chamber , to the room where lady catherine , her daughter , and mrs .
; offered even , when matters grew desperate , to make it[ _num_ ] twelve hundred ; and in opposition
, being to a precision the most charming young man in the world .
her applying to mr .
she had left them for a few minutes to speak to miss tilney .
the weather added what it could of gloom .
with .
their spirits were in general exhausted ; and to determine whether the day had afforded most pleasure or pain ,
perturbation of spirits i was then in would undergo so speedy , so melancholy a reverse .
—he could not see any objection at all to his , and emma ' s , and harriet ' s
to make her character better known to me than mine is to her .
and after thinking it all over and over again , he said , it seemed to him as if ,
him , and even to smile when he smiled .
fanny , you do not want to go , do you ?
all connection between us seemed now dissolved .
you might not give emma such a complete education as your powers would seem to promise ; but you were
she was privy , one evening , to the hopes of her aunt norris on the subject , as well
the constitutional safeguard of a flannel waistcoat !
all that i heard was that his friend had pressed him to stay longer , and that he had agreed
twentieth year ; that he had been sent to sea because he was stupid and unmanageable on shore ; that
rose at exeter , a prodigious smart young man , quite a beau , clerk to mr .
” he instantly left the room and immediately afterwards the house .
“was he handsome ?
stranger things have happened .
so misunderstood , and consequently that he had been received and noticed as he was .
venture : he was putting on his wig ; so i said , ' coachman , you had much better
you need not fear me ; i have almost given up every serious idea of her ; but i must
it made the substance of one other confidential discourse about miss crawford ; and fanny was the more affected from
how could she have excited serious attachment in a man who had seen so many , and been admired by
it was in one of these short meetings , each apparently occupied in admiring a fine display of greenhouse plants
elizabeth’s eyes were fixed on her with most painful sensations , and she watched her progress through the several stanzas
this is feeling your way .
—“i must not think of it .
she feared that under this persuasion she had been unjust , inattentive , nay , almost unkind , to her
he had seen many parts of the valley to advantage ; and the village itself , in a much higher
in this there was surely something mysterious , and she indulged in the flattering suggestion for half a minute ,
elinor assured him that she did ; —that she forgave , pitied , wished him well—was even interested in his
i was quite a proverb for it at maple grove .
and when she saw her at their next interview as cheerful and amiable as ever , endeavoured to forget that
" " invited !
henrietta fully thought so herself , before captain wentworth came ; but from that time cousin charles had been very
' s offence would serve no other purpose than to enrich fanny .
before they were beyond her hearing , however , louisa spoke again .
i cannot bear to imagine any reluctance on his side ; but i am sure there is a great wish
i was all amazement .
price ; “i am sure i hope i shall be rid of her before she has staid a year ,
left lesley-castle on the _num_ th of last month , and arrived safely in london after a journey of seven
such was the permission upon which he had now offered her his hand .
than are begun with .
and that he felt she would be delighted with the attentions of any man inclined to flirt with her .
(nor have i now) that there would be a general cry-out upon her extreme good luck .
lady russell ' s had no success at all : could not be put up with , were not to
her companions were relieved , but there was no good for her .
” the steady countenance which miss lucas had commanded in telling her story , gave way to a momentary confusion
how can you ?
on opening the door , she perceived her sister and bingley standing together over the hearth , as if engaged
' such were my reasonings , as , in a sort of desperate carelessness , i copied my wife '
james ' s coming (my eldest brother) is quite delightful—and especially as it turns out that the very family we
enough extinguished for him to see her without some danger .
“i thought how it would be , ” said mrs .
distinguished captain wentworth standing among a cluster of men at a little distance .
to us ?
local that could be supposed attractive , with spirit and precision .
i shall be here , so you may be quite easy about your aunt .
open , and julia , appearing at it , with a face all aghast , exclaimed , “my father is
him , and must refer all those who may wish to be acquainted with the particulars of his life ,
was not a matter which really involved her happiness , as henry must be the best judge of his own
minute of starting the idea that sir thomas was quite unkind , both to her aunt and to herself .
” “and is this all ?
thing go well : for mr .
i could not come before—beg your pardon , but i have been forced to look about me a little ,
offered , may be conceived .
i wonder that the very pride of this mr .
elizabeth , with a triumphant sensation , looked towards his friend .
dashwood should not like to go into public .
portsmouth was portsmouth ; mansfield was home .
was certain that he had no near one living .
i have never seen fanny dance since she was a little girl ; but i trust we shall both think
i cannot understand it .
here is a young man of sense , of character , of temper , of manners , and of fortune
churchill had been promising a visit the last ten years .
exit cook .
came away , and he had written to her father by captain harville .
she was ready to tell every thing in her power , but on this subject questions were vain .
but i hope this may be false .
elinor felt all the reasonableness of the idea , and it gave fresh misery to her reflections .
mother arriving too late to see this darling child , or to see her rational .
the liberty which his absence had given was now become absolutely necessary .
the younger boy , a remarkable stout , forward child , of two years old , having got the door
if there had not been a netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of , the younger miss bennets would
in each letter he had spoken well of his captain ; but yet , so little were they in the
” “how can you talk so ?
churchill , nobody would think of opening the windows at randalls .
weston had been so very earnest in his entreaties for her arriving there as soon as possible after themselves ,
you do not wish me to be silent ?
another view of man , my second brings ; behold him there , the monarch of the seas !
that , of the remaining characters , there is certainly none to rival mr .
understand the family better , other feelings arose .
yates , without discernment to catch sir thomas ' s meaning , or diffidence , or delicacy , or discretion
a week or two will i hope determine our measures—in the mean time believe me and etc—and etc—charlotte lutterell .
and he , the very handsomest man that ever was , and a man that every body looks up to
her father read his newspaper , and her mother lamented over the ragged carpet as usual , while the tea
this match , to which you have the presumption to aspire , can never take place .
he knows nothing of it ; do tell him , my dear .
been poison .
of his cruel conduct towards mrs smith , she could hardly bear the sight of his present smiles and mildness
yes , and so i have .
of another minute .
live at home , it will be all for his menus plaisirs ; and a sermon at christmas and easter
it was an alliance which he could not have relinquished without pain ; and thus he reasoned .
wedding-gown .
four weeks were to pass away before her uncle and aunt’s arrival .
be more prudent in you to avoid so sad a subject ; but yet knowing as i do what a
my mother is so delighted !
will be satisfied .
her husband) when writing to her nephew two days before , though from her usual unwillingness to give pain ,
; you will tear your gown ; you will be in danger of slipping into the ha-ha .
jennings ; how provoking !
but remember that the pain of parting from friends will be felt by every body at times , whatever be
and never enough commiserated her for what she had been yesterday left to endure .
i will not abuse him .
i want you at home , that i may have your opinion about thornton lacey .
whose dictatorial looks dispense to children affluence , to rushworth sense .
such unreserve , as to his wife ; not any one , to whom she related with such conviction of
he is younger than i am ; younger in feeling , if not in fact ; younger as a man
“while mary is adjusting her ideas , ” he continued , “let us return to mr .
” “did not you ?
in no countenance was attentive curiosity so strongly marked as in miss bingley’s , in spite of the smiles which
ferrars , i do think it is not worth while to wait two or three months for him .
a governess can give it .
father , was sometimes without any companion at all .
" i declare they are quite charming .
—there was no being displeased with such an encourager , for his admiration made him discern a likeness almost before
in hopes of releiving my melancholy , by directing my thoughts to other objects , they have invited several of
when the novelty of amusement there was over , it would be time for the wider range of london .
i should be extremely sorry to be giving them any pain .
you have had a long run of amusement , and now you must try to be useful .
to oxford ; but the second was over at a much earlier hour .
” “caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into hertfordshire this winter .
all , if it were indeed a matter of certified guilt and public exposure .
we must do whatever is to be done quickest , and i think our feelings will lose no time there
; but determining to be on the safe side , he made his apology in form as soon as he
a servant , and mr .
she was very feverish and had a bad sore throat : mrs .
" but sir john could not prevail .
i have seen too much of mr .
” “three grown up .
friends ; and she could do nothing but think , and think with wonder , of mr .
my dear sir thomas , we have settled it that the carriage should come back for you , and edmund
lady russell was now perfectly decided in her opinion of mr elliot .
take ; but if it is in your way , i will have it in my lap directly .
catherine bent over it intently , but without being able to distinguish anything with certainty .
but dear maria has such a strict sense of propriety , so much of that true delicacy which one seldom
taken with such indifference .
to wait for the arrival of the apothecary , and to watch by her the rest of the night .
of settlements , new carriages , and wedding clothes , she should undoubtedly see her daughter settled at netherfield in
do so and so .
a name that i am so very well acquainted with ; knew the gentleman so well by sight ; seen
gardiner thought of him , and mrs .
mind about .
left them in amazement at their indifference , to walk home and boast anew of their attractions to the miss
, and bent on making her known to his sister .
right and wrong , i mean with regard to myself ; and i must believe that i was right ,
were i refused , i must bear it ; and till i am , i can never cease to try
they remained together at the otherwise deserted card-table , talking very comfortably , and not thinking of the rest ,
why does not he try bath ?
he was light-headed at the time .
” “but why are you to be a clergyman ?
but without any artificial appearance .
" " and now , " silently conjectured elinor , " she will write to combe by this day '
bingley called again , and alone .
—after i had got him off so well , to chuse to go into company , and leave harriet ill
protection and regard ?
the hope of meeting again in the course of a few years could only put into catherine ' s head
” fanny protested her ignorance as steadily as her embarrassment allowed .
pleased with it herself , and glad to like whatever was liked by him , she was more sincerely impatient
his journey to london either !
she could do very well without him ; and for her reduction of income by the evident necessity of stricter
a very valuable companion .
” she was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself ; and to him she had hardly courage
norris , who must fancy that she settled it all herself .
sir walter raleigh flourished in this and the preceeding reign , and is by many people held in great veneration
her mother ' s inclinations .
to town , " said lucy , returning , after a cessation of hostile hints , to the charge .
against staying longer , however , elizabeth was positively resolved—nor did she much expect it would be asked ; and
but how can i spare her ?
when i first became intimate in your family , i had no other intention , no other view in the
her cousin prefaced his speech with a solemn bow and though she could not hear a word of it ,
he did speak yesterday—that is , he wrote , and was refused .
” emma spared no exertions to maintain this happier flow of ideas , and hoped , by the help of
events of every description , changes , alienations , removals--all , all must be comprised in it , and oblivion
he felt it all , so much for her sake .
wilhelminus was tenderly attached , and a large number of attendants .
he knows the value of a good income as well as any body .
discussion .
with assumed tranquillity he then replied : “i have no wish of denying that i did everything in my power
of it cheerfully , but mr .
they promised to come at twelve , only it rained ; but now , as it is so fine ,
weston appeared at a little distance from the window , evidently on the watch .
it was curious , very curious , that we should have such a scene to play !
miss tilney had a good figure , a pretty face , and a very agreeable countenance ; and her air
after half an hour ' s free indulgence of grief and reflection , catherine felt equal to encountering her friends
” jane had spent an evening at hartfield with her grandmother and aunt , and every thing was relapsing much
she had not known before how much the beginnings and progress of vegetation had delighted her .
raise her eyes from her book , and lady bertram was half-asleep ; and even mrs .
can i do any thing for you ?
him it must be under cover to you .
” “me , my love , ” cried his wife , hearing and understanding only in part .
hint of it from her , hoped , with miss woodhouse ' s help , to get a great many
marianne was of no use on these occasions , as she would never learn the game ; but though her
speak , and to speak cautiously , she said , with calmness of manner , which tolerably well concealed her
—when they had nothing else to say , it must be always easy to begin abusing miss woodhouse ; and
nothing about it at present , and i believe it will be best to keep it entirely concealed from her
” “yes ; i do not know how it has happened .
—i am not conscious of any difference in my spirits or conversation that could prepare him at this time for
some scruples and some reluctance the widower-father may be supposed to have felt ; but as they were overcome by
but i have injured more than herself ; and i have injured one , whose affection for me—(may i say
house , like your father , there is still more due to the character of an honest man .
—only that morning .
sufficient exultation in overcoming the reluctance , in working himself into the esteem and tenderness of fanny price , there
in such a cause .
they were actually on the same sofa , for mrs musgrove had most readily made room for him ; they
she told the story , however , with great spirit among her friends ; for she had a lively ,
she had so much to do , that not even the horrible story of mrs .
she must absolutely decline the proposal .
under his government , mansfield was an altered place .
” “it is a circumstance which darcy could not wish to be generally known , because if it were to
lady russell , convinced that anne would not be allowed to be of any use , or any importance ,
with the most steady and submissive attention , made neither objection nor remark , attempted no vindication of willoughby ,
between us , i think we should have won you .
” “you shall have it in a few words .
cole , i really was ashamed to look at our new grand pianoforte in the drawing-room , while i do
fuss himself in any trifling disorder , and was chiefly concerned for those who had to nurse him ; but
emma was not at this time in a state of spirits to care really about mr .
” “i shall understand all your ways in time ; but , coming down with the true london maxim ,
after such behaviour , as i have witnessed during the last month , to miss smith—such attentions as i have
as jane , nor half so good-humoured as lydia .
once , without wishing even for a little time to consider of it , a little more time for cool
a gentleman carrying a gun , with two pointers playing round him , was passing up the hill and within
i wish it had been possible for me to fetch her instead of him .
really partial to miss darcy .
" " well then , another day or two , perhaps ; but i cannot stay here long , i
going to live , it seemed impossible to feel any thing but compassion and respect ; especially , if to
but now it is all too late .
whenever she is with us , mrs .
society without having horses to hire .
who she likes .
i am never to hear from her , perhaps never to see her again , i do not feel so
to edward ; and happy above all the rest , in the absence of marianne , she felt very well
would if he had been anything but a clergyman .
“they met again on sunday , and then i saw him too .
he left it to him on such terms as destroyed half the value of the bequest .
weston , i am not to be talked out of my dislike of harriet smith , or my dread of
he would marry miss crawford .
“i want to know , ” said she , with a countenance no less smiling than her sister’s , “what
when he was speaking of my future home , and expressing his fears lest the retirement of it should be
admiral ; " but there is no saying which .
it is not an employment to which they have been brought up .
well , (returning to the room , ) i have not been able to succeed .
you are more nice than wise .
that ever was written , from shylock or richard iii down to the singing hero of a farce in his
selfish parents .
" " i hardly know , " replied captain wentworth , surprised .
her notice that they should be in portsmouth that very day , and to throw her into all the agitation
my side , nobody takes part with me .
, there can be nothing for me to tell .
father and elizabeth ; she could honour all the better feelings of her calmness ; but the general air of
into the carriage for that purpose when our attention was attracted by the entrance of a coroneted coach and _num_
i am now going to intrust you my dear charlotte with a secret which has long disturbed the tranquility of
as they all were , with such accompaniments of half-cleaned plates , and not half-cleaned knives and forks , that
" " perhaps , " cried anne , struck by a sudden idea , " you sometimes spoke of me
butter , the celery , the beet-root , and all the dessert .
she first spoke again .
” “indeed you are mistaken .
they had all been very ill-used since she last saw her sister .
stronger claims , the truer kindness of another , she could do her justice even with pleasure to herself .
—very lucky—marrying as they did , upon an acquaintance formed only in a public place !
often to make a tolerable meal .
dixon , i understand , has no remarkable degree of personal beauty ; is not , by any means ,
the window curtains seemed in motion .
escape the infection , than that there should be no infection in the complaint .
with the play open before them , and were just getting deep in the subject when a most welcome interruption
“i wish i could call her amiable .
an excellent thought of yours , indeed , anne .
this dear william would soon be amongst them .
gradually done full justice to .
in comparison of norland , it was poor and small indeed !
—he protested that he had never thought seriously of harriet—never !
we were very wrong before ; we will be cautious now .
the doctor must finish the rest .
, our relations were all led away by it to fancy and expect what , as you were then situated
in a whisper : “the men shan’t come and part us , i am determined .
frederica was therefore fixed in the family of her uncle and aunt till such time as reginald de courcy could
her own ignorance .
herself ; but nothing more of it was said , and for the first time in her life , she
having heard the day before in milsom street that their elder brother , captain tilney , was expected almost every
good-humoured , unaffected girls will not do for a man who has been used to sensible women .
miss jane (said i)—and stopped from an inability at the moment of expressing myself as i could wish—oh !
” “i am sorry for it , ” was his answer ; “but in this matter it is you who
ebullition of surprise and satisfaction was over , " and very likely may be out of repair ; but to
i shall depend upon a most particular description of it .
, and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance , of his having ten
she learned that (the intimacy between them continuing unimpaired by mr elliot ' s marriage) they had been as before
" " have they any acquaintance here ?
views beneath her .
they found mary , as usual , deep in the study of thorough-bass and human nature ; and had some
bennet one day , “what is your opinion now of this sad business of jane’s ?
you are the only being upon earth to whom i should say what i have said ; but you have
he staid of course , and edmund had then ample opportunity for observing how he sped with fanny , and
he would have sent you a description of everything and everybody .
the subject had been already handled in the drawing-room ; it was revived in the dining-parlour .
such a sad loss to our party to-day !
” “yes—the late mr .
but here is my father coming : you will not object to my reading the charade to him .
she had loved , she did love still , and she had all the suffering which a warm temper and
i should call that a month .
been his best correspondent through a period of seven years , and the uncle who had done most for his
she is a selfish , hypocritical woman , and i have no opinion of her .
” said emma , as soon as she could speak .
way ; and if he were , i do not think i could go through it with him , till
” “this must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening , in summer ; the windows are full
sees him only as he chooses to be seen .
present inconvenience .
know nothing of each other for the last fifteen years .
speech of that man ' s—what ' s his name , fanny ?
“that play must be a favourite with you , ” said he ; “you read as if you knew it
it was only better than mrs .
yet to have so little said or asked about herself , to have scarcely an inquiry made after mansfield !
to feel so much pain as pleasure .
vernon edward street .
we are going .
dearest miss morland , what ideas have you been admitting ?
“i am not cold , sir : i never sit here long at this time of year .
t i ?
had been any real impropriety in what i did , i should have been sensible of it at the time
no prospect of a third to cheer a long evening .
we must look for the change elsewhere .
any morning , ' twould be a great kindness , and my cousins would be proud to know her .
to uppercross than herself , must be left to be guessed .
it was a child ' s play , chosen to conceal a deeper game on frank churchill ' s part
his way to fortune and consequence with so much self-respect and happy ardour , instead of what he was !
so many weeks without her being thought at all necessary , she must suppose her return would be unwelcome at
than her husband ' s sisters , it was very agreeable that captain wentworth should be a richer man than
when we reached albion place they were out ; we went after them , and found them on the pier
, fragrance , and verdure , was infinitely worse : but even these incitements to regret were feeble , compared
it was quite a different sort of thing , a sentiment distinct and independent .
her approbation , at once general and minute , warm and incessant , could not but please ; and for
tell me the real truth , as you have it from the fountainhead .
well , i am glad she is gone to settle in ireland .
“he has been ill ever since he did not eat any of the pheasant today .
“edmund , i consider , from his dispositions and habits , as much more likely to marry early than his
one whether you ever see him again .
” “when i wrote that letter , ” replied darcy , “i believed myself perfectly calm and cool , but
feelings on how frank might be affected by the event , how benefited , how freed .
go to town on tuesday .
bennet , all amazement , though flattered by having a guest of such high importance , received her with the
very far off , you ought to go over and pay your respects to them ; and i could send
” “certainly , ” replied elizabeth—“there are such people , but i hope i am not one of them .
you are splashed getting in and getting out ; and the wind takes your hair and your bonnet in every
at a loss , and it is a very dirty walk , unless you keep on the footpath ; but
” “ungrateful is a strong word .
collins , however , was not discouraged from speaking again , and mr .
be such a girl in highbury for her to associate with .
comfortable , sleep , she silenced every doubt .
the day approached , the day arrived ; and after a morning of some anxious watching , frank churchill ,
—i can hardly imagine that any thing which pleases or amuses you , should not please and amuse me too
is all to pieces .
cook) i wull , i wull .
after abusing you so abominably to your face , i could have no scruple in abusing you to all your
i have done very little besides sending away some of the large looking-glasses from my dressing-room , which was your
lived together in the greatest affection .
” catherine wished him a good journey .
she opened her note immediately , glad to have anything to do , and happy , as she read it
little of what had passed , and had so little curiosity , that it was heavy work .
it is unknown how much was consumed in our kitchen by odd comers and goers .
on business , and recommendations to shops ; with intervals of every help which mary required , from altering her
—it will be nothing but pleasure , a life of pleasure .
from my soul i do not think she would marry you without love ; that is , if there is
and my temper improved .
” “you are over-scrupulous , surely .
us again , which i should think exceedingly probable , stay quietly at home , and be satisfied that we
her present indifference , honouring her in rather stronger terms than sir thomas could quite echo , he was most
all dining together at the park soon after his going , she retook her chosen place near the bottom of
" " i understand you , " he replied , with an expressive smile , and a voice perfectly calm
wanted to join the hamiltons to the lakes ; and three years ago , when i had a fancy for
” “i should not have thought it the sort of play to be so easily filled up , with us
and of what nature ?
of the application , and at length wholly banished by the conviction that mr .
i might as well have asked for porters and a handbarrow .
for the present , he could not be spared , to his “very great mortification and regret ; but still
i thought i could understand you .
am not without hopes of persuading them to confine the representation within a much smaller circle than they are now
to want a horse and cart in the country seemed impossible , so i told my maid to speak for
darcy looked , therefore , she could not tell .
" my love , have you been asleep ?
seeing emma again .
they were neither of them very rich ; their united fortunes had originally amounted to nine thousand pounds , but
he drew a chair near her .
— ' his father ' s disposition : ' —he is unjust , however , to his father .
since such were her feelings , it only remained , he thought , to secure and expedite a marriage ,
he is very far from being independent .
no , nothing should tempt me to leave her .
that emma was his object appeared indisputable .
—and you must and shall be delightfully , honourably and comfortably settled before the campbells or i have any rest
” said her aunt ; “a place , too , with which so many of your acquaintances are connected .
” she looked up at him for a moment , coloured deeply , and played something else .
when i may speak .
” fanny thanked him again , but was affected and distressed to a degree that made it impossible for her
” bingley replied that he did , and made his congratulations .
my part will keep her away .
could she have seen half as much love in mr .
, quite like mr .
speak it to be thanked , therefore say nothing about it) , your uncle would most readily have settled the
” “i met william larkins , ” continued mr .
—pilfering was housebreaking to mr .
what a taking poor mr .
sorry that i ever imparted my apprehensions to you ; for the pleasure of learning that the danger is over
in proof , he repeats , and more eagerly , what he said at portsmouth about our conveying you home
is allenham the only house in the neighbourhood to which you will be welcome ?
in schemes of sisterly happiness the hours flew along .
of pitiful resentment .
“i do not know how it is , ” said he ; “but we seem to want some of your
gilbert wishes to dance , ” said he , “i shall have great pleasure , i am sure—for , though
affair .
isabella—no wonder now i have not heard from her—isabella has deserted my brother , and is to marry yours !
weston to mrs .
my good , kind brother !
can you , dare you deny it ?
the progress of the parsonage , and direct every thing as they liked on the spot ; —could choose papers
soon be entirely done away .
she must understand you .
, the intimate friend and associate of mr .
to her .
before the end of the summer .
hanging over her father and sister , and had all the distress of foreseeing many evils , without knowing how
your kind offices will set all right : he is the only man i ever did or could love ,
they were describing him themselves ; sir walter especially .
first marriage ; but his second must shew him how delightful a well-judging and truly amiable woman could be ,
she was preparing for her ninth lying-in ; and after bewailing the circumstance , and imploring their countenance as sponsors
“implacable resentment is a shade in a character .
hall , in the lobby , on the stairs , for the first sound of the carriage which was to
this was all very promising ; and , but for such an unfortunate fancy for having his hair cut ,
my dear miss jane (said i) how infinitely am i obliged to you for so entertaining a story !
—selina ' s choice—handsome , i think , but i do not know whether it is not over-trimmed ; i
be happy ; edward loves you—what , oh what , can do away such happiness as that ?
, and called out to her : “my dear miss eliza , why are you not dancing ?
i assure you that nothing of the sort you are thinking of will be settled any week .
but of what ?
into its usual state .
eyes were so often turned towards her side of the room , as to make him play as unsuccessfully as
and to ask me in such a way too !
i have given up too much , have been too easily worked on , but frederica shall now feel the
st domingo , and not immediately employed , had come into somersetshire , in the summer of _num_ ; and
window , but without getting off his horse ; and though i told him how ill i was , not
she would not marry , even if she were asked by mr .
bertram , first in a letter to the gamekeeper and then in a letter to edmund ; and by the
avoid mr elliot was almost a first object .
he is quite smitten already , and he is very well worth setting your cap at , i can tell
may i ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment , or are the result of
by their decease i became the lawfull inheritress of their house and fortune .
dashwood ill ?
it appeared to her merely the suggestion of caroline’s interested wishes , and she could not for a moment suppose
the most complete of its kind in england , his carriage the neatest , his horse the best goer ,
of , harville , now , if you will give me materials .
came to be revealed .
" speaking to her in a lowered voice .
often tell my mother , when she is grieving about it .
miss crawford had protected her only for the time ; and if she were applied to again among themselves with
if it be so , i am sure you must be included in that part , that discerning part ,
—if any body can deserve him , it must be miss taylor .
allen ' s wavering convictions only made it more doubtful .
as for mr .
the corners of the mouth , and seemed to think it as great an escape to be quit of the
she was a little occupied in weighing her own feelings , and trying to understand the degree of her agitation
but her letters were always long expected , and always very short .
however , he wrote some verses on her , and very pretty they were .
here it is ; i would not burn it , because being even then very little satisfied with mr elliot
in the happier circumstances attending her entrance within walls so solemn !
at length she obtained her sister ' s consent to wait for that knowledge .
woodhouse thinks the fruit thoroughly wholesome .
she had a little beauty and a little accomplishment , but so little judgment that she thought herself coming with
suppose her more than five and twenty , though she must in fact be ten years older , i was
will you do me the honour of reading that letter ?
think it intentionally ill-natured .
even elizabeth began to fear—not that bingley was indifferent—but that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away .
catherine began to feel something of disappointment—she was tired of being continually pressed against by people , the generality of
he was resolutely silent , however , and , from a determination of making him speak , she continued :
is many years ago—she spoke this in so low and tremulous a voice , that i was silent— .
but i thought it would rather do her good after being stooping among the roses ; for there is nothing
point at last .
supposing it possible that they are not engaged , what distress would not such an enquiry inflict !
he had yet something more in reserve , and the ten or fifteen thousand pounds which her father could give
weston sees no objection to it , provided you are satisfied .
collins on his return highly gratified mrs .
she means (most kindly !
his character was decided .
anne did not wish for more of such looks and speeches .
friendship , which together prompted colonel brandon to this act , were strongly felt , and warmly expressed .
poor mother who died two months ago , with whom i am going to town to marry to strephon ,
no proof ; for the assurances of her husband and mother on that subject went for nothing at all .
i had this morning the happiness of receiving the following letter from my dear musgrove .
more than _num_ l per annum , and though it is certainly capable of improvement , i fear , not
he proceeds at his own risk .
with the most speaking tenderness , sometimes at edward and sometimes at elinor , regretting only that their delight in
emma must submit to stand second to mrs .
more truly well-bred than either of the others ; and between her and mrs .
it would not do ; in half a minute the letter was unfolded again , and collecting herself as well
" " though with your usual anxiety for our happiness , " said elinor , " you have been obviating
rushworth , civilly taking the hint and following them .
no longer claim any merit from its amendment , the sky began voluntarily to clear .
i may view you no more !
such was his opinion of the set into which she had thrown herself .
of others ; perfectly allowable , when untinctured by ill-humour or roughness ; and there is not a shadow of
arrival , and eleanor did not come up .
and if that some one should be the very he whom , of all others , i could least bear—but
from that time mr .
been safe .
catherine found that john thorpe had given the message ; and miss tilney had no scruple in owning herself greatly
not yet asked you how long you have been in bath ; whether you were ever here before ; whether
greatest enemies in bestowing the harshest epithets on such works , and scarcely ever permitting them to be read by
be sure his father and mother would be able to put him in the way of getting everything very cheap
she had all the natural grace of sweetness of temper and artlessness in herself .
” “i hope so—for at that time i was a fool .
she was very plain and her name was bridget .
took up her scissors and cut off a long lock of her hair , for it was all tumbled down
father and mother just when everybody else of most importance to their comfort was leaving them ; and with an
of consequence or concern to me .
now she has really got the man she likes , she may be constant .
” “i shall soon be rested , ” said fanny ; “to sit in the shade on a fine day
all the comfort of their comfortable journey would be destroyed at once .
” “yes ; and they have another , who lives somewhere near cheapside .
nobody but yourself could imagine such a thing possible .
; and then i have had cartwright to settle with .
one morning , about a week after his leaving the country , marianne was prevailed on to join her sisters
already quite alive again .
norris , ' said mrs .
catherine longed to give her a hint of it , to put her on her guard , and prevent all
everybody ' s admiration , except that of one gentleman , who shall be nameless .
of nobody but you .
were she even to descend into the family vault where her ashes were supposed to slumber , were she to
took place in the course of the summer—an accession of dignity that threw him into a fit of good humour
she caught every syllable with panting eagerness ; her hand , unknowingly to herself , closely pressed her sister '
they are very fond of her ; but i am sure she does not love them as she loves you
bennet , to whose apartment they all repaired , after a few minutes’ conversation together , received them exactly as
at that season .
all in .
they walked together .
she wanted more vigorous measures , a more complete reformation , a quicker release from debt , a much higher
i dare say he will come in when he knows who is here .
you know i wanted you , when we first came , not to buy that sprigged muslin , but you
that a letter from edmund should be a subject of terror !
entreaty on his side impossible .
in what respect ?
him very much to be gone .
to be losing such pleasures was no trifle ; to be losing them , because she was in the midst
i do not believe she had ever any regard either for james or for me , and i wish i
for you are a young lady of deep reflection , i know , and read great books and make extracts
she felt that half this folly must be drunkenness , and therefore could hope that it might belong only to
i know what your drawings are .
woman !
though going as she did willingly and eagerly , the last evening at mansfield park must still be wretchedness .
crawford say such a thing ?
” it was some time , however , before a smile could be extorted from jane .
and must give him the pleasantest proof of its being a great deal better to choose than to be chosen
” “that is not very likely ; our authority was too good .
“your great men often are ; and therefore i shall not take him at his word , as he might
it was necessary[ _num_ ] to the happiness of both ; for however dissimilar in temper and outward behaviour ,
and how he had been so worried by what passed , that as soon as he had went away from
her uncle ' s displeasure was abating , and would abate farther as he considered the matter with more impartiality
" are you quite sure of it ?
, without many of those agreeable sensations which her friend meant to create .
a composure of temper and a uniform cheerfulness of manner which would guard her from the suspicions of the impertinent
his son as soon as he should be old enough to take it ; no trifling deduction from the family
i will not leave you to wonder long .
woodhouse ' s agitation .
amusement , and wholesome exertion .
; and then ' miss elliot ' was spoken of in the highest terms !
bennet with civil self-command to miss lucas .
—emma dared not attempt any immediate reply .
it has been her home so long .
honest , old-fashioned boarding-school , where a reasonable quantity of accomplishments were sold at a reasonable price , and where
goddard ' s accordingly the very next day , to undergo the necessary penance of communication ; and a severe
the sister with whom she was used to be on easy terms was now become her greatest enemy : they
” “is this a hint to me , lizzy , ” said her father , “to send for the horses
the day before the battle of worcester .
she was sensible that you had never received any proper acknowledgment from herself .
how happy your sister is to enjoy the pleasure of your company in her house , and how happy every
in general .
it puzzled her to account for all this .
i have been several times in the garden with mackenzie , trying to understand , and make him understand ,
fortunately he had a younger brother who was more promising .
a famous ball last night , was not it ?
his idea of her must be drawn from the mother ' s description .
" — " the first news that reached me of her , " he continued , " came in a
” sir thomas looked again , and then replied with an approving smile , “i am happy to find our
she is poor ; she has sunk from the comforts she was born to ; and , if she live
” “perhaps preparing for his marriage with miss de bourgh , ” said elizabeth .
which i reconciled myself to the[ _num_ ] expediency of it , were no better than these : —the danger
at such an assembly as this it would be insupportable .
“the couple above , ma ' am .
” but his spirits were soon rising again , and with laughing eyes , after mentioning the expected return of
kellynch hall , as he laid down the newspaper , " that the present juncture is much in our favour
else can have , i think it rather unnecessary in you to be advising me .
he had never before supposed that , could wickham be prevailed on to marry his daughter , it would be
regiment of militia , and the monthly balls of meryton !
urging the execution of the plan for visiting sotherton , which had been started a fortnight before , and which
" — " yes—could that be wrong after all that had passed ?
each statement—but with little success .
for your sister , could not resist the temptation of telling me what he knew ought to , though probably
remarkably tall for their age , and could not conceive that there could be the smallest difference in the world
body else .
" mrs clay was right .
the two , as to me or as to any body .
hair , she was almost sure of being told that upon " her word she looked vastly smart , and
' woman , lovely woman .
i came to look for you , and after waiting a little while in hope of your coming in ,
the invitation was general , and generally declined .
ferrars !
i assure you it has been the greatest satisfaction , comfort , and delight to me , to hear what
fanny pitied her .
such is the depravity of the world !
he did not know what they had best do .
the pleasure is not enhanced , and the inconvenience is often considerable .
perhaps they began to feel it might have been kinder and wiser to have resisted the temptation of any delay
ma ' am that you never spent any unhappy one ' s there .
if you were to see what a headache she has .
why he had done it , what could have provoked him to such a breach of hospitality , and so
” and in this style he talked on for some time very properly , not much attending to any answer
—you need not be afraid of owning it to me , for mr .
themselves to lucas lodge .
ferrars ' s death , which is a melancholy and shocking extremity ?
the beauty , or the shrewd look of the youngest , to her want of real elegance and artlessness ,
his ostensible reason , however , was to ask whether mr .
” “she has got it , ” said lady bertram ; “she has had it ever since she came back
regard , and i remained convinced from the evening’s scrutiny , that though she received his attentions with pleasure ,
he had not given her time to attach herself .
however , at any rate , as i have a great deal more at stake on this point than anybody
; and who , in everything but this despicable brother , would have been so eligible a connexion .
probable motive for her calling .
and how suffer him to leave her without saying one word of gratitude , of concurrence , of common kindness
had not the smallest suspicion of your acting having assumed so serious a character .
letter .
she could only imagine , however , at last that she drew his notice because there was something more wrong
i blame myself severely for having so easily believed the slanderous tales invented by charles smith to the prejudice of
began was fated not to proceed far at present ; for when it was returned , the crofts announced themselves
we are such a nice party , she cannot refuse .
" [ _num_ ] in a whisper .
he left northanger earnestly regretting that any necessity should rob him even for an hour of miss morland ' s
however , with the smallest expectation of finding anything , but it was so very odd , after what henry
” catherine thought this reproach equally strange and unkind .
if a rainy morning deprived them of other enjoyments , they were still resolute in meeting in defiance of wet
his countenance rather gained in austerity ; and he scarcely opened his lips .
smith was in it , with whom marianne had not the smallest acquaintance .
to pass unnoticed .
and was in a continual course of smiles .
that he was only giving his fair companion an account of the yesterday ' s party at his friend cole
was ignorant and illiterate ; and her deficiency of all mental improvement , her want of information in the most
my dearest lizzy , do but consider in what a disgraceful light it places mr .
“but how can that be ?
had honour from all the rest of the party .
my own betsey” (fondling her) , “you have not the luck of such a good godmother .
her other sister , from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended , was likely to be hardened in all
or take the lead , just as propriety may require , and to speak extremely well on each ; that
actually made her own woman enquire of mr .
it necessary to alarm her with a relation of its tricks , congratulated herself sincerely on being under the care
one of whom , having never before understood that thornton was so soon and so completely to be his home
to fanny ' s mind , edmund ' s absence was really , in its cause and its tendency ,
” “wrong !
this , i could have answered for my courage : but now , to be sure , there is nothing
” “too quiet for you , i believe .
to justify himself by a relation of what had kept him away .
it commenced at our cousin colonel drummond ' s ; at whose house in cumberland he spent the christmas ,
where there were many children .
and she reproached herself for being unjust to his merit before , in believing him incapable of generosity .
“aye , that may suit your humble ideas of yourself ; —i know what a modest creature you are ;
it was an awkward ceremony at any time to be receiving wedding visits , and a man had need be
” “what news do you mean ?
“about a month , ” said elizabeth ; and then , unwilling to let the subject drop , added ,
the land was so very desirable for[ _num_ ] me in every respect , so immediately adjoining my own property
” surely that time is now at hand .
the day of his and lydia’s departure soon came , and mrs .
, as more sincere or constant , which ever we are to call it , has subsisted through all the
necessary to come to a conclusion , and be able to refresh her spirits by a change of place and
accepted or refused , his heart is wedded to her for ever .
what could i do with fanny ?
when elinor had ceased to rejoice in the dryness of the season , a very awful pause took place .
in the promotion of this object she was zealously active , as far as her ability reached ; and missed
only of himself ; whom for his own interest or ease , would be guilty of any cruelty , or
mrs musgrove had little arrangements of her own at her own table ; to their protection she must trust ,
considerately as not to irritate an imperfect temper , and she had the happiness of observing its good effects not
she would have been ashamed to look her family in the face the next morning , had she not risen
i can never expect to know such another woman !
the maidservant of mrs .
on such a footing , where every man is surrounded by a neighbourhood of voluntary spies , and where roads
home .
she walked out directly , as her uncle recommended , and followed his advice throughout , as far as she
sensations he did his best .
to the civil inquiries which then poured in , and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the much
may put me to inconvenience to have my chief counsellor away for three days .
intimacy so decided , a meaning so direct , as marked a perfect agreement between them .
, aware that money could not be very plenty with us just now , she put bank-notes into fanny '
for they are quite resolved upon going home from the palmers ; —and how forlorn we shall be , when
him to be sensible he is very capable of making a woman sincerely attached to him .
every moment .
i do not pretend to set people right , but i do see that they are often wrong .
bad at heart .
—but it would not do .
” “there can be no doubt of that .
if you do , give me but a look , a word , and i have done .
not wish to reason away , which she would rather feed and assist than not , she added soon afterwards—as
must be some guesswork ; but i mean no disparagement to julia .
in catherine , passed away without sullying her heroic importance .
they had music ; emma was obliged to play ; and the thanks and praise which necessarily followed appeared to
could now do without it .
stay , no one so proper , so capable as anne .
her that his marriage with miss morton was resolved on , or till her husband ' s expectations on colonel
her eyes filled with tears as she pictured her acquaintance so renewed ; and her mother , perceiving her comfortable
to compliment her on her improved looks ; he thought her " less thin in her person , in her
" " or rather , as i believe , she considers them impossible to exist .
think nothing will be of so much service to her as rest , if you will give me leave ,
that general tilney , instead of disliking , should admire her , was very delightful ; and she joyfully thought
miss bingley warmly resented the indignity he had received , in an expostulation with her brother for talking such nonsense
an elegant mansion in cumberland , and from every pecuniary distress that poverty could inflict , to every elegant enjoyment
music seems scarcely to attract him , and though he admires elinor ' s drawings very much , it is
my suspense while all was at stake ?
last half-year , nay , for a twelvemonth—she has been given up to nothing but amusement and vanity .
at length , however , mrs .
here , she must be leading a life of privation and penance ; there it would have been all enjoyment
" " it first came into my head , " replied mrs smith , " upon finding how much you
a value for edmund , miss crawford was very unlike her .
how much more amiable are women in that particular !
went away , with a cold , or something that affected his spirits .
exist , and whose power , even of being agreeable , she had barely acknowledged .
even james was quite angry .
and enjoy felicity .
you would hardly meet with a man who goes beyond his four pints at the utmost .
as she was for ever receiving from yourself and your father , when her society must be so irksome .
—it was not to be doubted that poor harriet ' s attachment had been an offering to conjugal unreserve ,
” and , gathering her work together , she was hastening away , when elizabeth called out : “dear madam
his own sisters .
but now she made the sudden resolution of not passing their door without going in—observing , as she proposed it
it is always the lady ' s right to decide on the degree of acquaintance .
who had such an affection for her as could never find fault .
how strange it must appear to him !
and with the most perfect alacrity he welcomed the relationship , alluded to the past , and entreated to be
advantage before him , she was overflowing with gratitude—artless , maternal gratitude—which could not be unpleasing .
—he had gone to learn to be indifferent .
an evening merely cold or damp would not have deterred her from it ; but a heavy and settled rain
belong to the place , to be a true citizen of highbury .
up by the mail from northampton the following night , which would not have allowed him an hour ' s
half a dozen speeches altogether , and it will not much signify if nobody hears a word you say ;
when she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance and courting the good opinion of people with whom any intercourse a
lamented again over the impossibility of getting sam ready in time , was at leisure to think of her eldest
all would yet turn out right , she was even positively civil ; but it was an effort ; especially
very well upon my word .
how do you do , miss smith ?
she had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on her for a fortnight , and was
are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time .
" elinor , though greatly shocked , still felt unable to believe it .
“one more ; —they would not fatigue miss fairfax on any account , and would only ask for one more
going off ; for it could not be a desirable thing to have him engaged to a girl whom we
-- , " was evidently the one which he had been folding so hastily .
” “have you , indeed !
i do ; and you must feel , as well as i do , that the woman who married him
good income into a better .
she grew absolutely ashamed of herself .
it had , in fact , occurred to her , that though taken to portsmouth for nothing , it would
, and no inclination for her company that could lessen her sense of such feelings .
” “you must decide for yourself , ” said elizabeth ; “and if , upon mature deliberation , you find
—and i am sure mr .
but i am very far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general .
assistance of any encouragement from her companions .
woodhouse , who being , according to his custom on such occasions , making the circle of his guests ,
conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible , i know it cannot be long .
palmer asked me if i would go with him to barton .
” “she is abominably rude to keep charlotte out of doors in all this wind .
he received the kindest welcome from her ; and shyness , coldness , reserve could not stand against such a
hope was over , entirely over ; and when jane could attend to the rest of the letter , she
greatly err .
first having the barouche-landau .
am sure you would have thought as i did , unless you had been determined to give it against me
he had suspected his agent of some underhand dealing ; of meaning to bias him against the deserving ; and
how wickham and lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence , she could not imagine .
” “yes , quite sure ; for a particular friend of mine , a miss andrews , a sweet girl
allen ' s door , the astonishment of isabella was hardly to be expressed , on finding that it was
deserve them .
” “my dear jane , say no more about it .
a hornpipe , and a song between the acts .
" there is no persuading you to change your mind , brandon , i know of old , " said
bates ' s door to offer the use of their carriage , but the aunt and niece were to be
, allowing for the difference of the time of year .
i have engaged mrs .
he must have witnessed .
his indifference was so much more than equalled by her own , that were he now to step forth the
how disappointed he will be if you don ' t come to cleveland .
happy the voice that proclaimed the discovery !
as children , their sister had been always very fond of them ; but , as her own marriage had
let us make the best of it—and , indeed , almost every thing may be fairly said in her favour
while she furnishes the fan and the lavender water .
” “yes , ma ' am , i should not think of anything else .
—to be sure you must know better than that .
but as i have always had a thoroughly good opinion of miss fairfax , i never could , under any
always be considered as only half-awake , and edmund ' s advertisements were still of the first utility .
of limbs in the world .
” this brought on a dialogue of civilities between the other two ; but catherine heard neither the particulars nor
who would not think so ?
it would be too trying for me .
collins’s addresses , by engaging them towards herself .
capable of great improvements , and an excellent house tho ' somewhat out of repair , yet who can hope
allen as they sat down near the great clock , after parading the room till they were tired ; “and
i only wonder john could think of it ; he could not have received my last .
it would be but a new creation , however , and i never think much of your new creations .
expressive profile as he turned with a smile to julia , or to catch the laugh of the other ,
the prospect of it frightened her so thoroughly , that , with a mixture of true girlish perverseness and folly
that she always dresses very handsomely .
uneasy on my father ' s account ; he always walks out at this time of day .
he is of no profession at all .
” yes , he had no engagement at all for to-morrow ; and her invitation was accepted with alacrity .
from about the time of her entering the family , lady bertram , in consequence of a little ill-health ,
” now emma was obliged to think of the pianoforte ; and the remembrance of all her former fanciful and
then , if i had not been bound to silence , perhaps nothing could have kept me entirely—not even what
“isabella , my brother , and mr .
; you may imagine that being the only family with whom we can converse , we are of course on
valley , into which the road with some abruptness wound .
edmund ' s plans were affected by this portsmouth journey , this absence of fanny ' s .
than her own had seemed faulty to her .
his wife .
invalid , whose state sir thomas fears may be very critical ; and edmund kindly proposes attending his brother immediately
—could he by a touch of his finger have instantly taken back his wife , there would have been a
way our road lies together .
it would hardly have been resolved on , and found practicable so soon .
“but do you think that my father will ever be reconciled to this imprudent connection ?
there is no use in staying here ; i must be off .
good breeding carried him through it all ; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the truth
the party was to be our brother and sister , henry , john—and miss smith .
sincerely attached to willoughby than i was to neville , fitzowen , or either of the crawfords , for all
when i look back to the first time i saw him !
but last february , almost a twelvemonth back , she suddenly disappeared .
my uncle , who is the very best man in the world , has exerted himself , as i knew
interrupted by a fine tall boy of eleven years old , who , rushing out of the house , pushed
skill of them all , and they were at last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour ,
—harriet ' s parentage became known .
weston , very soon after their moving into the drawing-room : wishing her joy—yet observing , that she knew the
; but being alone , her being unwell and out of spirits was almost a matter of course .
but hush , hush !
woodhouse than to emma .
" " it is perfectly true .
mine , i confess , are exhausted .
" " to be sure i will , if you wish it .
his own mind , though it might have its drawback .
frederica must be as much as sixteen , and ought to know better ; but from what her mother insinuates
vernon equal even to his deserts ; and her wish of obtaining my sister ' s good opinion merits a
for a few days , every morning visit in highbury included some mention of the handsome letter mrs .
—the kindness and protection of mrs .
while he talked to isabella , however , emma found an opportunity of saying , “and so you do not
, he should make a point of returning to mansfield at any time required by the party : he was
party must rather forward her favourite indulgence of being suffered to sit silent and unattended to .
rushworth !
, " there seemed to me to be a coldness and displeasure in your manner that made me quite uncomfortable
his ball exactly—but i could not make you understand it without a table ; however , i did beat him
a man of decent appearance produced .
chapter _num_ the next morning was fair , and catherine almost expected another attack from the assembled party .
" " this must have been about that very period of mr elliot ' s life , " said anne
say lucy ' s beau is quite as modest and pretty behaved as miss dashwood ' s .
the former was for sir john ' s gratification , the latter for that of his lady .
lengthening his visit , i should regret mr .
, when they woke with a headache , without danger of reprobation , because chapel was missed , they would
habit of receiving , to emulate the “very true , my love , ” which must have been usually administered
this was all that was generally known of her history .
" " it would not be the nature of any woman who truly loved .
” “i did not thoroughly understand what you were telling your brother , ” cried emma , “about your friend
” he shook his head .
crawford was somewhat distinguishing his niece—nor perhaps refrain (though unconsciously) from giving a more willing assent to invitations on that
from the dreadful suspense in which she must now be travelling towards them .
" edward talks of going to oxford soon , " said she ; " but now he is lodging at
why dost thou not suspect my innocence as soon ?
to spread at meryton .
she felt that she had , indeed , been three months there ; and the sun ' s rays falling
ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning either , detection could not be in your power , and suspicion
be more serious .
" cried marianne , her eyes sparkling with animation , and her cheeks glowing with the delight of such imaginary
you will be to visit me in prison with a basket of provisions ; you will not refuse to visit
have nothing to urge—that because she was injured she was irreproachable , and because i was a libertine , she
she began to feel the possibility of his turning out well at last ; but he was and must ever
this is treating me like a friend .
i had not an idea that his behaviour to me before had any meaning ; and surely i was not
who knows when we may be together again ?
nineteen ; involve herself at nineteen in an engagement with a young man , who had nothing but himself to
became gradually sensible that he was inviting her to join him where he stood .
i shall offer to pay him to-morrow ; he will rant and storm about his love for you , and
prosperous love , all that was most unlike anne elliot !
you see how it is ; and could tell me , perhaps better than i could tell you , how
wickham and the officers , mr .
might , the very cold manner of our meeting yesterday .
in short , i can feel no dependence on his coming , and i wish mr .
—“i said it would be so , ” was the only consolation .
old intimacy had thought ever likely to be again .
tone ; “mrs .
the plan , immediately gave a grateful but absolute denial for both , in which she believed herself to be
dear brother ' s favourite colour .
but you are not aware of the consequences ; it will involve you in a very cruel embarrassment , and
, is so very fond of her brother , treating him , they say , quite like a son .
are silent , miss fairfax—but i hope you mean to take an interest in this news .
, and for the first two or three weeks were continually bringing some fresh report of it into the drawing-room
hers is a line for seeing human nature ; and she has a fund of good sense and observation ,
on being seriously accepted as soon as possible .
he had quitted oxford within four and twenty hours after lucy ' s letter arrived , and with only one
" when i see him again , " said elinor to herself , as the door shut him out ,
struck by a sudden recollection , she exclaimed , “my good friends , you are most composedly at work upon
” “gracechurch street , monday , august _num_ .
” he contrived that she should be seated by him ; and was sufficiently employed in looking out the best
, and the substance of her conversation with elizabeth ; dwelling emphatically on every expression of the latter which ,
not a stone must be added to its walls , not an inch to its size , if my feelings
—both sea air and bathing .
for edward .
be laughed at about them .
she had no doubt of their still being , in some spot or other .
“what a letter is this , to be written at such a moment !
the neighbourhood was not large , but the musgroves were visited by everybody , and had more dinner-parties , and
which the former caught , soon after her being settled at mansfield , from the example of the young ladies
” “you think i ought to refuse him then , ” said harriet , looking down .
darcy is neither by honour nor inclination confined to his cousin , why is not he to make another choice
” for a great while it was so , but at last the longing grew stronger , it overthrew caution
rushworth and maria , who were partners for the second time , “we shall see some happy faces again now
what can you have to do with hearts ?
lesley in answer .
elton ' s engagement had been the cure of the agitation of meeting mr .
it was soon generally agreed that tuesday should be the day ; charles only reserving the advantage of still teasing
she had never been quite well since the time of their daughter ' s marriage ; and till she should
very good .
” “i am sure i do not care about the bread .
unjust i may have been , weak and resentful i have been , but never inconstant .
if the rushworths were gone themselves to mansfield , as was to be inferred from what miss crawford said ,
letter the ninth mrs marlowe to miss lutterell grosvenor street , april _num_ th need i say my dear eloisa
bennet had no turn for economy , and her husband’s love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their income
of her fringe .
my dear mother , you must be wrong in permitting an engagement between a daughter so young , a man
reseated in the carriage , " not to call at uppercross in the christmas holidays .
collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his successful love ; for mrs .
i declare sometimes i do not know which way to look before them .
to anybody who would hear her .
she had in fact heard the whole substance of jane fairfax ' s letter , she had been able to
don ' t we all know that it must be a match , that they were over head and ears
deportment ; and lady bertram , without taking half so much trouble , or speaking one word where he spoke
she met miss crawford within a few yards of the parsonage , just setting out to call on her ,
let us go and look at the arrivals .
bennet , alarmed .
henry the _num_ th this prince after he succeeded to the throne grew quite reformed and amiable , forsaking all
darcy , by the feelings which prevailed on his entering the room ; and then , though but a moment
i am a great dreamer .
to suffer on that score ; for as her being out was known only to her two aunts , she
without supposing them , from what she saw , to be very seriously in love , their preference of each
churchill was no more .
weston ; but , undoubtedly he could know very little of the matter .
as long as both parties remained in the room ; and though in all probability not an observation was made
john dashwood was a strong caricature of himself ; more narrow-minded and selfish .
there is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his letter , which promises well .
weston in a trembling voice .
have reached my aunts .
thanks for their visit , solicitude for their shoes , anxious inquiries after mr .
ago destroyed all its ingenuity .
allowances , large allowances , she knew , must be made for the ideas of those who spoke .
you and i shall not want opportunities .
allen ' s consolation .
she would not acknowledge that it was with any view of making a match for her , hereafter , with
consider how far you have to ride .
weston immediately accosted her with , “how d ' ye do ?
” “perfect felicity is not the property of mortals , and no one has a right to expect uninterrupted happiness
why is no use to be made of my mother ' s chaise ?
, has merely desired it , asked it without offering one argument in favour of its propriety .
she wanted neither taste nor spirit in the little things which are generally acceptable , and could accompany her own
pleasure , in pleased contempt , that the man who at twenty-three had seemed to understand somewhat of the value
when is she dejected or melancholy ?
, and taken his resolution in quiet independence , the result of it appeared the next morning at breakfast ,
no difference at all ; so with all the kind leave-taking , and all the kind interchange of invitations and
i consider him , on the contrary , as a very respectable man , who has every body ' s
strong local attachment .
“very serious !
had not mortified mine .
to gladden henry ' s eyes , when he comes back , and send me an account of all the
it would not be a bad thing for her to be very much in love with a proper object .
i know what you are thinking of .
but i have other provocations .
to him ; and it was a great indulgence now and then to talk to him about lyme , which
” “now i have got some news for you , ” said lydia , as they sat down at table
this was handsome , and gave her more pleasure than almost anything else could have done .
but above all , above respect and esteem , there was a motive within her of goodwill which could not
three miles from the sea .
“yes , oh !
i was prepared to meet you with the pleasure which our separation naturally produced , with the familiarity which our
—still , however , i must be on my guard .
never shall it be said that i obliged my father .
i never meant to deceive you , but my spirits might often lead me wrong .
" " did not you hear him complain of the rheumatism ?
he had seen miss crawford .
morning , poor nancy , who , you know , is a well-meaning creature , but no conjurer , popt
it is the greatest absurdity—actually snowing at this moment !
young men and women driving about the country in open carriages !
grant is ill , ” said she , with mock solemnity .
hearing my reasons .
to her , it would not have given her half the vexation that this does .
uppermost .
abandoned life before her marriage—of this however i have many doubts , since she was a relation of that noble
the aunt was a capricious woman , and governed her husband entirely ; but it was not in mr .
wife of edward ' s freind .
that time , little dreaming what was going on .
a relief .
a valuable legacy indeed !
in ran mrs .
, and repeatedly asked what she had been doing with herself since their separation .
companion .
” “i have no right to give my opinion , ” said wickham , “as to his being agreeable or
norris to dispute over their last play , he became a looker-on at the other , he found his niece
the time of old governor trent .
not alarmed , madam , on receiving this letter , by the apprehension of its containing any repetition of those
without some profit to the speaker .
interesting character to her beauty .
, and the job was to be done as well as it could in a great hurry ; william trying
” was the result of such thoughts as these ; and upon sir thomas ' s information of her being
he was silent and grave .
it may bring many extenuations .
cottage , setting out , according to orders , with her pitcher , to fetch broth from hartfield .
i never saw such a likeness .
you were not by , when i told mamma and the others all about it .
considerable distance from macdonald-hall .
crawford ' s choice , she knew not always what to think .
to impute such a design to lady susan would be taking from her every claim to that excellent understanding which
subject to decline , and by an easy transition from a piece of rocky fragment and the withered oak which
at the pianoforte again ; “it is entirely her own doing .
she had something to suffer , perhaps , when they came into contact again , in seeing anne restored to
sir , i do indeed .
trial of fortitude , which stronger heads than sir walter ' s have found too much .
is perceived .
gave her pain , and her own satisfaction in seeing sotherton would be nothing without him .
—i must speak to my uncle .
the page in a letter ; and very often it is nothing more than— ' dear mary , i am
impossible to detain her .
delighting , however , as catherine sincerely did in the prospect of the connection , it must be acknowledged that
” “it must be very agreeable for her to be settled within so easy a distance of her own family
must inform you that it is confidently reported , your father is going to be married ; i am very
” said he .
as any affront , seated himself at another table with mr .
the middle seat of the chaise was not drawn out , though there were three people to go in it
miss woodhouse appeared more than once , and never without a something of pleasing connexion , either a compliment to
—but you will continue the same .
and , fanny” (turning back again for a moment) , “i shall make no mention below of what has passed
the rooms were too large for her to move in with ease : whatever she touched she expected to injure
” “yes ; but besides your affection for her , you must be so fond of the abbey !
much in reply herself , and from the danger of hearing any thing more from her brother , by the
nobody could do it , but that good fellow " (pointing to captain wentworth .
how you must have hated me after that evening ?
—such beautiful weather !
to think it perfectly reasonable .
—your only blunder was confined to my ear , when you imagined a certain friend of ours in love with
the storm still raged , and various were the noises , more terrific even than the wind , which struck
that would be terrible , indeed , " said miss steele .
“i hope , ” added mrs .
(said i) you dont say so ?
weston would never marry again , may comfort me for any thing .
and other family matters now passed between them , and continued , with only one small digression on james '
" " good god !
woodhouse , who had already taken his little round in the highest part of the gardens , where no damps
we are not a lively party .
“nobody loved plenty and hospitality more than herself ; nobody more hated pitiful doings ; the parsonage , she believed
i have no notion of loving people by halves ; it is not my nature .
weston , “one could know which arrangement our guests in general would like best .
, to which his affection for marianne , were humanity out of the case , would have prompted him .
miss hawkins perhaps wanted a home , and thought this the best offer she was likely to have .
darcy was really the object of her choice , by explaining the gradual change which her estimation of him had
lady russell saw either less or more than her young friend , for she saw nothing to excite distrust .
and might go to her bedroom as securely as if it had been her own chamber at fullerton .
was so highly reprehensible .
hughes says , and likely to do very well .
she had weathered it , however , and could truly say that it had done her good .
or discredit , could she be reconciled to the risk , or feel any of that obligation to mr .
vale of uske .
a relief to your own conscience .
” “and that is not very likely to be , sir thomas .
if ever there were people who , without having great wealth themselves , had every thing they could wish for
have patience with me , i shall soon have done .
” “i hope not .
he is off .
a little delay on his side might be very excusable .
wife had been apprehensive of for herself , but had fortunately escaped .
“upon my word , ” said mrs .
the youth and cheerfulness of morning are in happy analogy , and of powerful operation ; and if the distress
opinion of his worth , and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself—her feelings were
well , (smiling , ) i hope it may be allowed that if compassion has produced exertion and relief to
“she must be under some sort of penance , inflicted either by the campbells or herself .
ten couple may stand here very well .
" " no , edward , i should have something else to do with it .
if you need farther explanation , i have the honour , my dear madam , of being your husband '
when will it be ?
" " i have never mentioned it to her , but of course she must .
daughter and the friends she had come from .
be fine ; he has found fault with the hanging of my curricle , and i cannot persuade him to
, open look , in no respect lessening his personal advantages .
need of him to keep up our spirits these long winter evenings .
grant will just do ; and though we play but half-crowns , you know , you may bet half-guineas with
fraser (no bad judge) declares she knows but three men in town who have so good a person , height
young men are often hasty in their resolutions , and not more sudden in forming than unsteady in keeping them
the young people were all wild to see lyme .
the highest claims a woman could possess .
not have recommended him at any time .
there , indeed , lay real pleasure , for there she was giving up the sweetest hours of the twenty-four
lessen his repugnance .
" and who is admiral croft ?
all this was bad , but she had still more to feel when friday came round again and brought no
the spring fashions are partly down ; and the hats the most frightful you can imagine .
character .
darcy was attending them to their carriage miss bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on elizabeth’s person , behaviour
it is what i always protested against for my children .
i deferred it all till his praise should be proved the praise of a friend , as this day does
to “despair of nothing we would attain , ” as “unwearied diligence our point would gain” ; and the unwearied
sir john had been very urgent with them all to spend the next day at the park .
call upon her , by all means .
a large and still increasing family , an husband disabled for active service , but not the less equal to
by this one act of freindship to janetta , we have amply discharged every obligation that we have received from
at that very time walking alone in the shrubbery , he instantly joined her .
, to watch sir walter and mrs clay .
” “my dear , ” their considerate aunt would reply , “it is very bad , but you must not
affections	 _num_ amiably bashful	 _num_ " i can answer for it , " said mrs .
from the vicinity of norland beyond her wishes , she made no attempt to dissuade her mother from sending a
i cannot let you continue in your error ; and yet , perhaps , since my manners gave such an
his letter was soon dispatched ; for , though dilatory in undertaking business , he was quick in its execution
little cousin .
any thing to inquire about , his inquiries even approached a tone of eagerness .
one directly ; and as i cannot look out of my dressing-closet without seeing one farmyard , nor walk in
agreably releived from his suspence by reading this advertisement in a newspaper .
should be mentioned between them or not ; and that if she did not lead the way , it should
speak to of what she felt .
god grant that her influence do not make him cease to be respectable !
returned them to the same spot within the cabinet , with a very hearty wish that no untoward accident might
i am not comfortable enough to be fit for anybody ; but your aunt seems to feel out of luck
; misfortunes which he could not deserve since he was her descendant .
” he shook his head ; but there was a smile of indulgence with it , and he only said
i am sure i cannot say that it had , but while miss summers declares that miss vernon showed no
good as himself .
” chapter _num_ a few days after this visit , mr .
she was always a very affable and free-spoken young lady , and very civil behaved .
” “you are acquainted with miss jane fairfax , sir , are you ?
mrs musgrove to keep her there till they returned .
himself , and before they reached mr .
so well as i do .
” was a wonder which introduced the discussion of their affairs .
simplest claims of conscious beauty required : his lengthened absence from mansfield , without anything but pleasure in view ,
” “yes—but as it happens , they are all of them very clever .
but what does he say of the living ?
“why , to own the truth , ” cried miss bates , who had been trying in vain to be
captain benwick had been seen flying by their house , with a countenance which showed something to be wrong ;
them is absolutely impossible .
meant .
imagine how great the dissapointment must be to me , when you consider that after having laboured both by night
that i was—tacitly , if not openly—encouraging you to give way to your own feelings ?
nay , if it is to be guesswork , let us all guess for ourselves .
, edmund very well , but in mr .
—who can she be ?
to a right understanding .
adeiu laura letter _num_ th laura to marianne we remained but a few days after our marriage , in the
xv mrs .
i know you will not be sorry to be off .
” every invitation was successful .
we have entered into a contract of mutual agreeableness for the space of an evening , and all our agreeableness
quick and decided in her ways , emma lost no time in inviting , encouraging , and telling her to
cole of it , she sat down and wrote to me .
their first pause was at the crown inn , an inconsiderable house , though the principal one of the sort
and very unlike him , led by him , and probably despised by him .
being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets , she soon grew too much interested in the game , too eager
have fallen on the steps , but for captain benwick and anne , who caught and supported her between them
, with all the elegance and accomplishments which mrs .
" " perhaps , then , it would be better for all parties , if the sum were diminished one
power of choice .
churchill ' s loss would be dreadful indeed .
miss darcy , on her brother’s entrance , exerted herself much more to talk , and elizabeth saw that he
he must not come till mainwaring is gone .
" " nay , elinor , this reproach from you—you who have confidence in no one !
ensure that it would now spread farther .
” “just as it should be , ” said mr .
had ever done before .
” but fanny shewed such reluctance , such misery , at the idea of going down to him , that
, ” took her out of the room .
miss smith , indeed !
—but i had no choice .
” “don ' t be affronted , ” said she , laughing , “but it does put me in mind
i thought too ill of him to invite him to pemberley , or admit his society in town .
he could tell you what improvements we made : and a great deal more would have been done , but
i had no intention , i thought i had no power of staying more than five minutes , when i
—not think they will do each other any good !
—anne , my dear , did not i always tell you so , and you would not believe me ?
he looked rather distressed as he added , that he had been staying with some friends near plymouth .
you made a lucky guess ; and that is all that can be said .
but now she is of age and may choose for herself ; and a pretty choice she has made !
has none of that grace which i should expect in the man who could seriously attach[ _num_ ] my sister
v lady susan vernon to mrs .
do not you think it has an odd appearance , if young ladies are frequently driven about in them by
" repeated edward ; " but why must you have hunters ?
“i am very sorry , ” said she ; “it is very unlucky .
dashwood , " if my children were all to be rich without my help .
—but mr .
lived up to .
confiding in my cousin ; and that there may be the possibility of consulting him , i shall endeavour to
there had been the charm .
was there anything among the other component parts of the cottage inimical to comfort .
charles hayter had been applied to by a friend to hold a living for a youth who could not possibly
” “well—but if any difficulties should arise , my housekeeper is extremely clever .
do not imagine , miss bennet , that your ambition will ever be gratified .
for every moment ; but as no footsteps approached the east room , she grew gradually composed , could sit
family approved .
for he is so very low that i have not the heart to ask questions , but i hope we
“john told us mr .
” catherine heard all this , and quite out of countenance , could listen no longer .
but her account of every thing leaves so much to be guessed , she is so very reserved , so
rushworth , “we are coming to the chapel , which properly we ought to enter from above , and look
“yes , i dare say you will ; that ' s natural enough .
northanger turned up an abbey , and she was to be its inhabitant .
mrs harville ' s giving it as her opinion that her husband would have quite walking enough by the time
have you thought , my dear , where you shall put her—and what room there will be for the children
“because it is my nearest way from the stable-yard to my own chamber ; and why should i not come
marianne pressed her hand and replied— " you are very good .
were you even less pleasing—supposing her not to love you already (of which , however , i can have little
she could neither wonder nor condemn , but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing consolatory to her bosom ,
" " no taste for drawing !
elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her feelings appear what they were not .
great deal of surprise .
home six brace between us , and might each have killed six times as many , but we respect your
after a moment ' s thought , miss crawford calmly replied , “as far as i am concerned , i
he would gladly weaken , by any fair means , whatever feelings or speculations concerning him might exist ; and
her at all .
, with a sort of serious smile—“much less , perhaps , than he is aware of , if we could
" " did not i tell you , sir john , when you spoke to me about it before ,
sophia immediately sank again into a swoon— .
—besides dear jane at present—and she really eats nothing—makes such a shocking breakfast , you would be quite frightened if
return to bed , and promised her some draughts .
to be thereby raised to the rank of a baronet ' s lady , with all the comforts and consequences
my senses were considerably impaired— .
my father wishes you to invite susan to go with you for a few months .
a very lively interest in all the comings and goings of all their acquaintance .
and i am so glad your sister is going to be well married !
the two families were so continually meeting , so much in the habit of running in and out of each
for one letter , at all risks , all hazards , i must entreat .
here catherine and isabella , arm in arm , again tasted the sweets of friendship in an unreserved conversation ;
to willoughby that he may endeavour to deserve her , " —took leave , and went away .
” “refuse mr .
my arrival was indeed a most agreable surprise to her as she had not only been totally ignorant of my
grant never used to ask her .
edmund would be forgiven for being a clergyman , it seemed , under certain conditions of wealth ; and this
” “i have heard , indeed , that she is uncommonly improved within this year or two .
i honestly tell you my sentiments and intentions : i do not wish to work on your fears , but
” “this is so favourite a walk of mine , ” said miss tilney , “that i always think it
he was not intending , however , by such action , to be conveying to her that unqualified approbation and
it is a part of an englishman ' s constitution .
the morrow , was so much uppermost in lady bertram ' s mind , that half an hour afterwards ,
to have something occur to preserve him in her fancy , in all the favouring warmth of surprize and conjecture
not all her precautions , however , could save her from being suspected of something better ; or , perhaps
the house had never been their own and their fortune had only been an annuity on their own lives .
she could not speak the name , and look straight forward to lady russell ' s eye , till she
” but baddeley was stout .
and yet that it should be anything else in that house was a circumstance to raise no common degree of
she knew , also , that poor mr .
, that they would all dine with lady middleton that day , as he was obliged to attend the club
weston , did you ever hear the like ?
very strange , and yet that he could sit so boldly collected within its view , maintain so elevated an
martin is not very , very bitterly disappointed .
—amiable and delightful as miss woodhouse is , she never gave me the idea of a young woman likely to
” “thank you ; but it is quite a matter of indifference to me .
he is one of the dullest young men that ever lived .
, would occasionally come across her ; but had nothing worse appeared , that might only have spread a new
there is an openness , a quickness , almost a bluntness in mr .
when no longer under the same roof with edmund , she trusted that miss crawford would have no motive for
he and i have been at times thrown a good deal together , while you have been wholly engrossed on
her father , contented with laughing at them , would never exert himself to restrain the wild giddiness of his
” “i honour your circumspection .
" then , lowering her voice a little , she said to elinor , " she is his natural daughter
she wanted her to be more known .
her eyes brightened at the sight of edmund .
my dear father , ” she cried , “come back and write immediately .
chestnut mare”—a farrier ' s bill !
of his attachment had for a moment excited .
but now it was all too natural .
you have but one style among you .
it was a gentleman ' s voice ; it was a voice that fanny was just turning pale about ,
her impatience to be gone .
it was not in their direct road , nor more than a mile or two out of it .
” “i comfort myself with thinking , ” replied jane , “that he certainly would not marry lydia if he
their intercourse was painful enough by letter .
come from langford where he was a fortnight with her ladyship , and who is therefore well qualified to make
, as either were wanted ; and added to these attentions , which she felt very much , a kindness
i have looked across the ha-ha till i am weary .
the general certainly had been an unkind husband .
if my countenance expressed what i aimed at , it was composed and dignified ; and yet , with a
the colonel , and we should have been married immediately .
” “indeed you did .
the advantages of natural folly in a beautiful girl have been already set forth by the capital pen of a
the brow of the hill , where they remained , was a cheerful spot : louisa returned ; and mary
“that you have ever been informed of what may , in a mistaken light , have given you uneasiness .
involved .
she had been almost fluttered for a few minutes , and still remained so sensibly animated as to put away
, and by his honourable tribute to its inhabitants allowed her to gratify her own heart in the warmest eulogium
whenever it were explained to you , yet unable to prepare you for it in the least .
understood .
her mother , sisters , fanny , all had been conscious of his regard for her at norland ; it
their place .
james , and me which had given him great uneasiness .
” “my taking orders , i assure you , is quite as voluntary as maria ' s marrying .
and if he were to be lost to them for harriet ' s sake ; if he were to be
that detestable mrs .
any other apartment of the handsomest dimensions in the world could possibly afford .
hardship and discipline , and the consciousness of being born to struggle and endure .
" " certainly , " he replied , with a sneer— " i came into devonshire with no other view
to console her , she bade her adieu without much uneasiness , and returned home , pleased that the party
no thanks to his gallantry for that .
good deal of drinking had brought on a fever ; and when the party broke up , being unable to
he was looking about , he was going to the door , he was watching for the sound of other
estimate it truly were the very feelings which ought to taste it but sparingly .
the comparison , and how gladly she would engage in the solicitude of marianne ' s situation to have the
do not again wound my sensibility by observations on those elms .
if meant to be immediately mixed with the others , and buried from sight , she should have looked on
one wishes it were not so ; but i have not yet left oxford long enough to forget what chapel
i shall be very glad to see him .
was not entered at oxford till i was nineteen .
” emma allowed her father to talk—but supplied her visitors in a much more satisfactory style , and on the
" " i am sure you think me very strange , for enquiring about her in such a way ,
this was an obligation , however , which not only opposed her own inclination , but which had not the
with these feelings , she rather dreaded than sought for the first view of that well-known spire which would announce
—i have been so grieved for you .
one so wretched as herself ; but she had her share of business as well as her aunt , and
still for there is not the smallest alteration in him .
distance .
i beg your pardon , but i cannot quite believe you .
james , “what a sweet girl she is !
who would have made her happy and respectable in the line of life to which she ought to belong—all would
” “yes , and the bear .
in feeling , in action , in condition , in every thing .
pray write instantly , and let me understand it—unless it is , for very cogent reasons , to remain in
i have been but half a friend to her ; and if she were not to feel this disappointment so
edward !
no , i cannot hope to please this angel of a woman , and the only thing which remains for
she was going to the butcher’s , she told me , on purpose to order in some meat on wednesday
morland ' s preferment , trebling his private fortune , bestowing a rich aunt , and sinking half the children
his rank in society i would alter if i could , which is saying a great deal i assure you
knightley ' s provoking indifference about it .
i like him very well .
grant was of consequence : her good-nature had honourable mention ; her taste and her time were considered ; her
" i wish to assure you both , " said she , " that i see every thing—as you can
, after some consideration ; “and i can tell mr .
i possibly could .
on the third day , in short , as soon as she could be prevailed on , a physician attended
charles , henrietta , and captain wentworth were the three in consultation , and for a little while it was
vernon in his own room .
a friendly note of congratulation and inquiry from mrs .
norris ' s watchful attention , and in edmund ' s judgment , he had sufficient confidence to make him
bates was saying something to emma , whispered farther , “we do not say a word of any assistance that
” elizabeth passed quietly out of the room , jane and kitty followed , but lydia stood her ground ,
norris , instead of having comfort from either , was but the more irritated by the sight of the person
—and you have gained so much countenance !
” said she , “i get quite anxious about you .
adapted for secret discourses and unlimited confidence , that she was most reasonably encouraged to expect another friend from within
bertram ' s just arrived on a visit .
nay , the colour of your hair is not very different .
” “i am not afraid of you , ” said he , smilingly .
we are going up claverton down .
palmer to her husband , who just then entered the room— " you must help me to persuade the miss
" " i never heard any harm of her ; indeed i hardly ever heard her mentioned ; except that
, and your sweet looks and conversation were altogether in the most delicious harmony , and afforded sensations which are
the easiness of his temper , whether he might not spend the remainder of his days at netherfield , and
there was neither health nor gaiety in sunshine in a town .
his feelings than she dared to think of ; and she gave herself up to the demands of the party
worthy of her brother ; " and a very respectable family .
been conversing about all that time ; and the result of the whole was to her disappointment and depression ,
i once thought that to have what is in general called a freind (i mean one of my own sex
” emma laughed and disclaimed .
sisters , that he and henrietta should just run down for a few minutes , to see their aunt and
allen , you must persuade her to go , ” was the general cry .
no coffee , i thank you , for me—never take coffee .
in the drawing-room mr .
" elinor ' s heart thanked her for such kindness towards edward , though she could not forbear smiling at
weston again , and again , and again , you see .
will be no little offering of love at the end , no three or four lines passionnees from the most
stop me whilst you can .
a family of ten children will be always called a fine family , where there are heads and arms and
had the same behaviour continued , miss smith might have been led into a misconception of your views ; not
would disgust her with the place , wished the lady frasers had been in the country , talked every now
she would not voluntarily give unnecessary pain to any one , and though i may deceive myself , i cannot
women fancy admiration means more than it does .
then there would always be company for them .
she promised to think of it , and advised him to think of it more ; but he was fully
johnson has for some time suspected de courcy of intending to marry you , and would speak with him alone
she felt it to be the probable consequence of her allusions to mr .
i took him as he was sleeping on the sofa , and it is as strong a likeness of his
thought of the other .
the room , nor was she once called a divinity by anybody .
what congratulations will then flow in !
them in their gothic form with reverential care , were yet less what her fancy had portrayed .
been made by henry ' s banishment , to the home of her choice and the man of her choice
when we talked about him , it was as clear as possible .
were treated as of such general publicity and pervading interest ; yet , with all this experience , she believed
he thought of his own four children , of his two sons , of cousins in love , etc .
believe myself otherwise ; for our pride , if investigated , would have the same object , i have no
” “from something that he said , my dear emma , i rather imagine—” “and how could she bear such
home , and would call for them in a few minutes .
his nephew ' s introduction to admiral crawford might be of service .
people to another , though at a distance of only three miles , will often include a total change of
friend christopher jackson credit .
and humility .
the largest share of his discourse to herself for the rest of his stay .
valued beyond that of any other person .
the dinner was exceedingly handsome , and there were all the servants and all the articles of plate which mr
” he thanked her with all his heart , and continued some time to speak with serious feeling of his
can you stand such a ceremony as this ?
i am sure of sir james at any time , and could make him renew his application by a line
to do us any good .
her fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make her think him less agreeable .
her assurance !
near her , and without exaggerated feelings of ecstatic delight or inconceivable vexation on every little trifling occurrence .
you unhappy ; but since we see every day that where there is affection , young people are seldom withheld
do the very deed which she disinherited the other for intending to do .
here on receiving so direct a reproach ; though , as it was no more than she expected , she
collins ; but i do not think there would have been any fun in it .
and tuesday will be a busy one with me .
vain , she smiled and said , " i am determined i will : " he put out his hands
less likely to come to northanger than at the present time , that she suffered her mind to be at
as he turned away , which anne perfectly knew the meaning of .
the journey was likely to be a silent one .
a stronger impression on his mind than on hers .
body had supposed they must be so fond of each other .
—“i know you saw my letter , and think you may remember my wish in your favour .
but he is a pleasant , good humoured fellow , and has got the nicest little black bitch of a
the other .
they seem to satisfy every body else .
able to talk another five minutes , there is no saying that he might not have talked away all miss
she was not near enough to hear any of their discourse , but she could see how seldom they spoke
at the moment she could only thank and accept .
” “no , fanny , that i do not .
” “yes , that of course .
your brother is the most charming of men .
” perceiving her still to look doubtful and grave , he added , “though frederick does not leave bath with
women of that class have great opportunities , and if they are intelligent may be well worth listening to .
" " frederica " said i , " you ought to have told me all your distresses .
no insolence in the manners either of brother or sister ; and she did not credit there being any pride
i am sure you hear nothing but good of him from colonel wallis ; and who can know him better
upon his small pittance the colonel lived tolerably contented for nearly four months when he took it into his head
the gipsies did not wait for the operations of justice ; they took themselves off in a hurry .
elton was not the superior creature she had believed him .
' my dear madam , ' i always say to her , ' you must make yourself easy .
for emma ' s attention ; it was soon gone to brunswick square or to donwell ; she forgot to
" well , but miss dashwood , " speaking triumphantly , " people may say what they choose about mr
and all this has been going on at a time , when , as you know too well , it
i found her exactly what her brother had described her to be—of the middle size .
too late for the best strawberries .
her husband was a grave looking young man of five or six and twenty , with an air of more
” “but my father cannot .
s care , a bright bath stove , mahogany wardrobes , and neatly painted chairs , on which the warm
is a cross evening : everybody is cross and teasing , but do not let us mind them” ; and
the distinction had perhaps been felt too strongly .
tilney , looking at the muslin .
" " can you , indeed !
motive ; but his coming would probably prolong rather than break up the party .
what a corrupted mind !
—quite out of my power .
my cousin anne shakes her head .
a fine opportunity for being really so ; and therefore gaily said , “do not be uneasy , isabella ,
my youngest of all is lately married , and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds , walking with a
unreasonable .
, and laughing and talking with more violence than ever ; whilst the luckless kitty continued in the parlour repined
been so lately expressing the same sentiments himself , and he tried to turn the conversation : tried repeatedly before
” frank churchill caught the name .
of elegance , was thoroughly acceptable .
—so very much obliged to you for the carriage , ” resumed miss bates .
—you will be glad to hear (inclining his head , and whispering seriously) that my uncle means to give her
it was enough for her that he appeared to be amiable , that he loved her daughter , and that
, and he told him so ; and mr .
crawford exactly what a young heated fancy imagines to be necessary for happiness , you resolve to refuse him at
she has talked of it since .
she watched him whenever they were at rosings , and whenever he came to hunsford ; but without much success
” now fanny could not bring herself to speak , and miss crawford was disappointed ; for she had hoped
because they neither flattered herself nor her children , she could not believe them good-natured ; and because they were
this was a cruel aggravation of actually straitened means .
very hard , " though she believed the interruption to proceed less from any attention to her , than from
poor brandon !
mr hayter had some property of his own , but it was insignificant compared with mr musgrove ' s ;
bath , but have always been prevented by some silly trifler or other .
bingley her sister’s being in town .
“why should you be surprised , sir ?
come !
—“my dear mr .
you ought to be tired at the end of six weeks .
many dangers .
” “my dear lizzy , you cannot think me so weak , as to be in danger now ?
run upon bath—much .
i must make myself very disagreeable , or she would not have said such a thing to an old friend
the house and grounds , and furniture , were approved , the crofts were approved , terms , time ,
i really could not face my acquaintance if i stayed away now ; for , as i am known to
collins had settled it with her husband that the office of introduction should be hers , it was performed in
; and , in a reasonable time , curiosity to know where she would be buried .
she could not , did not like him .
“as soon as ever mr .
earnest in hoping , and sanguine in believing , that it would be a match at last , and that
to know that her daughter would be married was enough .
but have i ever known it ?
be at salisbury , and then i am only nine miles from home .
i wish the discovery may do them any good .
grant ' s , ” said edmund presently .
sometimes she could believe willoughby to be as unfortunate and as innocent as herself , and at others , lost
” “i cannot imagine why mrs .
as she thought less of his inebriety , she thought more of his inconstancy and presumption ; and with fewer
how does charlotte do ?
john dashwood ' s card .
more than all , their former agitation .
she found him , however , perfectly the gentleman in his behaviour to all his visitors , and only occasionally
than i could endure as a principal .
because your merit cries out upon myself , i have been trying to do it away .
” cried lydia .
harriet had been conscious of a difference in his behaviour ever since those two decisive dances .
some of my plants which robert will leave out because the nights are so mild , and i know the
containing the same three people that had surprised her so much a few mornings back .
voice as well regulated as she could—“and how do you like your cousin edmund ' s staying away so long
head .
" [ _num_ ] he stopt a moment for recollection , and then , with another sigh , went on
i met one as i came—madness in such weather !
my good friend , ” said sir thomas , producing his watch with all necessary caution ; “it is three
” chapter _num_ elizabeth’s spirits soon rising to playfulness again , she wanted mr .
we must not be so ready to fancy ourselves intentionally injured .
other , prevented any renewal of it .
emma longed to know what frank ' s first opinion of mrs .
i wish his friends would propose it to him .
“you do not really think , mr .
it would be interesting to know to what extent she remodelled sense and sensibility in _num_ - _num_ , for
i am losing all my bitterness against spoilt children , my dearest emma .
her father and sister were glad to see her , for the sake of shewing her the house and furniture
listen to no cavil , unless you can point out any other method of understanding the affair as satisfactory at
harris at four o ' clock ; when his assurances , his felicitations on a recovery in her sister even
why , he has four or five thousand a year , and very likely more .
simpson , you know , and yet if you do but meet him of a morning , he is not
you must talk to me .
it was a pleasant fertile spot , well wooded , and rich in pasture .
very interesting speculation in what possible manner they could be disposed of .
the necessity of the measure in a pecuniary light , and the hope of its utility to his son ,
” “you should have gone to cromer , my dear , if you went anywhere .
spirits were immediately assisted by the cheerful blaze of a wood fire .
of the castle you inhabit .
at last , by fancying there was one necklace more frequently placed before her eyes than the rest .
her conscience stopt her in the middle , but edmund was satisfied .
all the delight of unpleasant recollections .
there is no use in delay .
excuse her of ill-nature and sometimes to lament her want of sense .
ma ' am , but there may be a difficulty .
the fever was over , and emma could harbour little fear of the pulse being quickened again by injurious courtesy
but i cannot forget the length of her visit to the mainwarings , and when i reflect on the different
she arrived with her uncle last thursday fortnight , when , of course , i lost no time in demanding
it was folly to be disturbed by it .
increasing despondency , were dwelt on with energy .
bennet : one communication would , therefore , do for all .
any nonsense will serve .
reached the same spot .
" " he likes you .
not be forgotten : ” and away he went .
or had you intended any more serious consequence ?
adieu .
being at twickenham ; her putting herself in the power of a servant ; it was the detection , in
i see your judgment is not with me .
money , you know , coming down with money--two daughters at once--it cannot be a very agreeable operation , and
she did not feel afraid .
i owe such a grudge to myself for the stupid , rascally folly of my own heart , that all
edmund , you have heard me mention charles anderson .
but that charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility as she could encourage him herself , and
“i know very well , madam , ” said he , “that when persons sit down to a card-table ,
” “i wish i might take this for a compliment ; but to be so easily seen through i am
she loved every body , was interested in every body ' s happiness , quicksighted to every body ' s
if i were to undertake it , i should only disappoint you .
you know we have settled all that already .
" i wished very much to call upon you yesterday , " said he , " but it was impossible
entertain of her being hereafter our sister .
, and she said , therefore , “it is a pity you should not join them .
settled in donwell .
it was all right , all open , all equal .
down hills .
have you no comforts ?
fanny , william must not forget my shawl if he goes to the east indies ; and i shall give
, dear fanny .
all were alert and impatient ; the ladies moved soon , the gentlemen soon followed them , and with the
one thing did disturb her ; and of that she made her daily complaint .
in the case , “i do not like him at all , ” she directly replied , “i like him
' s defection , determined , in spite of mr .
wickham represented them , so gross a violation of everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world ;
—“the regularity and despatch of it !
there are secrets in all families , you know)—the case is , that a party of friends are invited to
i have received your letter , and though i do not attempt to conceal that i am gratified by your
her character was now fixed on his mind as perfection itself , maintaining the loveliest medium of fortitude and gentleness
hitherto i fancy you and i are the only people to whom his looks and manners have explained themselves .
” emma listened , and looked , and soon perceived that frank churchill ' s state might be best defined
“i often think , ” said she , “that there is nothing so bad as parting with one’s friends .
mr whitaker , mrs lefroy , mrs knight and myself , who was abandoned by her son , confined by
with her , ” said emma , “nothing i suppose can be known .
a complete change of life became desirable .
what is your opinion ?
at present , believe me , i have no need of your services , being in cash again .
the east room !
isabella does not seem more my sister ; has never excited a greater interest ; perhaps hardly so great .
we have since often met mr and mrs marlowe but no cleveland—he is always engaged some where else .
ferrars , i believe , is entirely dependent on his mother .
obliged to spend his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel .
how barbarous have i been to you !
they then sat down , and when her inquiries after rosings were made , seemed in danger of sinking into
willoughby or my sister .
if anybody had told me a year ago that this place would be my home , that i should be
" of one thing , my dear sister , " kindly taking her hand , and speaking in an awful
betsey and i have been watching for you this half-hour .
every consolation in the impossibility of acquitting him .
in describing to her all the grandeur of lady catherine and her mansion , with occasional digressions in praise of
i cannot find out that i hate her at all , or that i am in the least unwilling to
from conversation .
she has the age and sense of a woman , but the outs and not outs are beyond me .
, and that he would be gone the greater part of two days .
having once begun , it is a pleasure to me to tell you all i feel .
papa , if you speak in that melancholy way , you will be giving isabella a false idea of us
time must be given to make the idea first familiar , and then agreeable to her .
she could not doubt , she dared not indulge a hope , of the paragraph being false .
—a few words which dropped from him yesterday spoke his opinion , and some censure i acknowledge myself liable to
their aunt norris , and with whom (perhaps the dearest indulgence of the whole) all the evil and good of
could she but have given harriet her feelings about it all !
knightley , ) and i will try to hold my tongue .
thoughts ; she would not but have heard his vindication for the world , and now blamed , now acquitted
heart only privy to its folly ; and she was on the point of retreating as softly as she had
she had been used to consult him in every difficulty , and he loved her too well to bear to
a thousand a-year is a great deal for a mother to give away , to make over for ever ;
flag , and so little was said at last , that she was expecting him to go every moment ,
—that will be a favour indeed !
” here fanny , who could not but listen , involuntarily shook her head , and crawford was instantly by
she had attended to what was due to others , and to her own character in their opinion .
edward was not dead ; but they deceived me—they took him for a cucumber—” thus i continued wildly exclaiming on
her brother was not handsome : no , when they first saw him he was absolutely plain , black and
this measure by perceiving after breakfast on the morrow , that marianne was again writing to willoughby , for she
he was proud of his conquest , proud of tricking edward , and very proud of marrying privately without his
henry crawford , ruined by early independence and bad domestic example , indulged in the freaks of a cold-blooded vanity
" if that is all , you may be satisfied already ; for marianne does , she has long forgiven
be it only half a play , an act , a scene ; what should prevent us ?
their father was no object of love to them ; he had never seemed the friend of their pleasures ,
shy , expressed great satisfaction in meeting them , and on receiving encouragement from the particular kindness of mrs .
" " you will not find anything very agreeable in him , i assure you , ma ' am .
they solaced their wretchedness , however , by duets after supper , while he could find no better relief to
that marianne , fastidious as she was , thoroughly acquainted with mrs .
and you will feel that they were not least your friends who were educating and preparing you for that mediocrity
it was mary ' s hope and belief that he had received a positive dismissal from henrietta , and her
to provide for her otherwise was out of colonel campbell ' s power ; for though his income , by
you will not , i hope , consider me as showing any disrespect to your family , my dear madam
in her reflections on the unmanageable goodwill of mr .
life of cardinal wolsey afford a thinking mind !
his own choice ; and she has actually been bribing one son with a thousand[ _num_ ] a-year , to
i have no faith in mrs .
i shall not easily forgive him , i assure you .
she had been in the way of procuring .
, secured in all probability a cavity of importance .
proceed .
they have each their advantages , and i can be equally happy in either .
no theatre at everingham !
yates that this was a point in which height and figure ought to be considered , and that his being
) he seemed to be almost asking her , whether her affections were engaged .
shade of prejudice against him .
to my charge .
ever bring them forward again , to disgrace her even with herself .
was absolutely unknown to miss f— , who would never have allowed me to send it , had any choice
allow me to say , lady catherine , that the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary application have
this , though late , and reluctant , and ungracious , was yet better than nothing , and her spirits
elizabeth received them with all the forbearance of civility , and , at the request of the gentlemen , remained
, and a[ _num_ ] very welcome variety to their conversation , which a long morning of the same continued
—to the post-office indeed !
woodhouse , who had previously made up his mind to walk out , was persuaded by his daughter not to
—she felt that she had been risking her friend ' s happiness on most insufficient grounds .
what a pity that you should not have known his intentions !
i am much mistaken if there are not some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment
if he had never esteemed my opinion before , he would have thought highly of me then ; and ,
i shall see you at the abbey to-morrow morning i hope , and then we will look them over ,
another pause therefore of many minutes ' duration , succeeded this speech , and lucy was still the first to
could there be any unwillingness on the general ' s side to show her over the abbey ?
i am quite well ; i am only distressed by some dreadful news which i have just received from longbourn
darcy changed colour ; but the emotion was short , and he listened without attempting to interrupt her while she
when at length they arose to take leave , mrs .
allow of their joining in a walk , where they might most easily separate themselves from the others ; and
”—and he repeated her words with such assurance of accent , such boastful pretence of amazement , that she could
knightley might quarrel with her , but emma could not quarrel with herself .
i cannot recollect it .
whatever promise she required ; and at her request , marianne engaged never to speak of the affair to any
—your yorkshire friend—your correspondent in yorkshire ; —that would be the way , i suppose , if i were very
seen nobody better (that must have been his great assistant) she might not , while she was at abbey-mill ,
and present was certain of giving .
“sir edward , i know the motive of your journey here—you come with the base design of reproaching me for
she instantly saw that her ears had not deceived her .
his attentive behaviour to herself and his sisters convinced her that their welfare was dear to him , and ,
but it was two or three days before he could get from her what he wanted .
he wants me to dance with him again , though i tell him that it is a most improper thing
in her eyes .
parent , was the longest to suffer .
elton , who might marry any body !
” “i have heard much of your master’s fine person , ” said mrs .
time it had existed .
but yet—he is not the kind of young man ; there is something wanting—his figure is not striking ; it
there himself .
but his pride , his abominable pride—his shameless avowal of what he had done with respect to jane—his unpardonable assurance
to give up , and make the best of his way back .
" elinor joyfully profited by the first of these proposals , and thus by a little of that address which
came to take a survey of the guest .
they are over , and he is safe back again .
moved , because i thought it might sometimes be of use in holding hats and bonnets .
been his business ; and he spoke with such a glow of what his solicitude had been , and used
to save him .
norris ' s sharp reprimand to fanny ; “i was out above an hour .
they were reckoning him as certain , but with her it was a gnawing solicitude never appeased for five minutes
what a difference a vowel makes !
” after this speech the two girls sat many minutes silent , each thoughtful : fanny meditating on the different
coach .
to sit the box on account of the rheumatism which i had been doctoring him for ever since michaelmas .
thing ; and her eyes , bright as they had been before , shewing they could yet be brighter ,
elizabeth found that nothing was beneath this great lady’s attention , which could furnish her with an occasion of dictating
isabel had seen the world .
the ladies knew better how to allay it .
i found that miss darcy was expected to dinner .
you , and which instantly occurred to matilda when she had perused it likewise .
at when i subscribe myself your affectionate susan lesley letter the third from miss margaret lesley to miss c .
" she then went away , walking on tiptoe out of the room , as if she supposed her young
at least , if not by himself , such a hope was cherished .
my attacks by questions and suppositions .
” again his astonishment was obvious ; and he looked at her with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification
exerted on a more momentous subject .
he has passed you very often .
i can learn , seems to be this .
motionless wonder , while these thoughts crossed her : “this is strange indeed !
struggling for at least two years , she yet feared that her sister ' s judgment had been against her
for nothing would otherwise have been learnt .
let me hear from you without delay ; i am impatient for a thousand particulars .
” emma found that she must wait ; and now it required little effort .
willoughby , you ought to feel , and i certainly do , that after what has passed—your coming here in
" " there we differ , mary , " said anne .
” “my object , lady bertram , is to be of use to those that come after me .
where they like .
” cried emma , “this has been a most unfortunate—most deplorable mistake !
” “you cannot be too much upon your guard .
who would submit to the indignity of being approved by such a woman as lady middleton and[ _num_ ] mrs
“make haste !
of the lady’s sensations they remained a little in doubt ; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was
” it was a narrow winding path through a thick grove of old scotch firs ; and catherine , struck
you will allow for the doubts of youth and inexperience .
“we should not like her so well as we do , sir , if we could suppose it ; but
good humour , and no embarrassment , at least on the part of the sons , who , at seventeen
but the concerns of the theatre were suspended only for an hour or two : there was still a great
what a stroke was this for poor jane !
but here she was obliged to look and consider and study for a likeness .
allen did all that she could do in such a case by saying very placidly , every now and then
elinor looked as if she wished to hear more .
from that moment i observed my friend’s behaviour attentively ; and i could then perceive that his partiality for miss
lady russell to see them together , she might think that he had too much self-possession , and she too
norris , reddening .
she had had three weeks of happy exemption from mr .
morland allowed it to pass even without a hint ; but when a third night ' s rest had neither
boy .
” “and your defect is to hate everybody .
goddard ' s—i do not know—no , i think , miss woodhouse , i may just as well have it
i am doatingly fond of music—passionately fond ; —and my friends say i am not entirely devoid of taste ;
utmost .
exactly so , indeed—quite unheard of—but some ladies say any thing .
what an unexpected happiness is this !
his heart was now open to elinor , all its weaknesses , all its errors confessed , and his first
and extremely acceptable it is , for we must live at a great expense while we are here .
chapter _num_ sir walter had taken a very good house in camden place , a lofty dignified situation , such
“can this be mr .
weston calling on every body to begin dancing again .
my friend lord courtland came to me the other day on purpose to ask my advice , and laid before
the difficulty was great of driving his strange insensibility towards harriet , from her mind , while he not only
the last man whose word i would take .
a worse time ; and it is impossible to help wishing that the news could have been suppressed for just
, wisely , discarded in her remaining efforts the cheap attraction of an alliterative title .
—she was his own emma , by hand and word , when they returned into the house ; and if
rushworth , while the rest of you walked about and settled things , and then we could all return to
or of penance was to be sat out , another hour of music was to give delight or the gapes
—in the summer it might have passed ; but what can any body ' s native air do for them
“my father (he continued) is a mean and mercenary wretch—it is only to such particular freinds as this dear party
her heart was divided between concern for her sister , and resentment against all others .
of a proper size to inhabit a castle almost as large in comparison as themselves .
to south end as he could himself .
her choice is made .
the intimacy thus begun between them was a material advantage to each .
how he ' ll chuckle over this news !
the consciousness .
for myself , i protest i must be excused , ” said mrs .
society is becoming irksome ; and as for the amusements in which you were wont to share at bath ,
i am so ill i can hardly speak .
a cripple .
being pressed had yielded ; and , in the course of their drive , mrs .
worth compared with my own .
and there are several of the young men , too , that she likes very much .
he delighted in going to pemberley , especially when he was least expected .
miss lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house , and instantly set out to
such a beginning as this cannot be followed by any thing .
from what can it proceed ?
of proper confidence in her own opinion , and a suitable contempt of her father ' s .
rushworth could imagine any interfering obligations , julia was certainly able to quit london whenever she chose .
“your friend performs delightfully , ” he continued after a pause , on seeing bingley join the group ; “and
i have erred against every common-place notion of decorum ; i have been open and sincere where i ought to
” elizabeth was forced to go .
“is not she looking well ?
” “you may say what you chuse—but your countenance testifies that your thoughts on this subject are very much like
i began to think i should never see you .
" though he had not nerves for coming away with us , and setting off again afterwards to pay a
which , in his very first conversation with wickham , he easily learnt had never been his design .
woodhouse ' s ear ; and when their going farther was resolved on , confessed his wish to be made
i will put on my things in a moment .
” “it is very true , however ; you shall read james ' s letter yourself .
—you are extremely obliging—and if i were not an old married man .
however , i will not disturb you (seeing her preparing to write .
was scarcely less violent than marianne ' s .
occasion of a visit to her brother in london in the spring of _num_ —mr .
really against her , for , with all its faults , it was her home , and she cannot as
” the first , at least , of these favours fanny would rather not have been asked ; but it
this suspicion was given by some words which accidentally dropped from him one evening at the park , when they
it would be lucky for me if i had nothing but the executive part to do .
of turning it more to the right that it may not cut through the home meadows , i cannot conceive
—till this morning , we have not once met since the day of reconciliation .
“it has been a very agreeable day , ” said miss bennet to elizabeth .
on its being proposed , anne offered her services , as usual ; and though her eyes would sometimes fill
might be some ground of offence , that there might be some reason for the glance his father gave towards
man of consequence and large fortune , she may be a parlour-boarder at mrs .
” “very likely .
gratitude and happiness .
her brother , she found , was preparing to set off with all speed to fullerton , to make known
her countenance , perhaps , might express some watchfulness ; but the praise of the fine mind did not appear
crawford was as warm in his commendation as even her heart could wish .
impatient to get rid of those hateful evidences of her folly , those detestable papers then scattered over the bed
he was to come to breakfast , but not at the cottage , though that had been proposed at first
many surprises were awaiting him .
the other , and the friendship of both ; with as many other agreeable associations as mr .
nay , the longer they were together the more doubtful seemed the nature of his regard ; and sometimes ,
three .
soon put an end to his attempts by seating himself near the table , and taking up the newspaper ;
of horses drew their notice , and darcy and bingley were seen riding down the street .
but here is a proof of what i was saying .
it would destroy every comfort of my life to know that you were married to lady susan vernon ; it
oh , lydia !
and reason under such disgrace ; and it appeared to her that , as far as this world alone was
it was almost too wonderful for belief , and it was with the greatest effort that she could remain in
” “i should be most happy , ” replied he aloud , and jumping up with alacrity , “it would
, by whispering to him , ' we shall have an excellent agatha ; there is something so maternal in
" " is not this song worth staying for ?
catherine was the immediate object of his gallantry ; and , while they waited in the lobby for a chair
i heard it from the servant .
fair to condemn him .
put yourself in miss crawford ' s place , fanny .
on every formal visit a child ought to be of the party , by way of provision for discourse .
my younger sister has left all her friends—has eloped ; has thrown herself into the power of—of mr .
the least agreeable circumstance in the business was the surprise it must occasion to elizabeth bennet , whose friendship she
it long , during the whole of the journey .
by walking fifty yards from the hall door , she could look down the park , and command a view
i have , therefore , made up my mind to tell you , that i do not want to dance
but from what the report of their engagement could originate , elizabeth was at a loss to imagine ; till
i greatly esteem , that i like him .
" can you really ?
her from farther vice , though all was lost on the side of character .
i inquired after their brother , of course .
they are wanted in the farm , mr .
it was the imprudence which had brought things to extremity , and obliged her brother to give up every dearer
her astonishment and confusion increased ; and though still not knowing how to suppose him serious , she could hardly
suspected for what she was detained .
to preach patience and resignation to a young man whom she had never seen before ; nor could she help
debts , and got him his commission !
how i long to see her !
side , he was expressing the next morning , being at hartfield again on business with mr .
' —which you know shewed him to be so very .
” she hung her head and answered hesitatingly , “she did not know ; she had not any paper .
if it will be any satisfaction to you , however , to be told , that i believe his character
" he looked at her , looked at lady russell , and looking again at her , replied , as
might soon learn to think more justly , and not owe the most valuable knowledge we could any of us
" you must drink tea with us to night , " said he , " for we shall be quite
he came to her , sat down by her , took her hand , and pressed it kindly ; and
the hill , you know , ” turning to miss bertram particularly as he spoke .
aim at something further .
more , it is quite absurd to think of it .
the weather was most favourable for her ; though christmas day , she could not go to church .
know one has always a world of little odd things to do after one has been away for any time
ball .
duties , might yet be unattainable .
john and mrs .
would not mr .
" " you will see them yet , perhaps , before the morning is gone .
bates ' s , and gone through his share of this essential attention most handsomely ; but she having then
moment , laugh at her , humble her—and before her niece , too—and before others , many of whom (certainly
by isabella , who in a voice of cold resentment said , “very well , then there is an end
he is so very plain !
, and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt .
more real elegance .
displeasure , and treated him as she thought he ought to be treated from the family connection .
you had better return to your partner and enjoy her smiles , for you are wasting your time with me
convinced by my full and solemn assurance that your fears have been most idly created , you will deeply mortify
, who either marries or dies , is sure of being kindly spoken of .
long visit from her in london , and of the kindness of henry , in engaging to remain where he
in spite of every little drawback from her scrupulous conscience , she must be , i could not bear these
i went .
norris was all delight and volubility ; and even fanny had something to say in admiration , and might be
" [ _num_ ] " i have entered many a shop to avoid your sight .
she could not live any longer in such solitary wretchedness ; and she made her way to the park ,
you may imagine something of my present state .
last night it had been hope and smiles , bustle and motion , noise and brilliancy , in the drawing-room
am not to be agatha , and i am sure i will do nothing else ; and as to amelia
" " yes ; he has very good property in dorsetshire .
who could not comprehend such hard-heartedness in any of the family .
beauty at lyme ; and in short " (with a faint blush at some recollections) , " altogether my impressions
boast .
i cannot make her attend to the value of the property .
“it is not that such a circumstance would now make me unhappy , but i cannot believe it .
emma continued , “i have not said , exert yourself harriet for my sake ; think less , talk less
” “have you indeed no idea ?
darcy is uncommonly kind to mr .
” “yes , i have no doubt of her being extremely attached to him .
my astonishment !
slightest hint , and only begged leave to recommend an implicit reference to the excellent judgement of lady russell ,
sleep .
together ; for mary , though perfectly resolved against ever attaching herself to a younger brother again , was long
when she said : “you are mistaken , mr .
” “these are home questions—and perhaps i cannot say that i have experienced many hardships of that nature .
my charming sophia and should with chearfullness have passed the remainder of my life in their dear society in the
in short , it ended in a total breach .
manner had been odd .
their power shall be done to forward my happiness , ” were the first three lines , and in one
not mislead her here ; and what that something was , a short sentence of miss tilney ' s ,
improver , that you cannot possibly engage in anything of the sort at thornton lacey without accepting his help .
” “design !
to have been more than partially agreeable , or at all productive of anything useful with regard to the object
massy bars and a padlock , you will , after a few efforts , succeed in opening—and , with your
same questions as before .
, or to mortify you by the contrast of their own wealth and consequence .
wickham , i can only refute it by laying before you the whole of his connection with my family .
as soon as he could , he began to talk to her of lyme , wanting to compare opinions respecting
and it is such a fag—i come back tired to death .
“no—i have never seen mr .
chapter _num_ convinced as elizabeth now was that miss bingley’s dislike of her had originated in jealousy , she could
to act was awakened , and in no one more strongly than in him who was now master of the
pen , grieving over her for the hardship of such a task , and grieving still more fondly over its
ever felt before .
pleasant people they seem to be .
any private man in the county , has his profession .
suppose you let her have your aromatic vinegar ; i always forget to have mine filled .
her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy .
i am almost ashamed to say it .
already , and so does my mother ; and they are such favourites with harry !
pay their respects to mrs .
she resolved to prevail on her to spend a day at hartfield .
nor would i if i could , for he was a lancastrian .
had elizabeth been at leisure to be idle , she would have remained certain that all employment was impossible to
a parting glance on every well-known , cherished object , and went down to the breakfast-parlour , where breakfast was
and it would not be ten minutes ' work .
she had , to oblige edmund , resolved to wear it ; but it was too large for the purpose
bennet , with more perseverance than politeness , protested he must be entirely mistaken ; and lydia , always unguarded
perry ; i happened to meet him in the street .
she stood several minutes before the picture , in earnest contemplation , and returned to it again before they quitted
—his air as he walked by the house—the very sitting of his hat , being all in proof of how
” (replied he) “yes , (exclaimed i) amidst every misfortune , it will afford us some consolation to reflect that
chance of amusement , to go likewise .
reginald ' s letter .
he could spare so considerable a sum with little inconvenience .
there is no need to fix .
she feared general tilney did not like her appearance : she found it was implied in his preventing her admittance
of one ' s dearest freinds .
you are afraid of giving me trouble ; but i assure you , my dear jane , the campbells can
it may be stated , for the reader ' s more certain information , lest the following pages should otherwise
” “you are laughing ; but , i assure you , isabella is very firm in general .
weston are at the crown at this moment , ” said frank churchill , “examining the capabilities of the house
' unquiet slumber .
are not such as can persuade me of her being prepossessed in my favour .
vanity , while seeking its own guilty triumph at the expense of another , had involved him in a real
orders with a living nor without ?
and therefore watching to very different effect , saw nothing in the colonel ' s behaviour but what arose from
he seemed scarcely to hear her , and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation , his
in this house they were received by miss darcy , who was sitting there with mrs .
the party was divided and disposed of on two contiguous benches : anne was among those on the foremost ,
she began to think it rather hard upon the mare to have such double duty ; if she were forgotten
endeavouring to smooth away the offence ; " and i do not much wonder at it ; for it is
and sensations of the first interest to himself , to one of whose affectionate sympathy he was quite convinced .
we go down hill to it for half a mile , and it is a pity , for it would
be told as soon as possible .
son , catherine would have quitted woodston with little anxiety as to the how or the when she might return
in any case , it comes nearer a picture than what we usually get from her pen .
first , that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the present occasion ; and secondly
be assured of miss morland ' s having reached her home in safety , as the cause of his intrusion
being studiously brought forward and supported by henry , at the same time that a tray full of refreshments was
beyond it she would on no account proceed .
at once , at the door of his house ; and he was out before another syllable passed .
it shews what a sad invalid i am !
of two days , the earliest fixed on , and of that almost the earliest hour , as if resolved
, and a feeling , affectionate temper .
knew to be engaged—but how shall i tell you ?
advice .
with such a knowledge as this , it was impossible for elinor to feel easy on the subject .
the miss dashwoods were young , pretty , and unaffected .
foibles of others .
collins so before you came .
the pleasantness of the morning had induced him to walk forward , and leave his horses to meet him by
not a subject on which either of them were fond of dwelling when alone .
" " they would look around them , no doubt , and bless their good fortune , " said mrs
i shall be at portsmouth the morning after you receive this , and hope to find you ready to set
she is in good hands , and sure of doing well .
by dint of perseverance and application , she had at length so thoroughly disguised her natural disposition under the mask
the dinner was a grand one , the servants were numerous , and every thing bespoke the mistress ' s
scarcely had she so determined it , when the figure of a man on horseback drew her eyes to the
we will not be severe .
early in february , within a fortnight from the receipt of willoughby ' s letter , elinor had the painful
she could not but say , after a moment’s deliberation : “i am not .
speak or write a falsehood , so long only shall you be considered as well .
“this present from the campbells , ” said she—“this pianoforte is very kindly given .
she was assisted , however , by that perfect indifference and apparent unconsciousness , among the only three of her
god knows , i have been a very indifferent lover .
absent .
syllable would have given , immediately expressed his intention of paying his respects to them , and , with a
simplicity of the furniture , where everything , being for daily use , pretended only to comfort , etc .
most desirable estate in south wales” ; “to parents and guardians” ; and a “capital season ' d hunter .
there was merit in every drawing—in the least finished , perhaps the most ; her style was spirited ; but
his attendance was by this means secured , and the rest followed in course .
to thank you , miss woodhouse , for a very kind forgiving message in one of mrs .
here are two capital tragic parts for yates and crawford , and here is the rhyming butler for me ,
upon the whole , therefore , she found , what has been sometimes found before , that an event to
" here is some mistake i am sure—some dreadful mistake .
she had no visible friends but what had been acquired at highbury , and was now just returned from a
” “indeed i shall say no such thing .
not a speck on them .
there is nothing awful here , nothing melancholy , nothing grand .
—ah !
, it shall be done .
elizabeth had frequently united with jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of catherine and lydia ; but while
his own , with a little money , it might be very desirable .
but what i mean is , that i hope there is nothing in captain wentworth ' s manner of writing
” i repeated .
she seemed to have the little wood all to herself .
her conviction of being right , however , was not enough to restore her composure ; till she had spoken
so very much preferable .
civility .
i mean to win my sister-in-law ' s heart through the children ; i know all their names already ,
neither dear little henry nor dear little john would have any thing the matter with them , while dear emma
” “hot !
one does not love a place the less for having suffered in it , unless it has been all suffering
it seemed to her there was guilt in mrs clay ' s face as she listened .
you know i am strong enough now to walk very well .
conjectured of her sentiments , and he was satisfied .
satisfied that the cause was now on a footing the most proper and hopeful , sir thomas resolved to abstain
it would be the last—in all probability—the last scene on that stage ; but he was sure there could not
can it be true that they are really separated—and for ever ?
how i do wish i knew what you were at !
emma felt they were friends again ; and the conviction giving her at first great satisfaction , and then a
and his situation must have been benefited by marriage .
let us talk over this sad business .
looking out of the window in his own book-room , which fronted the road .
introduced , and a supposititious funeral carried on .
something of that nature would be particularly desirable for me , as an inducement to keep me in practice ;
” said sir thomas , in a voice of calm displeasure .
he has been accused of many faults at different times , but this is the true one .
my dearest henry , the advantage to you of getting away from the admiral before your manners are hurt by
where are the others ?
the spring i always think requires more than common care .
this unfortunate affair will , i fear , prevent my sister’s having the pleasure of seeing you at pemberley to-day
a lively tone , “well , i have so little confidence in my own judgment , that whenever i marry
the finest old constantia wine in the house that ever was tasted , so i have brought a glass of
it appeared first in a general dissatisfaction with everybody about her , while she remained in the rooms , which
why was he to be the judge ?
vanity and prudence were equally contented .
on thursday at _num_ o ' clock—you must tell your maid to come for you at night—there will be no
she could not but feel some resentment against mr .
was firm where she felt herself to be right .
he had reached randalls the evening before .
she assured him that no one intended to play , and the silence of the whole party on the subject
taking orders .
rushworth , who was wanting a prompter through every speech .
it could not be very lasting , however .
would wish to meet you .
i appeal to mr .
you are ; you cannot be better than well ; or i should recommend gowland , the constant use of
to mr elliot ?
consideration ; and at last donwell was settled for one day , and box hill for the next , —the
bennet and her daughters then departed , and elizabeth returned instantly to jane , leaving her own and her relations’
was coming to the door , and then mr .
i am glad i did not think of it before .
conduct should be .
, that every advantage of affluence will be doubled by the little privations and restrictions that may have been imposed
been the first week .
i felt sure that you was angry with me ; and have[ _num_ ] been quarrelling with myself ever since
and reprehensible , according to his ideas of right , than in any other person present .
too common neglect of the qualification , the total inattention to it , in the ordinary school-system for boys ,
she saw herself the object of attention , to tens and to scores of them at present unknown .
” “brother and sister !
we have had great trials , and great persecutions , but however , at the same time , gratefully acknowledge
she must say that she had more than half a mind to go with the young people ; it would
thus a circumstance occurred , while the sisters were together in their own room after breakfast , which sunk the
—he is as happy as possible by himself ; with his farm , and his sheep , and his library
weston tell you ?
—but it was so , i suppose .
your dinner as if it were the best blessing of life !
and there was time enough for emma to form a reasonable judgment , as their visit included all the rest
she feels it , it will easily account for her behaviour to me ; and so deservedly dear as he
compared with the happiness which brought it on !
i have no pity for either of them .
in chapel they were obliged to divide , but mr .
grant—and , between ourselves , she , poor woman , must want a lover as much as any one of
but i cannot find out that jane saw anything of him in london .
fanny .
though it was rather desirable that mr and mrs musgrove should be previously alarmed by some share of delay ;
phillips’s vulgarity was another , and perhaps a greater , tax on his forbearance ; and though mrs .
severely aggravated the folly of her choice .
as my mother-in-law ' s relations , i shall be happy to show them every respect .
lizzy , why am i thus singled from my family , and blessed above them all !
i dare say , miss fairfax , that he either gave his friend very minute directions , or wrote to
, without actually naming her authority , but stating it to be such as might be relied on .
s family—there will be no occasion for your being very fine for i shant send the carriage—if it rains you
i hope i never ridicule what is wise and good .
frank churchill talked a great deal about your taste , and that he valued taste much more than execution .
georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of elizabeth ; though at first she often listened with an astonishment
into a hackney coach , and dismissed the chaise that brought them from epsom .
smith suspects his regard for marianne , disapproves of it , (perhaps because she has other views for him ,
both starved with cold .
endeavour to accomplish a reconciliation between morland and isabella , convinced that they were separated forever , and spurning a
norris trying to make up her mind as to whether miss crawford ' s being of the party were desirable
chapter _num_ mrs .
and sweet a sleep to the extent of her hopes .
of arbitrary and tyrannical government with which he has often been charged .
defied her friend to mention such a subject to him ; which immediately provoking elizabeth to do it , she
, darted into her head , and cost her another blush .
he certainly is greatly , very greatly discomposed ; i have seldom seen him more so .
be telling miss campbell about his own home in ireland ; and i think she wrote us word that he
it is certainly the modestest part of the business .
shall never act anything .
there was some anxiety mixed with lady russell ' s joy in meeting her .
do you suppose you are ever present to my imagination under any other ?
” said he , with a look of doubt .
out .
after they had received gratifying testimony of lady middleton ' s approbation , fanny presented them to her mother ,
the general listened with assenting gratitude ; and it seemed as if his own estimation of northanger had waited unfixed
i am rather proud of little george .
if she is half as sharp as her mother , she is saving enough .
" she blushed deeply as she answered : " i was so unhappy about sir james that i could not
she absolutely refused to allow me , which i then thought most unreasonable .
” she was extremely angry with herself .
his own enjoyment , or his own ease , was , in every particular , his ruling principle .
witness myself , at this present hour .
two that you like , except the first .
fanny would certainly believe him so at least , and must find that her estimation of him was higher than
could , with as little apparent observation .
the sight of you was like the sight ofa wonderful fine thing .
his eyes to her defects of education , while the same period of time , spent on her side in
sir thomas felt as an anxious father must feel , and was indeed experiencing much of the agitation which his
” when lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely to her mother and kitty ;
as i must therefore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me , i shall choose to
scenes , which such buildings had witnessed , and such storms ushered in ; and most heartily did she rejoice
wound it all up with astonishment at the youth and beauty of her person .
, for there was an expression in miss crawford ' s eyes which she could not be satisfied with .
there is something so sweet , so mild in her countenance , that she seems more than mortal .
was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing him to her father and mother .
of .
in the invitation ; and though mrs .
her connexions may be worse than his .
house ; merely because she thought they deserved some attention , were harmless , well-behaved girls , and would be
there ; and having nothing to oppose her , had so naturally and so artlessly worked herself into it ,
blunder , have spoken ill of her ; and as to speaking ill of him , there i must have
miss crawford , that was not fair .
willoughby wanted particularly to show me the place ; and it is a charming house , i assure you .
norris , moving to go , “i can only say that my sole desire is to be of use to
” “not very good , i am afraid .
with an eager desire for the accommodation of elinor , was making considerable improvements ; and after waiting some time
in the complaisance of the moment , to promise anything .
john knightley seemed early to devote himself to the business of being agreeable .
and heartening them up—though , as she never came without reporting some fresh instance of wickham’s extravagance or irregularity ,
perry ' s setting up his carriage !
” “miss price has a brother at sea , ” said edmund , “whose excellence as a correspondent makes her
he had gone beyond the sweep—some way along the highbury road—the snow was nowhere above half an inch deep—in many
can you think your friend behindhand in these sort of considerations ?
were she a woman of fortune , i would leave every harmless absurdity to take its chance , i would
" " my dear miss elliot !
it is something to think of , and it gives her a sort of distinction among her companions .
“sir edward is greatly incensed by your abrupt departure ; he has taken back augusta to bedfordshire .
” fanny ' s disgust at the greater part of this letter , with her extreme reluctance to bring the
weston ; but stopped , on perceiving that mrs .
and we all know that wickham has every charm of person and address that can captivate a woman .
as a relief , but feeding and encouraging as a duty .
he was warm in his reprobation of mr .
she might not know it herself ; and which , secondly , when constrained at last to admit that she
" " ay , to be sure , i thought as much .
” “she will drop the acquaintance entirely .
my beloved creature , what do you mean ?
but something must be done for this poor girl , if her feelings are such as both i and her
her income was not her own , she said , with such perpetual claims on it ; and it was
obliging invitation ; beginning with my compliments , of course .
any of the others , or what louisa called the elliot pride could not endure to make a third in
for the worse .
all his money to his half sisters ?
when no importance could result from the success of his endeavours , and when even the acquaintance of those to
ay , to be sure , he must be ordained in readiness ; and i am very glad to find
i did not , continued i to him , encourage you by saying this at first , that surprise might
if you only hope to have your assertion contradicted , as i must suppose to be the case , you
not one was left unsearched , and in not one was anything found .
it was a great consolation that mr .
towards the village , leaving the others in the greatest astonishment and perplexity on a change in his situation ,
it would be a disappointment to my father—and altogether—i do not know that—i am rather of opinion that ten couple
” “aye , and sadly too—for i had much rather stay .
his judgment in general , which made her dislike having it so loudly against her ; and to have him
in edward , she knew not what she saw , nor what she wished to see .
to mine .
anne walked off with charles and mary , to go and see her and henrietta directly .
nature may have done something , but i am sure it must be essentially assisted by the practice of keeping
large a sum ?
its being so , for there was something in your look that frightened me , but not at first ;
draw many to kensington gardens , though it was only the second week in march .
i have no objections at all to meeting the hartfield family .
so her poor dear sister price was left to all the disappointment of her missing such an opportunity , and
" " two thousand a-year ; " and then working himself up to a pitch of enthusiastic generosity , he
then , here come all my attempts at three of those four children ; —there they are , henry and
they are quite different creatures with you !
” “yes , in conjunction with his friend .
three years ago the admiral , my honoured uncle , bought a cottage at twickenham for us all to spend
“i knew , ” said he , “that what i wrote must give you pain , but it was necessary
this picture , she had allowed herself to believe , might have been accidentally obtained ; it might not have
” “i have no hesitation in saying , ” replied mr .
they never were exposed .
jennings was quite right in what she said .
anne found captain benwick again drawing near her .
) a third more violent rap than ever again assaulted our ears .
william did not seem to mind it himself , he was so pleased to think his master had sold so
my life .
“then pray let us turn back ; they will certainly meet with an accident if we go on .
its just importance , and stepping out of his place to appear what he ought not to appear .
wickham with money .
salutary for her , and he was growing anxious for her being again at mansfield , where her own happiness
poor anne was much to blame for what she did , but she did it for the best , so
, when in a happy humour , were so far beyond reason , that she was quite disappointed at not
the chance of a marriage which , thinking as i now thought of her brother , should rather be prevented
it seemed as if her eyes were suddenly opened , and she were enabled to see that mr .
spring , and their papa now proposed bringing them , and staying one whole day at hartfield—which one day would
i am sure william would never have used me so , under any circumstances .
thorpe to know your father ?
you must miss him .
all its own freshness and all the freshness of its wearer ' s feelings must be worn away .
she had been decided in wishing for a miss weston .
at once , own it all to his uncle , throw himself on his kindness , and , in short
weston was surprized and sorry ; but then he began to perceive that frank ' s coming two or three
which she had for the last time enjoyed those hopes , and that confidence , in willoughby , which were
we will put it by , that when he comes again— ; but it may be months , perhaps ,
how they could be thrown together , and by what attraction robert could be drawn on to marry a girl
up stairs , she was in time for the whole conversation , which began with mary ' s saying ,
young ladies neither smiled nor spoke .
” emma was extremely gratified .
trifled with so many days of illness , and wretched for some immediate relief , fancied that all relief might
others with delighted haste .
jane was not deceived , but she was affected ; and though feeling no reliance on her , could not
it is a rectory , but a small one ; the late incumbent , i believe , did not make
" how is mary ?
“you are a very warm friend to mr .
poor reginald was beyond measure concerned to see his fair friend in such distress , and watched her with so
felt sure of disapproving , and whose easy indifference and volubility in the course of the first five minutes seemed
of respectability and large fortune , and had therefore given all the honour and received none : elizabeth would ,
be again her son .
” “but if i do , i shall be crosser still .
i counted every stroke .
to quit netherfield , i should probably be off in five minutes .
opposition to edmund now , arose more from partiality for her own scheme , because it was her own ,
questions made her , for the first time in their acquaintance , wish to leave him .
i wish i may not sink into ' poor emma ' with him at once .
, and following the venerable stranger into the room he had been shewn to , i threw myself on my
he is just lady russell ' s sort .
stokes would not know her own room again .
“thank you for your good word , fanny , but it is more than i would affirm myself .
and is it really true ?
" " had he been only in a violent fever , you would not have despised him half so much
he remained at hartfield after all the rest , his thoughts full of what he had seen ; so full
and this prepared a future mine of raillery against the devoted elinor , which nothing but the newness of their
other dinings and other meetings .
an affection so amiable was advancing each in the opinion of all who had hearts to value anything good .
the best ; he will be ordained shortly ; and should it ever be in your power to recommend him
as he said this , she could easily see that he had no doubt of a favourable answer .
they were just approaching the house where lived mrs .
” “richmond !
bennet was alone , than she likewise began on the subject , calling on miss lucas for her compassion ,
as if he saw a place on it well worth occupying ; when at that moment a touch on her
in that country , but the attractions of uppercross induced him to put this off .
so mild and ladylike—and with such talents !
willoughby opened the piano-forte , and asked marianne to sit down to it ; and thus amidst the various endeavours
bennet , impossible , when i am not acquainted with him myself ; how can you be so teasing ?
“knightley !
end it , was at first felt , beyond the hope of most ; and the ecstasy of such a
mrs smith would hardly have believed so soon in mr elliot ' s failure , but from the perception of
rushworth and the grants .
and interest for everybody she had ever liked before at all ; and mrs musgrove ' s real affection had
resentment .
even dr .
a woman whom he had long ceased to love ; and elevated at once to that security with another ,
i thought you were speaking of some man of property : mr wentworth was nobody , i remember ; quite
his father would not own himself uneasy , and laughed at her fears ; but she could not be cured
“you may well wear that look of astonishment , said she , since what i have said must appear improbable
—i was not disappointed ; and at last i was not disappointed either in the object of my journey .
, and this introduced a light conversation with the gentleman who offered it , which was the only time that
her that he should call at mrs .
” “it has been coming on so gradually , that i hardly know when it began .
i absolutely must go in by myself , though i hate being stuck up in the barouche-landau without a companion
think only of the past as its remembrance gives you pleasure .
advantage entirely thrown away ; she had been unable to direct or dictate , or even fancy herself useful .
when once my affections are placed , it is not in the power of anything to change them .
that is good news however ; i will ride over tomorrow , and ask him to dinner on thursday .
covering her face with her handkerchief , elizabeth was soon lost to everything else ; and , after a pause
to be more at large , and could allow yourself to think it not prohibited .
unpermitted .
and were at least sufficiently friends to make each of them exceedingly glad to be with the other at such
regret to wretchedness , in having so requited hospitality , so injured family peace , so forfeited his best ,
but taste was too strong in her .
lady dorothea .
" again he stopped to recover himself ; and elinor spoke her feelings in an exclamation of tender concern ,
as it was , she instantly submitted , and with all the semblance of seeing nothing beyond ; and anne
, she must have a constitution which nothing could save .
of the morning .
it affects me too deeply— .
which henry had endeavoured to alarm her by the description of .
: i should not be afraid to trust either of the olivers or charles maddox .
catherine de bourgh , and trusting their opinion of her—their opinion of everybody—would always coincide , there was a solicitude
“on the misery of what she had suffered , during the concealment of so many months , ” continued mrs
it was much easier to chat than to study ; much pleasanter to let her imagination range and work at
it , everything that you could wish to be concealed was known to him , and unluckily she had wormed
time did not compose her .
nobody talked about it .
happiest women in the world .
yet there must have been some marked display of attentions to her cousin , there must have been some strong
he is an excellent young man , both as son and brother .
” “i mean , ” she cried , sorrowfully correcting herself , “that i think i never shall , as
don ' t fancy that you will be any inconvenience to me , for i shan ' t put myself
how mortifying to feel that it was so !
" " yes , yes , mr .
he immediately offered to fetch her others—all that his library afforded .
he had felt her as an hourly evil , which was so much the worse , as there seemed no
chapter _num_ when they were gone , elizabeth , as if intending to exasperate herself as much as possible against
or my paternal cottage in the vale of uske .
that she was not immediately ready , emma did suspect to arise from the state of her nerves ; she
gardiner’s business on her arrival was to distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions .
key ; he was determined he would never come without the key again ; but still this did not remove
crawford issued from the same path which she had trod herself , and were before her .
mary knows it is .
to the greater number it was a moment of absolute horror .
three months have been in the receipt of two thousand , five hundred a-year (for miss morton has thirty thousand
we mean nothing but a little amusement among ourselves , just to vary the scene , and exercise our powers
there being a somebody else .
incapable of enlarging the mind of his wife .
thunderbolts and daggers !
any other circumstances , would , i am sure , have been as constantly bewitching to me , as they
there , it is twenty minutes after twelve , and now i shall give it up entirely .
there is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and ideas between us .
there will be little rubs and disappointments everywhere , and we are all apt to expect too much ; but
a very intelligent and lively eye , and , if not quite handsome , was very near it .
thorpe ; isabella , do not hold me .
what her aunt and cousins wish her—very ungrateful , indeed , considering who and what she is .
” nobody had any information to give ; and , after a few more wonderings , emma said , “you
burst their usual restraints ; and having talked of poetry , the richness of the present age , and gone
" " she is not well , she has had a nervous complaint on her for several weeks .
some very grave reproof , or at least the coldest expression of indifference , must be coming to distress her
the speeches that are put into the heroes ' mouths , their thoughts and designs—the chief of all this must
chapter xi the day at sotherton , with all its imperfections , afforded the miss bertrams much more agreeable feelings
” “she will be late , ” said sir thomas , taking out his watch ; “but what is your
delight in riding was like their own ; her early excellence in it was like their own , and they
harriet had no penetration .
it had been the shock of conviction as she read .
every year since my coming of age , or even before , i believe , had added to my debts
” “i am afraid i am not quite so much the man of the world as might be good for
" repeated lucy .
woodhouse to be induced to consent ?
“there is something a little stately in him , to be sure , ” replied her aunt , “but it
for a few minutes the brother and sister were too eager in their praise of the night and their remarks
whims .
i am resolved to have some in an ornament for the head .
which a son-in-law ' s rights would have given .
”— “well , but (interrupted william) remember that we have not yet concluded our dispute concerning them .
his designing friends , and led him to sacrifice of his own happiness to the caprice of their inclination .
, pleasing as he was , she could yet imagine him to have faults ; and farther , though thinking
say that , on examining the part , you feel yourself unequal to it ; that you find it requiring
related to themselves .
morland , you ever saw a better-bred man in your life .
of age three months before everingham was all that it is now .
this evening shows .
" " we shall never agree upon this question , " captain harville was beginning to say , when a
henry crawford , who meanwhile had taken up the play , and with seeming carelessness was turning over the first
i was delighted with her , the moment she entered the house , and she appeared equally pleased with me
“my life !
it was in this reign that joan of arc lived and made such a row among the english .
far from believing that he had always foreseen it .
, i will , —i will tell you truths while i can ; satisfied with proving myself your friend by
you were single .
lady catherine’s unjustifiable endeavours to separate us were the means of removing all my doubts .
an agreeable smile as certified the continuance of the scheme .
he was going the next morning to london .
ferrars ' s conduct throughout the whole , has been such as every conscientious , good mother , in like
sweetness of my eloisas , which her present languor is so far from diminushing .
, was pleasing to her .
" " four months !
me on this subject yesterday , and i told him without disguise that it was very disagreeable to me ,
kitty and lydia were far from envying miss lucas , for mr .
opinion of their surrounding acquaintance .
to exist .
indeed i would go any distance round to avoid him—but i do not envy his wife in the least ;
of miss morland ' s being under their care , and—as soon as his acquaintance allowed him to judge—of their
i am sorry i did not know it before ; for i certainly would not have suffered you to give
desirable thing .
, as being less happy than herself .
miss morland has been talking of nothing more dreadful than a new publication which is shortly to come out ,
feelings to give interest to a long , uneventful residence in one country circle , to fill the vacancies which
" everybody is always supposing that i am not a good walker ; and yet they would not have been
i am glad you find mr elliot so agreeable , and wish i could be acquainted with him too ;
should engage her from home at the time when mr elliot would be most likely to call ; for to
hour) by no means alarmingly fast , gave herself up to all the enjoyment of air and exercise of the
elton would hesitate to assure you of there being a very musical society in highbury ; and i hope you
he reached home , determined the direction of all the party in what was to be their last walk ;
they were handed round for general inspection .
such advances towards heroism in her sister , made elinor feel equal to any thing herself .
she is a monstrous lucky girl to get him , upon my honour ; not but that he is much
darcy’s objections ; and never had she been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his
which laid the foundation .
the general prejudice against mr .
” “one ought to be at enscombe , and know the ways of the family , before one decides upon
i am very glad i sent chapman to you .
his kindness in stepping forward to her relief , the manner , the silence in which it had passed ,
of their kindness , and her pleasure in their society .
the day came , the party were punctually assembled , and mr .
for such well-timed kindness .
randalls , while she and her husband set forward instantly through all the possible accumulations of drifted snow that might
” “you are right .
” emma ' s courage returned , and she walked on .
could not have supposed any thing !
be extremely delightful .
for where she does dislike , i know it is most violent .
she was full of jealousy and agitation .
they would not listen to scruples : he was obeyed ; they were all beneath his roof ; and while
“it is too much a matter of fact , but here it is .
and the conversation incessant , “we want your services .
i believe if i could see you i should not mind the rest , for you are dearer to me
the five weeks which she had now passed in kent had made a great difference in the country , and
" elinor could not deny the truth of this , and she tried to find in it a motive sufficient
she felt it to be so , though she had not foreseen , and could hardly understand it ; for
norris was inclined to allow , to reconcile fanny to the novelty of mansfield park , and the separation from
not to wait upon a bride is very remiss .
ferrars myself , ma ' am , this morning in exeter , and his lady too , miss steele as
did not look perfectly calm .
as for the ball , so near at hand , she had too many agitations and fears to have half
” edmund looked pleased , which must be fanny ' s comfort , and the ride to mansfield common took
statement of her name and rate , and present non-commissioned class , observing over it that she too had been
what men ought to be , she could not entirely repress a doubt , while she bore with the effusions
had she intended ever to marry him , it might have been worth while to pause and consider , and
allow me to interpret this interesting silence .
wait till my dear father is in the secret , and hear his opinion .
ladyship , who wondered at his being so shy before company , as he could make noise enough at home
how could you be so unfeeling to miss bates ?
the two or three last weeks proved him to be neither ; for after coming eagerly forward on the first
weston smiling ; “remember that i am here .
of a second marriage , needs no apology to the public , which is rather apt to be unreasonably discontented
amazement , she saw mr .
” “that is the most unforgiving speech , ” said elizabeth , “that i ever heard you utter .
was astonished at the opinion of the others .
