” he asked the porters .
” “i’m going to watch and see if they really eat it , ” red said .
i do not know why they screamed at that time .
i was feeling better , much better .
i hurried across the street to the café .
life and the parimutuel wickets rattling down .
do it , she said .
' ' they are very big and young .
” “can’t we just go along the way we were going ?
it’s in her room with the list of stuff to get from the store tomorrow .
there are other wounds lower down and on my legs .
i almost loosed off at it before i saw it was a cow .
now you could see all the way into them .
" she shouldn ' t have done it .
” “that’s a new name for it .
he took all his pain and what was left of his strength and his long gone pride and he put
good kids .
fifteen years ago they said if you wanted to see belmonte you should go quickly , while he was still
but the good lion had flown all the way from africa and africa had changed him .
noisy and smoky at certain hours , and there were always girls at the tables and the illustrated papers on
" " let ' s find the gang and go down .
another of the same .
it ' s a funny racket , really .
“i don’t want to .
it was a good morning , wilson thought .
“oh , for chrisake , ” the detective sergeant said , and put his notebook in his pocket .
but there is no reason to go to jail , my dear captain .
he’s heading in somewhere .
' let ' s eat , ' said p .
” “you’d never know it except from the way his face is , ” the woman said .
if they had hard-boiled eggs here we wouldn ' t have to go all the way down to the island
' i waved and we started , the headlights showing the way to the road .
" horace here will bear me out that i only speak of it in the very friendliest way .
but why couldn ' t he just get a good one , two or three inches longer ?
” roger had kissed her while he drove and she had said , “oh roger we’re so happy and we
“he loves the sun , ” the american lady said .
" " no money , jake .
" " i saw two skunks last night , " nick said .
“but some of them are quite nice .
think of these things in _num_ --was there a risqué page in puritan history ?
“very good indeed .
" the breeze was fresh now and he sailed on well .
” “and drinking .
gene tunney did and he was the champion of the world .
' ' i ' m sorry for the shoot .
the current will have set us far to the eastward , he thought .
” “any of them , ” the man said .
four !
one end of this line is made fast to a kilometer marking , called a borne , or to a
' no chance of a shot .
he had had his life and it was over and then he went on living it again with different people
” “have i ever been here before ?
” jack sat down on the porch by me .
no , i’ll be in the chapel doing what i can .
who the hell had said that and where ?
home as the dew was bad for them and , though he was quite sure no local people would steal
“he thought he knew before but then he dropped down into this stuff .
we climbed up and up and crossed another high col and turned along it , and the road ran down
but standing there he had a heavy sense of apprehension .
" i ' ll lean on him , " zurito said .
was sleeping .
“listen , claude .
you mustn’t be a crook before you start .
old that you knew was going to die ?
“hello , danny , ” morgan says and shakes hands .
i’m not any rummy either .
the blood sank into the dry , loose earth .
three of them flew up when the train went by and circled off over the woods but the rest kept
" you ought to go and eat .
” “i don’t know , ” he said .
" you line up your cuadrilla , so i can see what i ' ve got .
” “where do you think we’ll get to tonight ?
as flying fish left the water and the hissing that their stiff set wings made as they soared away in
' the colonel asked the boatman .
god-damn it where were they and what if he missed one when he got a shot , he wouldn '
i must keep it entire and not let him do it .
" " retana .
we let him loose down on the shore of the lake in the dark and he flew out over the
the town is flooded with it and there’s nobody to buy it .
don ' t you think he has the nicer face ?
she handed the flask to macomber who handed it to wilson .
' ' that ' s very good , ' i said .
” “sam’s gone out , ” george said .
“up in his room , lying down .
that was what i wanted to be and that was what i thought i had to do to be one
, picked a girl up and took her out to supper .
spider kelly taught all his young gentlemen to box like featherweights , no matter whether they weighed one hundred and
“please , nickie , i’m sorry i brought it up .
i asked for green gas .
" " with us , " said johnson , " it ' s different .
he had already sent down , via the dumb-waiter , for a gordon ' s gin and campari and he
" after the coffee and a fine we got the bill , chalked up the same as ever on a
of course they can ' t all know about it .
that was when the car was coming behind them .
i will have to try it another day , he thought .
i never take a drink before an attack .
she will probably wake when we stop at the first light , he thought .
break again in a long line in the rain .
this kzar is a great big yellow horse that looks like just nothing but run .
“it is now half-past eleven o’clock and these are still guzzling .
you say he didn’t have the treatment ?
do you think you got enough last night ?
' we won ' t have to know them this side of hell , ' the colonel assured her .
the army had taught him that .
so in the dark , following this ideal line , we descended into steep ravines that showed only as wooded
' ' and they would think there was a break-through when they would see the bursts and you never shaved
” asked the extremaduran .
her course , spreading havana out astern and then dropping it off behind us as we brought the mountains up
shameful , stupid thing to be forgotten and the colonel remembered it technically as something to learn from .
and , of course , nobody ever bought any , and then he would come back and show the under
we followed the tram-track into the centre of town .
they both stood up .
” “alive and with the leg paralyzed .
” “absolutely , ” said harris .
go out of me if it were dark .
the brother cut the notched black ear from the dead bull and trotted over with it to romero .
shoot him .
the doctor went out on the porch .
_ _num_ st soldier_--you been out here too long .
there are too many things happen to them .
” “maybe the truck will come .
the coffee was bitter .
“he and i , ” indicating the one who did not drink .
“poor old phil .
the mule-drawn carts staggered up the steep bank from the bridge with soldiers helping push against the spokes of the
mark to venice , and he ' s their patron saint and they have a cathedral there to him .
when he was gone , the _gran maestro_ said to the colonel , ' what is the boy ?
but , as a good venetian , i wish that she were dead .
" " no kill him .
a cornada right through the back .
” “i’ll pay you soon , ” he said .
she looks like a small wild animal , he thought , and she sleeps like one .
” “you ought to take them every day .
our lips were tight together and then she turned away and pressed against the corner of the seat , as
handkerchiefs were waving all over the bull-ring .
they were sitting at the table .
the door from the street opened .
” asked the old waiter , still holding on to the door .
but i killed the shark that hit my fish , he thought .
" did i know him ?
“seven .
“you wouldn’t like the way i write .
you could get your money ' s worth .
“like that .
during these three years , the first spent in travel , the last two in paris , robert cohn had
' anything that i should be permitted to know ?
frazer had been through this all before .
fuentes stood watching , his cape held against his body , tall , in repose , watching lazy-eyed .
” “weren’t you going to get married ?
in the bottle , warmed by the sun , they were jumping in a mass .
finally , he did get hit properly and for good .
” “what is there to do ?
they are just murder .
brett looked disgusted .
" " come on , " i said , " we must go in and eat .
elliot disintegrated very quickly under sea sickness , travelling at night , and getting up too early in the morning
it might do my credit good .
” i watched her eyes run over al .
if a four-letter man marries a five-letter woman , he was thinking , what number of letters would their children
my arm was around her and she was leaning back against me , and we were quite calm .
" cohn looked relieved .
" he asked the porters .
" it must be twelve hundred metres .
' it ' s a kudu .
elliot tried very hard to have a baby in the big hot bedroom on the big , hard bed .
" whew !
“he’s down in the swamp .
" " is this all we ' ve got ?
many people were watching the house burn .
while he worked at the papers he put the fingers of his left hand into a saucer of oil and
' ' ask droop .
" " i heard it .
the young man was standing now , his mouth slightly open , listening .
that ' s not the order they ' re good in .
' ' beautiful .
” “how much money do you think we’ll have ?
was very tired .
so she urged that they go to europe , where cohn could write .
i turned away without looking toward him .
that is perfect , you know .
' what the hell ' s been keeping you , jackson ?
_num_ from david angrily .
“he’s drunk now , ” he said .
christ , i love it , he said , and i ' m so happy i helped defend it when
i had never had despair before , true despair , nor have i ever had it since .
his right arm , held half-way down , the triangular iron point facing the bull .
“listen , do you know the captain paravicini ?
and he ' d be dangerous .
" let ' s go and find him .
, not a north and south street , and he and david had stayed in there two days .
you know how you feel when you hit a drunk .
the president bowed and romero , running to get ahead of the crowd , came toward us .
from the folds of the muleta , rose on his toes , and sighted along the blade .
he was hunting now .
" they heard billy shoot .
being alive returning and no pain , the comfort of being loved and still no pain ; so there was
along the point-dipping blade at the place in the top of the shoulders where it was dusty in the short-haired
it would not have helped him if he had heard it .
" i wonder if he got one .
‘give my regards to your morbid brother and ask him to stop by the emporium anytime he is at sheboygan
" what a pity .
when he came in the fight would start .
head and torso and pinned it high on her left shoulder .
he rubbed his belly and seemed to be telling them what a hell of a man he was and how
the sable had been running in a bunch as they came out and any individual track was confused or obliterated
' not good enough to take the little memsahib in there , ' pop said .
, always , with any lapse of vigilance or of security .
my old man’s a painter .
" will you have another little cup ?
” “i’m going to get married to you anyway .
i was having a fine time .
“that was nice , bright boy , ” max said .
that was the last shark of the pack that came .
" the cold helps it , " i said .
' yes , ' pop said .
" " i ' m sure he would have liked to meet you but he died last year .
" you won ' t mind the keeley .
” he called to the gun-bearers , who came up wiping their hands , and the older one got into
" one , " he answered .
“what’s in it ?
" we used to go all day to hunt black squirrels , " he said .
" we are friends of he who wounded him .
“yes , don’t _num_ , ” says jack .
” “i will describe it , ” said baldy .
beyond .
as it is in nada .
“i asked the police .
no it doesn’t really .
now he crouched and beckoned .
it plugged the mouth of the bottle enough , so the hoppers could not get out and left plenty of
looking into the mirror he saw that this was quite true .
” “it’s an awful story .
that’s a way to talk .
good-by to the american lady , whose name had been found by the man from cook ' s on a
now he was really learning about the war .
he played it all night long , turned so low he could barely hear it , and he was learning
" i can ' t say i ' ve played any this year .
“so he thinks it’s all right .
” “i am in love with her , ” pinin said , “but i do not write her .
the gun-bearer said when he fell off the bull was down .
the myriad flecks of the plankton were annulled now by the high sun and it was only the great deep
“we’re all going to have a drink .
shortly , we are coming to a view that i want you to see .
" come in again .
i remember wondering if the bastard had talked all night .
where they waited for the ice truck to carry them to the market in havana .
but where we’ve got to go tomorrow doesn’t make sense .
below the cape was a flat stretch beside the sea .
” “fine , ” said johnson .
' ' now he ' s drunk , we get the truth , ' i said .
” “i think so , ” said harris .
night before battle at this time we were working in a shell-smashed house that overlooked the casa del campo in
when he and david had come through it had been in the winter and they had made their headquarters in
you’ll never regret it .
once i could see quite well in the dark .
" " he knew everything when he started .
' keep your eyes open and take a left hand turn on the road leading off this pike , '
he shook his head .
“he’s crazy , too .
in the car macomber’s wife sat very white-faced .
“how long have you been stewed , billy ?
ad watched him and leaned forward .
because you’ll be in trouble .
she put her hand in nick ' s pocket .
" but this time they ' re right .
just knock on the window .
“better than politics .
” “tell me how they work it .
“why not try some , ” mr .
” he asked doc fischer .
' said the roman excitedly .
" you liked it ?
come along with me and bill .
don ' t do that .
that’s what they kill them for .
decision to make and don ' t know just whom to trust most i dare not ask my parents--and so
' ' you were tumbril bait from the start .
" she just kept on laughing and shaking .
he never cared about anything but bull-fighting .
the day was very hot , now before the wind had gotten up , and we knew whatever rhino and
i got to check on all his habits and his friends and where he used to go .
” “it is fine for hunting and fishing , ” i said .
” he stood up and patted out with his right hand , his fist closed , the blade open across
' he turned to look at the milan profiteers ; but they were gone .
he was folding his spectacles and putting them away in their case .
" " got to go home , " nick said .
that and the prevalence of week-ends .
” “oh , hell , ” i told him , “don’t talk so much .
nick did not want to go in there now .
the trees had grown tall and the branches moved high , leaving in the sun this bare space they had
' ' thank you for the such as us .
they would not open until the day before the fiesta .
we both felt good because we had made droopy do the calling off and i was relieved as well .
" what ' s that ?
' ' he condescends to me .
there were not very many passengers .
' i ' m down to shoot at san relajo .
started the car .
" he feels very badly , " brett said .
' who do you suppose that son of a bitch is at the table beyond them ?
bank where the stream flowed underground .
but each trap had two german panzerfausten .
' ' i ' ll check you out on what he wrote if you ever want to read him ,
” the cook felt the corners of his mouth with his thumbs .
” “why don’t you write instead of making up the stories ?
“it got all right .
” “we better get going .
“you said if we made this trip that there would be none of that .
the bull-fighter fellow was rather good .
later he had seen the things that he could never think of and later still he had seen much worse
if i ever shut my eyes in the dark and let myself go , my soul would go out of
' ' you and me , maybe , ' she said and stroked his head .
they stood in the doorway and we got in , and i started the motor .
“i’d go through the woods down to the inn beyond the point and sell her the trout , ” he
” “we ought to be able to hear it pretty well , ” mr .
” “i don’t know , ” mr .
i’d read it all .
, and some apple-pie and cheese .
" " i didn ' t ask you to insult her .
but the bird was almost out of sight now and nothing showed on the surface of the water but some
i ' ll see to that .
he could not hear it .
about nine o’clock in the morning they would start using the x-ray machine , and then the radio , which
he took the basket from her and patted her shoulder .
' aren ' t we ever going to eat ?
" " they ' re all right .
about this ; something practical ; something that will be good for me even if it cannot help about the
' ' i swear to god .
, but i was never in chicote’s that it wasn’t pleasant .
” “if i do it you won’t ever worry ?
” fontan looked very upset .
would i like him to call me ?
” “i don’t know .
they would look on and on after every one else ' s eyes in the world would have stopped looking
" " robert , " i said , and shook him by the shoulder .
it was crowded and hot from the stove and full of stale smoke .
" " your temperature is all right , " i said .
bill drove roaring up the hill and turned onto the main road .
“mixing up in this ain’t going to get you anywhere , ” the cook said .
" hello , you chaps .
“if you’d have married her you would have had to marry the whole family .
lot to cohn .
“it’s a fish that surfeits you .
" i know what i ' m talking about when i talk about that bird .
had a husband and children , who had taken lovers and been dissatisfied with them , and who loved him
” “a cabinet maker .
' ' the biggest kind .
by .
' ' we destroy them in many ways .
he showed , trotting into the shallow , boulder-filled stream .
" " a hell of a lot he cares , " the tall waiter said .
jack , ” i said .
they did not want them , and we lived on poireaux and drank cahors and water_) , and how fine
it is dangerous .
" he had bad experiences when a boy , " the smallest one said .
' the _gran maestro_ had been observing , without observing , with affection and without envy .
the road went along the summit of the col and then dropped down , and the driver had to honk
” “you’re just plugged , ” he said .
outside the paseo was going in under the arcade .
” bugs answered .
but it yellowed the leaves of the alamo trees and blew dust and stripped leaves over the swimming pool .
i must think of nothing and wait for the next ones .
striped table cloths on the others and on all of them baskets with pretzels in glazed paper sacks .
i watched the way they sailed very carefully at first in case i ever wanted to use them in a
jackson , that ' s a real engine she ' s got .
boasting .
obvious britishers at the next table .
but the family at one time lent the house to george gordon , lord byron , and nobody sleeps now
gunwale of the bow and confided more and more of the resistance to the fish to the skiff itself .
he swung these down to the table and a boy who had followed him poured coffee and milk into the
the sergeant held his eyes open and looked at the prisoner .
” “don’t they ever ?
he sailed lightly now and he had no thoughts nor any feelings of any kind .
" what does it say ?
he only left yesterday .
” nick said , “all right .
" some encierro , " bill said .
fathers and sons there had been a sign to detour in the centre of the main street of this town
a loaded rifle , while two black men and a white man looked back at him in contempt , knew
certainly you can see her if she wishes to see you .
my curiosity as to how people would act in this case had been long ago , and shamefully , satisfied
let ' s go and eat .
' then we were standing looking down into the stream bed , into the shadows under the branches of the
" " he ' s got plenty .
" " was he very bad ?
men .
” “you ain’t got any idea .
' that must have been stonewall jackson , sir .
it was the bull that had sprinted out and killed the man in the morning running .
daughter .
les hommes à côté du feu .
i lay down here in front of the door to take it easier .
shot himself , oddly enough .
ordered .
now i don ' t think i could get anybody .
come on back to hogan ' s .
after she had the lovers she did not drink so much because she did not have to be drunk to
coming along the street and the voices of the children playing in a vacant lot .
" it is from red lodge , " he explained .
do i look like an idiot boy ?
when he arrived at the cabin and opened the door quietly and put his package on the table beside the
and he did not trust it .
nobody ever killed them in mass , as we killed krauts before they discovered _einheit_ .
as we came in i could smell the sea grape and that sweet smell from the brush you get off
tackle , too .
would have to try it right away to try to force the passes of the quadarramas the way napoleon had
the hills , and after i read the paper through i sat there and looked out at the country and
know it .
close to the western summit there is the dried and frozen carcass of a leopard .
" give me the sword , " he shouted .
you climbed a fence out of the woods and the trail was hard in the sun across the field with
she saw one .
cohn went back against the wall .
' by evening , ' pop said , ' he ' ll tell us that he broke that off leg
" i don ' t think schmidt is catholique .
it , cape and all , free from the neck , the cape hanging heavy and wet in the light
ignace by noon and she’ll bring everything we need .
we wore a four-leaf clover , which meant nothing except among ourselves , who all loved it .
one horse kneed himself up and the jock had hold of the bridle and mounted and went slamming on after
the line pulled hard and nick struck .
only the bare moist earth and often i could find no worms .
a man like that mr .
still i must sleep .
“he’s pretty tired .
juma and david’s father were both very pleased with what they had found .
“they were very nice stories .
his friend , really , because he was a big bull too .
my god , i don’t understand that !
now why is cohn pitiful ?
let us forget her .
" " you agree , gentlemen ?
made jokes .
but at the time if they won’t go they won’t go .
it is just my eyes and the fact that it is a long time since i have been sitting still
' chapter xxxviii they ate lunch at the gritti and the girl had unwrapped the small ebony negro ' s
there was an impalla on it looking very red where the sun struck his hide in the patches between the
you had a tough day .
" that ' s all .
' ' i think the one on the right .
the call he had put in on the telephone came through from the mainland and the man said , “yes
mother and every one , and now he doesn ' t want to do it .
' there ' s no hurry about getting back , ' pop said .
they really smelled abominably .
' but let ' s not be macabre .
something felt very small and tight inside the girl .
it’s better than the radio .
' ' who are these writers ?
he knew he would not be afraid .
i’ve been destroyed two or three times already .
" it ' s just around the corner from the garden .
elliot became much brighter after her girl friend came and they had many good cries together .
knife you get snotty .
" " who are you to ask me questions ?
” “thirty-eight feet , ” i said .
” “of course .
” stop it , he said to himself .
petrol case and drank a whisky and water while i waited for the roman to come back .
are just a sort of mulch , and even the bones will be some use finally .
the compass , steering , and when it came daylight he had seen the nigger lying there in the sacks
he had been crying .
but you can recall those surely .
' feel in your right pocket , ' she said .
it wasn’t any good to him any more and i took him by the throat with both hands , and
the young doctor’s friend and guide , which , being consulted on any given subject , told symptoms and treatment
for sleeping .
" i was just a little tight .
of music .
the odor , now , was really terrific .
he started to get some things out of the pack very carefully and his sister smiled in her sleep .
not really .
" " tell me what they were doing .
" yes , " said the american lady .
“of course not , ” i said .
i could tell you in detail but let ' s skip it .
" i wasn ' t saying .
he looked out across the swamp and up in the sky , above where the arm of the lake would
hell of a fine shot , everybody says .
i want to be out before it is light .
“you must write a story about it , ” the manager said .
“i haven’t the faintest idea , ” his father said .
the matador something to hold .
i stopped at the bar and asked them for an envelope .
one thing he had always dreaded was the pain .
" you oughtn ' t to drink pernod if you ' re sick .
and went back to where johnson was sitting watching his bait bouncing along .
" i ' ll just be gone a few minutes .
“lire .
“along ongfong de la patree , le fucking jackpot ou le more .
my god , that’s the first time i ever saw that in my life .
the pants were torn and the skin was barked .
m ' cola said , ' beer ?
' ' he writes every night , you know .
i have lost three battalions in my life and three women and now i have a fourth and loveliest and
it was too early for that .
but the waiter stood , shaking his head .
” “well , ” i said , “you’re not right .
and pushed them off the quay into the shallow water to drown .
and the roar and rattle of broken plaster and the dust smoke over us i had the girl out of
i wasn’t trained for it and i haven’t any talent .
she liked it how much d .
out ?
" one of the girls looked at him down the table , and he grinned and turned red .
the breeze was coming up and we could hear it in the high branches .
" " me either , " bill said .
a taxi came up the street , the waiter hanging out at the side .
” “i was sort of shy with him at the start but now i feel like he’s our partner .
” i said : “yes , football .
it is all marked in coloured pencil .
covered by the patch , and his white face , as white as the belly of a sole , new
you never went .
and told her .
“i’ve seen it now .
" it was on the third turn that he saw the fish first .
" there he goes in , " he said .
there was no one in sight and he had left the car down the sunken road in front of the
it was roederer brut ' _num_ and he loved it .
they tried taget over it , and we potted them from forty yards .
quickly and as well as you can .
' re really souped up on nitroglycerin .
tables filled with the regular after-dinner crowd .
“none of it makes any difference .
" where ' s hogan ?
give us that spiel on modern writers again .
damned strange fellow .
” the gentleman took out a card from the pocketbook and gave it to harris .
he pushed a button and the elevator came down .
bill came up drying his hands , his bag plump with ferns .
it wasn’t how they ended .
' we are in our home and i love you .
“speak grammatically !
” “the tackle’s your risk .
he’s been there since the start .
seven pesetas to the dollar .
we’ll only use little fires .
all fixed up .
“the mountains aren’t much , ” george said .
” “you mean we would talk ?
we will drive up , on the way to billings , to where they killed that fool george armstrong custer
it looked as though it was the same as ever , only now instead of walcott ' s punches just
“no , ” he told me , even more proudly .
” you knew you had to be sorry for him .
then his head started to become a little unclear and he thought , is he bringing me in or am
" ' ' that ' s lovely , ' she said , and repeated it in a voice she had
no one would steal from the old man but it was better to take the sail and the heavy lines
he had peritonitis and they thought he could not live .
i motioned to droop that we would go after them .
never anything .
i ' m going to bed .
it spread like lava , the grease spitting sharply .
he cannot tell a lie .
' droopy will get the tracks , ' pop said .
holding more amused niggers , p .
was walking softly ahead watching droopy ' s back and remembering to keep the sweat out of my glasses when
braddocks insisted cordially .
i kept waiting and waiting until it was late .
” “you don’t need to , ” she said .
' this isn ' t classified .
“the’re waiting for you to come home to supper , ” his sister said .
it was a good feeling .
he don ' t care about a left-hand in his face .
” “what are you going to kill ole andreson for ?
ran over us as he crashed up the ridge .
“don’t you think it would be a good idea if i let my hair grow out ?
on the telephone .
but he did not look very human either .
suddenly there came the mechanical crescendo of a siren and the young man felt a prickling wave go over his
" .
“that’s what they are—cochons .
every moment , that one memory does not destroy another , and that the not-watching idea was only laziness and
or routis-ledoux , or after any other great fight where you lost your voice and were still too excited to
" you ' re just a goddamned fool , " doctor wilcox said to the boy .
” “no , ” he said proudly .
so i went on looking for something else .
i knew we still had a chance on the lick in the morning and i was not going to worry
' come on , cheer up , you bastard , ' i said .
down , ' the colonel said to jackson .
” i asked rené .
don’t you trust me ?
, then me , m ' cola , and garrick , when we saw the road was wet ahead of
' ' other salt , ' pointing in the direction of the big lick in the woods , which i
as low as he could get it .
je connais beaucoup de rats d’eau .
” “why don’t you ever get washed ?
” “it’ll be all right , john .
manuel was walking toward him with the sword and muleta .
“but i think he’ll be all right .
whatever distance you see him , or like a bull elk who cannot see you at two hundred yards unless
“dying is just a lot of crap .
' but if i brought home a picture of some woman , my old woman would run me from rawlins
" " well , " i said , " i went to loyola with bishop manning .
so to say something i raised my voice above the noise and asked , “you in the radio ?
he could not see the fish ' s jumps but only heard the breaking of the ocean and the heavy
we were making the film on almost nothing and all the money was in the cans of film and the
the two indians stood waiting .
singing the hard-voiced singing .
he took hold of one foot gently and held it until the boy woke and turned and looked at him
' we ' ll give breakfast the full treatment , ' the colonel said .
you must hold in the hemorrhage .
in the electric chair with my pants slit and my hair clipped .
i mean let ' s not be hurried in our departure .
michael came toward us from the tables .
my father’s office .
, and the green painted co-operative where they bought their wine ; good wine and cheap .
“all right , ” nick said .
at the top floor .
but you don ' t have to dream about it .
“how is it , wemedge ?
a corking row .
after all the burst of shooting there was a pause and then a single shot .
and it was worse than desperation .
" " fix yourself on this , " said the smallest one .
the negro was sitting opposite him beside ad .
his life work , which was even more dear .
bill went up and robert sat beside bill to save a place for me , and i went back in
' ' the baron alvarito was here looking for you .
great fuss over seeing him .
bryan ' s dead .
" send their regards to you .
" there was no answer from the next room .
” “maybe you will in twenty years , ” his father said .
” “don’t ask me .
then he sat and sipped this very slowly , letting it stay under his tongue before he brought it slowly
“so long , ” said ole andreson .
” “but you don’t know that he knows ?
they came alongshore .
the chairs were carved but the wooden seats were worn and quite comfortable .
but i have never lied to my own advantage .
“hello , retana !
tea and toast .
" i waved good-by .
ten years later there was nothing of the mill left except the broken white limestone of its foundations showing through
" that makes it worse , of course .
" " damned good chaps , " brett said .
he could beat anything , he thought , because no thing could hurt him if he did not care .
you cannot marry me and i understand that , although i do not approve it .
the man looked as though he had been scalped and then the hair replaced .
” “this isn’t simple .
instead of the cool early morning smell of the forest there was a nasty stink like the mess cats make
” “what is the matter with this war ?
i don’t know what to do .
” the waiter came over .
will you tell carl his mother wants him ?
that and ski-ing .
but from the glimpse we had they looked higher in the legs than the cows we saw and they might
you want to get to know this other character .
” “that is as it should be , ” said the extremaduran .
" " no , " she said .
' ' i ' ve got a shovel in the truck and we ' ve got chains .
" i ' ll go up there .
said to .
ernest hemingway _num_ the short happy life of francis macomber it was now lunch time and they were all sitting
odgar with that fried-fish look in his eye every time he looked at kate .
" he smiled again .
" " sleep well , old man .
” “i just went out to get a breath of air .
then he gave it to frankie for me .
just like this on a hot night .
and god knows that i have seen big ones .
the locataire across the hall whose husband was a bicycle racer and her joy that morning at the crémerie when
droopy claims to know a good country about three hours from here in the lorries and another hour or so
” “harry , what are you saying ?
you study it sometime and tell me what you think .
" " you don ' t joke him .
here’s where you go back from if you want to go back .
some of the houses jutted out toward the street .
his face still had the contortion which , in the ring , he made into a constant smile which frightened
' do you love me still ?
“want a drink ?
them and continue to exploit the country .
jackson phillip ' s gun bearer and he had been loaned to me .
“ease up on the drag quick .
he was married five years , had three children , lost most of the fifty thousand dollars his father left
the pencil , start one of the stories there on the table while the girl slept ?
few people know france .
he saw the girl watching him and he smiled at her .
" " oh , yes , " jack says .
” johnson asked the other porters .
” “i’ll drink absinthe then .
not as much as the merchant marine maybe .
what i was reading .
but it was not .
he went out from the bathroom into the room , and he was as young as at his first attack
“alles , ” he said .
he was waiting for manuel .
“well , you will know , ” the man with the contemptuous mouth said .
“we might as well carry them up here , ” he said .
summer-time .
“you better watch out to keep prudie , nick .
that leveled a piece of ground large enough to sleep on .
wilson , ” she told him and smiled again .
it was easy tracking and we knew we were close .
can i kiss you while you’re making supper ?
and it made me wish we were back at the lake .
“speak german , not dialect .
colonel watched his progress towards home by the movement of the brush .
' ' my colonel , you know that in a great hotel , wine must cost money .
” “he killed a buck deer the twelfth of last month .
they all came just like that .
they ' ve put it back to five-twenty .
” “i better go and watch them , ” his sister said .
nobody’s going to scare him and we don’t want to antagonize him .
" i ' ll sleep , " jack says .
twice the police arrested us and once the governments .
top of the bull-ring were solid with people .
outside the horses on the wood sledges made an occasional sharp jangle of bells as they tossed their heads .
” “if it’s not too much trouble .
" au revoir , mademoiselle , " he said .
maybe not fishing , maybe not sleeping all night .
perhaps in an hour i will see him .
i ' m _pretty_ sure i ' ve killed him .
he went on eating .
and clean the place up for you to sleep tonight .
" how are you on the weight , jack ?
nick got the lunch from over the hemlock .
" " and send it up to the next car .
" eight pesetas is cheap .
she was a fine woman , marvellous really .
the main highway ran past there joining the sea road and the cabins were toward the sea .
don’t be a silly girl .
” “je veux spend maintenant , ” red said .
“listen , ” doc fischer said and he told the boy certain things .
something inside nick had gone a long way away .
before the sunset .
' so we fought .
“it stiffened that way .
" i really have no rank .
about , so that it became more something that was going on with a definite end , and less of
' i don ' t know .
a line of lombardy poplars ran from the house to the dock .
” “i’m sure .
, was within the room with the high , dark but well-mirrored armoire , the two good beds , the
he said lovely to himself since his thinking was often un-grammatical .
“chance of it , ” wilson said and smiled at her .
the three of them were standing at the left of the horse .
“only don’t say it to other people .
i looked all around the kitchen to remember it and i was awfully fond of it .
he was looking for them and , being a hunter , he saw them instantly .
" " what do you think ?
he said something to the other people at his table , and stood up .
' yes , now if you want , or will accept from kindness .
i expected , always , to be killed by one thing or another and i , truly , did not
maybe they don ' t even remember .
” “he has the face of a russian , ” pointing at the other one of us who was working
they could both see the two steel rods at an angle over the dark water .
” when she had made it she said , “why don’t you let me hold it and give it to
of tracks and in the high grass and the broken terrain it was difficult to figure just where he had
" all right , nigger .
" zurito set down his glass .
there was no need of that .
' ' all cows , ' said garrick .
“you must have piombo .
" what do you know about steve ?
at the horse , and zurito , far out , on top of him , holding him , holding him
as they went in , under the light i saw white hands , wavy hair , white faces , grimacing
take dyin’ like a dog easy ?
all this .
“all right , ” fontan said .
i said to fontan , ‘on va être malade !
" " i told you he was one of us .
” “to marry someone else .
you know .
you have heard how events age people .
george was coming down in telemark position , kneeling ; one leg forward and bent , the other trailing ;
behind them marched all the members of the dancing and drinking societies of pamplona , estella , tafalla , and
it was a talent all right but instead of using it , he had traded on it .
but isn’t he awfully big ?
it is a little further down than where you are .
“sleep well ?
' ' they didn ' t have much duck shooting where i came from .
i only wanted to give jake a decent version .
' ' i see .
” “that’s too steep .
" he ' s so damned nice and he ' s so awful .
" " get away from me , " manuel said .
" i cannot resign myself .
a comrade of about forty-five or fifty years old ?
” “my poor daughter .
she was looking after me .
it all went out of sight around the corner .
” “you’ll see .
the gondola now was in one of the secondary canals .
" we left the floor and i took my coat off a hanger on the wall and put it on
” “you’re much braver in an attack than i am .
damn such shape springs .
it had killed his brother , the promising one , about nine years ago .
this is all great for the crowd .
he could see denver from the _denver post_ , and correct the picture from _the rocky mountain news_ .
you run only one risk—when you load your passengers .
walking along the aisle of the smoker i saw the two detectives and the two prisoners sitting quietly .
, i do not know what we would be able to do .
” “and the extremadura road ?
he was smiling that funny deaf smile .
for christ sake shoot me .
" where should i have him put it , sir ?
and big sliding , into the long sack that hung from his shoulders in the water .
it was a beech wood and the trees were very old .
there was a very big tide too and the flats were yellow and the channel ran by the far island
right .
' good evening , my colonel .
” andré put the twenty-two-calibre rifle back in the cupboard .
“you’re a fine woman , ” he said .
that was all he needed .
it has been siphoned off for hydro-electric projects .
" didn ' t you like bryan ?
then they’re not used to that sort of thing .
” “say , signor tenente , what did you get in this war for , anyway ?
“if it keeps up i guess i ought to go down , ” al said listening .
" who gave this to you ?
the water glass .
i put on a coat of cohn ' s and went out on the balcony .
did the scouts get anything ?
jack ' s body .
she couldn’t bear to have him touch her .
" we paid for the message and walked back to the inn .
you understand me , he made some reservations , but on the whole the book to him was sound .
“you’re a dirty liar , ” she said in that low voice .
" he looked at me .
don’t get nervous .
“it all evens up , ” nick said .
yesterday he had driven down from trieste to venice along the old road that ran from montfalcone to latisana and
_num_ st soldier—i thought he was pretty good in there today .
' m ' cola like simba ?
yet the two top floors had four rooms on the front of the house which were intact and there was
nick was glad to get to the river .
in her blue robe and mosquito boots .
' did you say _have to_ , daughter ?
' never get near a man shovelling , ' i said in english .
" hey , jack !
" somebody shot him in the back .
i can get a couple of small ones there .
back of his left hand , each coin covered with the right hand .
' listen .
his mother would have given him breakfast in bed if he had wanted it .
we climbed down from the wall with the crowd , and had a last look at the bulls through the
the morning after the fight i had a letter from robert cohn , written from hendaye .
" they ' ve got bananas for horns , " the critic said .
' the hell with it , ' i said .
i hope anyway , he thought .
“you cannot understand .
they swung their weight against the shafts of the cant-hooks .
of natural history be studied without increasing that faith , love and hope which we also , every one of
” “you want to pay off the nigger ?
" it ' s all rot to talk about it .
“pour moi , ” said johnson , “ça ne va pas .
he lay in the stern and steered and watched for the glow to come in the sky .
” “no , you won’t .
the ones you like , ' he smiled again .
one was lying dead from the first shot , and it seemed of no importance beside the miracle of this
drive the sweat out on his face like water and then sling the rope at the tree and come over
inside the tent the light came through the brown canvas .
of the boat , and the colonel handed his guns and the combination cartridge box and shooting stool into the
a pillow between my legs and my arms around another pillow and lay there very quietly .
even bryan could see that .
" " no , i ' m not .
a man of the world the blind man knew the sounds of all the different machines in the saloon .
he looked at nothing .
you can ' t let him get away with that .
" " you ' re awfully practical .
oh , give them irony and give them pity .
' he asked .
do buck up .
' i don ' t really mind , daughter .
you can’t .
” “have a glass , too .
he smiled his best and clearest smile that came as solid as the sun rises .
“he ran , didn’t he ?
' ' one hundred and twenty-two sures .
some geese .
' ' and you don ' t know what it means ?
bed .
the boy keeps me alive , he thought .
but remember , it ' s for literature .
” “and it’s really all right ?
service in the end of the _num_ ’s .
man liked to sit late because he was deaf and now at night it was quiet and he felt the
if they don ' t travel too fast i will get into them , the old man thought , and
you can see all the south americans you want in paris anyway .
“i don’t know , ” i said .
people were crossing the square , hurrying toward the bull-ring .
' i wouldn ' t do it .
“it’s a lovelier beach than bimini even , ” the girl said .
buried .
he didn’t even look good doing that .
of the lake coming in on the shore , and he went back to sleep .
his nerves had become tricky and he disliked seeing people while he was in this condition .
they were peasants going up into the hills .
' he knew it was teasing but he did not even want to hear it said .
chased by a huge rhino to-day .
" " where did you hear all this ?
" well , how did you like the bulls ?
in french .
' i lowered the glasses and looked and there was garrick , taking no advantage of the cover , crawling
john had gray-blue eyes and dark hair and a dark mustache and he always looked as though he had wandered
” “what did you kill him for ?
were worn through .
' ' but they called him the bravest of the brave .
it took eight days for the telegram to reach him .
" " i don ' t really have to go .
” “does that make much money ?
anyway i hope not .
current that mounted icily his thighs , nick thumbed the reel hard with his left hand .
the dressings had all come down and she could not look at it .
" " he ' s a fine boy .
didn ' t you hear me say no ?
about nine o’clock we saw the sand key light just about dead ahead .
sliced cucumbers , and two helpings of salad .
' ' it is very much , ' the girl said .
let me be angry for you .
' ' you ' ll have to read him .
“now we are all good friends again .
spezia spread below along the sea .
" i ' d better get to that damned bicycle , " nick said to himself .
walk .
nick ' s own education in those earlier matters had been acquired in the hemlock woods behind the indian camp
' ' i don ' t want a drink .
' it looks lovely , ' the girl said .
” “oh , no , sir , it is not permitted to drink in the café with the clients .
kate put her lips to nick’s ear .
“you’d better not saw it up then , dick , ” he said , shortly .
she studied her profile , first one side and then the other .
” “this is where it’s good , ” the innkeeper said .
' do you want me to really tell you , so you will know , if i am not rough
" he ' s nothing .
damned horns sticking out , ' pop said .
at six o’clock i sent frankie up to the hotel to see if johnson was there .
it was near enough , anyway .
they can’t hear .
the trail , making a cast off to the right , then picking up blood once more , then pulling
' ' didn ' t you see anything ?
" " where is he shot ?
“i told the wife i’d take a room at the shelby tonight , ” he said .
the heavies were bombing on the smoke line and the smoke line was now over us .
take it unframed with you and we ' ll choose a good frame next week .
" " the indians were all in town getting drunk .
it came quicker than i thought it would .
" when do you go ?
' or deficient as an instrument , or in character .
he sat with his hands on the table .
” “no , ” said the girl , “i can’t .
the lady had placed another arm around his neck .
' i asked them in english .
there was so much to write .
clearing the jam , then they were almost up with the bull when wilson yelled “stop , ” and the
' good idea , ' pop agreed .
" i suppose it ' s breeding .
i just changed it now out of kindness .
" she is the only lady i have ever known who was as charming when she was drunk as when
and then dropped to run again , or to stay where they lay , spotting the hillside as the tanks
with an ax .
' they ' re frightful shots .
' molo raised the back of the tent , propping it with sticks , so the wind blew through and
“sister cecilia wants to know how the game is going ?
” “it might , ” nick said .
“a little more , ” he said .
" " well , corbett ' ll pick him , " hogan says .
you ' ll never regret it .
not for us anyway .
the tour de france was the greatest sporting event in the world .
" " yes , " i said ; " something doing all the time .
' i ' d know where i hit him anyway .
' that ' s not fair .
it was narrow and deep and the banks were mossy here before the stream entered the swamp .
nothing but the green wood-pigeons and some monkeys , and when we came out we were wet to our waists
" good-by , mr .
: fishing and shooting .
" " what do you think i want to do , get sick ?
" " he did behave very badly , " brett said .
the battle of caporetto and was killed in his staff car by the italian rearguard as he drove into udine
olé !
" then the line would not come in any more and he held it until he saw the drops jumping
" oh , don ' t be fresh , " she said .
” “i’m not if you’re not .
i’ll see you in the second-growth wood lot in back of the hotel where the big basswood is .
french forest on a day in winter after rain .
” “if you like .
' he went out , walking as he had always walked , with a slightly exaggerated confidence , even when
montoya about bulls .
all we could see of the procession through the closely pressed people that crowded all the side streets and curbs
" my god !
he said he felt fine .
“it’s come out well .
' ' oh please not talk .
“this time of year the indians call them fool hens .
” “good night , smith , ” whispered the ghee .
breath and shot him a touch behind the fore-shoulder .
the tripe made a bag to carry the other delicacies in .
there is an indian lady very sick .
' do you remember the time we were sheep hunting and your hat blew off and nearly fell on to
" " my dear , i am sure mr .
manuel pulled the door tight until it clicked .
we had a hell of a time to get in and the night we got there , just before dark
" bill rubbed his forehead .
, at his big brown hands , his old slacks , his very dirty boots and back to his red
made the elephant his brother .
bridge and two squares afterwards you turn due right and keep along it till you are in harry ' s
there were no shots from the other blinds and only occasional shots from the sea .
' ' shortened , or abbreviated in an inefficient manner , ' the colonel explained .
you ' ve got four on your licence .
i never want to quarrel .
he was still playing with the idea of refusing .
but we haven’t got it yet and i haven’t asked .
a wonderful kitten you are and what lucky kittens we are .
i looked and saw her coming through the crowd in the square , walking , her head up , as
" " mais nous avons tout bu , " fontan said .
the robber birds and the heavy strong ones .
' carroll was the man ' s name .
the captain paravicini , acting major , thinner and more english-looking than ever , rose when nick saluted from behind
” “why not ?
' ' i like to do it .
" " i ' m supposed to have my pockets full of cigarettes and postal cards and such things ,
mike had a way of getting an intensity of feeling into shaking hands .
" " well , let ' s try and have a fine time .
" we ' re the foreigners , " bill said .
bill was eating fruit when we came in and finishing a bottle of wine .
” he leaned over the table and kissed her .
" " i didn ' t know who they were , " i said .
' in different ways .
" " i can ' t stand it .
it was crowded and close .
“you like me ?
the next shark that came was a single shovel-nose .
she cried a good deal and they tried several times to have a baby before they left dijon .
" " well , ciaou then .
why don ' t you know when you ' re not wanted ?
” “well , you’re a coward .
’ asked the priest .
” “spezia , ” the lady said .
" they felt so badly .
the wound was not serious .
" " i don ' t believe it .
as soon as it gets to strength again they’ll give you back your company .
” “oh , cut it out .
see the dome of the capitol .
but then strange dreams about places mostly .
“if he hooks up i’ll chase him .
had collapsed without a move .
poor people and their shack housing which is such a feature of all the greater antilles , no matter what
“who did you treat square , you rummy ?
” she was pretty terrible looking now i had stopped looking around and was looking at our table ; really
” “we have the same shoulders and the same kind of legs .
of a business man on the way to his office in the city and , as they spoke in rapid
late in the afternoon they were back with karl , his outfit , and forty m ' bulus , good-looking
, ordering people about when we were cutting brush and shovelling , until i was certain i would have to
" ahead was a mounted policeman in khaki directing traffic .
” “i saw your friend , prudie .
" " i don ' t know , i just brought her .
“labor day we all went to clear creek , ” madame said .
he had sung when he was by himself in the old days and he had sung at night sometimes when
" i just thought perhaps i was going to throw up .
square and the dancers .
now he looked at the many small crustaceans , the razor-edge clams you only should eat raw if you had
but that five per cent when you are wrong can certainly be something .
' ' it is very romantic .
in most pursuit races , if there are only two riders , one of the riders is caught inside of
tracker .
“you are talking about spezia .
“ask him to come over .
' ' several times i have known how long an hour can be , ' the colonel said .
sister carrying the .
marcial was smoking a cigarette guardedly , holding it in his hand .
” “not permanently i hope .
evans ?
oh , the lousy , dirty bastards !
' ' would you have been a general if you had not lied ?
i don’t know whether he believed me or not .
he came all the way from new york to see the san fermines .
you know the french police .
today is friday three roman soldiers are in a drinking-place at eleven o’clock at night .
' ' what did the doctor say ?
now zest is a rare enough thing and few people have it for long .
" " in this so dear spezia ?
writing wonderfully .
he was addressing no one , except , perhaps , posterity .
' no success ?
“there ain’t anything to do .
“i think i got that driver in the head , ” red said .
they just let the air in and then it ' s all perfectly natural .
' ' now , daughter , let us resume the having of the fun .
, karl with charo and m ' cola and i together , m ' cola dropped pop visibly in his
i don’t want to talk a lot of crap but i think i’m going to get killed tomorrow .
no gold lace nor ornaments that would make the dresses look expensive .
i was saving it to drink with you .
the only thing which was new to him was the radio .
" he wouldn ' t get them in dishwater for anything .
" " no , " the waiter who was in a hurry said , rising from pulling down the metal
not try to write everything .
the roman ' s and hunt that country slowly , living there and hunting out each day , sometimes laying
he was the greatest , finest , whitest , most beautiful man that ever lived , steve ketchel , and
the servants swept the sand smooth .
' ' would you reclassify me if i lied ?
he made a big shadow on the kitchen wall .
il est comme ça .
' ' i couldn ' t take more than one , sir .
" " i do feel such a bitch .
i was all for pulling out and trying the new country toward handeni where none of us had ever been
they thrust bent-kneed along the road into a pine forest .
“i have a son at the front , ” he said .
' ' yes , sir , i have my map .
qu’es-ce que il faut faire maintenant ?
' pop , what does it mean when they shake hands and get hold of your thumb and pull it
the chairs were carved , but the seats were worn and comfortable .
for the sable .
” “neither do i , ” said harris , “i don’t agree with david belasco .
" give me a beer , " i said .
“he was out here all right .
“he’ll kill him , ” said hogan .
he talked about it a little .
“you’ve blinded me .
“about seventy-five .
there is a man who will boot them in .
" listen , " i said .
aside .
it was very hot and bright , and the houses looked sharply white .
' ' that ' s true , ' the colonel said , and pondered that for two seconds .
i ate a very big meal and drank three bottles of rioja alta .
” “i hate that red-faced swine , ” macomber said .
, absolutely trusting adoration .
“listen , ” mr .
” “you know i’m no squealer , harry .
” “thank you very much , ” said the doctor waving a forceps in the air .
tabeshaw suggested .
“ha perduto qualche cosa , signera ?
between _num_ and _num_ hemingway made several trips to switzerland to gather material for the toronto star .
what else is it you do ?
' ' i quite agree .
her palazzo was pleasant looking , set well back from the canal with a garden in front and a landing
water , caught the sun , and then , as he went back into the stream under the surface ,
" he knows too damned much .
my wife don’t read english but she takes the paper just like when i was home and she cuts out
i wish that we could go there .
" so long , fella , " bill said .
that and the fact that cats know how to look after themselves was all the good luck that old man
the picador’s lance slid along his back , and as the shock of the charge lifted the horse , the
you sail lighter for the loss of forty pounds .
then move to nine out of ten ; hang there , and then move up to a twenty out of
the innkeeper was a tall man and old .
" want a drink ?
one with a long tongue .
” “good-bye , aunt halley .
what ' s the matter with you ?
the wind is very wild and we can go down and sit by the fire .
i hid the rifle .
photographically .
he turned then and placed the two flying fish inside the two fillets of fish and putting his knife back
" " what shall we drink ?
manolo designed a series of acceptable verónicas , ending in a very belmontistic recorte that earned applause from the regulars
" signor maggiore ?
their horns all looked big to me .
” the prizefighter sat back .
it was embroidered on to the coat he wore in silver thread .
” “this is wonderful .
” “i suppose we could have gone .
afterward i had coffee .
" then he wanted me to go to cannes with him .
she felt jim right through the back of the chair and she couldn’t stand it and then something clicked inside
frazer said politely .
fence and into a field of stubble .
“do a noiseless one , wemedge , ” odgar said .
you can’t wear them .
then one hit him in the face , his bloody face looking toward the crowd .
then they lost the trail in smoking piles of fresh dung and the flat round prints of a herd of
feel low ?
" heads up , swinging with the music , their right arms swinging free , they stepped out , crossing
” billy was very depressed .
d ' antan , oui .
he had decided it was not worth while to write a running story and would write up the corrida back
' you can have another when you come out .
she went to hunt for a bottle .
i withdraw the doubt .
" " i ' ve seen you plenty .
they brought me here from the boat before daylight and left me , with a password and nothing to eat
“now she has something on you .
—they’re crooks , ain’t they ?
' then i was holding p .
these waiters were all snotty , all over-tipped and they regularly had special dishes such as lobster or chicken that
the man behind had dropped to the ground .
nick looked down into the clear , brown water , colored from the pebbly bottom , and watched the trout
” “no , but i’ve seen him .
you’re so damned superior you don’t have to be superior .
" what are you looking at me that way for ?
his rifle cocked , they had just moved into the grass when macomber heard the bloodchoked coughing grunt , and
next morning i tipped every one a little too much at the hotel to make more friends , and left
that aimless turn had made me see him , slow and hard hit , getting ready to go down .
" if he ' s the president , you think we get the wine and beer all right ?
that ' s where you were .
here , take him and put him in the sack with the hen .
we will just lay it on the line once more and the hell with it and with its ugly face
i would be very happy to nominate him if you think they would like to have him .
he licked his lips .
you get a big enough cut , don ' t you ?
" so long , jerry , " he says .
we started up the road and then went across a meadow and found a path that crossed the fields and
of electric power .
until that had failed i had believed i might have a close and good shot and i knew that if
” “my god , nous avons chanté .
i had the gun up waiting for whatever it was to show .
” “i can give you a double room for seven dollars .
” the boy asked .
how nice .
two longitudinal stripes of teal .
” “it wasn’t italians , ” said baldy .
“i was just kidding , man , ” retana’s man said .
in the platoon they used to share anyone ' s gonococci brought from schio and carried in a match-box .
” “why didn’t you wake me , ” she said .
face wouldn’t catch cold .
in the back of the paper .
the old days .
” “people speak pretty highly of the green lantern .
" " wasn ' t his name stanley ketchel ?
“what did you do this afternoon ?
the covered seats of the bull-ring had been crowded with people sitting out of the rain watching the concourse of
was at home but that he had also traveled .
we paid it all .
it went in pairs , on bicycles , and moved absolutely silently on the pavements .
aloud .
how could a woman know that you meant nothing that you said ; that you spoke only from habit and
' ' i will be .
in the office .
they did not understand garrick ' s interpreting and the old man made the question clear .
i worry about the wife .
" " you ' re quite right , " said harris .
“that’s the first proverb you run up against when you lead an active life .
we don’t have to worry about him early in the mornings and late in the evening nor in the dark
, the reins in his left hand , the long pic held in his right hand , his broad hat
' good shot , b ' wana , ' he said in swahili .
“if it isn’t enjoyable , why do it ?
" " aren ' t i , though ?
” “he didn’t load up with all that stuff to go south .
harry could not hear what they were saying .
how did you break your leg ?
we kill them all right .
" i knew they wouldn ' t come , " robert said .
on his way back to the living room he passed a mirror in the dining room and looked in it
“my god , ” i said to him , “you go to spain .
other things .
' he seems very confident .
" number _num_ , mister brennan .
“what do you say ?
’” “yes , ” interrupted a soldier .
” “we know all that , bright boy , ” max said .
do you know anything about cars ?
the sea was very dark and the light made prisms in the water .
most of the people had left the table .
the cart .
he was carrying a long staff , and he had a kid slung on his back , tied by the
' ' by elevator , ' she said , and he heard the change in her voice .
and don’t you be scared .
“oh , my christ , ” she said .
the air was still smoky and all up the street it smelled of high explosive and blasted granite .
" i got to go , " said " sliding billy " turner .
she had been sick only a few days .
” he looked at me very blankly and tiredly , then said , having to share his worry with some
" " yeah .
we have credit here .
“what time you want to go into town ?
could you say she did first what no one has ever done better and mention plump brown legs , flat
' i ' m dopey with sleep , ' i told pop .
a little standing outside the lodge on the gravel of the embassy driveway .
" your car is dirty and you are dirty too .
” “for the best , ” said george .
the man waved it away .
' ' that ' s wonderful .
” “it wasn’t all solemn .
nick’s father ordered some water to be put on the stove , and while it was heating he spoke to
you didn ' t think i ' d try to wind your clock , did you ?
" he walked out and up the street .
ahead the road stretched out white across the plain going toward pamplona .
that’s why i’m so expensive .
“take this , ” the middle-aged waiter said , and poured out a glass of the valdepeñas and handed it
you can watch this or not , nick , just as you like .
never ever never .
there is much to do .
dusty afternoon with the big crowd watching , and now , with a broken back , was going to learn
' i ' m not going to walk on it , ' karl said , looking out at the dreary
' ' we were fighting a beaten enemy whose communications had been destroyed .
i see we have things in common .
i’m going to keep everything a secret always .
simply perfect .
as far as you could see , there was that faded yellow gulfweed in small patches that means the main
' and the _cavaliere ufficiale_ who manages this place ?
“there’s a hell of a lot to be done , ” he said .
in the evening was the paseo .
” “i don’t want to go in there , ” said macomber .
this time there was no rush .
he has got iodine in them .
there could be any number of people in the back .
the line showed like a phosphorescent streak in the water straight out from his shoulders .
" go and get him .
him with that lousy four-seventy .
i could see them throw the dust .
ten miles and it was in the time of their mating and they would leap high into the air and
it was morning and had been morning for some time and he heard the plane .
' no good , ' he said .
no one of his other wounds had ever done to him what the first big one did .
that made him feel better .
he handed me his shotgun and looked at the fire .
' ' awful , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
i knew our crowd must have all been out at the bull-ring .
nick felt the slow pumping under his fingers .
there wasn’t anybody ever boxed better than jack .
we turned sharply out to the side of the road to give room to pass to a long string of
why not make money on it ?
know he’s not forgotten by his own people .
he was at a table with other bull-fighters and bull-fight critics .
to the metal plaque that marked the black stripe of his yardage , the pros were silent and watching .
ah , that’s intelligent .
” “do you think we ought to tell the sergeant” “no , ” i said .
in the luxembourg on the short cut through the gardens on the way to the rue soufflot (_one that we
“that’s awful funny if he’s catholique .
" " do they ever gore the steers ?
" they got so worked up about revolution we had to stop mentioning it .
” “they make fine flyers .
madame fontan stood up .
' i am just a woman , or a girl , or whatever that is , doing whatever it is
civil war by-line : ernest hemingway a moveable feast three novels the snows of kilimanjaro and other stories the hemingway
listening , homesick for it already .
he could see the car on the road beside the warehouse .
' ' will we go to paris ?
' well , there goes my career , ' he said to the girl .
come , come .
he killed not as he had been forced to by the last bull , but as he wanted to .
' all right , ' i said .
" " they oughtn ' t to have any right .
the trail was used regularly by cattle and the dust was powdered dry and , now , lightly moistened from
i ' ll try it again , the old man promised , although his hands were mushy now and he
she said she loved it .
' the girl asked and the colonel noticed that the british were gone .
“what do you want me to do about it ?
a fatal mistake .
the damned things have gotten his goat and he ' s liable to blow that salt-lick higher than a kite
" " ever hear of it ?
the tribal marks and the tattooed places seemed natural and handsome adornments and i regretted not having any of my
also i wanted to shoot , selfishly , and karl was unselfish .
” “hombre , sí .
but it was no good now .
you might as well take them in .
" son of a bitch , " said billy .
' oh , we did , ' the colonel said .
he must use a shoe-horn .
come out .
we might hunt a week for a good one .
“it’s o .
hour .
" i ' m sleepy now .
" " he hung himself with a rope .
damned shame , too .
" " they did not leave any word ?
i know her so well and try to look after her but it ' s not so easy .
towns that looked so innocent and were really fortresses .
" bill said , " what happened , mike ?
mais maintenant en amérique je comprends .
you know he is dead ?
” “it tastes like licorice , ” the girl said and put the glass down .
” “bad politics , ” frankie said .
retana sat , saying nothing and looking at manuel .
' ' i brought a few cans to help out and a little stuff to give away .
shakespeare .
and walked out of that café and across the square and through the gate and i was plenty glad to
seemed to bear a sort of wrinkled and degenerate resemblance to the classic-featured owner of the shamba ; just as
leaves .
the other cyclist sprinted on and soon the copains were firing .
also , he had much bad luck , and it was not all of it his own .
he wanted the man .
" " kiss me just once more before we get there .
“here’s all the ones we missed , d .
it was much too heavy .
there were long benches , and tables ran across the room , and at the far end a dancing-floor .
' i am , ' said andrea , returning the lie .
nick took it from his hook book , sitting with the rod across his lap .
” “he’s courteous , ” said the chef .
“no , ” blindy said .
lousy pics !
winded us , or heard the men , and were simply shy and kept in the forest , or what
" gentlemen who invented pharmacy .
we’ll take the twelve chinks on board and we’ll lock them below forward .
" they ' re big ones with horns , " manuel agreed .
“slack it to him !
you hired out to be tough , didn ' t you ?
” “you talk silly , ” al said to him .
pinin came in with more wood for the stove .
of football players who have been removed from a game for yellowness .
he wrapped up some fried chicken and two pieces of cherry pie in oiled paper from the top of the
the bright light while the crowd shouted .
he knew how big a man he was .
the nigger raised himself up and looked .
" it ' s pretty nice out in the country .
" sure , but you live in france , " madame fontan said .
small buck lay there dead with his eyes open looking straight at the indian .
most people are heartless about turtles because a turtle ' s heart will beat for hours after he has been
to me they are only something to wear like a dress from paris .
" his name ' s on the programme .
or you ?
sure , admit it , boy .
then , after they built it , the mouth of the sile river silted up or a big flood changed
” “this is what i like to do , ” said eddy .
he handed it to me and i took it up to where eddy was at the wheel and put on
the nigger porter was asleep in one corner of the leather cushioned seat .
“do you want eddy to put it out and hand it to you if one strikes so you can hook
push of their oars even though he could not see them now the moon was below the hills .
he was holding the spoon and sort of poking at the grapefruit with it .
the bull ' s legs tightened , his eyes on the muleta .
he put a newspaper over his face .
' i ' d like to read him any time i have time .
in her before we came across .
' better shoot him once to make sure , ' pop said .
they were standing at the door .
man had his permit and his colors in a week .
again without thinking of it .
every one was looking out the window , and the doctor , who was a most excellent doctor , was
sat down backwards in the dust .
her bed in the hotel montoya , in pamplona .
they came on such a flat trajectory you hardly had time to hold a breath between the rush and the
others are ruined by the first money , the first praise , the first attack , the first time they
have you been long enough at table ?
that meant nothing to m ' cola .
" we ' re going to have supper .
then one of her two children was killed in a plane crash and after that was over she did not
, you walked , stooping , in a steep tunnel of vines and foliage .
of them had , and you made an attitude that you cared nothing for the work you used to do
” “better give him five minutes , ” al said from the kitchen .
" you ' ve been in the hospital .
five days , from daylight until dark , coming home after dark , dead tired but glad of the coolness
” “i’m sure it will .
up a little line .
" make it two sportsmen .
" i killed him in self-defense , " the old man said aloud .
_num_ d soldier—the part i don’t like is the nailing them on .
the gun-bearer picked up the rifle .
" you ' ll be leaving us soon .
" i wanted to ask you because you were an american , " he said .
” “no fucking place to spend it .
’ so i say to him ‘impossible !
was afraid to talk to him until i had the grammar straight in my mind .
” “why not shoot from where i am ?
at him close .
” people were hurrying by in the dark on their way home from the cinemas where they had stayed until
i say .
she just gets a sick headache like always .
” harry pressed the self-starters and started the engines .
it sounded as though it might be a timing knock when you went past us .
petersburg and tampa papers at the drugstore .
have , speak among themselves .
“come on or i’ll blow your can off .
the man turned without saying anything , and started back up the white road into spain .
“maybe , ” bill agreed .
of some of the best of the people .
it was too dark to get down the hill , across the valley and up the narrow slope of mountain
' jackson , ' the colonel called .
this isn’t like the real dark .
, drunker than ever .
but over now .
blood came out from under the fingernails of both his and the negro ' s hands and they looked each
looking back , the mountains looked very fine and with timber up their slopes , outcroppings of limestone and open
the trees beside the road were dusty .
we had supper .
my whole back’s tattooed .
' he whispered this last so low that it was inaudible to anyone who did not love you .
' with your help .
i still wait to go away to school .
he was funny all right .
” “here is the place , ” said a soldier .
joe laughed again .
trust it there .
shots towards the empty sky , and then waving him towards the blind .
the bull had humped himself up from his knees and stood waiting , his head hung low .
“i guess we’d better go in , ” i said .
way over there .
you ' re better off alone on a show like this .
and he went on figuring .
i hated to buy it at twenty-eight cents a gallon but i didn’t know where we might go .
employed , for their mutual pleasure when speaking , alone , with the concierge .
” that was just around this next slanting turn the road makes up ahead .
" good , " she said .
but his victory only lasted until he had walked halfway down the ridge .
i could have gone to zenzon or to san dona .
' ' that makes it very good .
" he picked up the two heavy bags and carried them around the station to the other tracks .
was like a fishhook caught in his pocket that pricked him occasionally as he walked .
“you’re down fine , jack , ” freedman says .
“like i told you .
he looked about thirty-five .
“i know you will .
” “i’ve got to kill the damned thing , ” macomber said , miserably .
that should surely come at dusk .
your driver is asleep in the house .
” “here’s to us .
cola , to carry shells and birds , we agreed to work one on one side and one the other
" por ustedes ?
and i’d get red , but i liked being kidded about her .
up under the roof , and nursed it tenderly .
under the ridge in the heat of the day with the dust blowing , we came back , dry-mouthed ,
but if he lived he would never write about her , he knew that now .
' sleep ?
” he knelt down , took a handkerchief from his pocket , and spread it over francis macomber’s crew-cropped head
you know i can ' t win anyway .
” “we shouldn’t start and drive this afternoon ?
” “please listen , ” doc fischer said .
every worthless thing had been left in the bathroom .
” “i’m glad it didn’t come up while we had the little accrochage , ” onie said .
they just didn ' t give me the feeling that they were so good .
he knows i split the work , or more , coming out .
now he would never write the things that he had saved to write until he knew enough to write them
” “all right , ” said wilson .
" how does one eat inside ?
to get the knife out of my pocket to cut him loose .
" this is a hell of a place , " bill said .
but don’t you think it happens ?
" mike asked .
” “we’ll take the next town .
" " oh , yes , " i said .
maybe they treat me well because i ' m a chicken colonel on the winning side .
jack puts his thumb through the slit in the bandage and then wrapped his hand nice and smooth .
“i will .
maisons is about the swellest place to live i’ve ever seen in all my life .
then there was a crashing farther away and we could see the reeds swaying with the rush of something through
could see the roofs and chimney pots and all the hills of paris .
international crook herself and that she did not suffer from hallucinations and that she was sure she actually had such
i know it seems like a lot of money but it was a lot of money when i bought the
he leaned forward over the papers .
political party .
" " that ' s why you ' re a bankrupt , isn ' t it ?
" " you can ' t just quit like that , billy , " turner said .
” “he stays up because he likes it .
one of the bullets hit the big nerve that goes down through his thigh and that leg is paralyzed .
' she did not charge , but dropped her head , finally , and worked up the hill followed by
i had not expected any cornfield and i resented it .
cohn woke me when he came in .
you opened your mouth , colonel or no colonel .
“yes , ” said peduzzi , “let her follow us .
, and i know the way the trees bend in every wind and how the church and the tower are
they took down their skis from where they leaned against the wall in the inn .
“it was an awful mess to put you through .
" " drunk ?
” the warden from down state had gotten up when he heard them talking and had come into the kitchen
you could dictate that , but you could not dictate the place contrescarpe where the flower sellers dyed their flowers
” “what , darling ?
he did not really worry .
then he stood up and hid the sack behind the trunk of a cedar and motioned the girl to come
it was a quiet night .
' ' ever heard of pound ?
in a trench dug in snow , high in the mountains , wearing an alpine hat with an eagle feather
" sure , " jack says , " he ain ' t going to last long .
“you got a good hand , kid , ” manuel complimented him .
” “certainly .
three of them were the men who had first thrown the flit king out .
she’s going to have to make a new list when she finds everything is gone in the morning .
' ' i should sleep well .
' ' not for too damn long , ' the colonel said .
c’est le truck de charley .
we had been there in the dust , the smoke , the noise , the receiving of wounds , the
i don ' t know really why .
he wriggled his toes in the water , in his shoes , and got out a cigarette from his breast
" " you can ' t insult me , " said peroxide .
" " i know it , " cohn said .
" drunk , " i said .
keep your head down and do not move even your eyes .
i’ve never been more frightened in my life .
she looked as though there were nothing on earth she would not look at like that , and really she
his choice had been to stay in the deep dark water far out beyond all snares and traps and treacheries
nick held the basin for his father .
he was basically shy , as certain animals are , such as the bongo that you will never see in
and i never shot down any big tri-motor junkers before and i’m happy .
“i fought in tripoli .
walcott was bleeding bad and leaned his nose on jack’s shoulder so as to give jack some of it too
“keep your heads down .
“i’ll take a shower or do you want one first ?
it came back , as it always had , when he saw her and he said , ' how are
i’ve seen them now .
" " i ' ve got to do something .
if they could keep the madrid-valencia-barcelona railway and open up madrid-saragossabarcelona and hold irún it ought to be all right
jim was asleep .
i love it now but i just can’t think about it .
" " i come here for coffee after dinner .
the restaurant where they have the pool of live trout and where you can sit and look out over the
asleep now .
' but it is all right to give something to celebrate .
it might as well have been a dream , he thought .
you ' re smarter than i am , although you haven ' t been around as much .
that lousy crut of a brakeman .
i know he’s not a beet worker .
copyright © _num_ by simon & schuster inc .
“if i feel this way my heart must be broken .
” “summit .
“i don’t want you to , ” mr .
john and mr .
" " weren ' t you , though , " brett said .
“i shall wet this one in the river .
you did not need a girl unless you thought about them .
" " you were drunk a little while ago , " i said .
' " ' every time i went to work in the shed at night .
" " maybe we ' ll see you at biarritz , " hubert said .
' you were right too , ' he said , and palmed the two tablets .
whom it may concern , stating the bearer knew the country well and was a reliable boy and capable tracker
after was a little larger .
i did not kill this italian .
they went to montrouge and the porte d ' orleans and we went directly to bas meudon and secured the
" i ' m thirty-four , you know .
” “you don’t wait long when you have an advantage , do you ?
” “how did they come up here ?
all were travelling away from the famine .
“yes , ” said roger .
” they lay together in the blankets .
“will we go into the big town tonight ?
” “come on , ” said the lieutenant .
and ditches , too , he thought .
you and me aren’t even friends .
" a little cup , " said the waiter .
nick knew it was too hot .
“i’ve worried about you so much , harold , ” his mother went on .
” “i’ll ask them .
not when you lose it that way .
' ' the hell with lunch .
b ' wana simba trains ' em , pal .
” “roger ?
not pleasant putting them on .
, with dignity , in the shelter of the wall opposite .
” red asked me .
” nick pressed his back hard against her foot .
” “do you think we paid too much for the car ?
the others in the room were all soldiers and there were no other officers present .
" above the small of the back were the same two scars , raised as thick as a finger .
' ' not any more , ' the girl said .
just as good as at home when we were kids .
it was a high leap and a dive forward and down .
' you want to bet on that ?
the electric light was on .
until we could be above and see into the pocket of the curve at the upper end to glass it
” “where did that crazy go ?
he felt the sword buckle as he shoved it in , leaning his weight on it , and then it
gilead trees and then we were past the clearing and there was the cove with the mouth of the little
“i’m fine , ” he told the girl .
“yes .
' bugs , ' i said to m ' cola in swahili , speaking with strong disapproval .
solid .
she used to faint in church sometimes .
” “he can’t hit you .
" smoke ?
there was no word from robert cohn nor from brett and mike .
she was afloat in the boat on the water with the moonlight on it .
hand so that he could leave the line because he was afraid .
his shirt and cut a length that was not quite as long as the willow stick and fastened it to
' i am mister dante , ' he said .
i looked back at the table where luis delgado sat as i went out .
" the barman asked .
while suzy was talking to the people she knew and making a list of what she needed for the house
” “what’s the matter , harry ?
they were not interested in him .
what did he call it ?
much taxes the man had escaped to buy that sleek girl in her long mink coat and the convertible he
trailing in a dead run , it almost dark in the timber , the roman , confused a moment by
“he has no more than the shirt on his back .
“all right , if you want to go , ” jack says .
" let ' s go over .
the first time he started with my old man up , he finished third in a _num_ meter hurdle race
; fishing and shooting .
_num_ solid from his pocket and fitted the nose into the hole in the bone of the forehead .
” they started into the weeds at the same time .
more conceited than leclerc .
he ' s sending his men ahead walking .
you’re all right .
it ' s no use to walk ahead and find there ' s nothing coming behind you .
you can ' t go around looking like joan of arc or general (breveted) george armstrong custer .
” nick sat quiet .
the patches had all been removed even as far back as the rear echelon so that no kraut would know
” “it always has been .
i was all bandaged up .
it comes , sometimes , atrociously .
his sticks hanging like some insect’s thin legs , kicking up puffs of snow as they touched the surface and
' a difficult manoeuvre , ' ettore said .
he got up from the table , picked up the two checks and went over to the bar with them
not as a writer .
margot smiled at him .
" where did you see me the other time ?
" fish that you were .
he just made a lucky draw out of the bin .
" " c ' est joli , la neige .
little bit in his coffee .
” “the hell you have .
_ _num_ d soldier_--hell , don ' t i know it ?
they’ll go anyway .
” retana looked at zurito and started for the door .
' the old man appeared and got into the back of the car with m ' cola who was wearing
” asked wilson quietly .
talk about the good days .
que tal ?
he lies there with his eyes shut .
we can leave it on the bar .
what i was doing .
" " oh , you don ' t understand , " the boy said .
he’d screwed the drag tight , and when the fish struck , it lifted johnson right out of the chair
“we’re both americans .
the sack out ahead of him sunk heavy in the water , pulling from his shoulders .
he was in the war , too .
" i ' ll understand all the time .
there’s no sense waking anyone up , he thought .
” she went out to put the birds away where it was cooler .
poured a little of the whiskey in it .
b ' wana !
that cracked and ripped as the boat drove up on to it .
” “yes , daughter .
” “he’s mighty courteous , ” said the chef .
not exactly , ” nick said .
the reporters’ tables and out down the aisle .
then i have a bad headache and sick at the stomach .
“come up any time and make yourself at home .
and do not forget to tell cipriani i am sending him a cheque for this nonsense .
mike won the first roll with four jacks .
and sharp with cold , instead of moist and damp and andy had roamed all the antique shops and bought
his shotgun in its leather case and his game-bags were on the grass where he had left them when he
she looked very lovely and she was very much with them .
“you don’t look well , ” retana said .
his face was white and so was his jacket .
when he ' d find a seed he ' d spit it out in the spoon and dump it on
i heard them talking but i did not listen .
” “have her come out .
“no , you won’t .
“don’t you want me to make up the bed ?
they were our best friends but as soon as we were split they seemed like the others and the vehicles
' ' i can ' t drink to that swine , ' the girl said .
' i know it , ' i said .
i went down with him to the train .
that old dutchman claims there are some remarkable heads .
” i gave him one and we sat and waited for it to get dark .
” “he’d lost it anyway , ” john says .
" " i can ' t help it .
said to give him in the note he had brought .
i live in a good town .
” “i’m not an anatomist , ” he said .
finally the tallest one made a very strange face and emitted a sound like a dying pig .
" " the hell you did , " i said .
" the girl looked at the ground the table legs rested on .
" " is zizi really a duke , too ?
“it’s a very real pleasure .
" pretty soon the telephone rang and they said the taxi was waiting .
' you have to stand for this , look !
” “tell her i take a cold bath every morning , ” guy said .
” all the happiness went from madame fontan’s face .
“i was being amused .
" " soldier bathlett was out here wukking with you for a while , wasn ' t he ?
“let’s get some beer , ” john said .
_ _num_ st soldier_--she ' s a nice-looker .
i can ' t stand it , that ' s all .
“i never do .
this is a splinter flight we have here , but they always come the same way since before there were
“you’re too old , ” the picador said .
brother , the servant of heroes , sitting in the dust by the heroic dog of a hero who held
in this town , too .
he could see the clear fast water of the stream .
salud .
” “i wouldn’t want to be that old .
all ramadan he never swallowed his saliva until sunset and when the sun was almost down i ' d see
” “i came to play the new discs , ” he said .
" they ' re a couple of sharpshooters .
fishermen all turned carpenters .
_fa brutto tempo_ .
" asked krum .
but you remember what i said .
the machine can ' t reproduce , nor does it fertilize the soil , and it eats what he cannot
is that what you want ?
then he walked up to the tent .
let’s try .
he may not have killed that italian .
just then an old man with long , sunburned hair and beard , and clothes that looked as though they
as we crossed the meadow opening where we had first seen the seven and went beyond where the bull had
there with my head back looking up and there was a million birds above and all around .
” “where’s she now ?
the bull would not charge .
throw away the launching tube ; but lately , many that we had found in the german retreat had been
outgoing tide .
this is a restaurant .
“where did we stay in paris ?
there was a little beer in the bottom of the bottle .
” “at seven .
i don’t want you to even speak to me .
i would accuse you to them of having betrayed me .
“i know you haven’t got any guts unless you’ve got rum and there isn’t much on board .
can feel , ” she said .
” he held her solidly against him and kissed her hard .
harry , why do you have to turn into a devil now ?
" it was quite a thing to watch , " edna said .
' ' not very often .
he never could make sense .
“is there any of the wine left ?
this i believed to mean the silver dance or the silver dancer , and , slightly puzzled which it meant
” the wind was back in the south on thursday .
” “he was crossing the road when he was struck by machine-gun fire from a farmhouse on the right .
" beer .
“i’m not afraid , ” the forceful one said .
seems like in milan everybody is going somewhere and all the trams run somewhere and there ain’t any sort of
romero was close enough so the bull could see him .
alive as the hair of peasants , or the hair of the beauties of the great nobility , it was
, the colonel said , ' do you want to say good-bye here ?
don ' t say such a thing .
" " it was all so sudden there wasn ' t any time for it to bother anybody .
you’re the most complete man i’ve ever known .
both sides .
the same fashion .
the end of all his dreams .
’ that’s because you can slide .
it smelled pleasantly of canvas .
' ' you ' re a cow , ' i said .
' i suppose so .
we should not make more love , i know .
but if i die it would not annoy it .
' ' not at the start .
jim had his arm around her and every little way they stopped and pressed against each other and jim kissed
they were past the ruined villa now and on to the straight road with the willows growing by the ditches
i was starting to be nervous about it , and there , at the table under the dining tent fly
" " they were coons probably , " carl said .
there was us , who had always done it when they asked for you to do it .
" " i didn ' t either , " her male companion said .
that was not what we were discussing .
" " what are you called ?
make yourself do it and devise some simple and sure way about the lines .
' then let ' s have fun .
they kill like a club .
my god , i make the sauce all right , and he eat it all and said , ‘la sauce
they were just finishing winding his sash .
" " people don ' t die with a fever of one hundred and two .
the moon is right .
' ' we come from the same town ; but from distinct quarters .
” “you don’t mind you’re with me instead of going to trudy ?
' turn her around and take that road towards treviso .
she never has any money .
it made him rather vain of his bridge game , and he talked several times of how a man could
” “nothing , ” said wilson .
“look at that bunch of camels , ” the tall waiter went on .
but who replaces this fish if i hook some fish and it cuts him off ?
it was like a great train .
' ' you can have them if you like , if you like stones .
finally he put the mast down and stood up .
when you were really ripe for a girl you always got one .
" max turned to al .
i ' d tell you what gs are , but it would bore you .
plastiras is a very good man i believe , he said , but frightfully dif icult .
, and then swam ashore .
people beat him who had never had a chance with him .
then the rocket went up that meant the steers had gotten the bulls out of the ring and into the
” “oui .
" " nothing to tell .
i went up-stairs .
by woman key where he would not see anybody and where the boat was to come out to meet them
the roman was not back yet .
i remember one time when i cook on ship—” “it will be pretty tough , ” i said .
' hapana , ' in the same tone he used when we followed the lion into the sanseviera that time
i do not know , he thought truly .
' uncork that valpolicella , ' he said to the boy who had the eyes of an unbelieving spaniel .
i ' m sorry , fish .
he had been away from northern michigan once for eighteen years when he was a young man and he looked
i held him and could feel the thumping of his heart through the soft , warm , furry body ,
then garrick again , ' piga , b ' wana , piga !
the three matadors take the bull in turn after each charge he makes at a picador .
i tell you they are worth nothing and i know .
have you ever seen that end of the thing ?
” “they’re awful to sleep in really .
' that was fine .
as far as i know you haven’t done anything cruel since that night on the dock with that citizen with
" it is a strong full-blooded fish , " he thought .
his back was against a big cedar tree and behind him there was a thick cedar swamp .
there are more palaces in my father’s city than in all of africa and there are four great bronze horses
i didn ' t think he even believed in the kudu of the night before .
he was holding the spoon and sort of poking at the grape-fruit with it .
back to the edge of the burned place to get above him and then hunted very carefully against the wind
“nothing , ” i said .
' morning , ' i said .
' ' he is waiting for you , my colonel .
they are wide spread and the flying fish have little chance .
' ' when i was a boy , i fought against erwin rommel half way from cortina to the grappa
but i better stop riding him ; he corrected .
the fiesta was going on .
the street was lined on both sides with people keeping their place at the curb for the return of the
' ' how ' d you like to hunt elephant in that ?
and hollis kept hollering , ‘bite it off !
" " it ' s silly , " edna said .
' but now i seek perfection .
“sailfish is just as good eating as kingfish .
” “it’s wicked , ” i said .
to give another capsule .
" an industrial accident , " the doctor said .
" " i do not like for him to waken me .
i could tell by the way he swung back and forth .
” “all right , ” i said .
' ' i was looking at him as at a drawing by goya .
even in a lousy barrel in a marsh where you can ' t manoeuvre .
” “what we goin’ to do ?
it was all sandy pine country full of heather .
he did not have to emphasize their closeness .
the clock on the wall marked a quarter to ten .
in the procession were all the dignitaries , civil and religious .
' that don ' t do them any good .
“that’s different , ” he’d say and get the waiter over and pay the pile of saucers and we’d get
i went into the dark of the tent , we had left the lantern with the meat bringers , and
it was too much of a symbol .
he kept his feet up on the chair but reached up and put his cap straight .
he made a careful search of the country .
remember that time i met you in new orleans when i was on a ship and we went in to
nose in , as warm wax can be smoothed .
by drinking so much that he blunted the edge of his perceptions , by laziness , by sloth , and
' ' i wouldn ' t know , ' the colonel said .
” she’s worried about it already , he thought .
' ' that ' s very good of you , jackson .
couple of deep breaths and dove over off the stern with the wrench in my hand and swam down .
" " he probably does .
it kept on .
the grass dried and there was no more moisture in the soil and it was dust in the wind .
the afternoon of the day we came into the country we walked about four miles from camp along a deep
pull up just ahead of it and i ' ll go over and have a look .
” “listen , hank , what are you trying to promote me ?
the old man ' s head was very old though and with his eyes closed there was no life in
, bending the collar of feathers on his neck where the other birds were still thumping .
” “listen , santa claus , ” al said .
” “lunch tomorrow .
to look across the frozen lagoon to the far , sedge-lined shore .
there was the tank reserve , the tanks covered with branches chopped from olive trees .
” “it’s blowing too hard .
but the colonel , who was a general now again , early in the morning at the only time he
william campbell had hoped to hold a slight lead over the burlesque show until they reached the pacific coast .
” “weren’t you ever discouraged ?
not really ski-ing but really dark .
” “how about eating ?
” “listen , ” the clean-cut young man said from the table where he was writing , “let them go
“that’s right , ” he said , and wouldn’t look me in the eye .
“you’re right there , sir , ” james said .
the car stopped and they all got out .
a ladder led up to the top of the wall , and people were climbing up the ladder and spreading
“call me ad .
leg and scratched the back of his knee with his toes .
” “she’s been questioned before , ” said another .
move up it .
hold of it with his right hand , flexing his hand on it , as he watched the sharks come
the barrels of the guns that had hung on the deer feet on the wall of the log house lay
thank you , sir .
the whole way he’s built and the way he moves .
” “at what ?
" i translated to brett .
and the rich have radios to talk to them in their boats and to bring them the baseball .
those were the two views since the wheeled chair had proved to be premature .
it was three days ago that harvey had won two hundred francs from me shaking poker dice in the new
” “the first time , ” he said .
there was still sunlight on the opposite side of the square but the gondoliers preferred to be sheltered from the
' i ' m sure my hair was never that long over my shoulders .
" i gave her some birds .
“i just love sheets , ” he said .
some chink .
“ready , ” he said in that low , hoarse voice that did not belong to a small boy .
“ils sont des sauvages , ” fontan explained .
and down and flapped the stiff fingers , and said : " and will i too play football , captain-doctor
' ' then i suppose i should go home .
thank you again very much .
it also faced the public garden and the war monument .
” roger lay back and listened to the noises that came up from the street below and read the papers
the taxi coasted down a smooth street to the puerta del sol , and then through the traffic and out
ham and eggs and drank coffee with condensed cream in it .
i think he was sure , but he did not want to make any mistake .
he opened a bottle of white rock and poured some alongside of the ice and then swirled the lump of
“you’ve got to get dressed , stut , ” he said .
" i ought to stay , " he said .
” roger relaxed .
he can’t stand alcohol .
” “it’s true , ” the other , with the wine cup , said .
to hell with it .
“but they won’t strike , ” nick said .
but i never wore a bow tie in my life and i am not , nor ever have been ,
it’s an hour later tonight and two hours later than when you found him .
how are you , paco ?
the doctor wiped his gun carefully with a rag .
” asked one of the men in the car .
" tu ne peux pas , " fontan said .
he ' s watching .
“well , ” said guy , “he went twenty kilometres with us .
wait to hear it bounce .
the whole staff .
“i mean chase them from cars .
he could see the hopper in the little waves of the current .
he was nervous , and i did not try to help him any .
some were on the road and the second outfit gave them a small carefully hoarded burst .
it could have been a marlin or a broadbill or a shark .
don ' t you find it like that ?
“he thinks it’s all right .
could put your fist in , if it were a small fist and you wanted to put it there ,
we had never had wild ducks , since they are of such expense , and outside of our way of
" " that was nothing , " brett said .
“probably we wouldn’t even be going fishing tomorrow , ” bill said .
only asphalted street in all that quarter , smooth under the tires , with the high narrow houses and the
we passed a wine-shop with a sign in the window : good wine _num_ centimes a liter .
if he thought about it , he would be gone .
' ' manamouki , ' said m ' cola and nodded his head .
the window it was snowing .
" " i am very glad to see you , nicolo .
through the window i saw two men come up the front steps .
' i have done that myself sometimes , the colonel thought , and did not ask him what the anger
the town had evidently been defended , at the last , from the line of the sunken road and there
” “darling are you very , very brown ?
the colonel looked for added greenness close to the road but could not note any .
you saw too many people ski-ing now .
“come on , you polak son-of-a-bitch , ” jack says to walcott .
' ' me too , ' i said .
he has a nice practical looking place .
before he came to the staff cars he turned to the left and his head still held high in that
' go ahead then .
we are the intruders and after we are dead we may have ruined it but it will still be there
toto !
in all of his stock rather than send him to the ring to be killed .
” “not with it like this .
" oh , my christ , " she said .
i ' ve had such a hell of a time .
" what part of the states you boys from ?
i ' d rather have fun .
" " lord , no .
” “yes , ” he said .
i ' ll give you the turns .
” she kissed him and held onto him with both her arms .
" " he thinks _so_ .
you put the gun away .
but i ' ve got my wolf back , " he touched the sheet with his tongue .
' damned dangerous .
“not until i can get it ready .
“i have flit on my feet , ” she said .
and dressed to go down into the dining-room for breakfast .
” “four , ” said baldy , “out of a crew of six .
” “there is an accordion player who is worth something , ” the thin man said .
i want to go on and on and on .
" " you mean that you won ' t .
it would be too expensive .
" well , " he said , " it ' s all over .
” we went inside , crossed the lobby , passing the night watchman at the concierge’s desk and the night
the trees were black and moved in the wind and there were no leaves on them .
" what do they call it ?
and how is your thing going ?
i feel good , but funny .
" the uniform is not very correct , " nick told them .
its neck was wrapped in silver foil and on its black and yellow label there was a horseman in armour
” he slapped her again quickly .
the truly unpopular guest .
the shooter sat on a shooting stool fastened to the top of a box that contained his lunch and shells
i’ll go back or i’ll stay just as you want .
" he lies there , his eyes are open now .
and each pass as it reached the summit gave you a sudden ache inside .
it was raining .
" the girl stood up and walked to the end of the station .
the hell there wasn ' t !
i ' ll pic for you and if you don ' t go big to-morrow night , you ' ll
the old man felt faint and sick and he could not see well .
” “and you had to leave them ?
" that ' s something .
' ' will they stay there ?
' she smiled .
i walked across the avenue and turned in to my office .
” “i wish we’d gone .
he jumped .
he ' s reserving himself .
' ' i don ' t know that we did .
sinclair lewis is nothing .
say something pitiful .
meaning this was a bull of bulls .
i didn’t come out here to be dull .
” the champagne tasted like sweet pink cider .
once in the afternoon the line started to rise again .
all right .
' ' homer wrote _ulysses_ , ' pop said .
we unwrapped the little parcels of lunch .
tried to walk as slowly as i could and put a handkerchief inside the sweatband of my hat to keep
and make a dream you ' ve killed a man .
there were still some trees between us and the open meadow below and we were behind a small bush and
" " il est catholique , " i said .
we had very severe discipline but no formality except when we were back at division or when we wanted to
second onto that rod and the rod bending like a bow , and then the butt caught him in the
_num_ d roman soldier—what’s the use ?
george laughed .
, then came back to us .
” i went in the perla and sat down at a table .
it was very interesting but there were no results .
“but what you have to do is keep your feet in good shape .
" jack asked .
” “he cahnt be a gentleman , ” i said .
very ugly .
” “i wash the glass and the ice .
" " that ' s it , " jack would say .
it is very pleasant .
" the killers the door of henry ' s lunch-room opened and two men came in .
as a boat , it is fine , too .
" " the man in the dead-house---- " " get out of here .
pop and p .
jack rose with george the barman .
everyone was rich now and we had lost no one and the place was ruined .
the day ' s fatigue helped make the decision easy .
' no luck ?
a big trout broke out in a violence that made a slashing wake in the water .
only with our best wit .
' ' i _know_ i hit him .
rose-pink of the flamingoes .
” “i’ll see you tonight or in the morning , ” suzy said .
it is just a decision as the one about crying .
grey , big bellied , long necked , small headed , and with big ears , they moved quickly into
you got it .
that lifted and swung with the tide while the east wind blew a heavy steady sea outside the entrance to
” “i am sure .
” “boy !
a little later he went out of the café with one of them .
a word of .
?
she had just been brushing her hair and held the brush in her hand .
' ' will you marry me and will we have the five sons ?
it’s pretty late in the summer .
one whole end had caved in ; it was that started them ; making it cold up that slope the
" " no , not now .
better get a load of this .
macomber shot again , aiming carefully , and down he came , onto his knees .
we ' ve made two-thirds of the way now and if you are worried about having to work to break
' you must be most careful not to mention him , my dear .
' who had trieste in that war ?
' i could feel the liquor and the fatigue drain out of me and the excitement come in .
take the big gun .
” “but you have a feeling of happiness about action to come ?
" this isn ' t chicago .
" what was yours ?
elliot was learning the touch system on the typewriter , but she found that while it increased the speed it
in a little while i won ' t be able to remember him at all .
" i thought he must be figuring on taking an awful beating if he doesn ' t want to go
' ' which way did they go ?
is it wrong ?
“aren’t i old enough to go now ?
there is very much sensation in that hand .
” “worse probably .
gap in the hills and shone on the cornfield , the huts and the blue hills beyond .
seems some chap had left them to be cleaned .
then came romero .
“i’ll wrap it around the rifle and i’ll bring your moccasins and my moccasins and i’ll change to different overalls
” “you drop it in the box , ” mr .
" let me take the glasses , " bill said .
i explained to them that i would be back .
taking away all things before , and all to come , bringing the beginning of bright happiness in darkness ,
went into the woods on the wide clay and shale road , cool under the trees , and broadened for
two gun-bearers .
' what would you like to know , daughter ?
" steve knocked him down , " peroxide said .
if the price is right , i am going to buy it .
” “you saw it .
and where i had led it now pleased me very much .
another dry martini .
men and boys bought full-length colored pictures of him to remember him by , and lost the picture they had
bill flashed the spotlights on cars alongside the road in the trees , making the occupants change their positions .
he could feel he was inside the current now and he could see the lights of the beach colonies along
” in the dark he went into the strange country and it was very strange indeed , hard to enter
the thing had come that he had expected and known would come and that he had waited all one fall
” that’s why she came along , nick thought .
some time before daylight something took one of the baits that were behind him .
” “it’s bad .
" then some more delirious stuff .
i have no luck .
he must pull until he dies .
he was very excited .
that was the crowd .
he was short , big-fisted and very dirty , with a stubble of beard about the same length as the
get started .
he looked at it and put it back in his pocket .
to observe the dead of mules .
bill said something to cohn about what to do and how to look so he would not mind the horses
” “you have forgotten the package , ” the waiter said .
“ho !
we were the only people left in the restaurant .
' ' you can ' t do that because the shoot is on sunday .
rocks and the pines and the snow and all the pointed steeples---- ' ' _campaniles_ , ' the colonel said
" if it was a man---- " " don ' t say that .
” “she has a kind heart , ” said johnny .
” “it was a trick , ” peroxide said .
” “we just have one pretty hard stretch and then a really hard stretch and then we’ll be there .
the dentuso is cruel and able and strong and intelligent .
that ' s been understood .
you never even thought about it .
there they were all very happy .
it was a good thing it was me , he thought .
" " i won ' t .
" we go too long without sleep in these fiestas .
i better just give her my love .
nobody ever talked about it .
then they sat at a table placed directly behind the late flit king , who lay on the floor looking
it always fools you .
we were jammed in tight and first a man in a long coat with a gray tall hat and a
the girl was looking off at the line of hills .
what comes into your head first .
the wrist of the prisoner .
john said , “where do you think they went , suzy ?
and its products a good name ; and these sisters had paid his way on the auto-bus to madrid and
we got the bejesus beat out of us .
wheeler i’d say everything’s going finely mr .
" i ' d better take the bags over to the other side of the station , " the man
" want to play some cribbage , john ?
if you are religious remember that what you complain of is no sinful state but the means of consummating a
not just to let my life pass .
he was still quite drunk but his head was clear .
” “i don’t want to go , ” kate said .
i’ll think about that here underwater .
” “i’ve got a big greek from chicago that will go anywhere .
] no , come on .
" " i ' d like to try them once more .
' ' no , let me ask the price .
it too , and jack sort of lifted his shoulder sharp and caught him against the nose , and then
' i cannot buy new books now but we can always talk .
" be calm and strong , old man , " he said .
' if i had a joint or a roadhouse or some sort of an inn , say , i could
he got up into the front seat , making two who rode there beside the driver , and the four
” then the cook spoke up .
" " yes , that ' s what you would say , " mrs .
i couldn ' t have her marrying a foreigner .
" asked the biggest one , who had very thick lips and was quite fat .
already she can ' t have another baby .
are you feeling better , francis , my pearl ?
the man next to the window smiled at us and the guard lit the cigarette for him .
” he tapped his head .
“if you don’t know what we’re talking about why not keep out of it ?
have you ever seen arrow wounds ?
nor see him .
strange country foreword when papa and marty first rented in _num_ the finca vigía which was to be his home
' the _gran maestro_ is really very responsible .
then she sat down across the table from krebs .
' he sits in his pyjamas and drinks the beer , and then he goes up to the fort and
the old man came up .
they were swearing at him and flopping the cape in his face .
' ' you ' d make an awfully funny verlalne , ' the girl told him .
" what ' s the mechanics of this place ?
" he took a big gulp of coffee .
and he smelled sweet and lovely like the breath of cattle and the odour of thyme after rain .
nickie , do you believe in god ?
the kudu complicated the hunting .
" i ' d be too excited .
" he ' s just as gentle .
they had minds , yes .
" you must get well fast for there is much that i can learn and you can teach me everything
” “a convertible with good rubber .
' old man , ' i said .
get up ?
" " how about another bottle around ?
we were all a little detached , and there was nothing that held us together except that we met every
of her name and my head just out and rested there and then i swam over to the skiff and
“you bet your life he is , ” bill said .
“there’s nothing we can’t get out of and nothing that won’t blow over .
but the fish only continued to swim at a slightly higher level .
sing would flop just like a fish , true , his loose arm flailing , but i got him forward
' but i won ' t think of anything or anything nor of nothing nor of his brother , to-morrow
it was dark inside and at the back of the room three girls were sitting at a table with an
“fix your eyes on the uniform .
” he smiled .
to baton rouge on a new road that was being built so they made many detours and then they had
so all the country to the westward was a loss in the evening and in the country we could hunt
other in the eye and at their hands and forearms and the bettors went in and out of the room
comrades kept coming in to use the bathtub and the room smelt of smoke , soap , dirty uniforms ,
” walcott doesn’t say anything .
” we went down the hall , manolita , me and the tall englishman , and found the boys had
they had hitched the mules to the dead bull and then the whips cracked , the men ran , and
" we walked along under the trees that grew out over the river on the quai d ' orléans side
that makes them three francs something apiece , johnson thought .
my wife has decided to divorce me .
” “do you like it here ?
you don ' t want them killed any cleaner than that .
we can play some bridge there , and there ' s going to be a damned fine fiesta .
she thought this was the best way to do it .
” then he felt embarrassed at asking it and before macomber could answer he went on , “we all take
we have better pictures in the house .
” “i know it .
as bad or worse than in the illustrated papers .
the martin johnsons lighted it on so many silver screens where they were pursuing old simba the lion , the
how they wish each other luck !
“say , signor tenente , is there something really the matter that you can’t sleep ?
the train was due in at nine o ' clock from san sebastian , and , if brett and mike
it ' s all part of the same process .
" i always keep my appointments .
” “he’s gone to drink at my colleague’s , the löwen .
' ' i ' ve got three of them in the back of the car , ' the colonel said
“my boy is political commissar of the machine-gun company of his battalion .
and dropped down the channel with her .
after a while we heard the train-whistle way off below on the other side of the plateau , and then
“but this time they’re right .
, particles of phosphorus floated off and drifted slowly astern .
it to be light .
wasn’t anybody but him that was that way underwater .
" you order , " i said .
" is an englishwoman here ?
” the old man sitting in the shadow rapped on his saucer with his glass .
the wanderobo-masai nodded , understanding perfectly , and we trailed back to where the big one lay in the edge
shooting , but shooting in competition with grown men and professionals .
” “the indians were all in town getting drunk .
what is the matter with that son of a bitch ?
' ' and when you ' re not lucky ?
i had to yell it at him .
the gravel was too wet .
you could not tell one from another , he said .
the moon was well on its way down now .
_num_ st roman soldier—we’ll have one more round .
i’m going to .
“get that little thin mexican in here , will you , please ?
he certainly wasn’t much of a business man .
" let us go to the battalion .
what you do to give pleasure to another whom you love is most honourable .
' ' that is different .
but each one would work for a little while .
i was drinking red wine , and so far behind them that i felt a little uncomfortable about all this
wine-seller—good-night , gentlemen .
“listen , mr .
' especially not about the army and navy game and when the very high brass speaks in terms of american
" " then i could stop and pray at the tomb of my grandfather on the way to the ranch
“we’re killing him for a friend .
“i come right back .
he ' s ugly , she thought , ugly and hateful .
” then i told them where to put the two vehicles and where to set up shop and sent onèsime
she did not wake .
who were not chained , were not thrilled by his stories .
he had a nice , boyish sort of cheerfulness that had never been trained out of him , and i
the major lay with his head on the rucksack that he had stuffed with spare clothing to make a pillow
but you did not bring them , old man .
you’re not a gangster .
” “i wouldn’t know , mr .
if they don’t come now they’re never coming .
you’ll have to pull harder than this tomorrow .
he was not at all embarrassed .
' ' i never wanted to know , ' the surgeon said .
d .
“crawl way back in , ” nick adams said .
suddenly , from the back seat , abdullah , very excited , told kamau to stop .
but he liked to think about all things that he was involved in and since there was nothing to read
" but don ' t you kill him .
then his sister was his manager and they was always being written up in the papers all about brothers and
" we drove into the city and i was driving .
' s village in lorries , then pack in with porters so there wouldn ' t be any damned car
well , at different places then .
perhaps it would be better to put it back under the seat , against the wall .
i was carrying a suitcase with my football things in it , and i walked up the street from the
there were signs on the walls of the churches saying it was forbidden to play pelota against them , and
he drank an anis at the bar and looked at the people .
, and purple brown , bumpy with heat and compie looking back to see how he was riding .
he told me he was reading in a book about how you could crease something with a bullet and it
think we called him the local harvard man .
" " do you think it will be too rough on him ?
” “one can , with honor , denounce one’s assailant .
" truly ?
his muscles ached and the day was hot , but nick felt happy .
they walked uphill and the moon came through the trees and showed nick with the very big pack and his
and right now i ' m a better piece than you , you dried up old hot-water bottle .
outside the snow was falling heavily .
and the great sea with our friends and our enemies .
" did you ever see this nacional ii ?
had been dumped on the boneheap ; on the public boneheap .
the bullet hole was fairly high in the back , a little behind the lungs .
“i’m going to marry a mermaid .
horn up , his head on its side , swept a swath smoothly across the sand and out the red
” “i can’t , ” said the girl .
he could tell the difference between the blowing noise the male made and the sighing blow of the female .
we followed droopy back in and it got worse and worse , and i do not know about pop but
jack ' s face was the worst thing i ever saw , --the look on it !
but i did not know if i could do it .
that’s right there was a little delay in getting them off .
they’ve got anti-tanks in those three houses and an antitank battery by the church .
' ' now that she is out of the room we should wish her no bad luck .
we walked out on the bridge and then took a walk through the town .
" " i ' ll festa them , " bill said .
" " yes , about my going to england .
the peasant did not seem to see her .
“you killed the first bull .
” “there’s a place where we can see it .
but i’d like to kill those two sons of bitches .
' but you can ' t fight on luck .
" " you ' ve got a rotten chance .
is a good place to work all right make plenty money only too many oc-toe-pus .
" well , i suppose we got to go eat , " jack says .
and how quiet it got and then somebody saying , “you bloody murderous bastard .
” “will we see him ?
frazer asked the thin one .
frazer thought , is no opium .
" those must have been trying days .
" i tell you it ' s strange , jake .
but using cocaine or morphine or heroin doesn’t make people talk the way they talked .
she saw how romero avoided every brusque movement and saved his bulls for the last when he wanted them ,
the fish was coming in on his circle now calm and beautiful looking and only his great tail moving .
, staying with me in my unreasonableness .
” said peduzzi .
” “are they out of season , too ?
the idea of bringing the elevator down ?
you didn’t think about it because you never lost it .
each day we had seen less and we discussed whether it could be the full moon , that they fed
elliot had prevailed upon him to send over to boston for her girl friend who had been in the tea
“trouble after trouble .
“that’s united states mail .
at breakfast they were all three at the table before daylight and francis macomber found that , of all the
' then we will ride in our gondola in the cold wind .
please , jim .
" " how about eating ?
” “mais vous êtes encore jeune , ” said the porter .
“i’m sorry , manolo , but i’m not pic-ing .
zurito sat patting his horse and looking at the bull charging the cape that hernandez swung for him out under
” “no , john , i don’t think so .
' ' i can kill the son of a bitch if i get a shot at him .
water-jump .
the necessity for killing the priests and the guardia civil .
when i woke up bill was packing the rucksack .
romero ' s left hand dropped the muleta over the bull ' s muzzle to blind him , his left
" he breathed on the sheet and stroked his nose against it .
crowd , first at one side of the ring , then at the other , and then sat down .
" we will drink champagne .
” “you’re not so innocuous .
but i felt bad about hitting him .
the edge of the grass , he made a coughing grunt and charged .
' ' take a spot of eno ' s ?
" " sit down , " i said .
" if you work all day in a book-factory you get hungry .
” “what , daughter ?
' ' should we go ?
i understand it as a weakness .
“only the paper .
they bowed before the president , and the procession broke up into its component parts .
but this one was swaying its head wildly and could not clear the rocks .
thousandpeseta notes toward him .
i had no idea that boy was capable of anything like that strength .
” he went out of the room .
" she said , " let ' s not talk about it .
look again until the horse is dead if it ' s been hit .
' ' i want to learn american so much .
" good , " said mr .
he ate them all through may to be strong in september and october for the truly big fish .
he asked me how many times i had seen him in the ring .
brett ' s had affairs with men before .
richard , what is a jerk ?
sickness .
the drums kept on pounding and the pipes were going .
i wish i could talk spanish .
" the concierge , before she became a concierge , had owned a drink-selling concession at the paris race-courses .
that which i was born for .
“what can we bring you ?
" i respect those who have faith even though they are ignorant , " the thin one said .
the valley and the man looked at her and at the table .
i cannot tell you about it because i have not yet been able to read it .
” nick had not thought about that .
' absolutely , ' i said .
if my fiancé had not gotten himself shot it would have been all right .
off short between the elbow and the shoulder , the back of the hand having hung down against my back
" this is a comfortable café , " he said .
red-hilted on the sand .
heavy artillery to blow them out .
only with the anti-tank now they’re so damn vulnerable .
the hands have done their work and we sail well .
" un français de la californie !
” “there are no foreign countries , maria , where people speak spanish .
” “oh , ” he said .
' i asked pop .
" we were there on our honeymoon .
" " send it up to the room , " jack says .
” “i’m glad it’s her , ” said guy .
the old man lowered the cow sable head .
belmonte was the first .
they went to the dance and they were going to stay over sunday with friends .
" they ' re a damned nuisance wet or dry .
" the beer came .
when i hear the rain i can see it on the stones and on the canal and on the lagoon
' what can i do for you ?
he was hot against her cool body , hunting for it , then it was all right .
the girl ladled some onto a plate for an old man who stood holding a bottle of red wine in
“mademoiselle , ” he called .
" " no , " mr .
brett watched it all .
a deserted paved street that ran to the sea .
“you line up your cuadrilla , so i can see what i’ve got .
specialist and his son were trying to send up fire balloons .
i would take some though in any form and pay what they asked .
there _he_ lived .
“there is nothing to forgive .
it’s the puss moth you know .
she was not at all nervous now .
' it ' s been a long time , ' the colonel said .
' jackson , ' he said , ' that small villa on the left belonged to gabriele d ' annunzio
* * * * * the next two days in pamplona were quiet , and there were no more rows
b ' wana ' .
wilson walked over and looked at the husband and wife sitting there at the table .
rocks , cedars along the bank and white birches , the logs warm in the sun , smooth to sit
' ' but you ' ll get one on the salt-lick in the morning , ' p .
i read when i ' m at home .
the paper was mistaken .
“i’ll get a chunk from the back porch , ” nick said .
' ' i ' m not suffering , sir .
the boulevard raspail always made dull riding .
they stood talking just inside the street door .
if any supplies have come i ' ll bring them down tonight .
you ' ve a big load as it is .
“i didn’t watch them , ” he said .
" " isn ' t it rotten ?
“to those who earn it , ” someone said outside the door .
” she asked seriously .
you aren’t funny .
what’s the matter ?
we never sell the beer before it’s good .
' ' cipriani has a large store of vodka in case the russians should come , ' ettore said ,
maybe she will .
in his right .
” “what is an hour ?
the only thing he’s afraid of is another one of the same kind .
“show it to me when you want to or ask me about any trouble , ” his father said .
i don’t know how long it took him to learn the sounds of the machines but it must have taken
of course , the leader had broken .
the old man knew he was going far out and he left the smell of the land behind and rowed
" you got the most class of anybody i ever seen .
nurses before the season opened .
“open it up , ” said the detective and stepped back .
brett wanted to dance but they did not want her to .
in shooting large animals there is no reason ever to miss if you have a clear shot and can shoot
if he does not do that maybe he will come up with the sunrise .
the branches were high above .
” “if we would have hired a good mechanic instead of a half-baked kikuyu driver , he would have checked
" here , would you like to look ?
" why the hell don ' t you get another cook ?
the bull lurched with him as he lay on , and seemed to sink ; then he was standing clear
' ' should we tell the pitted man that we are going ?
it should be straight hopkins all the way .
i had stuff for a while that i wished i could have sent back afterwards or to their families .
if i ran into her again i guess i’d get mixed up with her again .
and she probably thinks that is the way you have been all the time and that people just maligned you
" in the löwen ?
in the morning the train was near paris , and after the american lady had come out from the washroom
once when we were stuck and i was shovelling and he was stooping over in a frenzy of advice and
“i’m going over to help that poor wounded man .
wonderful-looking horn .
he was wet from the waist down and i knew he must have been wading the stream .
the mountain .
i put on a dressing-gown and went to the door .
they feed from pole-stacked hay .
” he made as though to roll to one side ; then held himself still .
it is liable all to be over before i can get there , he thought .
” i gave him a five-dollar bill of the chink’s .
' my god , no .
the woman sent a girl up-stairs with us to show the room .
" look at that .
' ettore left and the girl turned towards him and looked in his old steel eyes and put both her
bull-fighters are not like that .
” he says .
a baby more than anything else in the world .
he took a drink .
more of a hunter , a faster and a cleaner tracker , and a great stylist in everything he did
“he’s going to be——— .
say you must have got married awfully young .
then we hunted through the wet scrub on the flat hoping to find a track in the soaked earth and
” “you have no business to charge for that .
” “what the hell you doing in key west then ?
have it your own way .
" " i like the beer in cans best .
manuel was tossed clear and the bull followed the capes .
” asked the young gentleman frowning .
“no , ” manuel said .
” “it was stupid to be here at all .
the squirrel fell , wounded , and when nick picked him up bit the boy clean through the ball of
then he was on the surface , floating face down .
if we are to have any sort of accuracy in such things .
well , this shooting had made him look about ten years younger .
fontan felt terribly .
miss baedeker .
he had tried a few practice matches with his left hand .
so i cut them all off their backing--you know , they put them on a strip--and gave them all around
the doctor’s eyes were red and the lids swollen , almost shut from tear gas .
" i ' ve just had a message from them at the grand hotel that they want pedro romero and
he slept for two hours until the morning light woke him .
it’s worth a lot of money to him .
i always wished i could .
recruit porters .
" the bootblack knelt down beside the one at work and started on mike ' s free shoe that shone
' ' m ' uzuri sana .
they probably didn ' t know where they were when they ran with that blow but they come close to
i went down a side street to the boulevard raspail .
it belonged to somebody that wouldn’t sell , i guess .
_ the girl , whose first name was renata , had the doors of the tall armoire open .
the train was coming straight down the tracks now getting closer and closer and bigger and bigger .
the town was crowded .
” “don’t worry , ” said paco , his voice sounding far away .
they came over too high and never circled .
batting eyes !
let him begin to circle and let the fight come .
frankie looked as interested as ever and smiled at him .
on the floor and the bed cover was dusty too and i smelt the dust and lay there with my
even his smell was froze but that wasn’t for very long and he started to put out almost as soon
it was different colored blood and david had thought i must remember that and he had but it had never
" " i miss the wife .
his home at the finca vigía from _num_ to _num_ .
” robert wilson , whose entire occupation had been with the lion and the problem he presented , and who
” “no , but i hope to be .
“do you hurt that bad , wesley ?
" george did not say anything .
up in michigan jim gilmore came to hortons bay from canada .
finally he ' s so he can ' t keep from sleeping .
' much better than mincemeat .
' ' it isn ' t much of a trade is it ?
when he came back into the room , i was sitting in another machine .
“we’ll wait .
" come in , jake .
we took it fairly fast .
” “not through you .
" " come on back in the shade , " he said .
let ' s stand on the one we have and pull out and join karl .
what i couldn’t ever understand was what good the sword would do .
as skilfully as a wrestler breaking a hold and said , now angry , “these are the hungry people .
he adjusted the pack harness around the bundle , pulling straps tight , slung the pack on his back ,
they ate the prunes out of the tin cups and drank the juice .
, ” came a shout from the booze boat .
like henry ' s bicycle .
noticing them by the heat-waves in the air above the leaves where the sun hit the metal .
you were lovely this morning .
i remember the first time i found it out .
he looked back through the window at the three porters sitting at the table .
" " maybe he is spinning around , " said the interpreter .
" what you laughing at ?
it is passing .
what the attack will be , why we are making it , and how facilely it will succeed .
“i guess you have the right to be sleepy .
” his voice sounded very strange .
" " i ' ll cash you a check , " bill said .
finally i took that trail thinking we must get them one at a time , and knowing this one was
“i’d better take the bags over to the other side of the station , ” the man said .
' now i ' ll complete the monument , ' he said to no one but the dead , and
i ' d like to see the coast .
wood dust and long splintered pieces of wood hung like javelins in the tree that had been struck by lightning
the road flattened outside the town .
' we ' ll keep him for a caller or to turn loose in the spring .
” “we will , ” he said .
“or those yellow boys will get you .
“was it billy tabeshaw ?
see that the canvas does not touch the chairs .
nick reached down his hand to touch him , his arm to the elbow under water .
” “where is it ?
i ought to go to harry ' s , probably , or some damn place .
" " well , you only got another week .
took me by the arm and walked close beside me .
” “what did i say about betting on the fight ?
" this is mine , " said bill .
this makes me intensely desirable to the main whore and to all of her circle .
who wants to make a bet on that ?
the number of the round .
” nick asked his sister .
" it ' s yours , mike , " bill said .
” “you were wonderful .
you ' d never have to say a word .
“vice , ” said the brown young man , “is a very strange thing , james .
” “i’ve tried it so long .
“watch him now .
" " i don ' t think i dreamt .
the surgeon had been quite sceptical .
the other two moved down a little more , so that he would be quite comfortable .
' ' i ' m just kidding .
it is the guide , philosopher , and friend of the thinking minority .
he was an old man and very tall .
the dust powdering the trees and down the hill , we had a fine view , back through the trees
” “they’re much further in this time of year .
“hey , jack !
“it certainly doesn’t act like it .
it was early fall and it was on a high upland with sandy roads and trails and the trees were
“what’s really the matter ?
you’d never get a conviction on that trout business against him .
do we want big men--or do we want them cultured ?
“we should have stopped at punta gorda , ” roger said .
' ' who was top gun ?
“i suppose you think somebody shot him in the back too ?
allez voir des amis et manger quelque part .
i believe that the valpolicella is better when it is newer .
that’s eighteen days at thirty-five dollars and two ninety-five extra .
“no , you wouldn’t have .
a drink .
' we can ' t get through there in the car .
” “you’re the doctor , ” hogan says .
thermometer went down to forty below zero .
now juma had worked out the trail and motioned to his father and they started on .
' piga , ' m ' cola said .
i waved my hand at him .
there was braddocks at a big table with a party : cohn , frances clyne , mrs .
” peduzzi wanted them all three to walk down the street of cortina together .
” “you are drunk .
anyway , i guess it wouldn’t have been any good , anyway , because looking back on it i remember
" please don ' t go in again , bill .
a tiny trout rose at the match , as it swung around in the fast current .
” “he said .
he was all for macomber again .
kibo has me too .
the audience disliked the film thoroughly and were protesting by whistling and stamping their feet .
" he says to john .
” the american lady looked and saw the last car .
" good night , " the other said .
make it two to go .
” “we’ll clean up here and i’ll find a place to cache the shells and we’ll make a trip for
it was a lovely day , not too hot , and the country was beautiful from the start .
“the taxi i had got tied up in the traffic and i got out and walked .
“it’s chloral hydrate .
' ' when you ' re lucky .
the doctor chewed the beard on his lower lip and looked at dick boulton .
' my god , ' i said , ' they ' re too tired all right to come , '
two friends , braddocks and myself .
chapter xxxiii ' i will skip the detailed part since you are , justifiably , and should be , sleepy
it was a good bull , a big bull , and with horns , and it turned and recharged easily
" " equally .
“juma says nobody knows how many people he has killed .
one commences and cannot stop .
” “you made plenty of money .
mike lost to me and handed the bartender a hundred-franc note .
wilson looked at them both .
look at the uniform .
two weeks ago when a thorn had scratched his knee as they moved forward trying to photograph a herd of
of the bull .
” “why three days ago in the cabinet meeting he was talking about military affairs .
mister francis , ” the nigger said softly .
” “me either , ” he said .
" " but you went turtle-ing for years off the mosquito coast and your eyes are good .
but he held it .
when that persevering traveller , mungo park , was at one period of his course fainting in the vast wilderness
everybody had his arms on everybody else ' s shoulders , and they were all singing .
“no hard feelings now , are there ?
i was not gay .
” “there is always fear in battle , ” said the first soldier .
at every good pair of cow horns , garrick said , ' bull , b ' wana .
who stood on one leg , scratched the back of his neck and carried a bow and quiver of arrows
' god damn them .
" " why don ' t you pay me some on account ?
look to the lashing on the knife and see if it has been cut .
luck , had a master plan for the envelopment of the city .
then , ' the colonel said .
chart .
" i used to pay him a hundred pounds a year just to keep him quiet .
bull-fight he was suspicious of .
nobody can hear what we say here .
” outside it was getting dark .
" " i ' m all right , " he said .
' ' jesus , ' said the _gran maestro_ .
he wouldn’t have met them at the ritz bar or at chicote’s either in those days .
those little brown ones that rise around the gulfweed .
so if you have loved some woman and some country you are very fortunate and , if you die afterwards
” “oh , shut up and get something to read , ” george said .
growing in them , rising a solid bank beside the stream .
it was early , and there was no one in the café except the barman and these two who sat
and please stay with me always now .
young buckley came in with his patrol from across the river .
naturally i do not refer to the sheets in a hotel such as this .
“i know it , ” manuel said .
" " oh-- " i said , feeling sick for him .
and i don ' t know now if any man will ever want to marry me .
had bought for me to watch them .
“see you , morgen .
“want to go ?
“would you mind going down to the chapel or sending word down to sister cecilia that notre dame has them
the coffee-boy looked away , embarrassed .
“would you write in my book ?
“but don’t go in if you don’t want to .
” the forceful girl asked me .
where fertility , money , blood and iron is ; there is the fatherland .
“there are the two curses of spain , the bulls and the priests .
two apiece if you fight .
that sounded simple , he thought .
' ' by god , you ' re brave as a little terrier .
the one thing about absinthe is that you have to drink it awfully slowly .
' ' you ' ll see .
" " perhaps that was because i wore braces , " i said .
' not really ?
" " where is she now ?
through its own weight .
' ' i ' m never angry .
kudu came out into the open and you sat and waited for the more enormous ones and selecting a suitable
“you needn’t be superior .
maybe it was just because they were drinking .
friends , and put in some extra time at the office getting things ahead so i could leave it in
now she will always be with me .
' ' i ' m not sure it ' s honourable .
fontan smiled at me .
safety and they start sniping at you with the anti-tanks .
every time he gets in close , jack ties him up , then gets one hand loose and uppercuts him
the bad weather was coming over the mountains from the sea .
a trigger in her .
were cattle grazing back in the trees .
his doctor and tame ducks and a screen of moorish cavalry when he shoots .
no more barbs in the shoulder .
good painters .
' ' do i have to ?
is he all right ?
what do you think of that ?
those once fresh sheets .
they were glad to let her .
but the grand plan of what we called shaef , supreme , get that word , headquarters of the allied
they were definitely spooked and i lay out flat on my belly , put my arm through the sling ,
“there it is , ” he said .
" hope not .
' ' i go back so damn far back that it isn ' t funny .
on the other hand his father had the finest pair of eyes he had ever seen and nick had loved
finally they made the last turn and came into the straightaway with this kircubbin horse way out in front .
“i had imagined it was a lugger .
" they go to church , then they fight with knives all the way home and kill each other all
“i’m offering to put you on tomorrow night , ” retana said .
she ' s gone to bed .
any time you saw really strange looking civilians in madrid they were always in the radio .
and he did not know whether to take the one that he knew was a good road through pleasant country
” “it isn’t friends or trusting you .
do you want anything more ?
" " where were you drinking ?
but please don ' t have any emptiness .
" i wasn ' t drinking it , anyway .
“it is not half-past two .
used for anchoring whenever we fished bottom fishing on patches or rocky bottom where you wouldn’t want to risk an
it was all gone , finished .
but i must kill him and keep strong to do it .
" " i believe him , " said cayetano softly .
absolutely nothing .
or maybe it is that the full moon brings him feed .
” “i know what night it is .
looking out the open door you could see the train .
what rot , i could hear brett say it .
he loved to win at tennis .
john packard .
" you ' re right there , sir , " james said .
he came over and sat down beside her on the blanket .
” “do you want to hear about what it’s like outside ?
, that he had been badly wounded thirty years before .
either forward or backward .
" we ate the sandwiches and drank the chablis and watched the country out of the window .
from the shipwreck of slave ships on the coast of south america , enough of them together with their culture
some money , so i prayed that i would make a lot of money , and then i started to
the eggs fried with their faces up .
for home .
' droop wants to go still , ' i said .
' ' they aren ' t worth explaining , ' the colonel said .
” i saw one of them looking at the corner of the door and he saw the beach evidently because
“how little a woman knows .
nick went ahead with the rifle .
feel that he had invented , or at least erected , the colonel as you might be happy about participating
" no , " jack said , " i never liked to go to these wakes .
i suppose it was even though i did it to keep me alive and feed many people .
number of shootings in the old days around valencia under the monarchy , and that for hundreds of years before
" " was she with a friend of mine ?
the trumpet had blown to change the act to the planting of the banderillas while manuel had been working with
rise of the hill toward the plaza callao where the florida hotel faced down the other little hill where the
neck .
merde , he thought , we did very well that winter up at the junction .
he walked down the shady side of the steep street toward the puerta del sol .
" the old man sitting in the shadow rapped on his saucer with his glass .
“did you ever talk through a sheet ?
' they killed several men from the academy at gettysburg .
when he ' s got something supporting it his face doesn ' t look so bad .
there are hundreds of them .
she hoped he would have a great career , and believed in him absolutely .
christ , daughter , you can be a god-damn constellation if you like .
“we had a very fine room and in the fall the country was lovely .
i ' d shoot one but it ' s too late now .
brett was a good drunk .
brennan .
orchard bush and p .
" " many times i do not follow myself with pleasure .
he was worried all the time .
say , you ought to have seen wops look at us sometimes , when they’d come by , going into
because i am not doing too well at this .
” i opened the door .
' please is a pretty word .
he’d hit jack .
fontan looked very old , and madame fontan looked sad .
set up the canvas cot .
his new jaeger bathrobe that he had bought for his wedding trip .
once we got inside the dressing-room jack lay down and shut his eyes .
manuel swung the cape under his muzzle with one hand , to show the bull was fixed , and walked
she had beer in another paper sack .
some men picked maera up and started to run with him toward the barriers through the gate out the passageway
the others follow in the order in which they were originally published .
he ' s just like all these hookers .
he cut nick a big piece .
” “at least , ” mr .
" fine , " jack says .
“i am simply a man who tells the truth .
if you made the market , on this side of town , without ever being stymied , you won the
' he ' ll probably get a fifty-incher .
a few children were picking up rocket-sticks in the square .
some people still thought it was funny , including the forceful girl .
other lives .
' ' let ' s , ' the colonel said .
” “no , ” i said .
now it is over , he thought .
the mast was nearly as long as the one room of the shack .
" it ' s five o ' clock .
" in front of the ticket-booths out in the square there were two lines of people waiting .
" " mais il y a très bonne chasse aussi en france , " i said .
“stick it into him .
” “maybe he’ll never come .
at the top of the shallow northeast trade wind , the brisa .
the glory of office that had been hers when she had helped out in the store , mr .
" " good , " said hogan .
” he called to the bull , “tomar !
a hundred’s a decent range .
would do .
" " oh , yes , " said brett .
it what difference was there ?
all right , here’s the last one .
a depth of four or five fathoms as the load spreads across the surface , the sinkable part going down
' but i spit good now for a man who doesn ' t chew .
” “have a cigar ?
there is romance everywhere .
" he has a little place too , " indicating the small , dark one .
jack would finish up with the weights and the bag and pull on the gloves .
blindy moved on it just the same .
" my father thinks he was the greatest .
she’s got the flag up and she’s walking out onto the dock .
i must save all my strength now .
“alles , ” the peasant repeated to the girl .
“you said it then .
the detective put the handcuff through the handle of a big suitcase .
and don’t get killed .
" i say , harris-- " i began .
that was what they told you .
it smelled of hides and tan bark and the big piles of sawdust .
” “no , but i’m afraid he’s going to die .
seemingly he watched the white horse , but really he watched the triangular steel point of the pic .
” “it was excellent .
i ' ll take that .
” “we’ll be back , ” tommy said .
the houses of burguete were along both sides of the road .
" " sure , " he said , looking at her .
he hadn’t looked away from her since she started to speak .
“she ain’t my girl , ” he said .
tree .
“it was germans .
it should not cramp on me again unless it gets too cold in the night .
, and went to sleep listening to the rain .
" what would you like , sir ?
' ' and your wife ?
” “waiting for the goddam adams boy if he showed .
” “how big was he , john ?
” “you were splendid today , ” his father said .
you don’t wash the vermouth do you ?
” “what about me ?
" " what makes you think so ?
" you look very happy this morning .
' she asked the colonel .
the young man projected from the side of the car like the figurehead of a ship .
it seemed they were all such nice people .
he’s been a member for a great many years .
nobody passed bill from behind , although a spotlight played on the back of their heads for some time until
where will we stay in wyoming ?
the family has a choice .
one hand and held the other tight against the place , and the bull rammed him wham against the wall
" " oh , go and ---- " doctor wilcox said .
the old man was trying with both hands to keep the line just inside of breaking strength .
” “i don’t mean that .
, you know .
i asked her .
the truer i try to make it the duller it is .
promise me we won’t have fights ?
they were both disappointed but finally cornelia went to sleep .
a very dry sound , have vivid colored wings , some are bright red , others yellow barred with black
" " but billy---- " " i no mind billy .
” “he couldn’t help it .
' ' _para sempre_ and his brother , ' the colonel said .
don’t know what started it .
” said someone in the office .
" " good luck , " the old man said .
“you have everything .
we tried it on the front door and the back , but it wouldn’t work .
he couldn’t stand things , i guess .
the forceful girl took two and the young man with the old school tie face took one .
it was the most interesting reading he had ever done .
i had not meant to drink it fast .
he stood up and the little man stood up and they walked down the aisle .
he went out into the kitchen again .
something else to think about .
how would you say her head looks , he thought .
one of the heads of the alphabet .
i like to hunt sitting on my tail .
' a well-fed , gay capital .
" that ' s the way with everything .
“what’s the round ?
after crossing the creek he cut across a field , skirted the edge of the orchard , keeping to the
the elephant was his hero now as his father had been for a long time and he had thought ,
rim .
i don ' t know why .
start breakfast .
, my dearest ?
would you like to have me write out the address ?
still feeling much too good to appreciate any one else ' s gloom , and pop and i sat ,
my god , i don ' t understand _that_ !
where ?
” “i’m remembering from now on , ” the man said .
" it was a long walk and the country was very fine , but we were tired when we came
” “you ain’t got an idea what it’s like , jerry , when you can’t sleep .
his father had spread his coat over him and was sitting by him with a piece of cold cooked meat
” he called , winking at the young gentleman , “come up here and walk with us .
” “do you think they’re through ?
“you’d better put on your mosquito boots , ” he told her .
it ' s an old word .
' ' my colonel , ' the _gran maestro_ said , and he had diminished in no way , '
the old man would have liked to keep his hand in the salt water longer but he was afraid of
” asked nick .
there was still ice in the bucket and the wine was cold and clear .
royal palms , blue sky , and the small , white cumulus clouds that continuously change in shape and size
the next day there was no bull-fight scheduled .
' ' let me look at your face and you not look at mine .
so in the heat the train stopped at dezenzano and there was lago de garda and those troops are the
it to him told him to shoot .
the other girl had a headache and had gone to bed .
“i understand that , but why did the bullets all go in the front ?
he opened it up and held it in his right hand with the blade out straight .
she put her face up to him .
“well , ” i said , “they drowned shelley somewhere along here .
" you ' re not a member , then ?
“you ever seen these fellows ?
but you can say what you mean in it and make it stick .
the hill , flattening now , and the plain spreading , clumps of trees , and the bush flattening ,
with it .
' you ' re in good shape .
went with the ewes ; that in the late summer you found bull elk in bunches too , before the
tell me about it .
' ' then the waiters , ' arnaldo said .
" no monkey business .
they liked boots that rang on the flag stones and took a high black polish) .
" we walked out across the wet grass and onto the stone wall of the fortifications .
it must uncramp .
there you fight your way into a city that you love and are very careful about breaking anything and then
when you see him start to hand me money the second time you put her ahead and hook her up
the redoubt , and i thought about tolstoy and about what a great advantage an experience of war was to
" " i ' m sure your appearance will be very heartening to the troops .
“want to play some cribbage , jerry ?
” “true ?
" it seems the bull-fighter chap was sitting on the floor .
clamp tight .
the hell he ' s ever been a good fellow .
" " ich spreche deutsch , " she said , and stroked guy ' s hair .
" " i couldn ' t stand it about brett .
then in english , ' too bloody tired .
we might as well stay here in the shade .
in the aisle .
ever .
the bill always came .
" " have a drink ?
" " you never know .
" i don ' t like any of it at all .
" want to go for a walk ?
way to kiss .
he had borrowed carfare to go to chicago , when the wire came that his first big well had come
chapter xxiii the colonel arrived at the lobby of the hotel gritti-palace .
held them tight .
her hair , in the light from the hotel door and window , as she stood on the dock by
" like that .
he should have hit somebody the first time he was insulted , and then gone away .
then it went slack .
" " what the hell do you put it on the card for ?
" did you have a good night , jake ?
she was very nice .
into one of the steers .
" they ' re not much , " retana admitted .
there was no hardship ; but there was no luxury and he had thought that he could get back into
sweating heavy and he’d just be dogging it along with his eyes on my back , but when he’d catch
" the canary shook his feathers and pecked into them .
' give me an oar , ' the shooter in the sixth boat said .
to me it is more real than anything .
" " i ' ll kill him though , " he said .
" the taxi i had , got tied up in the traffic and i got out and walked .
“up back of the camp .
that was before the lovers .
then three more came over farther down the wall .
jack stood about half a head taller than he did .
finally , after a couple more false klaxons , the bus started , and robert cohn waved good-by to us
“you think so ?
plane that burned and not been able to bale out before the fire reached him .
" " no , " said the count .
cape spread wide , stopped , swung on his heels , and brought the bull sharply around facing zurito .
" we couldn ' t get the wine .
some interlocked to make a solid shadow on the brown forest floor .
my prayers .
i thought she was looking for another cigarette .
back was and how brilliant his spots were colored and how bright the edges of his fins were .
him down , or cutting down across the hill through the timber , and m ' cola and garrick were
' ' where is the island now and in what river ?
' give me another compliment , mr .
” “captain , ” said mr .
how are you , you worthless old pig fucker ?
big-game fishing records , and had just shown himself , very publicly , to be a coward .
i put them in salt in the box .
i’ve loved africa .
" " listen-- " says the referee , and he gives them the same old line .
” they wheeled him in , thin , his skin transparent , his hair black and needing to be cut
' so they held each other close and kissed each other hard and true and the colonel took the girl
i rather think so , you know .
second waiter .
do you want to hear , robert ?
' it ' s air-conditioned in the summer and it ' s warm in the winter and i don '
oh , quite .
air came out , and at ten feet the nigger shot him in the belly with his tommy gun ,
” he shouted .
“i was showing off i guess .
that’s all they’d need to make it perfect .
don’t you know that’s against the law ?
” the other man leaned forward .
about riding down in egypt , or at st .
' ' missouri .
i took the shotgun , which was heavy to carry and banged against my legs , and the two game-bags
but fontan , il est crazy pour le vin .
" give me the stuff .
tilted on its side , spills off its load into the blue water , turning it a pale green to
' ' what _have_ you been drinking ?
had overcome it by adding on to the heel .
my father doesn’t need to kill elephants to live , david thought .
his line was strong and made for heavy fish and he held it against his back until it was so
“i can’t drive you home because i only live just down the road .
three times .
that was where the liaison colonel came to visit me .
they were all about the hospital , and how much she loved him and how it was impossible to get
he couldn ' t even read and write .
" we paid the bill and stood up .
' from the start , ' kandisky said .
then , later , when it got bad , it was probably using that weak carbolic solution when the other
“it’s just around the corner from the garden .
i’m getting awfully hungry .
he came in , furious for some reason , no kudu possibly , pale , and gaunt looking and speaking
“that’s about right , ” he called .
they came up , all these things of the house , and you didn’t send any money while you were
it is better to be light-headed than to lose your strength from nausea .
i went to a hotel in the town where i had stopped before , and they gave me a room
negro standing .
for your information i’m one of the three most important men in the united states today .
' ' i think that is soundest , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
dropped their loads .
" why didn ' t you hit him with a chair ?
them fourteen to nothing at the end of the first quarter and that it ' s all right .
when they seen him go up there they didn ' t want any of it .
but it was not important .
' ' lay off me .
i introduced them all around and they started to sit down , but there was not enough room , so
" al asked max .
" " i said you ' d live a long time .
you ' ll inherit well over six feet four of it .
” the headwaiter said the cook had gone home and there was no fire in the kitchen .
there was nothing but the pine plain ahead of him , until the far blue hills that marked the lake
“skill in the use of , ” he said .
one hour light .
" " i am , " i said .
side of the pack and they would all be smutty postcards and lots of people would dig down and buy
“let’s undress .
" fontan said .
” we drank some more wine and watched the road and waited for the point to come up .
” “but you practice self-criticism and you talk like a book .
” “good , ” roger said .
' i ' m so pleased , ' the girl said .
“it’s a good town .
" i just want to get my money ' s worth .
" " that ' s the way , " retana said .
” “how much are they worth a head ?
ahead , close to the left bank , was a big log .
line of the river .
when we leave here .
if you take him out of there you will have to carry him right back in .
they were professional hunters and he knew now that was why juma would not even waste a smile .
after he’d just weighed in and my old man had just weighed in too , and came out with the
in strategy you take him from the sides .
oh , you ' re too sweet , " she said .
i figured that all out once , and for six months i never slept with the electric light off .
" i asked him .
he picked up the two cant-hooks .
please ?
“you know how worthless a nurse i am .
' ' take the canvas upstairs to my room , ' the colonel said to the concierge .
we ' ll take him .
you go straight to the hotel and see if she’s there and if everything’s all right .
come up to the porch .
" " shut up , " said al from the kitchen .
” “and you ?
wilson looked at him appraisingly .
he had been taught to cut .
they were ten centavos apiece and i told her to keep the change from a peseta .
“two krauts on bicycles , ” red said .
people climbed over the fence , and i could not see the man because the crowd was so thick around
but the spell was broken .
” there was a certain amount of moving around going on below but i wasn’t spooked about them .
" aren ' t you interested ?
' you are in a fixed position , portrait , ' he said .
_num_ d roman soldier—you’ll get into trouble doing that some day .
" sometimes , my dear .
” and three days later we left milan for good on the turin train for paris , after an auction
' daughter , ' he said , and he was talking to her and not to a picture now .
' with us , if a girl is really beautiful , she comes from texas and maybe , with luck
but i would rather have it bent and dull and know i had to put it on the grindstone again
' i asked karl .
branches of the trees .
manuel looked back .
a form of putting the dishes in the sink until morning , i held the flashlight for m ' cola
in the dark he found a water bottle and took a drink .
i carried a leafy branch and swished away at the back of my neck as we walked and we hunted
i looked for sharks but there weren ' t any .
” “i don’t lie to you .
over the chairs to dry .
he was happy about the girl , whom he respected and admired , and he was happy for his colonel
it’s better to be catholique if you’re catholique .
, and how the sword pushed in as easy as into a mound of stiff butter with the palm of
" what ' s that for ?
i wished he would not do it , though , because afterward it made me disgusted at myself .
“i hate that damned noise .
he cut six slices .
” “three weeks today .
, just a little of it through the pain that was always with him , it had been discounted and
good fellas .
i can’t talk to you if you’re not here .
if so , i would come and simply be with you and care for you .
“listen sergeant , i got to go to the can .
didn’t you ever ?
' ' i ' m going to give up smoking for six months for you to get one , '
henry j .
” “you speak french ?
listened to the discourse , speech , or harangue and attempting , in the small way a lieutenant can attempt
he knew that this nausea would increase steadily , without there ever being the relief of sickness , until something
you love me , don’t you , sheet ?
pressing so that they were happily and kindly , darkly and warmly at home and without pain in the darkness
the nights were cold and the days were hot , and there was always a breeze even in the heat
aloud , he said , ' where are you getting on that call , arnaldo ?
" " two hundred francs is a great deal of money .
' at what age do you become old in this country , the colonel thought .
" they ' re all reserved , " the dining-car conductor said .
i feel bad .
tree trunk and read in tolstoy ' s _sevastopol_ .
drawing the blood off from a wound in a vein of the neck made by shooting an arrow at close
" " yes , you know it ' s perfectly simple .
“wait , ” the bicycle man shouted from behind the car .
but i tell you he’s right .
" be ironical with her .
' why not ?
i mean it really .
" it ' s in the cash box now and you can pay me .
” “from me , ” said the smallest one , “he won one hundred and eighty dollars .
there ' s more at the other camp .
, comrade , ” al told him .
and you are a fool , to do it any other way .
“i know .
“the eleven o’clock train .
“i love onions , ” she said .
cleaned her out .
and look at renata ' s eyes , he thought .
of the hills through the pine woods , and then out to the edge of a meadow and down across
" " what did i say about betting on the fight ?
' m ' cola went by with a load , his big , flat face completely blank again .
especially odgar .
“rye , ” the man said .
floating belly up in some pool .
you did not need a girl .
he waved to helen and to the boys and , as the clatter moved into the old familiar roar ,
” the manager leaned over the table in great confidence .
to gather them .
' you were just thinking about the rapido .
“do you feel better ?
” “why does juma think he knows where he’s going ?
the waiter saved chairs for the others , and we each ordered an absinthe and watched the crowd in the
' beer , ' said m ' cola .
the other said , ' i wouldn ' t tell a chicken colonel if i had .
' ' thought by god we ' d eaten , ' pop said .
' ' i fought enough to be classified as a fool by the great thinkers .
he put the apple butter jar back in the pack and cut bread for two sandwiches .
yes , he said , maybe you will .
they do not seem worth risking your life for , so maybe he just wanted to have a drink in
' he brought one of the big german litre bottles and opened it .
blindy felt it before he put it in his pocket .
she knew what the baskets were worth that the indians had brought in and that it was too late in
” “not if you act rough .
we’ll go to have a look at the blood spoor .
' three men usually get out of the five (that are inside) and they run like broken-field runners that have
it means more to you .
it was cold in the fall in milan and the dark came very early .
everybody will write their book sooner or later .
so that they would come automatically .
developed and transformed it into his famous novella , the old man and the sea .
she saw me notice it .
it can come from unboiled water ; an un-pulled-up mosquito boot , or it can come with the great ,
the shade of the stern .
tell him either he must behave or get out .
beyond the burned place we came toward the stream and stopped , sweating , in the shadow of some very
i didn’t .
it ' s a deflexion shot , he said to himself and they didn ' t lead me enough .
it got dark and we could feel the country hot and sandy and dark outside of the window , and
” “i’ll work too .
they made the water smooth and deep above them .
then they were steady to see across the ocean which was rough now with the increasing breeze .
" " come on and utilize another glass , " i said .
correct me , _gran maestro_ , if i fall into error .
bill put in a lump of ice .
they made less noise and would not tear the meat up if he could not get head shots .
the man was urging two tourists to buy .
the germs of influenza can only exist in an acid condition , he explained .
john said very quietly .
you know hemingway the poet ?
a big one .
” “what kind of juice ?
' ' i always love the shoot , ' the colonel said .
" " oui , j ' aime la bière , mais fontan , il est crazy pour le vin .
i’ll send you his letter .
” we stopped in front of a frame house .
“you look very well , sir , ” james said .
' after dinner we sat by the fire a little while and then went to bed .
" poor old mike .
' four times .
i have loved but three women and have lost them thrice .
at least to start with .
the eye , there was a white belly ; but it was no bull .
fear of my father .
” “oh , nickie , i wish you wouldn’t sell them .
“do you think we’ve given him time enough ?
a boy about fourteen came out from the estaminet and asked for the new bicycle .
" he brought it and i took out my fountain-pen and printed : lady ashley hotel montana madrid arriving sud
“you’ve never lost anything .
in gear .
" where will we go ?
he woke with the jerk of his right fist coming up against his face and the line burning out through
you get to think like one of those vast-spaces-of-america writers , he said to himself .
pretty terrible .
" i haven ' t seen madrid .
so white and clean and beautiful and smooth and fast and like a tiger or like lightning .
didn ' t do a thing .
valley .
i didn’t feel like fooling with him .
we ' ll try to get a rhino out of this country of droopy ' s and then you join
“anyway , i want a cat , ” she said , “i want a cat .
" say , " bill said to me , " have i got any chance on that bet ?
" they ought to take this damn humidity away .
' ' i was a spare-parts colonel at the start , ' the colonel explained carefully .
' ' yes , b ' wana , ' said the old man .
" " he does not like to work too far out .
i straightened up and went over to the shade of a big tree .
they had packed some tinned fruit , a five-pound piece of roast meat , bread , tea , a tea
it must be very strange in an airplane , he thought .
even his lies were not sensational at the pool room .
“what’s holding it up ?
they found touraine to be a very flat hot country very much like kansas .
each time a shell bursts in a building it makes a great cloud of brick and plaster dust and when
” “nothing very practical .
' ' is that what fighting ' s like ?
kilimanjaro is a snow-covered mountain _num_ , _num_ feet high , and is said to be the highest mountain in
' ' we were six .
could see it steaming .
" " she hasn ' t any money with her ?
whisper in his ear , " wipe the egg off your chin , jack , and straighten up and fly
" still i would like to hear you talk some time .
why didn’t you poison him ?
quite properly i am sure .
leaning on their spears and waved .
he slipped a bill into the second waiter ' s hand .
i’d have gone anywhere .
the last was “old man at the bridge , ” cabled from barcelona in april of _num_ .
it will be a long time before we will need it .
' ' there must have been a world of ducks outside .
makes you liverish .
so she had to go with it and in the dark they were running with it trying to go through
" he was like a photographer arranging for a group picture .
” the other porter shook his head .
, thick-necked , dark-maned , wonder-horned , tawny-hided , beer-horse-built bugler of a bull-elk .
“besides how it seems it’s going to be wonderful and then it turns out dull ?
' so he rang the bell for the waiter who would bring breakfast .
he folded the star open and propped it against the water pitcher with his cereal dish to steady it ,
' ' and i drank grappa and could not even feel the taste ?
" j ' aime beaucoup shooter les canards .
" ho !
he sat in the chair and read the paper and watched her sleep .
“i’ve known him for a long time .
had never known of .
then i ' ll have plenty of time to get out in the country .
' ' i understand , ' the colonel said .
” they got in one car and we loaded all the stuff into the other .
" i don ' t want staring at just now .
then flopping on the road .
' ' you could give it to the local museum .
do you think it is the same to wear stones that come from dead people ?
are you afraid of him ?
but nearly everybody , ' the waiter said .
[the third roman soldier drinks the cup down .
mike acted as though nothing had happened .
“nada .
” “oh , anything , ” said wilson .
cape .
carts were jammed solid on the bridge with camels bobbing along through them .
in five years , i thought , it will seem just as silly as all the other fine philosophies i
your lorry is on the way .
” “how are your kids ?
comfortable canvas chair in the breeze and the shade .
for each year , something that made you superior to other people , something that gave you more complicated habits
" jack says and skips away down the floor , slapping the rope hard .
' ' as i was telling colonel phillips , ' kandisky began , shifting his leather-breeched behind and crossing one
nothing wrong .
his head .
" it seems it is very bad .
it made another big flapjack and one smaller one .
i heard the door shut and my father put all the bags out on the ground .
he felt it coming on now .
" he was a thin little boy , but his face looked sixteen .
" " i can give you ham and eggs , bacon and eggs , liver---- " " i ' ll
“wasn’t it a swell race .
" we only have double rooms , " the clerk says .
" we had another bottle of wine and georgette made a joke .
but i would like to be checked out more thoroughly .
ask the boys about it .
" what a speech !
it seemed like a hell of a joke .
" " when does the fiesta start ?
these were relics of his wife .
' ' i ' d rather take the displaced engine boat if you don ' t mind .
nick did not go close to it as he knew it flowed under the banks and he did not want
just try and be calm .
“i am a diplomat , aren’t i ?
one hears them shoot all night .
what’s it to you ?
“paco said , ‘that was a cowardly and foolish thing .
part iii previously unpublished fiction “a train trip” represents the first four chapters of an unfinished and untitled lardneresque novel
“i will keep it very carefully , ” harris said .
eyes .
, and after i read the paper through i sat there and looked out at the country and the road
i think it would be better if you didn ' t come up to the line until you had those
” “just the same .
she said “my god , schmidt est catholique .
” “what do you mean , harry ?
would you like that in writing ?
' ' then call the house and ask for permission .
" " come off it , michael .
then cohn said he wouldn ' t hit him again .
“wash it off .
two of the station porters sat drinking new wine at the table under the clock .
" or you ' ll have to make a book and give me some of it .
he ' s really a good shot .
who are the crooks and the tyrants and how to get rid of them .
“it’s not natural with me .
” “i don’t need it , jack , ” i said .
” “i could see him better from here if he came .
your gs live in the c .
” “good trout , all right , too .
when the spanish civil war broke out in the last week of july _num_ , he was a staunch supporter
he went over and sat on the logs .
home is going to be wherever evil is strongest and can be fought .
a little behind the others that were strung out in that steady plunging gait ; and then , the car
" you think so ?
sometimes he turned to smile that toothed , long-jawed , lipless smile when he was called something particularly insulting ,
' but he ' s a good lad .
other subject .
" yes , sir , " he said .
the man was steering in for woman key now .
“but her screams are not important .
his mouth was dry again , but it was excitement , not fear .
it is fresh from kandoa , unsalted .
' ' do you know a lot about painters , sir ?
” “i’ve got a headache .
, travelled forward , assured that relief was at hand ; and i was not disappointed .
but it was a sloppy way to fish .
' ' we ' ll get one .
i looked out of the open window at the white road .
apple trees when they are in blossom .
there they were drinking , getting ready for the fiesta .
” “the keeley , ” william campbell said .
boats , lieutenant-colonel of infantry without knowing how to command a company , nor a platoon properly , the great
' good night , ' pop said .
” “encore un coup manqué , ” said onie and everybody felt better but not too good .
" he ' ll tear him in two .
” nick went out the farmyard and down to the barn .
send your mind adventuring .
you get your good dope always from the people and when you can ' t talk with people and can
" " none of you gentlemen is divorced ?
" two hundred and fifty pesetas , " retana said .
” “one time a fellow comes here came to me and said he wanted me to cook them a big
and the grey stone .
he fell forward and bugs dropped the cloth-wrapped blackjack on the grass .
the hungarians were backing their wagon out of an alley .
" " you don ' t have to get sore .
" " ride you , doctor , on the day , the very anniversary , of our saviour ' s
or , if i did wrong , i am sorry .
" " i am very happy you have come .
then , “get a little broadside and take him in the neck just behind the ear .
' ' it is a way of ending a day .
another sudden lurch by the fish and he stood up and braced himself and held his hand up against the
' we came on a dead run but the bull was out of sight in the timber on the hillside
nor what they did finally .
“aren’t you taking a pole , nickie ?
“good night , ” said hogan .
“i’ve never seen one , ” the man drank his beer .
” trudy nodded .
there were ducks laid out on the ground in rows .
the bacon was curled brown on a fresh-cut chip of wood from the piece of fallen timber they were using
if the boy was here he would wet the coils of line , he thought .
" that was about five o ' clock on the day before .
i went on a long way .
there were other short fighters , and he had never succeeded in imposing himself on the public’s fancy .
' we camped under some trees near three big wells where native women came for water and , after drawing
" there ' s nothing wrong with you .
i wrote out an itinerary so they could follow us .
he emptied the can of apricots out into a tin cup .
the roman was standing making an oration with gestures in the direction where the light was beginning to show and
voice and wanderobo-masai kept slapping me on the shoulder and jumping up and down and then one after the other
" don ' t he ever sweat at all any more ?
“come on , ” i said .
' ' i ' ll only need the flask , ' i said .
this time i’ve really got the answer .
' ' good , ' the colonel said .
perhaps i can get some marsala .
was be there .
” “i’ve drunk enough .
nick put the basin out in the kitchen .
at the etoile i took elsa maxwell ' s butler prisoner .
the major leaned his head back on the rucksack and smiled .
" " what about it ?
we had been up since before it was light and now it was almost half past eight .
we can get more .
he had once drunk a bottle of milk and peeled and eaten a banana underwater to show off , had
at the tables .
brett started to lift the glass mug and her hand shook .
we washed , put on sweaters , and came down-stairs into the dining-room .
the only difference was that now it was hotter at night , the road in was hub-deep in dust ,
' i have known you a long time , colonel .
except the infantry .
it was a competition that belmonte would not enter because it would lead only to a bad horn wound or
m ' cola had p .
very nice .
paper bag .
he had given the big rattlesnake to some indians that had come in to trade and they were pleased with
about day after tomorrow we will start to make real distance and not be tired by it .
top of the trees , and the grass very green , we walked up on him like a posse ,
" stop at the nearest bistro , " i said .
” “and the gay ones are all dead .
manuel , standing in the hallway , felt there was someone in the room .
then he said , ' doumi , doumi , doumi !
pop had brought us here and pop would bring us out .
as good as i can , he told his conscience , and i’ll write at least four good ones .
“let’s eat somewhere simple , ” guy said .
” “wet , ” i said , and he laughed with his head on one side .
” “he never had a chance to do anything to us .
now that he had seen him once , he could picture the fish swimming in the water with his purple
g .
chapter _num_ outside the bar milano i found bill and mike and edna .
they were white on the edge with a black line behind and then there was the lovely golden sunset color
daylight .
" all the happiness went from madame fontan ' s face .
the barrel whisky had all been gone for many months now and we finished the last of the yellow gin
his kids and me went to the same schoolhouse .
" " they were damned fine .
there was some italians come too , and they want to stay with us too .
then as he stood there it was silent and he could not smell the elephant .
' ' everybody ' s right until he ' s wrong , ' his best friend said , adding ,
at irun we had to change trains and show passports .
' kandisky said , and he spoke on to her .
" " oh , yes , i saw them .
" doctor wilcox said .
old man .
around the cooking fire , all laughing at the tripe bag over my shoulder as we came in .
“it’s got a swell , smoky taste , ” nick said , and looked at the fire through the glass
" " you ' d have a hell of a time explaining that to these sport writers though , "
it was a long hunt and we came back to camp and decided to send the lorries for porters and
when he looked up , finally , he asked for a drink of water .
i always thought it would be better for one to trail slowly and the other cast ahead but this was
” she said when she opened her eyes and rolled toward him and smiled .
we ' ll get one another time .
it’s just down the street .
' hit .
he was a hungarian , a sad hungarian , not one of the cheerful kind .
now we come into the good part .
" i don ' t want to eat yet .
but it sounded very good .
but those people certainly wear funny pants .
" " pick up with his old girl , probably .
; and at six o’clock you could get the morning revellers in minneapolis .
” “i hope we won’t live somewhere so that i can never go to pray at your tomb when you
” “i’m not , ” nick said .
also a retired colonel ' s pay .
that is what kills the eyes .
” “where’s he going ?
' this got a laugh from the wanderobo-masai , who was getting to look a picture of sick misery .
the hook would imbed itself in his jaw .
marcial was the second .
she looked for you to say good-bye .
he was a patriot and inflamed by hearing d ' annunzio talk , and he volunteered before his class was
john had said .
” “if billy goes away .
my god , yes .
i never gave her anything , as she pointed out .
“you go around on the other side of the counter with your boy friend .
i stood out in the vestibule and george opened the door so i could see out but there was only
“put that bottle away , ” i said to him , “or i’ll blow you out of the boat .
” “no coffee .
” he asked me .
“it’s right here in the cash box .
he is .
" oh , go to the select .
let me get it out !
walcott had just weighed and was standing with a lot of people around him .
and afterward they come back and say they want to come again and have another party the next saturday ,
” “you don’t know his name ?
“he puts lemon juice on his hands , ” the man said .
" you can take it or leave it , " retana said .
' ' yes , ' she said , sleepily and comfortably .
these were four men and four bicycles .
black ass at the cross roads we had reached the cross roads before noon and had shot a french civilian
" have some more ?
could hurt ever again except the pain , and sitting on the bed he leaned forward .
it is as though i were inferior .
trotting , their lean flanks swinging .
" i dedicate this bull to you , mr .
” “what creek ?
, it became a contest and one after another dropped out of the running , waving and smiling as they
" i ' m not mrs .
the man had handed him the knife because he knew from experience the colonel cut closer to the shell than
it is much too late for that and there are people who are paid to do it .
she had never written like that before .
” “where did you come from ?
you shouldn’t drink .
i found i could only remember back to that attic in my grandfather’s house .
” “swiss money ?
' people talk at a table as though the waiter were stone-deaf .
had to wallow against the current and in a deep place , the water piled up on you .
or go to church .
what became of them ?
they were all around me ; crazy yelling .
” “get me the two quarts , ” i told him .
but it was quicksand she ' d hit and when they opened the tanks she went in stern first and
he wished he could see it .
" paris is a fine town all right , " said the count .
' ' what happens to people that love each other ?
clusters of canvas rope-soled shoes and hams and slabs of bacon and white garlics and long sausages hanging from the
" " we will bring beer .
" i am happy about what has happened to my mother , " he said .
' ' no , ' the girl said .
he had traded it for security , for comfort too , there was no denying that , and for what
" you be in town before the fight ?
“there are no russians in extremadura , and there are no extremadurans in russia .
the northers , in the winter , pile the sand up and close it .
” “very hollow .
“damn crook .
' then move a great amount .
” “i said we could have everything .
" " brett .
' shoot the rhino too .
the plate .
engine .
his hands were scraped and there were sand and cinders driven up under his nails .
’ that the last thing i remember for two weeks .
dusty afternoon with a big crowd watching , and now , with a broken back , was going to learn
' ' if it is your order , ' the _gran maestro_ said , ' i can only obey .
" " it is a historic tune , " the mexican said .
they did not crisp tight nor hold on the wheel .
but there was a spring by the road and they both drank at it .
” “i wouldn’t know , ” suzy , the hired girl , said .
it was dirty luck and a great misfortune and was it true that all my works were in it .
i said the copies were there too .
you couldn’t talk much and you did not need to talk .
and we could not find it again .
' ' it ' s the last damned day though and the lick may be rained out .
there was a pontoon bridge across the river and carts , trucks , and men , women and children were
” “let’s get the drink , ” said macomber .
“a quid would be plenty , ” wilson told him .
that they were geometrically clear .
it was made heavy to lift back in the air and come forward flat and heavy and straight to make
he felt the light delicate pulling and then a harder pull when a sardine ' s head must have been
my nose was bleeding and i stood on the bow of the liner with my bare feet on the letters
way , except a little toward the last , and then it wasn’t his fault , he was riding over
the crowd were running fast now .
he swung with his left again and landed and the gunner fell on him and grabbed his coat and tore
he’s a cold one , though .
' ' that i can promise .
“what i was thinking about when you went downstairs was that you could go to paris and then to london
" " what did he say ?
they went off through the trees and then stood at sixty yards , the thin , graceful buck looking back
how every one he had slept with had only made him miss her more .
first to keep from spilling , then meditatively , sucking the apricots down .
the captain told me to go because of the artillery .
as we started along the road he turned and walked back toward the inn .
so to-day he brought her in to be buried and the priest , when he looked at her face ,
' the concierge and the second waiter were holding it and looking at it around the edges .
superintendent of schools .
to jump on the ice-coated mounds of brush several times before they would flush .
we had been there on that plowed field men could not cross and live .
we tried one as a porter .
but i could not take a motor car .
she had missed the chance to leave him and he knew it .
how what she had done could never matter since he knew he could not cure himself of loving her .
" " they ' ll be dead then .
" far out to come in when the wind shifts .
' ' you ' ll have to give me a certificate .
would come out .
i couldn ' t squeeze it and i corrected from my flinch , held my breath , and pulled the
’ now isn’t that something ?
” “what i wanted to tell you was that drinking this made me feel the way i feel when i
long .
" " could i help you ?
“encore un coup manqué , ” said onie .
i want you to do that every morning .
he turned and locked the door .
" there ' s a queen for you .
make yourself into a claw .
' i am sorry for all the stupidnesses i say .
sooner or later it would come .
me , with long hair .
manuel profiled toward the bull , sighting along the dipping blade of the sword .
“i was going great .
” “no one dies for nothing , ” said maria .
” “it’s very bad .
faintly rosy khaki , her dark hair drawn back off her forehead and gathered in a knot low on her
tongue of foliage along a dry water course that cut the open swale , macomber felt his heart pounding and
up and ran wildly back toward the trench that they had left when they attacked .
” “that’s a good book , wemedge .
nick went over to the pack and found , with his fingers , a long nail in a paper sack
“she ordered them for dinners tonight .
" i went up to him and found him in exactly the position i had left him , white-faced ,
he was being very careful .
it was going .
don’ you uderstand ?
” “what’s he drinking ?
" we looked out at the plain .
' wonderful , ' he said .
that was not what it was about .
about the half-wit chore boy who was left at the ranch that time and told not to let any one
" but there was a moment when i could not find you .
there was deep water right up to the edge of the bar and i went along the edge of the
' ' god damn it if we don ' t .
the sun was high and the light came in over the top of the snow .
while he was picking up the hoppers the others warmed in the sun and commenced to hop away .
the edge of the cape was wet with blood where it had swept along the bull ' s back as
" it was bill and mike .
” they are , he thought , the hardest in the world ; the hardest , the cruelest , the
“i thought you’d be interested in these things as a government man .
she gets five hundred quid a year and pays three hundred and fifty of it in interest to jews .
“but i never wanted to get shot .
very .
my own room was locked and i could not find the key , so i went up-stairs and slept on
tomorrow they won’ have anything to drink , and then they’ll be sorry .
i’m too nervous .
“with fear there is thirst , always .
but he wanted the cigarettes so badly that it did not matter .
he had sailed for two hours , resting in the stern and sometimes chewing a bit of the meat from
“god has some work for every one to do , ” his mother said .
now he speeded up as he smelled the fresher scent and his blue dorsal fin cut the water .
” “she’s not a bad girl .
they become leaders .
i knew that if i moved toward them they would at once move off out of range so , when
and forth , back and forth , ducking and dodging .
he came over to the table and kissed renata ' s hand , saying , ' ciao , renata .
lifted , swaying as the nose searched for the wind , was another rhino .
the detective saw the blood under the door .
sing but i could see the cuban standing in the stem of the boat holding the sculling oar through all
' ' i like them , and cypresses and chestnut trees .
it has great benefits .
i ' ve wasted two years and a half on him now .
the hiss of compressed air , administered courteously and free was home which was all oil-stained cement everywhere , all
_] _ _num_ d soldier_--you ' re a regular christer , big boy .
i tried to help him and suggested by signs that we cut a pole and sling him , carrying him
things were not the same and now life only came in flashes .
people went to the corrida to see belmonte , to be given tragic sensations , and perhaps to see the
' and when i put my hand up to my ear to listen the guide said something to m '
i gave him the key of the cash box .
“which would you rather do ?
" that ' s awful funny if he ' s catholique .
but i will try it as long as i have the oars and the short club and the tiller .
” “don’t you think we might all be buried at a convenient place ?
we’re probably being followed by the game police now .
” “another bright boy , ” al said .
" " except the wife , " i said .
“i was engaged in contemplating a terrific spectacle and i was ob-livious of the fact that i had any wingmen
on our return to milan i recall one or two of us discussing the occurrence and agreeing that the quality
required it to take clients out into the country to show them a piece of farm property .
“got a watch ?
” “you ought to buck florida politics some time and see what happens .
finally , after organization had been established , labour troops hauled them out at night and buried them close to
eddy went forward and lay down .
then we bought , and then we all went out into the sunlight and the heat , and climbed back
take our skis and go on the train to where there was good running and then go on and put
of her and the feeling was warmer and softer .
and late .
“go on to the meeting , ignacio , ” he said .
the jagged end of the tiller would fit in the slot of the rudder well enough for him to steer
" you ' ll be drunk , " the waiter said .
but though we stayed until eleven o ' clock nothing came .
no one was stirring down-stairs , so i unbolted the door and went out .
” “i come here for coffee after dinner .
indictment , evidence , and condemnation without a word being spoken .
i don ' t want to drive him into that wind .
' ' why is he not out with you ?
" " no , " ole andreson said .
“and we did it .
' ' no , let ' s go in .
i thought perhaps this had been the last clear hot day ; unusual heat before the rains .
" " i ' m just start ing .
we were all hunters except , possibly , garrick , and the whole thing could be worked out , understood
“in a day coach , ” the man opposite us said .
" " tell him to tell the truth , that he is going to die , " the detective said
our mother will think we’re fugitives from justice steeped in sin and iniquity .
the miracle .
" the girl wore a one-piece dress .
” that old willie is a good skate , harry was thinking .
' ' i agree , ' the colonel agreed .
" " i wish he would go home .
i watched him walk back to the café holding his paper .
" did you really like it ?
' ' do you dislike him ?
" did you ever smoke opium ?
they cleared the tables and carried the bottles into the kitchen .
manuel walked toward the bull .
we walked along .
i am all confidence .
' ' now we ' ll draw for choice of beats .
she was always thoughtful , he thought .
queried as to whether this was the guide whose name we had , the old man admitted he was not
' pop asked gently .
" i don ' t remember what it was about , but it was a lovely dream .
' ' they get hard if you don ' t take them .
probably i read the same two pages over several times .
noise at first , then crashing in the brush when he was well away ; and we never saw him
i think dad probably waited for me .
“and it digs under the bank and it digs down .
in the middle of the next bay .
piles of magazines which accumulated in one of the office rooms of the embassy .
it tastes like licorice and it has a good uplift , but it drops you just as far .
he turned around and offered his wine-bag to bill .
' ' i was only thinking about the car , sir .
cohn was still talking to brett .
” “instead it’s like it will be tomorrow .
i know it’s a weakness and silliness but i make up stories to myself in the daytime and in one
” “or that they didn’t back up and deploy .
” “why don’t you learn ?
i was sorry i was such a bastard about the camera .
* * * * * mr .
jack hadn’t drunk anything since the one drink .
, started to choke , barely recovered , and lowered the bottle .
i have many books of notes on them .
but there’s some pictures and stuff they’ll like to have .
the people one would see if one saw whom one wished to see .
” “that’s why they build cathedrals to be like this .
undressing , i looked at myself in the mirror of the big armoire beside the bed .
some of the younger fishermen , those who used buoys as floats for their lines and had motorboats , bought
but he looked pretty good to me in there to-day .
" montoya asked .
“the train is coming , sir , ” he said in french .
they all ended the same .
profound personal relief to turn back .
“it wasn’t low , ” he said .
show he comes straight down here , sometimes in his pyjamas just with a coat over them .
the doctor and the doctor’s wife dick boulton came from the indian camp to cut up logs for nick’s father
clear and blue and unimpressed as it was ever before the tug hauled out the scow ; and the palm
" that ' s what you want to do .
leave me alone , i tell you .
he was a man i would be glad to spend half my time in hell with ; and may yet
' ' we ' re not beaten , ' said pop .
shoe-shining .
he was pop ' s man and i believe his working estimations were only from day to day and required
music and the debutantes , or the waldorfs men’s bar if they let girls in .
' ' don ' t you think we could do it once more ?
and the wide , forward-pointing spread of his horns .
, waved his hand and the gypsy ran out , trailing his cape .
another absinthe for this señor .
see how long my conscience holds out and when i have to go i’ll go to it and not worry
" you were blind !
“it’s his fight .
the old church at torcello in favour of our great patron , brusadelli , the revered one ?
when i heard him go downstairs i went down after him .
i decided they must be in the radio .
he wouldn ' t sleep at night and he ' d get up in the morning feeling that way ,
” “it is a historic tune , ” the mexican said .
” “can you get it just like that ?
crawl on literature will not praise them .
she ' s over-fendered right now .
the goddamned friend killers .
he came up for air just under the projecting edge of the dock and climbed up the ladder .
the woman who ran the hotel would not let me pay the bill .
” “not yet .
“he’s pretty bad , ” i said .
i had the start on all of them and i knew i ought to get whatever there was .
his whole chest felt scalding inside .
these are ruffled grouse .
those good breasts and those useful thighs and those lightly small-of-back-caressing hands , and as he looked and saw her
“no foreigners shall come here and talk against our war .
" " that would be different .
you ' ll never be able to remember any conversations that way .
the men had moved off up the road to sit in the dark and smoke out of range of the
' then she came into the room , shining in her youth and tall striding beauty and the carelessness the
you ' re always drinking , my dear .
that and the fact there are no vistas .
to-day we are giving the snapshots , the bar-room confidences , the unwanted comradely drinks and the tedious woes of
” “carry him out , ” said a flyer .
gee , i could listen to my old man talk by the hour , especially when he’d had a couple
” “she has a sick headache and she can’t see you .
just then the hyena stopped whimpering in the night and started to make a strange , human , almost crying
then , to me , “i am very sorry .
some of those streams i still remember and think that i have fished in them , and they are confused
seen the lesser kudu leave the salt when he heard the lorry noise while we were in the blind .
, ' i said .
' what the hell have you got to lose on that resolution ?
watch the way they brake with their wings and the long legs slant forward to land .
ain ' t you a jew ?
' but not the best dressed .
he knew that half of him had been destroyed .
" " oh , i don ' t know .
” “that’s a closest i see fascist since fuentes del ebro .
are modem paintings—and poetry—art ?
him were all part of a regular progression in which she had built herself a new life and he had
“it’s given me a dreadful headache .
“still has lots of gas , ” said paco .
“that boat ?
as he smoked , his legs stretched out in front of him , he noticed a grasshopper walk along the
" the drummer chanted .
an irishman don’t draw in new york like a jew or an italian but they always get a good hand
i heard the gun going and , bop , bop , bop , there were bottles smashing all along the
" it was part of his system of authority .
the mountains to pamplona .
nick crossed it , his boots ringing hollow on the iron .
“don’t be afraid , ” the major said .
" " they ' ll kill him .
john knocked at the door and came in .
can only see just about so many madonnas and it gets him .
i had shot rottenly all week and he had shot beautifully but drawn almost impossible birds and he had bet
went out .
i never walked in it that it wasn ' t fun .
“go on , hopper , ” nick said , speaking out loud for the first time .
the young gentleman paid five lire more .
" oh , to hell with him !
bill said he would be damned if he would leave his dinner .
the other horse was up and away by himself , jerking his head and galloping with the bridle rein hanging
” “fort meade , ” the waitress said .
' ' i never cry , ' the girl said .
” “i’ll go in , ” the girl said .
beside him sat the cook .
she does not receive and she sees almost no one because of her sorrow .
was about the same in one as in the other except you ate better in the pilot probably , although
come on and kill me .
" they sat on the terrace and many of the fishermen made fun of the old man and he was
you can ' t have an idea what it ' s like .
“well , i tell you now .
" don ' t touch me , " she said .
" don ' t argue with me !
started it again he jumped up and went dancing down the street with them .
they would go now in a little while , he thought , and they would take the cucaracha with them
y .
" and you think then we ' ll be all right and be happy .
" he writes the books himself , " he explained to madame .
this time it was no protest .
' droopy smiled .
she was very afraid of something .
i think i felt his heart , he thought .
no , ” he said .
“i hope you didn’t lose your temper , henry .
” “good , ” he said .
" " how do you want me to look ?
he was conscious he must do all this , but his only thought was in words : " corto y
the steer who had been gored had gotten to his feet and stood against the stone wall .
" i can lash my knife to the butt of one of the oars .
" we sure did .
a wonderful reputation on the coast .
and i’ll try to be good to him .
" " i ' ll get all right .
the old man .
“we might have a look , ” wilson said .
it had been a very fine experience .
they were very tough and they had very good taste in building .
fill her up and check the water and the oil please .
to work was the only thing , it was the one thing that always made you feel good , and
the colonel continued .
” “don’t you put in any water ?
“how are you feeling ?
hundred yards away , showing big and very dark in the shadow .
first the chicken ; then the egg .
“i don’t know why it was .
' ' there ' s a boat doing that over there , sir .
the turkey brown-bronze and lovely as he stepped onto the road , stepping high-headed , then crouching to run ,
" aren ' t you going to show a little irony and pity ?
after the dinner we were out in the town .
” i pulled out a hair and george reached for it .
" you won ' t until he gets frightened , " i said .
the season does not open there until august .
" " is that why he drinks ?
" i think he ' s dead .
at school in france the boys told me you can’t live with forty-four degrees .
liking him she opened the door and looked out .
i ' d been intending coming up each day .
but no one ever commanded from that far back in history .
" i got up and walked over toward the dancing-floor .
' ' that ' s what makes a woman a universal favourite , ' p .
hubert elliot was taking postgraduate work in law at harvard when he was married .
all the rooms we looked at .
" " there ' s a line of them .
all of them .
“you still have your bag .
jealous .
” the canary shook his feathers and pecked into them .
' i ' m going to have a gimlet .
in a short time the friends began to drift back to paris .
robert cohn shook hands because we were back .
at the bar a tall , very tall , man , with a ravaged face of great breeding , merry
peduzzi had been watching it closely .
with coast guard and with planes .
, and he was a champion .
i held the wheel with my knee and opened up my shirt and saw where mr .
i ' ve had such a hell of a happy life with the british aristocracy !
' maybe i ' m not .
i liked the way they talked .
" asked the chauffeur .
we heard the hard ta-bung of their shots which had no effect on the cyclist who kept on pedaling until
the breeze high in the tops and the cool light that came in patches , and billy said : “you
they do not see it ashore because they do not know what to look for , he thought .
fifteen to one .
wide , the tracks grading up into the timber and there was blood , plenty of it .
” the capital of the world madrid is full of boys named paco , which is the diminutive of the
” she drank the neat whisky from the flask and shuddered a little when she swallowed .
the men came in to supper feeling hilarious but acting very respectable .
“old james , ” the other client said .
nick leaned over the side of the log , found a hard place and lit the match .
we walked over to the table .
coming along the road on a bicycle , getting off to push the machine when the surface of the road
the grass was green and smooth , short as a meadow that has been mown and is newly grown ,
' ' were you with von lettöw ?
i didn ' t hear the first bellow .
it means for pleasure .
” he said to tom .
the germans we saw coming now were on bicycles .
i looked at him standing there tall and hollowcheeked with his mouth loose and that white stuff in the corners
” helena asked .
true .
now it doesn’t matter what your score is .
i taught you to shoot , didn’t i ?
' did you love your wife ?
“give me the letter , ” hogan said .
michel , passed the tables of the rotonde , still crowded , looked across the street at the dome ,
" so i gave him two copper coins .
said , and they went out to the car .
are you warm enough ?
some from his lot and i put a piece between two pieces of liver on a stick and started it
we could see the reeds swaying where the two of them were moving and then it was all quiet .
“as a mark of confidence .
" because i do not know what the fish is going to do .
” “could you have been my father ?
i told you i’d come back .
want to .
it is better than working crossword puzzles .
when they stopped the music for the crouch he hunched down in the street with them all and when they
" want to go ?
but i was getting plenty worried because he owed me eight hundred and twenty-five dollars .
but i want to save you first .
that men make their own faces after fifty .
" we ' ve been thrown out , " edna said .
i .
manuel walked across the sand toward the barrera , while zurito rode out of the ring .
* * * * * a month later p .
“the state contracts them out to the turpentine and lumber camps .
" " i should imagine he would be very interesting .
there was only the heavy sharp blue head and the big eyes and the clicking , thrusting all-swallowing jaws .
you just rest and leave it as it is .
and something to eat .
” outside in the dark street , al said , “jees he’s kind of confused politically , isn’t he ?
he was an old man with a bald head and very old-fashioned manners which the war had not changed .
" you ' re holding him again but you cannot get line .
leather case leaned against the fence .
the first sound thing you learn , he thought , is to have flaps and buttons on all your pockets
eat it all although i am not hungry .
the air was fine with the window open and in a little while i was hungry .
he cleaned the knife on his right combat boot and then inserted a brown ten thousand lira note in the
' je n ' ai jamais compris ce que c ' est qu ' un polack .
” “not as far as i know .
, ' it ' s like galicia ' .
read the evening papers and have his aperitif .
” i got the car out to go to town .
” “we have to go , ” i said .
" you ' re too old , " the picador said .
but in that air i breathe is the smoke from the explosion and that make me sick for long time
noise clink in my ears but it wouldn ' t break and i had to come up .
then , too , danger was in the hands of pop and for pop she had a complete , clear-seeing
the pull of the line as he felt the fish turn .
" good-by , " she said .
" " we ' ve got to keep mike from getting so tight .
' pop and i had both been drinking , it seemed .
” “it’s nice of you .
you could have landed and taken off from there quite easily .
" better save some for your ride back , " hogan said .
the red shafts of the banderillas twitching with his walk .
” “we are , ” the girl said .
” “i’ll point out things .
was and still he was worried because this bull cost him so much money by fighting with other bulls .
" " ain ' t got any beer .
down onto the ground .
it had a funny name in italian .
when they want it you’ve got to give it to them .
” “i saw the difference .
the lower fields and the woods of the point to the lake .
' ' that ' s what i was doing in the first place , ' the colonel told her .
' ' let ' s skip war .
” “how was vicente killed ?
" " here ' s how .
i know i’m not good at looking after you but i can do things other people can’t do and we
there were two aiming stones by the side of the road that i had taken from a wall by the
i felt tired and pretty rotten .
” as we headed her out , the moon started to come up and you could see the chinks with
and now we are having run again , aren ' t we ?
sad discovery that the poles had captured no positions at all that day but were a little further back than
' ' were you in spain for the revolution ?
it was an old trick we learned in spain drinking out of wine skins without swallowing .
he didn ' t look at george but looked in the mirror that ran along back of the counter .
“i’ll go get some , ” he said .
then , while the old man was clearing the lines and preparing the harpoon , the male fish jumped high
it was getting dark and he had rigged a piece of canvas behind the little fire so that it would
we went into the bar and sat on high stools and drank a whiskey and soda .
although there are things that say better in english .
only have kate down here .
” we had a couple of drinks without saying anything .
“why don’t you ask some questions instead of answering them ?
” asked another flyer .
taking more chance driving that way across the plain full of holes and one thing and another than hunting on
one naked one and one with breeches in each lot .
' ' about pictures and about books and about life .
my wife has just died .
zurito said nothing .
other things i liked to watch but they were what i liked to do .
when ?
“he’s out in the barn with a couple of his customers , ” i said .
" do look after mike , " brett said .
we ought to get outdoors .
' ' you are quite correct .
i would have sent it when the first notice came .
the true grasshopper is small and green and comparatively feeble .
he watched the small coals of the fire brighten with the light evening breeze and he tasted the whiskey and
” “they can’t make it fast enough to keep you a good man , ” i told him .
arrested .
“ain’t it a life ?
her years had been precipitated suddenly when she started travelling .
you could not crash through the branches .
i can go up to the house tomorrow morning .
that isn ' t the sort of thing she likes .
i went to the door and there was the count .
" does she ?
, by a correspondent , and the order is to take it by assault .
if that ' s what you mean .
high up the bank when droop held up a leaf .
it’s their shauri .
" maybe he ' ll get enough of it , " guy said .
" " bought me a drink .
but that was the location of the brain and the old man hit it .
“advise one of the priests , ” said paco , holding the napkin tight against his lower abdomen .
prunes and some tea and plenty of matches and a hatchet .
” they jogged easily along the pleasant firm footing above the breaking waves .
it was uncomfortable and his legs were spraddled and his body was very sore .
chase down that liver .
” “why did those men go ?
a natural history of the dead[ _num_ ] it has always seemed to me that the war has been omitted
" " i did not ask that .
can .
writing them i had felt all the emotion i had to feel about those things and i had put it
first there was the birds , then me , then the greeks , and even the birds got more out
they either bustled or stood still .
he would not go down to his father’s office .
there was a kudu bull on the lick when we approached through the trees and he gave a loud bark
he remembered long ago when williamson , the bombing of icer , had been hit by a stick bomb some
” “i hate the moors , the english , the french , the italians , the germans , the north
” “i made my report , ” said baldy .
i heard him say simba twice .
" i ' m getting a lit tle sleep .
it was funny to m ' cola to see a hyena shot at close range .
i have a rotten habit of picturing the bedroom scenes of my friends .
good hand .
in the straw as he stopped , his head up , the great hump of muscle on his neck swollen
you don ' t deserve to have a mother .
' s village by the road .
i am good soldier .
" " the greatest italian sense .
beyond the hills he knew the moon was coming up .
i could believe it because of all people no one can be gentler , more understanding , more self-sacrificing ,
' how do you do , my dear ?
inside the cafés men with their hands gripping the table , or on each other ' s shoulders , were
the hotel was a long wooden building with a porch that fronted on the lake .
wonderful shoot .
” “again and again , ” he said .
the darkened room .
” “why don’t you go back ?
" asked romero .
it’s too rough at sea .
" " you watch .
” “well , i care about you .
the wagon went along the road through the woods .
a little while after they were gone a steward went through announcing the first service , and pilgrims , with
the major , lying on his bunk , looking at his cloth-covered helmet and his snowglasses that hung from a
they were good until a year ago , and at that time they were worth fifty to the dollar ,
' ' i dare say , ' the colonel said and put on his trench coat and looked at his
that’s a free day for him and he will have had a rest .
he started to cough and they held something to his mouth .
you’re going to get your can knocked off .
“tomorrow night at chicote’s .
nick looked straight ahead brilliantly .
“what are you upset about ?
it was very light and clear and good , and still tasted of the grapes .
“what was yours ?
wednesday ' s pay-day .
then he pulled up the sack , reached into it and brought out one of the trout .
men would come in from distant towns and before they left pamplona stop and talk for a few minutes with
" " and god , what looks , " brett said .
i had never noticed it before .
' ' you ' re sure the lorry can stand it ?
” “listen to it rain , ” he said .
it was a skull as high as david’s chest and white from the sun and the rain .
' ' i love it , ' i said .
" " not so sure .
and decided that she might as well get what there was to get while there was still something available ,
" i reached up to help her with them and they fell on me .
" " saturday .
they’re wops , ain’t they ?
but it does not mean anything .
“here’s the spring , ” nick said to his sister .
but it is unavoidable .
, suddenly , you find in a ridiculously unbelievable abundance .
“tell me .
i’ll make life so miserable for you—” “yes , ” said captain willie .
awake in the moonlight he knew that was not true .
” “who the hell you think you are ?
" whose wine is that ?
also she had old pieces of hindu trader under her claws .
then at the tent they put her down and everyone , very shyly , shook hands , the boys saying
' that ' s one of the things i would not know .
talking .
“i hurt worse all the time .
" " it ' s one thing i don ' t worry about , " i said .
' ' i ' ll have bad hands in the morning , ' he said absent mindedly .
it makes me hungry both ways .
“it’s pouring , ” john says .
i don ' t know what the word means and i don ' t want to know .
i decided a good idea might be to drive along the road in the car , watching for kudu ,
how big is your biggest one ?
the lens wide and focused on the bull the sun was only lighting the tops of the trees .
" asked the one who did not drink .
the back of the head without any word to paco .
” “you ain’t going to fix me up , ” the nigger said .
" all our biggest business men have been dreamers .
" we followed montoya up a flight and down the corridor .
, and said , “here is a paisano who needs money to go home because his mother is very sick
” liz took her coat off the peg on the kitchen wall and they went out the door .
in front of the machine the major used were three photographs of hands like his that were completely restored .
it was a bowl of pickled pig’s feet and there was a wooden thing that worked like a scissors ,
what if it only lasts that long ?
i would stop fishing at noon to eat my lunch ; sometimes on a log over the stream ; sometimes
he did not want to come home .
clearing .
' you wicked old man .
' ' drink a glass of this .
kid lewis always had about three new dirty things jack couldn’t do .
he looked at her hands , but he did not touch her hand with his .
we lived .
why doesn’t the comrade eat with his unit ?
john , and you can check it .
' and tell me , who is the greatest writer in america ?
' m ' cola repeated and we shook hands again before we went on climbing .
' ' only garrick .
” “you do not understand .
i ' ve told her you ' re asleep .
' i ' m fine .
' i went after the camera .
“you’re franctireurs .
” “i wonder how tom is .
" " well , why don ' t you start off ?
" have another port ?
” “come again , ” the man said and picked up the paper from where roger had laid it on
“how would you like these ?
i heard brett and robert cohn come up the stairs .
jack was feeling pretty good .
is the head any better ?
we went out to walk around under the arcade to the café iruña for coffee .
, nor fights , nor contests of strength , nor of his wife .
' ' i already have , ' the girl said .
suddenly she shivered .
” “you go to bed .
vaguely he wanted a girl but he did not want to have to work to get her .
now the wife .
" he is , you know .
“that’s an old one , ” manuel said .
there are many of them in our country .
” “i wish he would go home .
" " was the man your daughter was in love with a swiss ?
he was relieved to know that para was all right .
bill .
he won’t remember nothing of it .
that had been a fine hunt .
, the horns black and curving handsomely back , there was a white patch on the muzzle and back from
” he wrote it down .
we all felt very badly .
' but enough .
' it ' s a god-damn flat country to fight in , ' the driver said .
" they walked down the road to the old man ' s shack and all along the road , in
where it ought to be .
" i heard them yell .
” “december eighteenth , ” said the sexton .
he had not seen war but he had seen a revolution and the commune , and a revolution is much
now where they were camped for the night his father said , “i’ve never seen that type of francolin quite
" all in good time , doctor , " doc fischer said .
” “that’s good , ” trudy said .
" i was crazy .
service in the end of the _num_ ' s .
can you track ?
either it’s too early or too late or the wind isn’t right or the moon is wrong .
only it’s wasteful .
' do you think that he will be tough ?
then i will tell you what it looks like .
" " oh , priceless , " i said .
” “i can’t sleep , either .
" " she ' s not .
“your girl go home with somebody else ?
“oh , yes , ” william campbell said , speaking directly against the sheet and feeling the texture with his
but in battle there is much thirst even when there is no fear .
' ' do you think that ' s a tough town , sir ?
reverse of the bible .
later it looked as though all of the earth had erupted and the prisoners that we took shook as a
' ' it was not very interesting , ' the colonel said .
garner , ” his wife warned .
" but he is circling .
ask those bastards .
“you know , ” he said , “i missed a lot , boxing .
they walked up from the beach through a meadow that was soaking wet with dew , following the young indian
" i ' ve never known it to do me any good .
that was up on kalal .
' please , darling , ' the girl said .
“the first time they let him look through a pair of field glasses he became a general .
do not think about sin .
outside in the street i went down the street looking for the shop that made leather wine-bottles .
covering them over with beech branches .
' you know that another woman , or a woman in memory , is a terrible thing for a young
he was born in ronda .
you smell wonderfully even in a high wind or under a blanket or kissing good night .
for a long time after that everyone had called him the champion and there had been a return match in
oh most rigorously .
your saviour , undoubtedly your saviour—and the ride for palm sunday .
manuel took off his cap and the waiter noticed his pigtail pinned forward on his head .
" i asked .
" " i don ' t like it , " said al .
" " yes , " i said .
” “can’t eddy do it ?
nearly lived on the boulevard du temple that time , and i remembered the look of that apartment , how
he was tired and very hot , walking across the uneven , shadeless pine plain .
he hung the pack up on the nail .
not enjoy the rest of my life .
he was wiping all that out now .
" he went over in a corner and sat down to read a book .
week-end .
“what time is it ?
they are worth nothing .
frazer saw them but he did not feel like talking , and when they went he knew they would not
the girl brought in a glass dish of raspberry jam .
" " i ' m very curious to see them , " robert said .
” “there was a cat , ” said the american girl .
he filled the pitcher with the dipper dipping cold spring water from the pail .
' the rhino looked so huge , so ridiculous , and so fine to see , and i sighted on
the first copain who had a bottle in his shirt which showed when he stopped and presented arms said ,
i suppose it is just the loss of the immortality , he thought .
and , going in over the horns , put the sword all the way into a little spot about as
” “looking at you , you cock-sucker , ” mr .
' he walked out after waiting carefully for his coat , swinging into it and tipping the man who brought
" " i don ' t know , " mr .
you rub onions in your eyes .
“james , ” one of the clients addressed the barman , “you’re looking very well .
“those are retana’s boys .
' just then the barone alvarito came into the dining-room .
, gesturing , talking .
three more tourists had stopped and were watching .
” “they got a cure for that , ” “sliding billy” turner said .
we get on well .
firm , the muleta curving and at each swing the crowd roaring .
' ' do you suppose the word gentleman derives from a man who is gentle ?
i only said i would like to fight under you in such times .
it was a good story but there were still too many people alive for him to write it .
the rebound from his discovery that he had not been everything to his first wife .
tell him i denounced him then , will you ?
that ' ll hold me for to-night .
“you won’t miss them so much you won’t be able to love me will you ?
garner sat close together on the front seat .
" " you talk silly , " al said to him .
he was always very disappointed in the way i shot .
via in madrid .
" what ' s holding it up ?
he came like a pig to the trough if a pig had a mouth so wide that you could put
we worked the car through the herd , finally , and coming out wound our way through pleasant looking bush
two taxis were coming down the steep street .
those who were aficionados could always get rooms even when the hotel was full .
’ things like that .
she went straight down the hall and into romero ' s room .
he’s watching .
i want to see him again .
you went to sleep .
“please give them the bottle , ” frazer said .
kamau was very modest , quiet , and an excellent driver , and now , as we came out of
“yeah , ” said george .
missing is very bad too .
” “do you want to see him ?
the lid came up and coffee and grounds ran down the side of the pot .
" dolphin , " the old man said aloud .
“where did you know mr .
if an operation was successful they were happy to have motion pictures of it .
“isn’t love any fun ?
en france il y a seulement les catholiques et les protestants--et très peu de protestants .
and not be seen and make them bring the crashing thing close enough so he could make a rush and
in the morning there was a big wind blowing and the waves were running high up on the beach and
” “what shall we drink ?
then we ' ll drive back in the night .
" what did you do ?
spain had not changed to summer-time , so i was early .
" " sometimes .
' how were the ducks ?
my ground-sheet tent was slung between a tree and one side of the chicken coop and i sat down on
“that’s what we drink to .
" brett pulled the felt hat down far over one eye and smiled out from under it .
our mother’s gone to bed with a sick headache .
he didn ' t say much , but he kept getting up and getting knocked down again .
“number _num_ , mr .
" i said nothing .
if she gets homesick i’ll have to take her back .
lateral vision was just a condensation of flat , low country in the winter .
“i’m sorry i fouled your boy .
" well , what will you drink ?
“now , you pray , harold , ” she said .
well spaced as though it were a park .
but i am too tired to say them now .
there was always the danger of having a horse fall on you .
i took a quick one out of the first bottle i saw open and i couldn’t tell you yet what
” “just the ribbons and the papers .
don ' t drink off the floor .
never believe it to see me now , " mike said .
“so what ?
we wanted meat badly .
" he felt very tired now and he knew the night would come soon and he tried to think of
then there’s the rod and reel and the line from today .
' i know about those things .
then the plain was behind us and ahead there were big trees and we were entering a country the loveliest
he felt warm and sticky from the bleeding .
my own are very tenacious .
“it’s too late .
had not been thinking about macomber except to note that he was rather windy , suddenly felt as though he
' ' thank him properly and tell him he can ' t do that .
' ' i ' ll be the moon .
drank cold beer that the girl opened .
" " café select , " i told the driver .
we went down the stairs to the café on the ground floor .
but now , in the bright sunlight , with the snow mountains to the north , and the line of
" " i ' ll get the cast net and go for sardines .
counted it .
“i am not a politician .
it ' s not worth the trouble , ' and he buttoned the gritti envelope , with the stones inside
in the five days i saw a dozen or more kudu cows and one young bull with a string of
“do you want another glass of milk ?
, and slowly pivoting the horse against the pressure , so that at last he was clear .
they make almost none like that and the girl , although she was a young girl , knew one when
there were medium-sized shrimps , grey and opalescent , awaiting their turn , too , for the boiling water and
that’s all .
” “if you have to go away , ” she said , “is it absolutely necessary to kill off everything
" you understand ?
then i come back and got married .
i embraced the wanderobo-masai and he , after a thumb-pulling of great intensity and feeling , slapped his chest and
then you wouldn ' t worry .
i ought to have known better .
you know this is how it works .
i must read them , he thought .
everybody was down there swimming .
romero flicked his cape so the color caught the bull ' s eye .
of the dictionary to tell him .
identification papers .
we’ve got a lot of things , though .
boy .
the other two were dignified .
' but i ' m getting out of the business .
“those guys are poisonous with dice .
ce n’est pas bon de changer sa religion .
i got a guy here on board , some kind of a stool from washington .
showed her yellow card and demanded the patronne ' s daughter ' s too .
" what did i tell you ?
" " i only give you fifteen cents , then , " said fontan .
the island between the toes of the black slaves .
it was just one of those things that you omit to do and that stay with you .
" would you like me to interpret for you ?
he started up the track .
" tell me i live for always , and be a millionaire .
don’t be silly .
he never dreamed about the boy .
into the ring .
roger thought .
” “do you want me to pray for you ?
' jackson asked .
stable and a canal ?
we kept along the face of this hill on a pleasant sort of jutting plateau and then came out to
his sister put her hand in his and walked close to him .
” “you have italian medals .
like all men with a faculty that surpasses human requirements , his father was very nervous .
the other shark had been in and out and now came in again with his jaws wide .
" we crossed the boulevard montparnasse and sat down at a table .
i looked up and down the tracks .
his voice .
whatever he was , we had lost him .
that was one of the swell things you could count on .
i looked back as we went down the hill and saw the two figures , the tall thick one and
" i know you did not leave me because you doubted .
” he asks .
, gay , truthful eyes and the honourable white hair of his age , which was two years older than
' fisi .
" " you ' ll be one .
he ran his finger down the four typewritten names and prices .
" doc fischer said .
" he always thought of the sea as la mar which is what people call her in spanish when they
" you ' ll like that wine , " fontan said .
" i got out with a rag .
his subjects included economic conditions and other practical subjects , but also accounts of swiss winter sports : bobsledding ,
“what was it like , papa , when you were a little boy and used to hunt with the indians
' ' not for nothing are you the _gran maestro_ , ' the colonel said .
seven cows .
i’ll go and talk to them .
“mummy was a great comfort , ” she said .
' yes , ' the girl said .
he was up at once , but far out across the sand manuel and zurito saw the shine of the
' ' that was the trouble , ' the colonel said .
back street that the bulls pass along when they run through the streets early in the morning on their way
” “oh he’ll get the treatment .
travel while you ' re young .
' droopy swears it ' s good , ' pop said .
there was a racing motor car finished entirely in silver with dans argent lettered on the hood .
my body .
' ' please , ' the clerk said .
he and the colonel both remembered the men who decided that they did not wish to die , not thinking
' dan ignored this .
jackson , ” the down-state man said .
" hernandez grinned .
” asked the sergeant .
across a little valley .
in the morning we hunted , picked up a track at a spring and trailed a rhino all over the
he had been talking to george when they came in .
“bring one of the big beech chunks , ” bill said .
" harris was a little tight .
“my matador .
he bought the blacksmith shop from old man horton .
don ' t you know about irony and pity ?
" he ' s big bluff , " trudy was exploring with her hand in nick ' s pocket .
as the heat builds in the afternoons , spectacular thunderstorms that relieve for a while the humid heat , chubascos
" " you are quarrelling , " the lady said .
nick walked around the shallow shelf near the swamp shore until he came out on the shallow bed of the
" he poured out another bottle of beer .
that was the story of the lion .
" the man asked .
“let’s go somewhere else .
all night after he had dressed the nigger’s wound and the nigger had bandaged his arm he had been watching
then when i was in sight of the rebecca light i saw all kinds of birds making over something and
then he saw one on the surface swimming in circles .
“you’ll be stale .
suddenly droopy grabbed me and we both crouched down .
” he stood up .
' no veterinarian will ever fix his horse .
' please don ' t , ' she said .
" " she should have .
it was a lovely sound , even though it was bitching us .
i ' ll get out .
“they’re lovely hills , ” she said .
there was a low ceiling .
" " he has plenty of money .
" just in the gym .
very , very large .
' ' look at mine and i will look at yours .
" " you were in a kosher convent .
the next morning we hunted and saw nothing and the next evening the same .
" the grossness of the words was distasteful to fontan .
he rang the bell and the chambermaid came and knocked at the door .
the commercial bull-fighters stayed once , perhaps , and then did not come back .
darling , ” she said .
' besides i do not belong to the order .
” the road was unrolling now through some scattered hardwood and then across cypress swamps and hammock country and then
" " it ' s better for him than not sleeping , " hogan said .
“great news from the mainland” is another completed short story set in cuba .
" " oh .
i say , jake , do we get a drink ?
' ' you don ' t want anything american ?
haven ' t you got some more jewish friends you could bring along ?
' then someone , angry , shooting too fast to show he was being asked to shoot too fast ,
the campari was _num_ .
the fish was still jumping and he went on jumping until he was out of sight .
of a state for a long time , and walking i used to make up sentences in swahili with arkansas
“sans doute c’était un collabo , ” claude said .
" up back of the camp .
lazare and get on the train out to maisons .
the crowd applauded hernandez as they marched across the arena .
, hard hit but going fast , crossing the valley , through the boulders and going up the hillside .
i looked around the room .
i went as far as the inner gate to the tracks .
" " it is strange , " the old man said .
it was colder than ever and the broken ice re-froze and the calling duck did not even look up now
but he had to go .
” “you’d better come up and hear the game .
” “i don’t really have to go .
" " fear for his soul .
” “have another drink .
" " i don ' t know .
' arnaldo , open the windows .
george reached down for a towel and wiped the counter .
_there_ was romance .
then i got up and went in the kitchen and got a drink of water about half past four and
i don ' t go in america , only sometimes in a long while .
i must not jerk it ever , he thought .
the negro from cienfuegos in the first match .
in a tree m ' cola pointed out a lesser kudu skull with one beautiful , long , curling horn
are you ready ?
' ' kiss me first .
' hello .
an infantryman knows a strange trade , he thought ; perhaps the strangest .
the wanderobo-masai was a shrivelled caricature of the handsome masai we had met in the forest .
the five of us in single file , droop and m ' cola with a big gun apiece , hung
“the mann act would get you , ” said odgar .
it never worries me a minute .
we sat in the white wicker chairs on the terrasse of the café and watched the motor-buses come in and
” the old marlin headed out to the nor’west like all the big ones go , and brother , did
behind the courtyard and the iron fence , to the boulevard du port royal .
' then , as we watched , another rhino came into sight from behind a wide feathery-topped tree .
you gentlemen take a shower and bruce will rub you down .
" " you want to talk a while ?
if not i ' ll come at night when i have something to bring .
she said , ‘hon , take these little old drops .
and knees sharply and minutely , he heard them coming around the house .
it is very possible that i die .
it was bright and the people were all out for sunday .
' ' whatever you decide .
“if i keep it out straight , pulled out straight , it don’t hurt so bad , ” he said
” “i thought maybe you would .
his head low , he swung the gun on a long slant , down , well and ahead of the
” onèsime called .
garner was building a fire in the stove .
he held the rod far out so that the hopper on the water moved into the current flowing into the
” “shut up .
” “he isn’t right , ” i said .
" i want you to shake hands with mr .
you can’t make them move if they won’t go .
“that was where i was .
he was not shy from ignorance , nor from being ill at ease , nor from any defect .
and what had they been through that laughed at him ?
it ' s a face that ought to be thrown on every screen in the country .
“it’s that i’ve gotten so very nervous not being able to do anything .
down into them as you stood on one of the balconies .
he just hasn’t got anything inside any more .
there was the same tightness and the voice did not sound natural .
at the station i did not tip the porter more than i should because i did not think i would
” “when will we see the birds ?
eddy hung the saw up by one of its handles in the crotch of a tree .
" " he was a great manager , " the boy said .
” “i’m not sleeping , ” jack said .
” “all indians wear the same kind of pants .
" you see , i am commanding the battalion , " para said .
' ' best not say anything about that to the game department , though , ' pop said .
arriving where the munition plant had been , some of us were put to patrolling about those large stocks of
she was staying with another girl at the grand hotel .
he watched his sister sleeping with the collar of the warm mackinaw coat under her chin and her high cheekbones
“al , are you all right ?
“it’s pretty hot , ” the man said .
' ' no , ' he lied .
pedro chicote was the proprietor and he had one of those personalities that make a place .
" " many of the confrères present ?
do you get that ?
” “a fall off a horse .
' when i came in the house she was dead across the bed .
' do i bore you ?
" he could not remember the words .
wanted a row so he wouldn’t have to take it out in work .
he woke as she came in , and they talked together .
' there ' s not much water to attract them .
they nest on the coral rocks .
" don ' t get drunk , jake , " she said .
there’re a lot of people in walcott’s corner .
if the boy were here he could rub it for me and loosen it down from the forearm , he
i read about it in the paper .
onie , you fire on the other .
” “she’s all right .
” “all i say is you never had a mother , ” i said to him .
mike thought brett had best sit high up for her first time , and cohn wanted to sit with them
, los angeles , and seattle .
" we had a good meal , a roast chicken , new green beans , mashed potatoes , a salad
[_the third roman soldier tastes the cup that the wine-seller has mixed for him .
i’ve loved the country .
" " look , " said montoya .
her hair and her true breasts under the sweater and then i see the nights in texas with the pin
there were no tracks now that i could see , only the probable line he would take , verified by
i’ll cut one if we fish .
i ' m not gloomy .
the _fondamente nuove_ without a mistake .
what was whispered , it all right now , the boots too , without the heavy socks , much better
i’d shoot one but it’s too late now .
johnson , you’re just unlucky .
" " yes , my dear .
he did not say that because he knew that if you said a good thing it might not happen .
" " why , the dancings .
there were three tins of christmas special mincemeat , three tins of salmon , and three of mixed fruit ,
' can ' t i ride with you to the garage ?
” she handed helena the book .
' ' we could go on the vaporetto for sixty .
” “sí , hombre , sí .
odgar thought it was love that did it .
during the day he had taken the sack that covered the bait box and spread it in the sun to
there must be quite a few up here in the open now , he thought .
every night when he dreamed with sacré coeur , blown white , like a soap bubble .
we walked across the fields on the sandy path .
there was a heavy strike .
he used all the batter .
it is just something that you need .
” “we’ll go there .
i’ve really got this thing beat now .
" trudy nodded .
“better leave him alone .
what hand or eye framed that darked symmetry ?
” “got to go home , ” nick said .
now i don’t know whether it’s safe to take her the trout .
i’m awfully difficult .
” “i can stay awake if you want .
crushed .
then he leaned the guns against each side of the shell bag .
' so , the colonel thought , here we come into the last round and i do not know even
" that was why we left the continent , you know .
we ' ll make a fête before you go .
the light , under the logs , with the hook in his jaw .
” “listen , that’s enough , ” he said .
he turned back to where wilson sat in the rear seat of the doorless , box-bodied motor car beside his
he heard suddenly , clearly , zurito ' s voice .
" but the head isn ' t worth as much .
how they wish each other luck .
they were beautiful and hatless and poorly but chicly dressed , and they were talking very fast to each other
“he can cook and everything .
jim had her dress up and was trying to do something to her .
it was not brilliant bull-fighting .
” “yes , certainly they’ll fly .
” he stood there and i wanted to move but i was really still asleep .
” he moved his tongue round and round on the sheet .
they were beautiful fish , too , firm and hard and he gutted the three fish and tossed the guts
“c’est vrai , ” fontan said .
' they must wander all over here at night .
packard doesn’t see it that way .
” “that detective gave him his though .
and i haven ' t got any money at all .
he tightened the pressure of his thumb and finger for a moment and the weight increased and was going straight
' never discuss casualties , daughter .
robert cohn got up from the table and said he would go to the station .
the english talked with inflected phrases .
had been made for the servants .
by , we felt held together by there being something that had happened that they , the people who disliked
' i ' m still paying for it .
the light was wonderful on him .
" fontan shook his head .
he’s hunting now .
" son of a bitch never move , " billy said .
' ' all the time , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
would be impossible to get any sort of a close shot through the interlacing trees until you were within twenty
that may have been because it was just after a rain and the sun had not come out .
you have to last .
the boy told him .
this will be fine .
" that happy steinfelt ' s a big operator .
something was going on in her mind , and it was an excellent mind .
jack is always calm in close and he doesn’t waste any juice .
' what ' s the matter with you ?
then why did i miss on that cow ?
he says what happens if after shooting you , this man shoots a woman or a child ?
” “what do you mean the nigger ?
” “stop talking that way .
i have to sort of keep him away from people .
while the nigger put in a fresh pan , but it was a long shot .
you tell him , " he said to mr .
” “no , here .
" you forgot to get your paper , " i said .
chapter xi they came in , out of the wind and the cold , through the main entrance of the
so we sat and thought deeply for a while .
that will be a pleasant meal .
and across the hillside .
one at a time .
four times he swung with the bull , lifting the cape so it billowed full , and each time bringing
from side to side .
i ' ve never given it its proper importance .
" no , " manuel said .
they stripped her clean .
“that son of a bitch , ” fontan said .
with both hands .
i will bring stuff from the drug-store for your hands .
' the waiter , who had been in the desert , smiled and was gone and the colonel turned to
us , did not understand .
would not work out .
you shot well and alvarito understands .
it ' s been simply hell .
johnson talks about it at vevey inside the station café it was warm and light ; the tables were shiny
she poured out the three muddy looking drinks into three glasses .
' i do not know , my colonel .
it exactly what he should be tipped plus twenty per cent .
” “i got into this town last night , ” william campbell said , speaking against the sheet .
and so did the shape of the clouds over the land .
this was the tenth day we had been hunting greater kudu and i had not seen a mature bull yet
it tastes like medicine .
but it didn ' t even up .
good-night , nickie .
the extremaduran said nothing .
“it’s sandy bottom , you know , ” he said .
nothing would ever make me see it for curiosity or to make money writing about it .
before the second one went over the crest i could see him drawing his pistol and holding it ahead of
he knows he is too angry to shoot and he feels he has been tricked .
" with your permission , " said the smallest one .
there were two washed-out concealed ravines ten or twelve feet deep that ran down to the watercourse and what had
it was a very big cow sable , dark chestnut , white marks on the face , white belly ,
what do you want , daughter ?
" " it ' s enough to make a man join the klan , " bill said .
" it sounded silly when he said it .
i’ve tried keeping away from it .
' about what you would expect .
but everything is a trick now .
going down-hill steeply made these spanish shooting boots too short in the toe and there was an old argument ,
tight , she feeling very small inside the quilted bigness of the dressing-gown , and we were saying things to
" good night , darling .
during the night the warden had gotten up for a drink of water and when he had come back from
sack .
” “i’m shot , ” he said .
” “no , ” says jack .
out with peasants sitting with their saddle-bags full of the things they had bought in the town .
to know it to get through .
then another tank went forward on the left and into the trees and you could see the flash of its
, ” he said .
" we were all laughing .
he stood up .
“it was so stupid that i had to wait until it was dark to come .
” “good , ” said william campbell .
rain on the way home from strassburg and the slipperiness of the rails of the tram cars and the feeling
it was an air-conditioned oasis against the heavy heat of the town and the food had certainly originally come out
" " how would i not ?
” “is he good ?
' ' my , i ' m glad you ' re back , ' she said .
for a while the country was much as it had been ; then , climbing all the time , we
“i want to go all by myself and shoot all by myself .
“tu , paco ?
” it moved up closer to him still and now he could not speak to it , and when it
it hit while both outfits were firing from the two traps .
we must supply him with botulism and anthrax .
thick palm-trees with tables under them in the shade .
” “why don’t you go away , then ?
tell it , brett .
packard was opening a packing box with a crowbar .
he ' s only big .
” “we better not talk about it .
the one porter nodded .
" hell , " john said .
body was as full and as lovely as that of renata .
" " you ought to .
the same small village as a former luarca chambermaid who had proven hardworking and honest and hence given her village
don ' t sit there looking like a bloody funeral .
” “could you eat now ?
he looked at it .
“this isn’t battalion headquarters as we used to know it .
” “have you seen the number with the colored plates of the north american fauna ?
he’s not coming .
that was the funny thing .
" " let me tell you .
” “well , there is now , ” she said sweetly .
trieste or pola , and how , afterwards , he had always worn a patch over it and people who
i did not care , particularly , how it all came out .
' me again .
' ' of course , if you _like_ to do it .
brett had a title , too .
' yes , ' he agreed , in swahili .
" he turned to smile at me .
and into the open park country .
as children in the very early morning lying awake in bed in our own little house that marty had fixed
gullies .
" so they passed me from one to the other and nothing .
now on the day of the starting of the fiesta of san fermin they had been in the wine-shops of
" said the innkeeper .
" what ?
one man fell , rolled to the gutter , and lay quiet .
“all right , ” i said to eddy .
he lit it and tossed the match into the fast water below the logs .
i said yes and she said but how was it there were no copies ?
float with no significance against one single , lasting thing--the stream .
we might rub ourselves all over with matches , nick thought .
he sat on the small of his back .
had hit him .
you lose them the same way you lose a battalion ; by errors of judgment ; orders that are impossible
there was no part of the hook that a great fish could feel which was not sweet smelling and good
as he stood , broadside to us , head up , seeming to be listening .
then come to the old man ' s shack as he had come each morning .
but his wife said , “who is that letter from , dear ?
all the passes he linked up , all completed , all slow , templed and smooth .
he was very pleasant and went with us twice to the irati river .
but you ' re not a young writer .
" " non , monsieur .
the cattle were up in the hills .
“yes , ” said johnson , “just for a little walk .
" " he never worked very well with me .
characters who will resent your having fought your way in .
there was a woman having a kid with a young girl holding a blanket over her and crying .
as it turned out , we started soon after three to be on the hill by four .
“he’ll stay all night , ” he said to his colleague .
people seemed to think it was rather ridiculous for krebs to be getting back so late , years after the
he was only in a hurry .
but don’t you kill him .
” “you shoot marvellously , you know .
she felt badly for fontan .
' you ask .
the worst thing i could think of was that she had tromper-ed me or fallen in love with someone else
how it works .
there were bags of charcoal piled beside the road , and through the trees we saw charcoal-burners ' huts .
one of the other men snickered .
" you give me much good counsel , " he said aloud .
the crew in odd positions , and around them , in the grass , more of the typical papers .
i ' ll tell the _gran maestro_ .
' ' you weren ' t born then .
yesterday , before the sun set , when we thought today was to be as any other day , they
" he said to me .
“take your goddam hand off my shoulder .
from the rhine in the summer of _num_ .
henry james wanted to make money .
i don’t care about seeing them again .
" " tell us right off .
, opened my bags for the customs , bought a ticket , went through a gate , climbed onto the
" " did she get over it ?
so long , fella !
gotten himself up like that to get some of the scout money ?
when we arrived it was quite empty , except for a policeman sitting near the door , the wife of
left until there were only two still running with us , the finest runners of the lot , who kept
they weren’t at the post hardly any time at all when the gong started and you could see them way
“he just went crazy .
' ' you can always remember that shot .
she runs it fine .
” “the best , ” said johnson .
naturally , since it had been a palace , there were no rooms without excellent views , except those which
the garrison bight .
no one had ever seen this inscription except the girl , the colonel and the man who had engraved it
' my wife also saved all the feathers and she asked me to thank you .
” “don’t worry about it and get some sleep .
around that place there were two kinds ; the drunkards and the sportifs .
" we started off .
” i asked , watching the far end of the bridge where a few last carts were hurrying down the
they were the enemy .
” nick’s father went ahead with the lamp .
you got a better sizzling steak at the index .
he was watching us helling along and the other two buff galloping .
the greeks were nice chaps too .
" they start now , at ten-thirty .
you ' re sure we wouldn ' t just be a bloody nuisance ?
i took nothing but an admiral ' s compass because i had a small boat at that time on chesapeake
there is no spanish word for bull-fight .
oh boy i wish i could tell you .
" how about putting the wine in that spring up the road ?
with a whooshing snort he smashed ahead , splashing water and snorting .
no , that was in maths .
the cook turned and said to her quickly , " you big disgusting mountain of flesh .
' ' i believe you , ' pop said .
i can imagine .
" i ' ve told you , boy .
“it’s so much simpler and better .
“there were two goats and a cat and then there were four pairs of pigeons .
leaving the town there was a bare open space where the road slanted down and he could see the placid
' the sedge moved and the dog came out with a mallard drake in his jaws .
' why can ' t i go ?
" good man .
_num_ ' s .
he could not talk to the fish anymore because the fish had been ruined too badly .
he would get a yacht and they would all cruise along the north shore of lake superior .
the jumps only and he could afford to carry plenty of weight then .
the next day we hunted oryx in the dried-up dustiness of the rift valley and finally found a herd way
wemedge , ” nick said .
“what were you telling him ?
i didn’t say anything .
i did it because i couldn’t help it .
might have been much greater .
i’m too old for that .
hell , what i had a month ago would have killed me in the old days before they invented the
" tight , jake .
she opened the door with the key , which was in her bag .
“i’ll put you in a nocturnal if you want , ” retana offered .
then i heard them talking about me .
chapter v they shot the six cabinet ministers at half-past six in the morning against the wall of a hospital
" you can let the cord go , hand , and i will handle him with the right arm alone
" " you ' re not .
now i must convince him and then i must kill him .
the bird had flown up when the line jerked and the old man had not even seen him go .
well i ' m me , god-damn it .
' all right , ' karl said .
" " the ocean is very big and a skiff is small and hard to see , " the old
the big prisoner had not said anything but had watched everything .
he had not had time in his life to lose any of them , nor even , at the end
after a while pop and p .
they left the pack inside the lean-to .
he flew up for a moment and kissed his father on both cheeks and saw the horses still had their
it was cold and white and early morning .
he raised his glass , which had been filled with the decanted new and true valpolicella .
“bad leg , ” he told him .
“wilson says to .
they met and brushed very lightly , sweeping from side to side , losing nothing of the lovely outer screen
said very proudly , ' wanderobo-masai wonderful guide ' .
' ' will we see them when we make the long trip and stop at all the filling stations or
” he pointed the forceps at them .
why not .
there are other things , too .
' ' yes , sir , ' jackson agreed .
a book .
odgar could never get it and it meant everything in the world to him .
and never properly loved actress and he thought of her wonderful hands and her so transformable face , that was
it ' s quite nice .
' ' several times , ' i said .
there was a girl there in the dark , holding a basket .
” macomber aimed carefully at the center of the huge , jerking , rage-driven neck and shot .
just technically i mean .
“how do you feel , jimmy ?
the rhino had come in right below where they were and gone on up the valley towards where the forest
” “five ?
she carried gold and they got it all .
let us utilize the fowls of the air .
“we can start with that .
oh , he must really be a bad one , a thoroughly bad one , he’s so fine and delicately
” “isn’t it bad ?
“we’ll get rid of him right after his offensive .
the bartender didn ' t say anything .
' with clara dunn .
there are various things .
he had seen that used in the ring .
the sand and an old log half covered in the sand and ahead the open lake .
between fontainebleau and montereau that always made me feel bored and dead and dull until it was over .
" " how was budapest ?
not like the woman pays and pays and pays .
he finally abandoned it and let the song go back to football .
frankie came on board with me , and while we sat and waited for johnson i drank a couple of
she smiled better on one side than on the other and turned the good side toward us .
wooden barrel and got two .
the waiter came and went and came again .
now he could let it run through his fingers without the fish feeling any tension .
it wasn’t a german name either .
watching the carrying and the packing of the car .
part of the time he talked in d’ampezzo dialect and sometimes in tyroler german dialect .
_ _num_ d soldier_--it isn ' t that that ' s so bad , as when they first lift '
“i don’t know , ” said nick .
it is sad and the pigeons have no place to alight .
deeper , in another part of the mud , you were always losing vehicles and , of course , the
” “you can name your own price .
m ' cola and i and the husband started to work our way to the edge of the timber ;
chapter ii but he was not a boy .
he started to smile at me , then he saw pedro romero with a big glass of cognac in his
not to your friend .
manuel lay as though dead , his head on his arms , and the bull bumped him .
“i don’t think you will now .
” he was thinking of that when he wondered about the story and about the boy’s writing .
' big ones ?
" " oh , shut up , mike !
there ' ll be another one in a minute .
rifle on safety .
" his father sat watching him eat and filled his glass from the milk-pitcher .
” “i don’t know , ” said harris .
i wonder what this night will bring .
becomes very important and you would not change it , not even by a different angle .
“you didn’t say anything to boulton to anger him , did you ?
“that makes no difference to me , ” said the extremaduran .
she is your last and true and only love , he thought , and that ' s not evil .
“i’m going to take the boat , ” marjorie called to him .
manuel shook his head .
lots of _pescecani_ come down from milano to gamble at the lido .
johnson ' s table .
but he liked this macomber now .
i suppose she only wanted what she couldn ' t have .
” “what’s holding claude up ?
" where would you like to go ?
" what do you make it ?
that was what the civil war was about .
” “he’s a pretty cold one , ” hogan said .
” “here ?
she could see his bulk under the mosquito bar but somehow he had gotten his leg out and it hung
he asked the portrait .
it was a cold night with much wind .
roger brought in the bags and helena put the ice jug , the two cups , and the cardboard canon
we saw a white house under some trees on the hillside .
traded away what remained of his old life .
mountains in a mist .
, talky time .
" max looked at george .
“all we have to do is stop and let them take the liquor .
he wore a white linen shirt and the sword-handler finished his sash and stood up and stepped back .
hit him half a dozen times .
well at least you do not kill elephants .
” odgar’s voice was unnatural talking to kate .
we have to get to that jewellery place .
the priest looked at him .
as he jumped , nick lowered the tip of the rod .
he was reading again .
' ' do you have anything against armour ?
' on suggesting to the two testimonial-equipped , breeched guides that they select an unclothed partner , we found this
the next afternoon i drove out to fontan’s , through the shade of the town , then along the dusty
“a fish like that would kill you .
the boat came out sculling toward us .
poured out three big shots .
' more beer ?
i am an extremaduran and i hate foreigners .
" i ' ll go get a couple .
if you are a foreigner , i am sorry .
” “but you speak german ?
gave one to each girl .
” the secretary said .
he had been in it and he had watched it and it was his duty to write of it ;
they’d buy them better from you , ” mr .
” “how was it today ?
“he had bad experiences when a boy , ” the smallest one said .
the theatrical tracker was impatient and restless .
the plateau was dull and gloomy , and the shapes of the trees and the houses were changed .
" tiburon , " the waiter said , " eshark .
my father looked at the fire and kicked at something .
“do you like to dip your bread in the ham fat ?
he washed his hands and dried them on the log .
then there are no more .
" it ' s very funny .
you can drink it for supper tonight .
” “fifty grand is a lot of money , ” i said .
” “it isn’t done .
he went into the terrace and asked for a can of coffee .
" " oh , nobody reads him now , " harvey said , " except the people that used to
i ' ll be happy with any kudu .
' ' exactly , ' the colonel said .
' yes , ' i said .
" for god ' s sake , go off somewhere .
i carried the other .
big as a five-peseta piece straight in back of the neck , between the sharp pitch of the bull’s shoulders
i hit him with the springfield and he went down and spun over and i shot again , too quickly
” “more than that when i come in , kid , ” walcott says .
" i wish to hell he couldn ' t .
then he cut the other line closest to him and in the dark made the loose ends of the reserve
she ' s always rather good .
on each calm placid turn the fish made he was gaining line and he was sure that in two turns
on a trip , pleased about how comfortable her boots were , we came finally to a thicket of thorn
then cohn leaned down to shake hands with the bull-fighter fellow .
' ' we ' ve got to get out .
be able to look at the enemy when they came , and , because there was always a dead moment
he knew france .
the harpoon and gaff and the old man carried the mast with the furled sail on his shoulder .
and the steady migration of the natives out of the famine country , to have him look like a caricature
' ' i never saw him before to-day , ' the colonel said .
“now she can marry somebody of her own sort and settle down and be happy .
” “my friend is a misogynist , ” i said , “an old german misogynist .
a country was made to be as we found it .
learned from ida lupino .
to me like these just straight ordinary madonna painters were sort of a manifest , say , of this whole
moving pictures .
mais on ne mange pas très bien .
and i can remember just how he felt , lifting him , and how he had been flattened and the
he was breathing slowly and heavily but when he would open his eyes his breathing would stop .
" we kissed again on the stairs and as i called for the cordon the concierge muttered something behind her
for the buckwheat cakes .
the friends don ' t know about it , yet .
" the innkeeper spoke to the sexton .
other poplars ran along the point .
the leaders were coiled between the damp flannel pads .
” “i didn’t see him at all , ” frank said .
“all you kids are tough .
" let ' s have a look at him , " steinfelt said .
' ' it is a business habit .
“let’s take him back to the club , ” the girl said .
certain hours , people in all the seats and on the roofs , if that were the way it were
" " oh , i do feel such a bitch .
" he rubbed his chin with his thumb , looked at it , and then started scraping again .
out over the top of the town .
tell me , robert .
well well well .
” “let’s not talk about it .
" " it is understandable , " said the oldest porter .
' that doesn ' t make any difference .
he did not want them themselves really .
through the glasses you could see two men get out of an angle of the trench and start up a
“ayee !
' i don ' t think i can stand it .
he worked back to where he could feel with his foot the coils of line that he could not see
it rained metal and other things .
” “where was she ?
had a balance of $ _num_ .
" hurray for wine !
carnera knocked him out .
now , on this rhino hunt , i had taken the first crack at the country .
” then she came up to him and said , “come on .
" " i think they went to the pelota .
' ' i think he ' s lovely looking .
it was hard going for the old man .
you made a beauty .
what parts of the earth he would like to be a part of .
” “i’ll pic him , kid , ” zurito spat on the sand .
was taken by a dolphin .
' what do you mean , heard us ?
i don ' t think you ' ve ever seen it either .
” “mais nous avons tout bu , ” fontan said .
he let his hand dry in the air then grasped the line with it and eased himself as much as
“we thought you would come last night , ” madame fontan said .
dined together .
that was one of my father’s favorites .
" " isn ' t anywhere else .
almost any liar writes more convincingly than a man who was there .
” they came from the hot sun of the slashings into the shade of the great trees .
he ran twenty paces and then , as the police cars stopped in front of the house , the sirens
” there was plenty of blood .
brett wore a black , sleeveless evening dress .
we were all very moved .
he’ll make himself perfectly flat in cover you wouldn’t think would hide a hare .
he lay on the ice , hitting it as solid as a duck can hit ice and , before he
don ' t ever tell any one you made that one .
" do you still love me , jake ?
' ' even then you can ' t overhear because they ' re always talking their own language .
" " he got hurt .
the man with him looked down at the floor .
, a farewell to arms .
he could have moved ahead much faster than juma and his father but when he started to tire they were
here we had made a camp to hunt kudu which were supposed to be in the wooded hills and in
i put my hand out , palm toward him , and waved him down but he paid no attention and
it was a huge , beautiful kudu bull , stone-dead , on his side , his horns in great dark
” “i myself am somewhat in retard , ” johnson went on .
talk and tell stories and shoot pool and it’s sort of like a club or the galleria in milan .
be a hell of a tide to-day , he thought .
" " put some water in it , " i said .
' an army can get to be huge ; but you can close up a little bit .
“ease up on the drag , ” i told him .
think of these things in _num_ —was there a risqué page in puritan history ?
" this is bill gorton .
then they saw it was ice and they rose , climbing .
ate a breast of roast guinea hen and drank a couple of tin cups of half whisky and water .
” the barman asked .
the long straw gets first choice , ' pop explained .
" said mike .
” “and what will you remember ?
what the hell did he have to blow that lick to hell for the first morning and gut-shoot a lousy
" no , " said max .
” “go ahead .
“so at one o’clock this morning , ” doc fischer said , “we receive the youth self-mutilated with a razor
by snobbery , by pride and by prejudice , by hook and by crook .
you , a country boy , would be frightened worse than i was .
the major did not marry her in the spring , or any other time .
he was just tight , that’s all .
cloth so that the sword , now held in his left hand , spread the red flannel like the jib
" " only the two bottles .
he kicked into a cushion as he ran .
" he pointed the forceps at them .
once there had been a tinted photograph of his wife on the wall but he had taken it down because
" take them one at a time , " my father said .
will you promise me ?
” “that’s true , ” the porter confirmed .
' ' who was he ?
fifty yards is ideal .
" what i will do if he decides to go down , i don ' t know .
so he had two small , manageable bulls without much horns , and when he felt the greatness again coming
and they were handing drinks over a crowd that was three deep at the bar .
what could i buy it with ?
“go on , ” he said , “before your number gets dirty again .
it may not work out but i like the plot .
“what do you do , comrade ?
of oak and steel and swung on ball bearings , sam cardinella was left sitting there strapped tight , the
house where i was born and my mother and father’s wedding-cake in a tin box hanging from one of the
i wouldn ' t marry him now for anything .
i wish we always talked italian .
' but he was about three years older .
' ' i hate clara dunn , ' i said .
and the brown beer sitting at the wood tables under the wistaria vine at aigle when we came in across
' we don ' t want her to charge .
the track came out through a cut and where the fire was burning the country opened out and fell away
that is about what they have left .
” “awfully strong and funny and a little sick-making .
" i don ' t think so , " he said .
” “goddam them for me , too , ” his sister said .
they ' re a strange beast , aren ' t they ?
and if she did wild or wicked things it was because she could not help them .
i was shaving in my room when there was a knock on the door .
“i’ll tell you , ” max said .
out on the right now , the boatman was still chopping angrily at the ice and tossing out the wooden
" " try and be there , " i said .
” they drove on in the night now with the swamp dark and high on both sides of the road
' ' _con piacere_ , ' the boatman said .
" the boy did not know whether yesterday ' s paper was a fiction too .
" he leaned forward and looked me in the eye .
" is it good with water ?
but i could cry .
pas être catholique .
” “comes now the steel hat man , ” said the other looking out of the window .
under the light .
lake pink .
i’d lost five hundred and thirty dollars of the charter , and tackle i couldn’t replace for three hundred and
" * * * * * they wheeled him in , thin , his skin transparent , his hair black
tabeshaw , ” he said .
i could see him getting sleepy already .
but enrique was running down the calle san jerónimo to the all-night first-aid station and paco was alone , first
i was sitting on the seat opposite the door to the toilet .
' we sat in the shade of the dining tent and i told them .
the luarca was luxury for the picadors and the banderilleros who , with their families in seville , required lodging
' i turned on him as though to slug him in the mouth .
he would point toward his nose with one finger and smile and shake his head , she said .
" i ' ll ask .
one lira .
this kid was standing at the lunch counter .
” “i just meant it personally .
boy , hell , he thought .
" it ' s my country , you see .
“i have to get supper .
" what a lousy telegram !
they could raise a row if they chose to complain .
the waiter was in no hurry to come .
” slowly she got up and ran toward the car .
his eyes glistened .
" i could go with you again .
then there was the day when the great british authority on let us forget just what came to town .
she was not there , so i sat down and wrote some letters .
" something might happen .
into the reeds .
" " i ' m ninety-six and he ' s sixty-nine , " tommy said .
from the sun .
forum writers talk to the point , are possessed of humor and wit .
' yes , how is my dear mother ?
' ' was it as bad as here ?
he had probably started to talk aloud , when alone , when the boy had left .
they could see the surf along ten mile point .
" the eleventh .
" " you talk too much , all the same , " al said .
anything to say about it , and who knows but what i will have , is the employment of a
one was down the valley from triberg and around the valley road in the shade of the trees that bordered
“thank you , mr .
go on ahead alone .
” “and what about the flit gun ?
“there’s always that danger .
“how old are you boys ?
' all i want is a good look at the dame .
glasses and the mannlicher , full of solids , and last the wanderobo-masai with another spear .
” “it was not like this in the old days , ” one of the copains said .
it was raining hard now , and i pulled my hat low down over my eyes to keep my glasses
, except the noises were in miniature from the lack of power .
" all right , " said nick .
” “that’s all right , ” he said .
” “just about .
" well , " i said , " we ' re out away from them .
come back !
he doesn ' t get in till nine .
' i ' ll see you later , ' he said to the boatman .
now into the room came the great authority , and drawing up one of the empty chairs , seated himself
" mixing up in this ain ' t going to get you anywhere , " the cook said .
' ' it ' s nice to hear it anyway .
mrs .
” “oh , hell , ” his sister said .
“somebody shot him in the back .
' s hand and then charo came over and shook hands with me .
we should have back-tracked and gone down , crossed the gulch , and climbed back up the trail the way
it smelled sweet and sickish like an indian house .
” “did you recognize him ?
* * * * * manuel stood in the patio de caballos waiting for the charlie chaplins to be over
” “go ahead and shoot it , ” i said to claude .
i will eat it all and then i will be ready .
and due to my friendship with one or two people i was privileged to be present at some sort of
it away .
“they’re three old bulls , ” wilson said .
' ' no , you wouldn ' t , ' the girl said .
possibly from mencken .
the trail to the skiff , feeling the pebbled sand under their feet , and lifted the skiff and slid
they took bill and me by the arms and put us in the circle .
" " the hell you don ' t !
also at lérida .
end of the course and the circus master had the stable boys turn them loose one after another so they
piece of bread , and then littless drank the weak tea with the condensed milk in it and nick tapped
“well , ” said johnson , “the subject seems to be exhausted .
' i offered the glasses to p .
' ' would you have a drink with us , andrea ?
“get up and try to walk now .
tell him that i denounced him .
jack broke away from it and missed with the right .
i want to be a saint .
he waded with the current .
one killed in the first twenty minutes and the other two hit later .
” “i’ll watch you for a while , ” i said and called the waiter over to bring us the
" " well , i ' ll take the fly-book , then .
i ' m eating with him .
i went on down over the sand-bars from where i left that three-masted schooner and i didn’t find anything and
don ' t know why it should make you feel bad .
you are a bitch .
" when you talk like that i don ' t hear you , " the boy said with dignity to
" i wiped it off with the rag .
" " all right , " said harvey .
" " come on out to the kitchen .
all gone .
thank you , enrique .
" do let ' s go and eat , " brett said .
he was anxious to know the english for corrida de toros , the exact translation .
it ' s not good to be catholique .
“i’m the man for you .
i knew i would be a saint .
you know what i ' m betting on him ?
” “in love—with a girl ?
i saw a girl coming up the road from the centre of the town .
i ought have gotten kek .
” she came and sat by him on the bed and they both heard the rain hard against the pane
“but i am a foreigner and it is your war and your problem .
the other man in the room tried lying quietly .
he speaks bad italian assiduously .
” “take a look at enrique then , ” said the lieutenant .
as it went down , slipping lightly through the old man ' s fingers , he still could feel the
the bull was on top of him .
” “no , ” said madame .
that gave you a feeling of belonging , of being made a part of , to a very brilliant group
" don ' t keep me awake by talking so much .
, had begged every one to kill him .
' ' with no one ?
" " what ' s the matter with her ?
he was skipping up and down in front of us , forward and back , crossing his arms every third
" thanks for taking me .
that you were really not of them but a spy in their country ; that you would leave it and
it is awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the daytime , but at night it is another thing
there was also a rhino who , from the tracks and the kicked-up mound of strawy dung , came there
you know about that .
“tell him to drop the next pair on the right , ” he said to the kid who started to
" " i ' m not going up to-day .
" " don ' t you think it , " joe said .
to help me and to see this .
manuel knocked with his knuckles on the desk .
when they wanted to know what he wished played , he asked for the cucaracha , which has the sinister
we had not known each other very well then .
' so we automatically could not have fought then .
it was in this cave that a man whose head was broken as a flower-pot may be broken , although
' with my old friend and severest critic .
i’m not sleepy at all really .
i ' m quite warm .
" brett folded the heavy cape .
' ' but you could give me privileges .
he’s a socker .
" we uncorked the other bottle .
i followed them with the springfield , then came pop , with p .
' ' there isn ' t one here , but there is in rome .
' ' how many times have you been hit _on_ the head ?
, thin masai with a spear came up , said good morning , and stood , on one leg ,
he felt the sword go in all the way .
" " no , i can ' t .
and do exactly as i tell you .
” “when did you come back here ?
there was no carbon to record what the customer’s ticket said .
i’ll understand .
cough of a leopard hunting baboons ; me scared of snakes , and touching each root and branch with snake
then they decided to go to dijon where there was summer school and where a number of people who crossed
“can’t you hear ?
can it be anger , or the greater speed he makes that brings them out ?
i didn ' t have it right i knew .
then the sun was down and charo had the bottle tilted up , his adam ' s apple rising and
in time , hemingway came to love all of spain—its customs , its landscapes , its art treasures , and
' i ' m one of those quiet people .
i ' ll get you one .
the gun-bearers looked very grave .
they can take my body .
' it ' s impossible not to be competitive .
” nick had rolled the pack now and tightened the straps and he sat back and put his moccasins on
“i’m awfully glad i never drank it before .
outside in the street we looked for a taxi .
" " they ' re good .
suddenly the bull left off and made for the other steer which had been standing at the far end ,
” he sat down on the floor beside nick’s chair .
that’s enough .
as the american girl was exceedingly hardworking and had been trying , perhaps not too successfully , to keep her
' ' god damn it , pop .
there was only one person in his family that he liked the smell of ; one sister .
” “i’ll take you in the car , ” i said .
" i need a pencil for that , " he said .
” zurito leaned forward , his hands on the table .
' that ' s what you can base on .
” “i thought you were english .
" " would you like to go to south america , jake ?
cattle , and it rose in the boulder-strewn un-roadliness through a double line of trees and into the hills .
it ' s such a long time though .
“but he loses ball games .
" they sat together at a table that was close against the wall near the door of the café and
so we figured we ' d come to our limit and went up to the top and came back .
i paid the old man the amount pop said to pay him and a bonus .
club de cazadores del cerro , the trips into havana for drinks at the floridita and to buy the illustrated
we ' ve re-took two .
“they’re too big , ” johnson said .
he’s a good man papa .
i handed him my next to the last pack of cigarettes and he took two .
we ' re all friends .
" but since i am not crazy , i do not care .
fluted , efficient ugliness of the thompson muzzles .
s bluff and torrington and after that you will begin to see it .
" we went out to the car and drove back to fontan ' s , stopping on the way to
“when you talk like that i don’t hear you , ” the boy said with dignity to doctor wilcox .
wake up ?
but he was not black and i felt there was something wrong .
” the collection is named for hemingway’s home in san francisco de paula , cuba .
' ' they ' d bore you , ' the colonel told her .
i understand her mother is sore as hell .
there weren ' t any pictures except with mr .
' ' it is better not to hunt them at all .
when i started i’d feel as though i could do anything and while i was doing it i would feel
“only of shovelnose .
" good luck old man .
the sword-handlers opened the heavy leather sword-cases so the red wrapped hilts of the sheaf of swords showed as the
' ' we ' ll get some then .
many fragments we found a considerable distance away in the fields , they being carried farther by their own weight
, ” succeeds in conveying the harsh atmosphere of a totalitarian regime .
“oh , daddy , can’t you give her something to make her stop screaming ?
' ' daughter , we fought twelve times from ranbouillet to enter the city .
” “how’s everything ?
“they’re big ones with horns , ” manuel agreed .
” “i guess i shouldn’t have come .
” nick said nothing .
" brett looked at me and wrinkled up the corners of her eyes .
” “you know i don’t think i’d ever be afraid of anything again , ” macomber said to wilson .
' ' i know him , ' said the colonel .
' ' we have very primitive emotions , ' he said .
' ' the hell with my medicine , ' the colonel said .
il faut recommencer , i said .
" mike paused .
' of course , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" " like a bloody politician , " nick said .
“i know , ” said nick .
the negro ' s shadow was huge and it moved on the wall as the breeze moved the lamps .
i didn’t know how i could feel any worse .
" they dance differently to all the different tunes .
she had opened l’auto and seen where he placed third in paris-tours , his first big race .
“but tell me what they were like .
' ' no , supreme commander .
" did you tell him about it ?
” “don’t you hate it ?
” “whose novillos ?
and then crying , his head up looking at nothing , carrying himself straight and soldierly , with tears on
i was watching the sun now and worrying about it being gone before they got up with the cameras .
the west just in case one string did come in .
all the time we heard the cattle in the woods .
muletas .
” bugs said .
karl was gloomy again .
but this is in bottles , hatuey beer , and i take back the bottles .
" from where he swung lightly against his oars he looked down into the water and saw the tiny fish
” “can’t i just be an un-idiot brother ?
we danced .
it was never what he had done , but always what he could do .
i was a son of a bitch to have gut-shot him .
” “lawrence’s book deals with arabia , i believe .
and i don’t want to wear you out .
" that cohn gets me , " bill said .
he had breathed in deeply as he took off and now went on and on through the water , holding
now is the time to pull yourself together .
“let me tie it up in a sling , ” the nigger said .
" hello , darling , " said brett .
at the end she knocked on a door .
slant of the hill carrying a stretcher .
can ' t you give a chap an ash-tray ?
this was living .
when my father came home and got down from his buggy and hitched the horse , the fire was still
but i would like to know .
” “me , too .
" i ' m not one of these chaps likes being knocked about .
" no , " said trudy .
” “you ought to get married , signor tenente .
but it was attacking in a way that could do only one thing : destroy itself .
" if i give them a quarter they keep it all but if i give them only fifteen cents they
you can’t touch them .
' i can see him without , ' she said .
“i came across the vacant lot .
' he asked the concierge , who was now in attendance .
manuel rose to his toes , sighting along the steel , and charged .
blew through them all the time .
but look at them come now .
we got her back out of the grass and up on to the bank and made her realize that she
christ jesus how i love her and i hope i never do her harm .
he would jerk without seeming to know it and he held his hand so the sergeant’s left hand was always
” “well , it hasn’t been dull , ” wilson said .
" " tell them about in the court , " brett said .
" this next is the last one .
” “why is your shirt covered with blood ?
” “no , hombre , only to make a joke .
we washed up and jack said we better go out and get something to eat .
” the down-state man put the bottle down .
you don ' t care , do you , bill ?
he was like a god , he was .
“where did you leave the soap ?
a stream went through the centre of the town and fields of grapes touched the houses .
, his weight on his horns , wedged against a tree .
" ask him to come over and have a drink .
then we crossed a wide plain , and there was a big river off on the right shining in the
' he ' ll take you to the vaporetto .
' portrait , keep your god-damn chin up so you can break my heart easier .
' ' i love droopy , ' p .
how do you think it makes me feel ?
we were going just about the right speed and i headed her into the stream .
damned interesting .
he took a cigarette out and struck a match to light it .
you ream out people you respect , to make them do what you know is fairly impossible , but is
why , you see , robert ' s always wanted to have a mistress , and if he doesn '
she had wakened and spoken straight from sleep .
” “too many what ?
“you can have one .
until quatre bras .
" it ' s his fight .
many things that were not to be moved were burned in the backyard and i remember those jars from the
he cleared out last night and his kid sister’s gone with him .
” “no , you come on and go first .
" what are _you_ looking at ?
we ' re going to festa the english .
" " anybody get hurt ?
“we honor them .
" " yes , it is very cold in winter .
i said , ' we drew lots , you know ' .
' nor will anyone else unless you want me .
from the sea when the wind disturbed them .
i sat on my stool at the lunch counter and watched the four of them eating together .
a ship comes out of a fog and ahead of the men a tank lurched fast like a roundtopped ,
what ' s the matter with mike ?
' can you put something in the safe for me ?
you cannot live on a plane of the sort of elation i had felt in the reeds and having killed
white as though they were snow-capped and the clouds that looked like high snow mountains above them .
i should have kissed him myself if i was any good .
good , hombre , good .
i went out and watched them .
” “am i getting soused ?
” “he ships chinamen , ” frankie said .
” wilson looked at him appraisingly .
“that son of a bitch , ” fontan said to himself .
" " then i ' ll do it .
" " have another shot .
had been a rotter at college and a very unpleasant incident had resulted .
" you ' ve been in the war .
i ' ve tried all that .
i could have said he fell overboard , but it makes plenty talk .
it never did any good .
the young indian smiled reminiscently .
” “do not speak in that way , ” the man in command said to the extremaduran .
while always uttered when i would let something worthless go by to wait for something good .
the colonel looked at him contemplatively and with the old deadliness .
" you ' ll be all right .
m ' cola put his head down , pointed at the old man ' s face and laughed and shook
or really know why .
steel lock of his resistance , and the triangular steel point of the pic ripped in the bull ' s
" " i had lew fighting in philadelphia , " john said .
” he was good and drunk .
they were all french and belgians , and paid close attention to their meal , but they were having a
did you give mr .
' ' of course not , ' the colonel told her .
my wife cuts it out for me and sends it to me .
” “weren’t you intelligent ?
in each boat , in the darkness , so you could not see , but only hear him , the
" " how long has he been married ?
cut himself a willow stick about four feet long and trimmed it , leaving the bark on .
i walked backwards down to the stem holding the pump gun .
“this is on the house .
the american , two tables down , was looking at it with his journalistic eyes , wondering who painted it
i ' ll go in the bar while you park upstairs .
and pop saying nothing , me sitting there cold , crazy-stubborn-furious , determined to break his neck rather than walk
" " i ' m going away in the morning .
a waiter wearing a blue apron came out with a bucket of water and a cloth , and commenced to
so there it was .
the one that’s down .
” “in the shoulders , ” wilson said .
” “because you’ll see them maybe on the road and you can tell me where they’ve gone .
shirt .
” i put down the game-bags and took in the shotgun and brought out a newspaper from the pile in
tanks .
be as bitter as you want .
nor would you gather that they had bodies .
" " you want those big ones in the irati .
it would be for a man of the same age to enter wall street direct from a french convent ,
” “i wonder if he does .
" " tell him how sorry i am .
' sure .
good-day .
” the doctor tossed the saucer full of iodine in his face .
they picked him up and carried him out into the car and they picked up the prisoner and put him
they used to do that in the civil war .
' ' _a pâques ou à la trinité_ , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
” “if i would go off with the two hundred ?
the wanderobo-masai insisted pitifully that he go .
when we have killed so many we can afford to be kind .
he had a leather helment with a heavy leather padded ridge longitudinally over the top and a heavily padded leather
you have your car ?
" last week he tried to commit suicide , " one waiter said .
he was going in by a very narrow street and he was going to not keep track of the number
" " what did you do with your shoes ?
“feel how cool all the way down .
" is that you , monsieur barnes ?
“that part is very strange .
" " oh , hell , " i said .
” we said and leaned the skis against the wall and took off our packs .
" he ' s a fool , " georgette said .
" ask her if she ' s got any jam , " bill said .
and now he has jumped more than a dozen times and filled the sacks along his back with air and
" my god , " georgette said .
it was cold but liz was hot all over from being with jim .
, using the sling , and shot for his neck , slowly and carefully , missing him eight times straight
he put apple butter on the third cake , folded it over twice , wrapped it in oiled paper and
' he snorted like a steam engine , ' p .
can you blame them ?
to fulfil and through impossible conditions .
i never heard of brett ashley .
and fun , his good side said to him , you have no fun when you do not love .
he is a fascist and for him to come here now , no matter what his reasons , is very
“you in the charlie chaplins ?
and ahead old compie’s tweed back and the brown felt hat .
" i can get in , " he said .
garner , ” nick said .
beer and wished old chink was along .
at the end was a gate and a man took the tickets .
she doesn ' t care about things .
the window was open about halfway .
” “i can’t write now .
' i like it too much .
two years ago i could have married anybody i wanted , down at cannes .
' ' by god .
" " fine , " said bill .
he didn’t look at george but looked in the mirror that ran along back of the counter .
" two hours later cohn appeared .
" " they were excellent .
at night when the lorries finally came in and we were at the house of an absent friend of a
he remembered how d ' annunzio had lost an eye in a crash , flying as an observer , over
surface , which is the face .
" " the nigger .
” “i am to take you there tonight .
the train stopped .
the right pocket when they were wet .
the dog kept close behind him and when david stopped the dog pressed his muzzle into the back of his
” “i can hardly reel it .
ran .
" there he goes , " bill said .
what i mean is , when the time comes .
" they eat the dinner , " his friend said .
“what you say , harry ?
" the count was looking at brett across the table under the gas-light .
one in a german patrol had thrown as he was coming in through the wire that night and , screaming
' ' bring them all and we ' ll look at them , ' the colonel said .
' we ' ll be two , ' the colonel said .
“i guess there aren’t any this side of boyne city .
let any one finish them as they like .
' droop said he was good .
" " what do you mean , dangerous ?
" " mais j ' ai rudement bien mangé .
i turned off the light and pulled up the window curtain but it was cold if i sat up to
got his eye on me .
need the money back and you have it to pay me .
" what does the word cohn mean ?
we have to think out where he’ll be .
” “si , il gatto .
” “i mean were your college days the happiest days of your life ?
i figured the way the current looked she would drift the twelve miles up to bacuranao by dark and i’d
” “i do not follow you .
' whisky finish .
' i ' ll see that he is not too expensive , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
she’s damn cruel but they’re all cruel .
' ' then what are you talking about ?
no kill him !
” “and do you know george shiras two ?
know if evans hires anyone to do the chores .
nick held out his glass .
“let’s go to greece and the islands , ” she said .
" he ' s a good-looking kid , " i said .
“neither do i , ” said nick .
the waiter recommended a basque liqueur called izzarra .
it’s just to let the air in .
to kill them for meat , wounding him in a running shot after missing him three or four times ,
i never get up .
” “no , ” roger said .
next morning as i would be sure of a shot at ducks from a good blind , with a fine
" i must go and find our friends and bring them here .
i will also ask to speak to mummy and tell her where we are dining , and , if you
he walked over to in front of the president ' s box , bowed , straightened , and came over
he got the hatchet and with his left hand chopped the anchor rope through against the bit .
' ' but was there nothing noble or truly happy about it ?
soldier .
the open , if he comes now i must be quiet inside and put it down his nose as he
" this gent .
the negro with the flat straw hat came out from the shadow of the house and hailed the first car
' ' i ' ll take the salt-lick .
' ' you ' re sure .
" your goddam pig ' s feet stink , " tom said , and spit what he had in his
in a little while i had six .
" he shoved the sliced cucumbers away and took a pickled herring .
' chapter xxix they lay on the pleasantly hard , new-made bed with their legs pressed tight against one another
“you haven’t eaten anything .
new york .
" " we don ' t like to hear him in there with the dead .
” “i met the broker when he was leaving for the consulate and told him i was going .
“see ?
a basso gli ufficiali !
while his father washed his hands very carefully and thoroughly , he talked .
" " last long ?
there ' s a good road .
she sat there with her back toward him .
other for fear we would laugh .
” “hey , al , bright boy says he wouldn’t say what he thinks it’s all about .
“hundred horse kermath .
haven ' t bathed even .
manuel picked it up and put it in his pocket .
he had forgotten to get water for the coffee .
i’ve never loved any one else the way i love you .
“come , signora , ” she said .
tank cars , moving at a gallop across the far edge of the open prairie .
" i do this for you .
i could not imagine any one being dead .
there was a woman inside with her hair floating all out .
i will run for the doctor .
' ' very sound fellow , ' said pop .
“there’s blood coming out under the door .
although quite rich in money and with a lot of armour .
' ' not a thing .
” the girl brought the menu .
a room in a house like that and the tides and the boats going by .
” “go on with the story , please , and don’t be bad .
" it was a damned fine fiesta .
do you want to hear what i know ?
i went out into the other room and there was robert cohn asleep in the big chair .
papers .
" you ' ve got to help me .
they ' re mad about it in new york .
bail them out as you go .
” “but we were the right flank , ” the copain said in his rich voice .
my glasses .
" sure , " said hogan .
“that was the left eye .
he didn’t know the environs of this town though and he knew he was stupid about it .
but i want us to get out west .
' can i go now ?
' ' the people of leclerc , another jerk of the third or fourth water , whose death i celebrated
' not me .
” “this is all the virgin timber left around here .
they had gone a little too far to the left and droopy waved to signal them toward us .
i couldn’t even send a wire .
" he ' s from chicago .
he’ll bleed when i start him going and that will bring it down .
there was retana .
" i didn ' t want to have to leave you here too .
you stay up .
the road ran on , dipping occasionally , but always climbing .
” “i’m a good man , ” he said .
chipmunks must have carried it away .
“i ain’t never been shot before .
then the main road went off to the left , skirting the woods and climbing the hill , while you
" " it is nothing , " said the doctor .
i’ve known him since i first started to run over there .
she put the felt pads and the beer glasses on the table and looked at the man and the girl
i ' ll take it up with the _gran maestro_ .
” “now it’s not your fault and i can’t make it worse for you .
once it looked as though he were waking .
" well , so long .
nick struck and the rod came alive and dangerous , bent double , the line tightening , coming out of
i do not see why that one , of all the muscles , should fail me .
it to you .
' you may proceed to the lobby with this gentleman and tell them to sign me in .
' ' i ' m sorry , jackson .
" " i don ' t know , " nick was startled .
” “quite so , ” mr .
the best sky was in italy and spain and northern michigan in the fall and in the fall in the
that creek .
" there ain ' t no moving-pictures of this .
eddy would mouth about it sooner or later , maybe , but who believes a rummy ?
" joe asked .
" " not if i could help it .
the buffalo that he was after stayed in the daytime in a thick swamp where it was impossible to get
” “you’ll make sure ?
she dropped the blankets .
not see .
just pieces .
“can you still see genoa ?
' ' we ' ll see you at supper , ' pop said .
” “is all right .
wind blowing , the fresh butter much admired , grant ' s gazelle chops , mashed potatoes , green corn
everybody sat on folding chairs as for a chautauqua lecture .
there—he’s singing now .
” “the boy won’t .
he lifted the rod straight up in the air .
remember that perfectly .
“no need swim , ” i said .
then the index was open all night long and got the early morning trade and from daylight until ten o’clock
" that ' s what makes me so sore .
i ' ve always been a lucky son of a bitch .
i go the other way .
birds .
they got into a taxi and drove out to rimmily hissa along the bosphorus , and around , and back
' ' then you think of something and i ' ll eat it , ' the colonel said , '
" there ain ' t anything to do now .
m ' cola was taking the big gun out to the car .
loose tunic he wore with the four big cartridges held in loops where the left breast pocket should have been
of the water and , flopping in the air , sailed over nick’s shoulder and onto the bank behind him
he’s going to give me some money at the start .
so he’s a bloody four-letter man as well as a bloody coward , he thought .
not knowing .
" nick came down the slope , holding the helmet in his hands .
' or look away .
dropped the muleta across his body , so his right hand with the sword on the level with his eye
he had his chance at him and all he did was wound him and kill his friend .
“they won’t help you .
on board the charter boat south florida , trolling down the woman key channel because it was too rough to
' ' sir , ' the colonel said gently .
" " i ' ve kept them out of four fights , " edna said .
so the prince didn ' t come and the king didn ' t come , and no one wore any
" we were embarrassed .
' ' say it again .
he was never here before .
' ' i want you , daughter .
it would probably be over before i would get there .
after all , i gut-shot the son of a bitch .
but i could remember the odour of the kudu as he lay in the woods .
he remembered the long-ago feeling of familiarity .
this part of it anyway .
roof .
it was sunday and the road , rising and falling , but always dropping away from the altitude of the
' and you make lovely quick decisions .
and it made him feel sick .
the wet grass and bracken .
“we’ll put a stop to that .
“somebody sent them .
" " maybe it was just a bluff .
i liked them , though .
" now !
' it would not .
” “talk quiet , ” i said .
i don’t seem crazy to you , do i ?
it was comic and i liked it .
three is plenty in my trade and i made all three .
of unreality and the fact that there were no wounded did much to rob the disaster of a horror which
” they climbed until it was dark and then made another dry camp .
' _hey la mama !
“you’re going to cross alone , captain ?
the winds always come in lent , mr .
" she did not say anything , just took off her glasses and wiped them on her apron .
“now , ” he said .
that just fixes everything all up , i suppose .
modern plumbing .
” “only two , ” the negro said in a quiet voice .
did you hear ?
that was a hell of a shot you made on him though , brother .
above this face , which was ceaselessly peering , as though the answer might be found by enough well directed
" you better not , " i said .
” “i’d lose my licence for one thing .
" " oh !
five or two hundred and five pounds .
' ' to hell with that shot .
whenever you wished but we only talked it over last night .
he had tried so to keep his life from being complicated .
" i was never in chicago , " mike said .
the bus stopped in front of a posada and many of the passengers got down , and a lot of
" schmidt is catholique , " madame fontan mused .
take a good birching or lose your pay ?
i felt i was a fool to be going back into spain .
“what’s this ?
they were eating dinner in the down-stairs dining-room .
there were many pieces of shell , and shrapnel balls were scattered in the rubble .
george put the two platters , one of ham and eggs , the other of bacon and eggs , on
" " oh , to hell with the clock , " the first man said .
fell .
“if you knew the way they usually charge a stranger you’d know it was more than reasonable .
in the country , green and rolling , and the road climbing all the time .
” inside the store suzy had gone straight through past the glass showcases , the opened barrels , the boxes
“watch him , ” retana’s man said .
" you watch me .
_ _num_ d soldier_--what become of his gang ?
don ' t you know people don ' t give answers to such questions ?
' her voice was so lovely and it always reminded him of pablo casals playing the ' cello that it
want to see her picture ?
" he took a long drink of the beer .
the waiter nodded his head .
' ' yes , ' said andrea .
“i will keep this .
that ' s one of his favourite shots , you know .
and the bull-fighter chap hit him in the face again .
so did i remember him .
doctor , ” doc fischer said , looking at his hands , at his hands that had , with his
which , in this case , were ducks .
buy the little negro , or moor , carved in ebony with his fine features and his jewelled turban .
use your head , bright boy .
” “you mean they don’t want to see us until a half an hour ?
” “why did they do it ?
how’s the rest of it going ?
at the general store and post office evans hitched the team at the rack and he and the down-state man
everybody will know it soon enough .
” “the adjutant is at the cable railway , ” said the sergeant .
“take your gun in one hand and your grains pole in the other and show them how deep it is
what the hell is he so gloomy about ?
“i shot for the lowest part of him i could see .
” then he turned to onèsime and said , “piss pauvre krauts , onie .
“you were saying .
what a grave error it was .
he did not know whether we knew brett had been with him at san sebastian , and it made him
we came out of the station .
he grabs jack’s arm and says , “can i hit when he’s got me like this ?
the earth gets tired of being exploited .
he’s got a lot of dope on it .
pegs for the tent .
' ' no , ' said olz .
as a matter of fact , you know , perhaps you’d better not go .
” “he’s been shot already , ” said the officer .
m ' cola was with me and the others were loading and following with the car .
“listen to me .
” he asked finally .
they changed the referees every four hours after the first eight so that the referees could sleep .
all colds and grippes and it was good for the eyes .
this lick had an impossible approach .
the wind blew hard from the east and the ground was broken in short ridges of hills coming down close
' ' second from the right .
" " would you mind walking over with me ?
all you get are handouts and sight-seeing .
clock .
be there , the big buick cleared the last of san dona and came up on to the bridge over
" " i am not active any longer .
the bull-ring and across the field and under the trees at the edge of the cliff and looked down at
it was funny there weren ' t any sharks though .
“i like it here , ” said al .
but take one good look at it .
now just quit suffering .
the land must make a difference too , in the shape of the clouds .
makes no difference where you live .
the bull recharged as the pase natural finished and manuel raised the muleta for a pase de pecho .
” “i want to eat .
outside it was good and dark .
it came as suddenly as a person blushes , it felt like prickly heat , and it was gone as
should i keep it in the storeroom or have it sent to your room ?
" the count called .
" hello , jake , " he said very slowly .
we had something over one hundred and forty thousand dead that year .
in , ' i said .
oh how do you do , she said .
for m ' cola to pour water into it from the canteen , drinking this , the first one of
' start these anecdotes .
he was sorry for them all , even the great trunk backs that were as long as the skiff and
“he seems to be going anyway , ” guy said .
side of the mountain , hoping to see a rhino in the open glades .
take what easy ?
by five-thirty they had made various other purchases , checked out of the hotel and the doorman was stowing their
nick’s own education in those earlier matters had been acquired in the hemlock woods behind the indian camp .
" he drank the coffee .
women and kids were in the carts crouched with mattresses , mirrors , sewing machines , bundles .
" so , " said the doctor .
” this officer made him very nervous .
he put his arm around his sister .
an interesting aspect of war , too , is that it is only there that the naturalist has an opportunity
the locusts came and ate your crops and the monsoon failed , and the rains did not come , and
all the same ; half-pound one ounce .
you wouldn’t of , ” frank said .
it sure is sweetness .
and across from camp was a dusty , dirty native village .
“come on , ” the detective said .
i never spoke to him again until this year .
" " it ' s a nice day , " i said .
as he thumped his life out against the planking of the boat with the quick shivering strokes of his neat
“i know you wouldn’t mind it .
aren ' t we friends ?
mike said .
, and the flat , dry , hollow drums tapped it out again , they all went up in the
i left the wheel and went forward and coiled up the bowline and then came back and held her on
there were two rooms and they overlooked the bay , the park and the traffic passing on the boulevard .
“what news along the rialto ?
' can ' t we look at it here ?
“that’s dad , ” bill said .
later stories , also set in america , relate to hemingway’s experiences as a husband and father , and even
die and my interference with the nightly and the seasonal killing that went on all the time was very minute
“maybe he’ll get enough of it , ” guy said .
new york and that made a lot of unpleasantness .
we knelt at one of the long wooden benches .
the evening we killed the first lion it was dark when we came in sight of camp .
and would take the cow head into camp and see what the roman had located .
but it was dry now and dully shiny and i knew we had lost much time on him when he
george was on the bed , reading .
" " i guess it isn ' t any use , " he said .
“schmidt , ” she said .
i memorized it once .
“will you have some breakfast ?
the two wardens were in the back of the store with mr .
i got some stocks and i worry about them .
you go to sleep , littless .
the women writers become joan of arc without the fighting .
she’s making good money with the place .
they were splintered open and the roofs sagged in .
they met there in vevey .
” “she’s just a spitfire , ” the man said .
" " i ' m going back to mike .
she was more ambitious than mr .
i should not be put in a house that is being watched for other reasons .
it was there that the fighting was going on , now , and we used the old homestead both as
“noisy beggar , ” wilson said .
they had eaten with no light on the table and the old man took off his trousers and went to
" he pointed to the rod-case .
it’s frightful .
he had a good driver and he relaxed completely in the front seat of the car and looked out at
nothing .
fuentes , the tall gypsy , was standing holding a pair of banderillas , holding them together , slim ,
they did not hear the elephant and david did not see him until the dog turned his head and seemed
" " what ?
" you have everything .
i swear to god i will .
i was just talking .
and on the others .
didn ' t i ?
and i’d sit out in front of the café de la paix and watch the people go by .
” “i had a wonderful sleep .
” “where does he come from ?
on the other side of the narrow gap that led into the open sea was another high headland .
” “that’s an attack , ” i said .
" " she ' d never seen it .
we’ve got the good radio and a fine tape recorder and i’m going to write better than i ever could
, publicly and legally through due process of law , of having deprived him of his judgment through her extraordinary
“i guess he’s a big shot , ” i said .
” “yes , ” said nick .
not that dreadful talking kind .
he ' s going to be rich as hell some day .
he was trying to take it the way he’d always heard you should .
an opening see the flash of water .
” “was is a good word , ” he said .
she knew the indians who had brought in the baskets and she knew the two indian boys who were looking
just tell me true and hold me tight and tell me true until you are purged of it ; if
every woman ought to be given a copy of this face as she leaves the altar .
damp , sandy , ordinarily dry watercourse that led through the trees to the upper lick .
i ' m easy to get along with .
wouldn’t give them up .
' ' the hell with it , ' the colonel said .
nor can you stand before a bar with dignity although that is all that is provided for these hours .
i’ll just run her in and we’ll put our things in .
the brown , triangular fin and the sweeping movements of the tail .
now the man watched the dip of the three sticks over the side of the skiff and rowed gently to
“and in the left hand preferably a pillow .
] _num_ d roman soldier—jesus christ .
“opera , german opera .
then that log house was burned down and all the guns that had been on deer foot racks above the
“if you ever hunted mountain sheep , ” i said , “you know they can see you as far as
' ' i think it probably was .
, down and down , then steeply , impossibly , up , hearing the rustle of night things and the
the german seemed to think it was a pretty good story , however , and i gave him the last
he was huge .
i say , brett , you are a lovely piece .
like second-growth timber at home .
” the husband in the upper bunk rolled over against the wall .
was the square top of kilimanjaro .
it only takes one good picador .
if you ' re tight , go to bed .
” “oh , that’s quite beside the point .
" is lady ashley here ?
" why don ' t you put me on next week ?
" " i wish you wouldn ' t , " nick said .
nick stretched under the blanket comfortably .
" he shook hands and turned around to the back seat again .
she was sitting far back in the seat and macomber was sitting forward talking to wilson who turned sideways talking
they simply made it fast .
“what’s the matter , yes , all right .
marie , his femme de ménage , protesting against the eight-hour day saying , “if a husband works until six
he turned to me .
" it ' s his sense of self-preservation .
” the fellows who were with him laughed .
the sun had gone under and it was sprinkling rain .
” “it’s a shame , ” i said .
i could read in the mornings and walk around town before lunch and go every day to see the tintorettos
“you can see that the man is wounded , doctor , ” the other man said , handing the glasses
i knew that if they remembered me their friendship would be loyal .
you can’t mix oil and water and you can’t mix that sort of thing any more than if i’d marry
i couldn’t have her marrying a foreigner .
some fell into the crowd .
" manuel asked retana ' s man .
“sportsman , ” he said .
” freedman stands there all the time while jack bandages the other hand , and one of the boys that’s
look at ford .
pop was awake and heard it too and we took our guns , without speaking , and started toward where
another group claims you ' re impotent .
” he took it out of his pocket .
" " what medals have you got , mike ?
' ' i might get you a jeep engine .
we settled down to troll .
the bull’s head was down as he watched the muleta .
let her go home and keep an eye on them until you’re clear .
he pointed out a spanish boy that works around the docks who is just about gone with the con .
molo , letti dui whiskey-soda !
" " what a question !
” “but you are with us .
we got the little memsahib and old karl and had a very jolly breakfast .
but all difficulties were smoothed away when i convinced them of my identity and i was treated with rare consideration
i’ve got no right to tell you that .
” “it isn’t that .
” the young fellow said , “nice to know that , ” and put a quarter back in the machine
i felt wonderful .
they were the only saloons in jessup and they did not have to do that kind of thing .
“nicolo , ” paravicini called .
but after that each one can widen the opening of the hook wound and he can throw the hook .
“i never touched your leg .
nothing will make me do it .
maybe i fed her too light last night .
once he stood up and urinated over the side of the skiff and looked at the stars and checked his
" i just got in .
i don ' t care what he did to get it .
” the bellboy brought the pitcher of ice , the bottled water and the papers , took his tip and
as soon as they come i ' ll bring them right up .
water in his right hand to get the crushed dolphin flesh off of his face .
“yes , ” manuel said .
he ' s got thousands of acres of them .
" you can ' t fire me , " william campbell said from underneath the covers .
had first grown tall and close .
wheeler was writing in longhand because he did not wish to uncover the typewriter in the lenten wind .
but to me its artistic value far exceeded its scientific interest .
fast as any black horse could go with the jock flogging hell out of him with the gad and they
rommel put it .
all of a sudden i see his rod jerk and the line go slack .
” “where do you want to carry them ?
brute animals .
no offence if you ' re a colonel yourself .
” “you talk it fine .
not so good .
” “eat first .
it was the strange , rare smile which rises from the deep , dark pit , deeper than a well
nick felt awkward and professionally happy with all his equipment hanging from him .
" if the girl i came with asks for me , will you give her this ?
i didn’t say anything to him .
" " you study it and tell me when i come back .
the girl came in and stood by their table .
it would have been all right with mrs .
" let ' s try and sleep a while .
" please do not say such things .
” “you’re a nice fellow , ” said captain willie .
i ' m clean and you know it and men like me , even though i ' m big ,
' ' we are , ' my wife assured him .
i do not understand about that .
" i was lying with my face away from her .
tomorrow is better perhaps .
he did not .
“you’ve got a hell of a breath , ” he told it .
“i get so tired of looking like a boy .
it is unlike the smell of a regiment , which may come to you suddenly while riding in the street
finally the gun-bearers brought the skin over , wet and heavy , and climbed in behind with it , rolling
" i don ' t know , " his father said .
the charm of the good side had been enhanced by some event which had smoothed the other side of her
sam , the nigger , standing in his apron , looked at the two men sitting at the counter .
one bait was down forty fathoms .
and i couldn’t stop crying , crying and choking , sort of , and george gardner came in and sat
bundles and loads of skins were scattered along ahead on the heads of other natives .
although , speaking literally , one can hardly say that they called for a goya since there has only been
country being put behind them , the girl said , “it’s fun to drive fast isn’t it ?
, before the crack of the bullet striking bone came back .
we had a nice walk when we were hunting .
walcott was bleeding bad and leaned his nose on jack ' s shoulder so as to give jack some of
there was a small sea rising with the wind coming up from the east and at noon the old man
the pain came as he breathed , and his claws dug in the soft baked earth .
” “we only had a half a day because i was a bad girl and slept so late .
lion kill you instead .
mike was already in bed .
i’m not blackie any more .
same motor boat that they had ridden in before .
he wore the crossed keys of his office on the lapels of his blue uniform without ostentation .
but take them slow .
' or his brother .
the bull did not respond .
he placed them against the wall of the barrel and hung his other shell bag between them , hanging it
he tapped with his knuckles on the table .
my forehead on the wood in front of me , and was thinking of myself as praying , i was
in sight we’d be all right .
but i am not unarmed .
bird when they are crazy to be off after the rest of the covey .
jack wouldn ' t take the foul .
" madame fontan came up the stairs with the beer bottles in her hands .
down and get the stuff .
i love that woman .
i ' m not making fun .
' we were out in the car at daylight , out on to the road and beyond the village and
listen , hank , they aren’t what we thought they were though .
and you ' re my daughter , too .
“no , ” he said shaking his head on the floor .
' it can ' t be true , ' i said to myself .
” “how far did you drop before you pulled your rip cord , baldy ?
” tom asked him .
and go face down and are sitting , enjoying being completely wet finally , water cool on your behind ,
' i don ' t want one , really , myself .
“that’s reasonable .
the lake .
” “milk please .
he explained again to me .
beard , who lifted his hat as they passed .
he slipped his shoulders and head from under the line and began to pull in line steadily and gently .
simple , isn ' t it ?
" " will you register , please ?
" " where did he go afterward ?
you ' ve got a first-rate bushbuck .
' ' but it is terribly swollen .
i was up in front with the driver and i turned around .
we left m ' cola at the crossroads to hold up our lorries when they came , put the car
” “you go out the back and come in the front again .
” “that’s eland he’s offering you , ” wilson said .
that afterwards you wait to hear it move , and it is slow in starting .
the train was due at ten-thirty--an hour late meant eleven-thirty .
” “only perch .
a girl and a soldier went by in the street .
sold in advance , and it did not give him a good feeling .
“i’m really not afraid of them now .
i’m awfully anxious to see it .
“have some more eland , ” he said to her politely .
i passed ney ' s statue standing among the new-leaved chestnut-trees in the arc-light .
” “he comes here at six o’clock , don’t he ?
i had to let go of the grapple .
but the bulls went right on and did not notice him .
“i don’t remember what i said .
he ' s an ace .
he must have seen it all up in the bridge .
“the bed is clean .
there was a herd of kongoni scattered between us and the eland and with the kongoni a single bull oryx
going to live abroad .
it was a good story .
they were very tiny but he knew they were nourishing and they tasted good .
“aren’t you running a lunch-counter ?
they had had an argument one time about our lord never sending you anything you could not bear and some
outside right under their window a cat was crouched under one of the dripping green tables .
" " that ' s it , " said mike .
those tusks will keep .
the gondoliere wore a heavy blue navy sweater and he was bare-headed too .
" but , yes , " said the porter .
he could not even see a bird .
it must have been damned funny .
” “there it is , ” nick said .
no money .
i could not expect to kill them , he thought .
he knew too that it was not just that they were men .
" oh , bother the car , " mike said .
“not patriots .
she went on talking to my wife .
i ' ve got a nasty tongue .
" " how am i to know who you are ?
this was simple .
at the end of the pass the bull turned like a cat coming around a corner and faced manuel .
" i feel fine , " she said .
they were sort of worried about me at the florida because in those days , with the shelling , if
the sun was high enough so that it did not shine on her face and the breeze came in the
a wife wasn’t what he needed .
there is no one worthy of eating him from the manner of his behaviour and his great dignity .
“you yellow rat-eating aliens , ” eddy said , “get overboard .
' ' let ' s gamble and have them bring one to the landing .
“i got to go to the can , ” the little man said .
' but my own .
" nada .
and when the tracking became difficult his father always yielded to juma .
do you mind if we talk about writing , roger ?
slip from the chaplain .
he knew they were young men by their voices and he did not look back , but listened carefully for
fifes and the drums coming .
he’d feel sort of doleful after the last race , if he’d lost on the day , until we’d get
hebrew wine-seller—i got it right here .
it was almost too dark to see his face .
it read : dr .
“that was a pretty thing to do , ” he said in a toneless voice .
i gave the waiter a franc and we went out .
" i haff a tabul for two for you gentlemen , " he said .
i was just bathing .
' but did you see m ' cola , ' pop asked .
i was pretty pleased .
the grass and the grey trees .
i have never seen a man in civil life as nervous as robert cohn--nor as eager .
thinking i had misunderstood the price .
now what do you think about the others ?
' no bugs .
” he spat in the road .
" oh , not at all , " brett said .
” “are you married ?
it was a rich country and more sportif every year .
they never saw hopkins again .
" would you pic two bulls for me to-morrow night ?
look how white they are .
it went out of sight .
glad to be home , the of ice sent his mail up to the flat .
“i’ve had him for a week .
" we got the daughter of the house over and each had a fine à l ' eau .
jock’s dressing room , “let’s get moving .
" " yes , if he ' s in .
how much money have we got ?
hebrew wine-seller—here you are , gentlemen .
” “i guess i mixed it up with muffled oars .
" listen , amigo , " said mr .
' at any rate , it would be an interesting experiment .
” nick nodded .
” “you don’t like italian roads ?
they ought to make you drag a chain like a high-octane truck .
' we could go to murano together .
circulated among them at night and stolen their whiskey why shouldn’t i go the whole way , especially if i
we had not treated him badly , but we had not treated him too well , and still he had
” “yes , but the lack of work kills .
“comes now with much dignity .
enrique watched , but there was no one else .
manuel had jerked clear as the sword jumped .
" " you can go now , mr .
quite true , too .
i thought of trying to circle ahead with m ' cola and let them track but we were moving fast
” “will you love me always ?
he’d move around fast enough in the ring if he had to , but he wasn’t any too fast on
then he took up the oar with the knife lashed to it .
“this is pretty good , ” jack says .
this was something that he could not laugh about openly but that he felt superior to and wondered at the
” one of the broads says .
is as good as the first .
you didn’t think i drank a couple of cups of whisky and water every noon by myself before lunch did
about the military rebellion in spain while he ate the sandwich and drank the coffee .
“knock on that , ” he said , pointing to the barrera .
then they’re not nearly as good .
go down there any more .
romero ' s face was very brown .
m ' cola and i ahead , the other following , we went across the long heat haze of the
they formed up for the paseo as soon as the bull had gone through .
we could not follow the tracks the way the wind was blowing so we circled away from the stream and
he was so uncomplaining she said and he was very bad now .
' i never drink , ' kandisky said .
the line went slack and nick thought the trout was gone .
making the cuts for the headskin and we standing close together and feeling fond of each other and understanding everything
was all in them and all gone out of me because i had worked on newspapers since i was very
i never really got to know paris well , because i just came in about once or twice a week
of oil on them , and after he had stroked his forehead and his cheeks , he stroked his nose
boulevard , afraid to see it was not she , afraid to lose the feeling it gave him .
that ' s all the hope we have .
it was a country covered in manigua thicket and in the tall flamboyante trees that grew along the watercourse that
can’t you hear it ?
' with the clean feeling of dry shirt , fresh socks and a change of boots i sat on the
i went inside .
either it will be over right away and the government will put it down or there will be plenty of
" " you know i love you .
" he knew he was beaten now finally and without remedy and he went back to the stern and found
it feels wonderful .
he blew his breath at me to show how cold it was , and went on playing .
people got on and off .
i would always have it .
we sat down opposite them .
” “that man is a bootlegger , isn’t he ?
they were resting on top of a big log ringed where they sat by the cutting of the barkpeelers .
' ' have them call me .
' ' i will go inside and see the barone .
i ' ve been at pamplona , you know .
frazer went on thinking .
this same columnist had reported them on the verge at least three times in the past and they had been
i do not know an italian .
” then , lying with his eyes shut , he said , “don’t bother me .
had been talking and the boy had said , “i don’t understand how anyone ever misses a pigeon .
" " be careful or you will fear even the reds of cincinnati and the white sox of chicago .
the other whores didn ' t smile .
little gambling is all crooked .
had evidently caught our scent and gone back into the hills .
" " yes , " i said , " it would be nice for me to tell him .
" " one sheet .
there it is .
up .
most of it was so old that it was either corked or just plain faded out and gone to pieces
" you know i don ' t think cohn will ever want to knock people about again .
remember the woods were god ' s first temples .
he ' d show them .
“don’t you want to be friends ?
keep your temper , boy , he told himself .
he held him with the cape and turned him , smoothly and suavely , never wasting the bull .
john laughed .
there were three pipes set on the lawn with spring water bubbling out of them , and little paths led
" " how can i stop it ?
' get your decoys out , ' he called to the man in the boat .
' we will regroup .
zurito had his head down once , but he’s come back .
" you ' re an awfully good girl .
i’d let her drift .
breakfast ?
they’re telling each other stories about how smart they are .
' i don ' t know whether they can scent or not .
“i wouldn’t say .
old man was still braced solidly with the line across his back .
" " listen , robert , going to another country doesn ' t make any difference .
" he did not say anything but looked at the bags against the wall of the station .
" " i don ' t know whether you like flowers , sir , " the count said , "
bill slowed , then turned abruptly onto the sandy road that ran up through the orchard to the farmhouse .
' portrait , ' he said .
another got up and ran back , holding his rifle in one hand , his other hand on his head
twist nor break .
then he worked his way slowly back to the bow .
” “many of the confrères present ?
m ' cola was tracking slowly , steadily , and absolutely absorbed in the problem .
they were just quite good books .
and make a play .
his resistance to that is simply amazing .
" the bigger they are , the more meat for the poor .
he was very careful about money and did not care for women .
i guess the tide’s high enough to go through the lakes now , harry thought .
" " what was my grandfather like ?
as the knife turned in him , in him , paco .
and they ' re not worth more than a quarter of a million .
she was leaning back in the chair and the firelight shone on her pleasantly lined face and he could see
” “but it was my duty .
flags for the fusilier , crags for the mountaineer , for english poets beer , strong beer for me .
“god speed the parting guest , ” he said .
“are soldiers all sentimental ?
zurito patted him with his left hand .
“what will you do when the war is over if it is over ?
" he had only fought twice in spain , they couldn ' t stand him there , they saw through
, and next it starts to blow away as it has blown away in every old country and as i
" can one ?
the peasant in the high boots took the spade from the sexton and went on filling in the grave—spreading the
hopeful salesmanship , turned the car off to the left on to a track that went into the deep forest
holy mary , mother of god , pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death .
" you ' re pie-eyed .
” “naturally , sir .
" we would probably have gone on and discussed the war and agreed that it was in reality a calamity
however , there was nothing in the mail of any interest .
" outside the ring , after the bull-fight was over , you could not move in the crowd .
return into the same hole they had made in the water when they leaped .
' ' you haven ' t told me for quite a long time .
then it got larger and larger and larger and then smaller and smaller .
“campari and gordon’s with ice .
he brought three tins to see if i did not want them opened .
sea and the hurt of the cord across his back came to him easily and smoothly .
“i don’t mind if you call them change-of-lifers , ” she told him one night in bed .
they would be calling to each other , keeping in touch with each other in the thicket , as they
she ' s well taken care of .
he reeled in and holding the hook in his hand , walked down the stream .
“i’m about fed up with this kind of fishing .
the market and down past the steep street that led to the bridge across the arga .
you couldn’t ever tell anybody about anything .
figuring things out has been your trade .
many that looked impossible we did .
hogan went out .
“you don’t smoke much .
“we’ll do it in the dining room .
the colonel thought , it looked like goebbels ' s face , if herr goebbels had ever been in a
” asked macomber , raising his rifle .
john looked at it again and at the over-large bulge the man’s shoulder holster made under his coat .
then we can walk to cipriani ' s and be famous people .
but i suppose that is always the way with drugs .
however you make your living is where your talent lies .
" " all right , " bill said .
of the fishermen kept their gear .
don’t drink off the floor .
“we were married in the eyes of god and i belong to him right now and always will and all
” “good , ” nick said .
" they went back to their corners .
back to the hotel .
that is no way to give a gift .
we put on our coats and started out .
“he’s a sweet fielder , too , ” bill said .
" you look very well , sir , " james said .
he covered the mouth of the phone with his hand and said , ' i am talking to ettore .
the gypsy bent back , drew back his arms , the banderillos pointing at the bull .
” “you treat a man no better than a dog , ” the nigger said .
we .
the photographs were dedicated to juanito montoya or to his sister .
home is going to be where you will go from now on .
i certainly did hate him .
the water was so clear and the sand white .
“they put us out in the kitchen , ” nick went on .
into the woods .
had ambition .
for just a moment i thought i was one .
down below the water showed black between the slits of ties .
" " i believe it , " said the biggest one .
" come on over to the café , " bill said .
” “let’s go down and get the berries anyway , ” littless said .
i slipped the safety catch and motioned droopy down .
' ' cipriani is very intelligent .
but that’s how i am .
m ' cola had seen the rusty bore .
" in knowledge , yes .
" " you can ' t tell about the weather , " jack says .
" " did you know him ?
“oh , absolutely .
it stopped at this junction for two minutes and went on to madrid .
he could get over sixty miles onto the speedometer in each hour .
so i was glad i had called my friend pepé at seguridad headquarters because luis delgado was an old client
” “how long has he been married ?
' ' don ' t please talk about it .
' ' i don ' t think so , ' the girl said .
he knew that if they kept on this road they would come , shortly , to the turn that he
the warriors ran with us for a good way but we had to make time , the going was good
makes writers such attractive friends .
but what can a man do against them in the dark without a weapon ?
fuentes was standing with his back against the barrera .
“a thousand apiece , ” said the one who spoke good english .
“he’s all right , ” he said .
they could not find any spoor , and then the wanderobo-masai called from below and to the right that he
“no swim , ” one chink said .
he did not want to go down the stream any further today .
own clothes for twenty years now from the same maison de couture in the rue saint honoré .
neither of the men in the buggy was talking but nick adams smelled them as they went past and he
“c’est du gnôle .
it was not even very important .
" i know a girl in strasbourg who can show us the town , " i said .
but by midnight he fought and this time he knew the fight was useless .
i picked up only a straggler from the albacore that were feeding .
the trigger pull put me off .
i heard the bullet smack and watched the oryx circle out away from the others , the circle quickening ,
, where the dried-breasted old women and the shrunken-flanked , hollow-ribbed old men hoed in the cornfields , through miles
i will have lost two hundred fathoms of good catalan cordel and the hooks and leaders .
armoured and the eighty-eights not there .
nightshirt and saying the rosary .
" " thank you , " i said .
well , it was the poor sod’s own bloody fault .
” “i had a swell time .
all people such as us have it .
hold it !
” “we were in a left echelon of v’s .
steinfelt was standing up .
in harry ' s bar .
i mustn’t .
then ahead we saw a big fire and as we came up and passed , i made out a lorry
" " pipe down .
" what do you think it ' s here for ?
” “sometime we’ll go .
' ' you ' d be overrun like a dose of salts , ' the waiter said .
it was on that stretch that , marching , they had once passed the terza savoia cavalry regiment riding in
but every time he gets in there close , jack has the left hand in his face .
" how do you feel ?
blew the side of his head off .
it is a pity they weren ' t ten against one , the colonel thought .
but i can ' t , he told himself .
the mules went out .
' ' there ' s no hurry .
fisherman would give a year to tie into , he loses him , he loses my heavy tackle , he
" " comment ?
then he smiled .
” “give me chicken croquettes with green peas and cream sauce and mashed potatoes .
a lion ; when he first sees his track , when he first hears him roar and when he first
been shelled , but few travellers would take a good full breath of that early summer air and have any
they only stopped to growl with laughter or to roar with laughter at the good lion and to snarl at
' we have to play it .
“tell it to go away .
they were not very good letters but i hoped their being on crillon stationery would help them .
“you say it all you want , ” she said and kissed him .
they are what is really distinguished .
" " i ' d go there with you .
” “all right .
" " here .
where would you go if you were him ?
" " i ought to have .
when they woke up we had lunch of cold sliced tenderloin , bread , and mustard , and a can
he lived in a smaller hotel with the other people who worked for romero .
" " i can ' t read letters , " mike said .
you never do , he told himself .
’ “is pass the other three and i say to company , ‘now is hokay .
' also we had to wait for the possible arrival of general or field marshal bernard law montgomery who was
we went to bed early and in the night it rained a little , not a real rain but a
they waved to him .
he had a couple of his health-farm patients with the gloves on .
braddocks brought up somebody and introduced him as robert prentiss .
' ' you were certainly jolly .
the shark swung over and the old man saw his eye was not alive and then he swung over once
“hello , solly , ” jack says .
the bullet had made a crack when it hit like a bat swung against a fast ball and the buck
” “well , ” i said , “everybody’s got to get it sometime .
they used to share this just so they could leave because it was intolerable .
the marlin , trying to rest and to be strong , when he saw the first of the two sharks
' i ' m just telling you how it works .
c ' est bon , la bière .
“you can get work on the ferry .
you ' re a fine man and it breaks my heart to go off and leave you---- " " you
from the forest so you could not get above it without sending your scent on ahead of you on the
' ' well , we better not discuss it then .
” retana’s man leaned forward and knocked three times on the barrera .
the oars are a good trick ; but it has reached the time to play for safety .
but i would much rather not have any hydromatic drive .
" there ' s a dreadful moment for me just when the bull starts for the horse .
the best .
i was his tennis friend .
maurice de saxe .
” claude asked me .
” in the stern of the white boat two men in flannels and white cloth hats sat in fishing chairs
sing , too .
that was bad luck all right .
” “how did he do it ?
only black spots and splatters on the short grass , one by one the brother , garrick , and the
now i think you should go .
after the seventh round jack says , “my left’s getting heavy .
it might interest you and you can look at the uniform while i am talking .
” “well , we shall see .
look , ” he opened a table drawer and took out two meat knives .
it came alive between his lips , his tongue pressing against it .
" well , then , we ' ll have to get some convenient place in america .
" " no , " jack said .
what the hell don’t i think about ?
then i couldn ' t keep away from it , and i started to think about brett and all the
ignacio in a failure .
but i wouldn’t carry him the way things were now , not even if i wanted to .
qué tal ?
' ' rather .
” “cuba .
” “he made me gloomy , ” said al .
i just can’t sleep .
” “i don’t think you ought to come , littless .
knee .
the good ones came each year .
it was a cow kudu .
this time i ' ll pull him over .
” “that’s reasonable , ” johnson said .
and they could bring up infantry when it was right to or cover their advance when that was best .
between the tree trunks .
" " let ' s get two bottles , " i said .
then says , ' go ahead .
they came in through the back gate out of the woods , eddy carrying the long cross-cut saw .
that was the thing about french girls and german girls .
man was ever alone on the sea .
the two sets of knives and forks and spoons were in his pocket with a paper napkin wrapped around each
it was good for a bird dog but it did not help a man .
or the opportunity to get it and use it , and you have to live where there is game or
“that’s a real book .
but you know , in our army , they don ' t even shoot for self-inflicted wounds .
” “i didn’t know who they were , ” i said .
“that’s what makes the trouble .
the earth , clear now from even stray bullets , and looked at what lay below us in the hollow
it was getting dark as we came in , and now that it was dark it was cold and the
" bill stood up and took hold of cohn .
they never seemed to move slowly .
" " copiously .
" don ' t you ever detach me from the herd , mike .
” and the windows shutting .
“that’s one for the medical journal , george , ” he said .
there must be something i can do .
“i don’t know where he is , ” he said , coming back into the pastry room carrying the glass
" " it ' s hard to say , " nick adams said .
and looked at my old man and then pulled a sheet off the cot and spread it over him ;
there was a cool breeze from the east and it blew the grass in waves on the hillsides .
he fixed him with a swing of the cape , squarely facing the horse and rider , and stepped back
there was no undergrowth , only the smooth grass , very green and fresh , and the big gray trees
and they left them as soldiers .
m ' cola shook his head at me .
“not for me , ” said macomber .
he was fascinated by its techniques and conventions , the skill and courage required by the toreros , and the
on the stairs we passed a girl coming up with a covered tray .
will try to lay it on the line in round , heavy , hard silver dollars or with the other
i don’t like to drive this coast at night .
the other way was to climb steeply up to the edge of the woods and then go across the top
the ice across the canal as other boats had gone on ahead .
she was cool and fresh in the hot night .
' ' the good ones , yes .
” “i won’t have to quit , ” manuel said .
it was crap .
there it was all written plainly .
i knew there was something between him and brett .
then we something , something , then embrace .
he started to eat the artichoke taking a leaf at a time , and dipping them , heavy side down
it must be cold outside .
' ' my idea of a tough town is memphis .
” “but why are you here now ?
what the veterinaries won ' t pass in the daytime .
when you looked closely two or three were obviously better than the others and sitting on the ground i picked
" " no , i mean you got to fight it out .
' everyone in camp was out to watch us go .
we could go up to bruges , or to the ardennes .
" we smoked skilfully in the dark .
only i didn’t think i was conceited .
“i cannot laugh yet .
" you can ' t just quit at your age and take to pumping yourself full of that stuff just
, to let off the second barrel and throw a burst of rock dust and dirt over his hind quarters
he lived along that coast now every night and in his dreams he heard the surf roar and saw the
” “who was the girl ?
' ' _gran maestro_ , ' the colonel said .
there was a tin bucket for carrying lake water to fill the reservoir and a granite bucket for well water
' no fear .
” “hogan , ” jack says .
" what the hell .
' it was awfully pretty , ' p .
figures of course mean nothing to civilians .
" the conductor put the ten francs in his pocket .
see how it is ?
” “nor to the horses .
the chinks weren’t going to .
be made fast to the other spare coils so that , if it were necessary , a fish could take
he was thirsty too and he got down on his knees and , being careful not to jerk on the
' ' i don ' t know .
in the meantime i can see how he acts and if he shows any changes .
' ' you told me .
“i’ve got a lot more than that coming to me and i’ll give you an order on my pay .
” “the hell with you , ” doctor wilcox said .
“they get in there with the coffee and keep you from being lonely when you drive .
one time i speak good arabic .
use your own judgment .
' memsahib must think we ' re silly beggars .
flared out in empty broken holes where the tusks had been chopped away .
but you have a right to .
if i wake up by any odd chance i just think beautiful happy dirty thoughts .
until he woke .
what would you say at breakfast ?
but it was a good story then .
we were .
he got one out from under the loads in the back , we were going through the deer-park-looking country now
" well , you can ' t tell , " i said .
“i’m through now , ” he said .
i myself did not want to sleep because i had been living for a long time with the knowledge that
he wore a flat-topped , narrow-brimmed straw hat and an alpaca coat .
that would have been too slow .
” she brought the coffee from the kitchen and mr .
this life until i lost it .
a natural history of the dead it has always seemed to me that the war has been omitted as a
" they ought to put some gravel on that stretch , " joe garner said .
” “anything you do too bloody long .
i could not understand why the vehicle had not been blown wide open or overturned .
maybe only for a couple of days , though .
” “sure !
before i am captain in greek army too .
we crossed one ravine that came down to the stream , going into the thick bush to be out of
she knew all the patent medicines in the next case and who usually bought them .
” al’s voice came from the kitchen .
it had been forwarded from paris : could you come hotel montana madrid am rather in trouble brett .
he felt the horn go into the sand between his folded arms .
white , low fence , the load of the first barrel swung into him and the load from the second
he made a quick drop , slanting down on his back-swept wings , and then circled again .
dans son café , vous savez !
haven’t i a right to speak italian ?
they went back along the gravel path and passed in the door .
i’ll hit you with a bottle full of champagne wine .
good shoot .
to where i could see them and then , in the sunlight , high up on the hillside against the
“i got a thick tongue but i ain’t got a head .
” they went away disappointed .
the grasshopper was black .
“just you drink a cup of this hot coffee .
once old henry tackles the pope you’ll see all three of them crumble .
patches of dancers .
you’re a all right nigger , wesley .
" " say , there ' s plenty of americans on this train , " the husband said .
' ' the cauliflower is almost crisp ; like celery .
the café girls—and i believe they are still patriotic .
“ain’t a man’s life worth more than a load of liquor ?
" so i am .
what we had followed him into had made my fancy shooting plans seem very silly and i knew all we
” “he was a great fighter , ” the lumberjack said .
” “put some water in that , ” i said .
you come in here where nobody asks you and eat a man’s food and when he asks to borrow a
” “no , a beet worker .
“it’s like a tunnel , ” his sister said .
he took a deep breath , took hold of his ankles with his hands , his knees under his chin
we’ll let her try it without .
got his , all right .
anna christie .
liz took off her coat and leaned over and covered him with it .
now we must work .
command military districts in peace time .
” i didn’t want to tell him too far ahead because he would get to worrying and get so spooked
" " he wasn ' t so tight .
” “let them keep the money .
his youngest sister let him know they were waiting for him .
i told him but he knows what it ' s all about .
and then neatly wrapped on themselves and at his strange un-negroid , thin-lipped face .
" now for the first time she dropped her bright , terribly cheerful manner .
“but this time it’s air conditioning .
” we were both quiet and i listened to the silk-worms .
' it will be swell , ' i said .
” “let’s not go out until it’s dark .
” “when would i get the money ?
it up before they got in , and the motor car started .
his former rank .
he buckled his wind jacket tight .
he raised the rifle , sighted on the junction of the lion’s head and shoulders and pulled the trigger .
one man was badly cogido .
men carrying stretchers wound down through the gap to where , on the flat at the foot of the ridge
naturally , we have our own conversations among ourselves .
" i found bill up in his room .
where , now , lights shone from all the windows .
you ' ve been damned nice .
dark , as his belly went over .
energy crackers is the least of it .
but don’t you go near the store , nick .
assume the responsibility .
he was all ready now and wanted to start .
' the best town , i think .
manuel waved back the men with the capes .
" " if you think it won ' t keep me awake .
and the big , graceful ears were beautiful .
maybe it wasn ' t quatre bras .
at it .
" " yes , " said nick .
" put it in there , henry , " the count motioned .
in a room off the bar there was a good jazz band playing .
he was all ready to break it off quickly and neatly and here the beggar was apologizing after he had
but there was the taste of the brine and the way it made you thirsty .
" " you want to ?
somebody killed a man up the street .
are you all right ?
mister francis , ” the negro’s voice soothed .
deeper in the dust and lay back against the wall of the hole , resting against the small of my
i ' ve had a swell time .
the ring .
” “bring us the bill , ” i said .
a throttle to throttle you with .
" " neither do i , " said harris , " i don ' t agree with david belasco .
' ' mustn ' t do anything silly , though .
they are down on the flats and when they get up the wind catches them .
' the girl asked the colonel .
there would be one more scene maybe before he got away .
” the negro looked over at the little man , lying breathing heavily .
we started out with the brother ahead , wearing a toga and carrying a spear , then me with the
michael and i understand each other .
where have i been ?
frazer was a little taken aback at this .
a dispute about nothing .
, and her head was on his chest , and her hair spread across his old hard neck ; and
the pear trees had been sprayed , and the walls of the houses were stained a metallic blue-green by the
he wanted the crew list and i told him nobody .
" boulevard montparnasse .
he had died in a trap that he had helped only a little to set , and they had all
their political persuasion .
” “she hasn’t seen the boy and she doesn’t know anything about him .
what’s your last name , marie ?
“he was in before lunch , ” the waiter answered .
but now i hate it .
frazer said .
he wore what used to be called polo shirts at school , and may be called that still , but
" what do you want to eat , al ?
i’ve got a hundred and two .
it’s not good to be catholique .
live on rice .
” “we’ll fight tomorrow .
“under the trees .
' pop whispered .
they wore big wreaths of white garlics around their necks .
if you loved the city of venice it was an excellent game .
that was protected by the mountain from any shelling .
they went by five minutes ago .
we must go back , cross the meadow far enough down so we were out of sight , get into
“and so will everyone in this stinking jerkwater little town if i have to grub it out by the roots
out of the pack he got a folding canvas bucket and walked down the hill , across the edge of
” “that’s splendid .
by dinner she was fairly drunk and after a bottle of wine at dinner she was usually drunk enough to
" " send pinin in to me .
" he ' s going to tell us about the peasant we saw filling the grave , coming into town
“they’re using our guns .
the old man nodded and the boy took his trousers from the chair by the bed and , sitting on
” downstairs , the doctor left three different medicines in different colored capsules with instructions for giving them .
she lay on her side and the stern was deep down .
baldy jackson .
damp letters .
” “any time , ” i said .
' ' big trout ?
” frank the bartender asked me .
he must get to somewhere .
" " keep warm old man , " the boy said .
they’re like five-finger exercises .
when his voice had still been the same in the ring as in the cafe , and how he sighted
” “we’ll have to go , ” nick said .
his sister sat down at the table and watched him while he read .
' ' you don ' t know about your hand .
" " it ' s very good .
“thank you .
the road came out into a clearing .
i must go to spezia .
that should be enough .
some one waved at me from a table , i did not see who it was and went on .
' they were in front of the palace now and there it was ; the palace .
i wanted a hot bath .
“ i ’ d b e tt e r g e t t o tha t d a mne d
grass with the bottles tucked under their arms .
if i was going away i wanted to remember it and say good-bye .
“you’re fatter , james .
“they didn’t say it .
“can i have fifty now ?
the mules , straining forward , their legs pushing , broke into a gallop , and the bull , one
“where he’s headed now is pretty good going but we’ll have to climb .
and you might have been stripped if you lost .
woman .
this city .
” “don’t you really want to tell me about him ?
' yes , he thought .
if necessary i will make all the promises and i will keep them .
my trade is killing armed men .
' ' of course .
' ' good fliers are very good and should be respected as such , ' the colonel said .
i ' m scotch .
looking across the stream to where the gun-bearers were skinning out the lion he could see that she had been
that and baseball .
in a hospital i was in during the war .
' it ' s a hell of a life , ' i told him in english .
" " what is an hour ?
then we all went down to the stream and kamau and i rigged ropes around the tyres to act as
' she said this in italian .
the stream bed .
it is not a strong wine .
' just then the lobster was served .
the last one is the better .
" he ain ' t here .
" bring them here .
“fancy meeting you here .
he lay still in the bed and seemed very detached from what was going on .
i was so happy and it seemed so simple and easy .
she was smoking a cigarette and flicking the ashes on the rug .
“are we going to be like the others and have fights ?
he may be half asleep himself , he thought .
“that’s where he’s going damn quick , ” retana’s man said .
their handshake was only long enough to feel , firmly , the contact and the pleasure of meeting and then
street .
" " really going ?
" " fancy , " said brett .
” asked madame .
there were plenty of other people in the car but none of them looked very interesting .
” “kikes , ” this broad goes on .
" the two of them went out the door .
his cowardice returning .
horses to the rail in front of the lunch room and walked down the sidewalk on their high-heeled boots .
“hello , jack , ” he said .
do you really want to know anything about him ?
they supplied their names to mike and sent for a fork for me .
i’ve had him for ten years and he’s never been right yet .
he ' s been training jack .
here , waiter !
then we trailed him and finally i hit him a couple of more times and we got him .
you mustn’t mix it with daughter though .
hell and damnation .
and sign the wire with love .
” “was ?
he poured the whisky into the glass nick held out .
wait till you hear it .
old hunter and the girl and how it was then in the different seasons .
they hit the ice almost as solidly as the big ducks .
" how do you feel , jake ?
was pleased .
' ' who do you love ?
" " exactly , " said johnson .
” “did you leave the dove cage unlocked ?
mouth .
we came around a curve into a town , and on both sides opened out a sudden green valley .
peduzzi leaned over and dug his flat , hard thumb and forefinger in and tangled the moistened leaders .
the torcello boys were all great boatmen .
" he lay there on the bed .
the man who owned the bull ranch hoped that the bull would change , or learn , or be different
three schools of thought .
they were shaped like a man ' s fingers when they are crisped like claws .
” “promise .
” the kid came over .
his voice was funny .
the young gentleman said he had not eaten but would be ready to go as soon as lunch was finished
" hello , george , " he said .
" " let pedrico chop it up to use in fish traps .
" oh , my god , you ought to have been there all right .
the marble-topped tables in the shade of the arcade .
' why are you not more interested in the natives ?
to be a little more light , then the sun was down and , obligation to try to get a
" " that , too , has got a place in my values .
" she went back into the house to get some beer .
” “how do you know it was nothing ?
it seemed very cheerful and clean and sane and lovely .
" " i didn ' t , " cohn said .
we were looking right down on him .
it came up nothing .
more like a peace officer or an honest gambler than a storekeeper .
" how do you feel , jack , " morgan asks him .
i told you i ' d come back .
the colonel wished that the door would open more rapidly .
” to marie from her friend helena wrote above the florid name in the slightly suspect script .
the tears were running down her cheeks and her face was working .
i’m thinking about her .
" think about something cheerful , old man , " he said .
the part right around here doesn’t look so bad at night .
back again .
bed in the sun , reeds like papyrus grass grew thick as wheat and twelve feet tall .
so good of you to remind me .
“then , ” the extremaduran went on somberly , “one of them said to the officer in spanish , ‘where
” “not at all , ” i said .
the critic of el heraldo reached for the bottle of warm champagne that stood between his feet , took a
“i told him everything exactly as you said and he said to tell you , truly , that he doesn’t
his money was all right and now he wanted to finish it off right to please himself .
up in front of chicote’s and eight men got out of it .
around us , her eyes down , and went on along the trail that we had come , alone ,
' it was .
but she can be so cruel and it comes so suddenly and such birds that fly , dipping and hunting
" you got a lot of luck .
' they were still taking off from the fields where they lived on that green-grassed aircraft carrier that they called
” andré went out the door .
his train left at seven-ten .
if i lose her i lose my living .
he had talked himself out of too many things .
everybody knows you usually fish below the grist mill and the cider mill .
' yes , b ' wana , ' he said .
edges with hollows where the animals had licked the dirt for salt , and we had seen long , heart-shaped
and we had the bags sent down and waited for robert cohn .
' but i am very vulnerable on this .
wheeler drank the wine and smiled to himself for some time .
” “i am not sweating , ” red said .
just a moment , madame , and i ' ll look for your name .
his legs were still good for this season , and when they should go he was intelligent and experienced enough
” “listen .
' he put his right hand in his pocket and felt what was there , first with the tips of
my countrymen sit down , or lie down , or fall down .
' listen , mac .
patches silly .
hers , but theirs , truly , and they both knew it .
" " i don ' t know anything about her that i could write .
but won’t you be awfully bored with me ?
' while they were loading in the dark he held on to my arm and talked very quietly in a
and the colonel remembered one time when he had stood , commanding a platoon of assault troops , while it
' ' i learned that phrase from you and now you have re-learned it back from me .
me down again with a jerk on my arm and none of us breathing as we saw him standing in
talents , or his talent , also told what we would have of the necessary .
he is a good friend of mine .
” “thank christ i can’t , ” i said .
plenty of fish now though ; jewfish , the biggest kind .
“but we do .
always made brett sleep on the floor .
' yes , ' pretending to understand the english .
nor any of the other signs that combat people show as surely as a fisherman ' s hands tell you
when he was even with him and had the fish ' s head against the bow he could not believe
to the trees where p .
crawled down in bed again .
he was a dark-faced boy , and he fixed the stove , putting the pine wood in carefully , shut
i have to stay ready for them if they do .
" he is in much pain .
it was something that gave caste , something to believe in , something fashionable and god-giving to suffer a little
” “were they—were they—” “were they what ?
" " don ' t look at the horses , after the bull hits them , " i said to
" i went out the door and into my own room and lay on the bed .
' ' perhaps he is meditating on new and more distinguished shameful acts .
in the morning .
we went forward making as good time as we could and still move quietly .
perhaps he wasn’t .
" sure , " he said .
no matter what passes i must gut the dolphin so he does not spoil and eat some of him to
” “you might as well bunk with me , jerry , ” jack says .
road and not dimming their lights .
' ' come on , ' i said to m ' cola .
i had been quite ill and had that pleasant feeling of getting stronger each day .
" " certainly .
they handed the sword to romero , and carrying it blade down , the muleta in his other hand ,
“you were one of the ones that framed him with promises from the association .
“no hay derecho , ” he said with dignity .
maybe .
no end and no beginning .
” “not quite .
small hills , or when going through dead grass , whenever splitting wood or hauling water , by grist mills
” “get him out of here , ” doctor wilcox said .
' ' what about a gimlet ?
“he’s deaf , ” i said .
jackson had entered the room and stood before him at a semblance of attention .
” “love is a dunghill , ” said harry .
heavy-calved , well-haired , bare leg over the other , ' you must not stay here too long .
' ' surely .
" that ' s always just the stage i meet anybody .
" " you aren ' t going to die .
those never get smart .
" " can ' t i , though ?
they were on a straight stretch of road now and were making time so that one farm blended , almost
" " i know how to care for them .
“what did you do today ?
he had put it when he went to the door .
wilson is really very impressive killing anything .
all in all they were known as a comparatively happily married couple , one of those whose disruption is often
' maria , some beer , ' he says , ' for god ' s sake .
keep the drag off so you can slack to him when he hits .
each thing that he did with this bull wiped that out a little cleaner .
they did not say anything .
i don’t know , marge .
it was an indictment and i saw three men in uniform start from a table for the flit gun man
there was a tree made shade over fontan ' s back porch and i sat there at a table and
he wallowed down the stream , above his knees in the current , through the fifty yards of shallow water
i learned to talk french quick .
remember all the fine ones in the resistance , remember foch both fought and organized and remember how fine the
it comes in april and from bassano .
people were .
rhetoric is the blue sparks from the dynamo .
he had some reasons to delay it .
to get her to do something which she was laughingly refusing to do .
you did not have to like it because you understood it .
' ' why should any man shoot a kudu ?
“he buys all the ones he wants , ” bill said .
" " tell her it looks like her country , " guy said .
” “i’d like to clear away that lion business , ” macomber said .
all you have to do is live a certain time as man and wife .
side in the shade from the tree .
“it is closed until two , ” someone passing in the street said scornfully .
nick lay down on the dock beside kate and odgar .
' ' _al sangue_ , ' the colonel said , ' as john said when he spoke to the waiter
it came out all right because some of them , friends of mine , swore he was after me with
' ' i love you , ' the colonel said quite formally .
, then tiny .
then everybody commenced to throw chairs .
” “you’re a tough one , aren’t you ?
frazer two pheasants that were out there in the snow , and pulling the bed toward the window , the
the piave , where it all made sense .
as always , we were short of artillery .
" " you better go back to town and stay there .
" you should have killed yourself last week , " he said to the deaf man .
nick cleaned them , slitting them from the vent to the tip of the jaw .
skiing , and the hazardous luge .
he stood up when i nodded , and asked me to come over and meet a friend .
he just knew it wasn’t rock .
" " haven ' t i done my work ?
one of the women was in mourning ; a mourning so theatrical that it reminded the colonel of the lady
' when the whole outfit came up , we rolled the rhino into a sort of kneeling position and cut
' ' excuse me , ' he said .
water , tightening , all in a heavy , dangerous , steady pull .
damned if this isn’t a strange one , he thought .
i had hoped we ' d all have another go at the irati together .
sitting on the bank he took the bottle of marsala out of his pocket and passed it to peduzzi .
” i went over and did just that and the sullen waiter brought a plate of cold sliced meats ,
“yeah , ” frank said .
“it’s all right to talk to you .
“the lot the duke sent me for sunday will make a scandal , ” he said .
' ' i ' m not .
“neither do i , ” said wilson very cheerily .
" olé !
“i won’t kill him unless he comes around the house .
the cat would be around to the right .
” “come on” he said .
” “for a favor .
dirt where the strong points had been fortified and the communication trenches dug .
” “let’s not think about him .
place .
" it ' s a sort of jota .
, and the shooter ' s two , or more , guns were propped against the load of wooden decoys
in touraine .
“that’s right , ” said nick .
" i ' ve read it in the paper .
he did not want to look at the fish .
water bottles , binoculars , and a musette bag of books , sung out a stream of what sounded like
the shoulders , the bull had followed the low-swung flannel , that disappeared as romero lurched clear to the left
” krebs said nothing .
we were sun-burned and our lips blistered from the sun and alkali dust .
i hate a cramp , he thought .
he had disappeared .
' now should i go to the women ' s room to comb my hair and make myself presentable ,
sergeant !
" " where ?
" " i am a strange old man .
were sitting under the dining tent .
madame fontan came out and put down the bottles on the table .
" you can ' t get this in america , eh ?
and they’re all afraid to die .
pour , and i will tell you some of the rest of it .
there were patches on the elbows .
it sounded exactly as the command to fire should sound or the announcement of a hit .
” several soldiers nodded .
then there was silence .
“come on and fight , ” jack says to walcott .
on the seat you start destroying her and denying her without any formalities of cocks crowing , twice nor thrice
but then he stopped thinking and he did not think for a long time .
” “i’ll walk up as far as the cottage with you , ” nick said .
the wife went downstairs and the hotel owner stood up and bowed to her as she passed the office .
” “i can’t understand it , anyway , ” john said .
" he asked the waitress .
“if you don’t give them line when they hook up like that they break it .
i said , don’t be a damn fool luis .
while he waited for the coffee to boil , he opened a small can of apricots .
down the steep road that led out of the wooded hills into the valley of the rio de la fabrica
bill tried to talk some spanish to one of the carabineers , but it did not go very well .
the men on top of the wall leaned back and pulled up the door of the corral .
wheeler in montreux inside the station café it was warm and light .
it was possible on this road on that stretch that now lay ahead where the canal ran clear and flowing
i would like to see you have something besides your kids you did not destroy sometime .
who were these bull-fighters anyway ?
” “i like lice better , ” said johnny .
when they came toward him with the cap to go over his head sam cardinella lost control of his sphincter
i had to fool with the chute plenty to get down on the right side of the river .
nick’s hand was shaky .
“how is he ?
he had been to camp meetings and a revival but he had never been to a chautauqua .
the bleeding may keep the left from cramping .
none of these rearrangements diminishes the unity and integrity of “the strange country .
she had been such a good friend of his , and then one day in the little back room of
“i want to handle them .
abdullah , the short , thick-nosed , educated one , was his tracker .
take the case of bernard shaw .
" he left two glasses for the bottle , and we paid him for the sandwiches and tipped him .
then i would start there and remember this way again , until i reached the war .
i have to know about that .
it was not conspicuous and it had been there a long time .
” “i don’t want any girl .
' for the moment .
they were slim and brown and very beautiful .
" johnson asked .
ninth baronet .
" " you punks clear the hell out of here , " the bartender said .
if you take your time with the tape recorder you can get the words right .
" i understand that , but why did the bullets all go in the front ?
" don ' t think .
but it could be piero della francesca or mantegna .
you do not have that spear on your head for nothing .
it ' s a thing i haven ' t taken any interest in .
, iodoform , carbolic and an over-heated radiator .
over and touched him to try to believe it .
was his real enemy and he followed their pace and tried to move through and out of the sleep that
the picadors galloped jerkily around the ring , and two rode out the gate they had come in by .
that’s no choice , he thought .
who he liked was mama .
work because it is too lonely , too hard to do , and is not fashionable .
the boy would break his gun and walk back in off the cement toward the pavilion , no expression on
it was too much regiment for him and it was all the regiment i ever could have hoped for in
' ' well , we ' re not bitched until to-morrow night .
they ' ve sent it to me in a vision in the café select .
“muy raro .
“i say it because it’s true , ” alice said .
” “you’re drunk , ” mr .
he was reading and i guess my restlessness disturbed him .
back in the room i wrote the boy’s temperature down and made a note of the time to give the
you’re perfectly all right .
" she sat down on a chair beside me .
i ' d tell you about g _num_ , g _num_ , g _num_ , g _num_ , g _num_
“i’m tired all the time .
writes damned fine things in _the saturday evening post_ about , what ' s the bloke ' s name ,
of those bastards while they’re on the dock and wire a piece of iron on them from the old mill
but it sure interests them .
" beer , " i said , and before he drew the beer he uncovered both the bowls .
" " i say , i do , you know .
elizabeth .
ayee he was tired .
” “hardly ever .
“you don’t want to spoil them .
" " when are you going to get married ?
the bull , with his tongue out , his barrel heaving , was watching the gypsy .
garrick started to talk and i placed the back of my hand against his mouth .
" you can come back next year ?
then she put them down .
” “i don’t know anything about her that i could write .
" " martin .
" that drink ' s mine , " mike said .
” the grossness of the words was distasteful to fontan .
“i shouldn’t take you .
' don ' t try anything fancy , ' pop said .
thick marsh to which we thought the ducks might fly .
expression of his face .
" you can pay for the car , jake , and i ' ll send you my share .
after they’ve been hunted they get smart .
just then he felt a sudden banging and jerking on the line he held with his two hands .
they didn’t come down until i was sightseeing all by myself .
then he ran his bad hand through her hair once , twice and three times and then he kissed her
he was almost crying .
" after we finished the lunch we walked up to the café de la paix and had coffee .
“but look , luis , if you need some money—” i was holding the stiffly folded , shiny-heavy-paper , green
” “not for bed though .
that sounds like an innocent occupation , but cohn had read and reread " the purple land .
i really have confidence in him .
the bull watched him , not fixed now , hunting him , but waiting to get close enough so he
they were all drinking wine and mopping up the oil and vinegar with pieces of bread .
' do you know what general thomas j .
' ' eee-eee , ' he crooned .
you will observe that it is by mr .
in the evening i can look straight into it without getting the blackness .
not the tarragova ?
" it isn ' t chic , but the food is all right .
_ _num_ st soldier_--he didn ' t want to come down off the cross .
it means any amount to him .
the group of friends he made there , including the indians who lived nearby , are doubtless represented in various
that ' s you .
his sister put down the sack she was carrying and said , “they’re sleeping like pigs , nickie .
“he’s gone , ” said johnson .
we went inside the station and stood with a crowd of people just back of the gates , and the
also through brutality .
“it’s much easier if i talk .
to stand in front of the board where they’d post what kircubbin paid .
“jack !
there was a low house painted yellow with willows all around it and a low stable and there was a
me putting out the theories , pop pricking them with his wit , sometimes considering them from politeness , sometimes
he came back and he said , “harry , can i have one of those now ?
trolling and an old man in a felt hat and a windbreaker held the tiller and steered the boat close
" " i know it , " romero said .
" " i ' ll have one with you , " i said .
oh , pedro .
" you ' ve made a new one there , " i said to her .
he had to come back to the room to get his bottle of medicine , which he had forgotten ,
he says the barone alvarito is not there .
” “run along .
" this is the first time i have been divorced .
no , he said , he hadn’t .
shot it .
she lay in the lower bunk , very big under a quilt .
i have a car in one of the back streets to take you home , elizabeth .
birmingham , and she said it was no good .
their arms furled in their capes , talking , waiting for the signal to march in across the arena .
, grey and sure of himself , carrying that heavy head and with the hostile eyes .
it came , heavily .
i put on a bathrobe and slippers and went to the door .
' ' if you ever want to quit a beat-up character like me that guy could give you ground support
” “you know you’d like to see him .
' ' i ' ll be there in twenty minutes if you want me .
i love them all three , hard , and i think they’re wonderful .
' ' my brother got killed in the pacific and the guy who was running the garage was no good
' ' me and the wanderobo-masai buffalo , ' i said .
” “i’m going to sleep , ” he said .
” his father and juma spoke together and juma had looked at david and laughed .
then they were over the first hills and the wildebeeste were trailing up them , and then they were over
’ then you know when the cardinals would come to bat it was simply dreadful .
” “monsieur is going to divorce , ” the first porter explained .
” john asked .
je vais chercher de la bière .
we skirted the edge of the open patch and then , ahead , there was a crash and i saw
he hadn ' t shaved and he was wearing an old sweater .
i can’t stand this pain and cold i tell you .
they were all very long poems .
” “nothing much .
wilson had seen it coming for a long time and he dreaded it .
i could go on .
i ' m paying for it all now .
” the ghee was just behind him .
" " no , " the peroxide one said .
restore his confidence .
there wasn’t much current compared to the last day we had fished and there was only a light breeze .
it was considered a virtue not to talk unnecessarily at sea and the old man had always considered it so
this is the last really wild stream there is except in another awful country to get to beyond the foot
he ' s my sort of thing .
" " big enough .
” “i am angry now , ” he said .
as far down the long stretch as he could see , the trout were rising , making circles all down
he had a big moustache and looked very military .
' ' i heard only one shot .
we ' re almost to the market now and you made it without hardly noticing .
“don’t put your head out , jimmy , ” my father said .
de roncesvalles .
" " we ' ve had a grand time , harris .
she did not sleep pretty , he thought .
i ' m not saying whether he was good or not .
" " let ' s have a drink , then .
we made our way back and down and told the others .
i rang the bell .
” “it’s a symbol , ” bill said .
” “then what will we do afterward ?
' ' they were too far .
“i want to have a talk with you .
“what do you mean , no breakfast ?
' o .
to the springhouse .
" where ' s fontan ?
“have a drink .
' exactly as you say .
’” “that’s right , ” said nick .
' better men than i am do it , i thought .
all of the times that had been able to make him feel cool and clear inside himself when he thought
but he could see the prisms in the deep dark water and the line stretching ahead and the strange undulation
“we’ll cut them off before they get to the swamp .
his older brother was with him as a banderillero , but he did not live in this hotel .
' most uncivilized .
' ' i saw him in a book-shop once .
' can you drink the lagoon water ?
a gambler of the small towns .
” “we’ll see , ” said paco .
' and my cartridges .
” “god bless you , ” said the waiter .
' ' you ' re nice to take it that way .
we went back up to our car and george looked at the number board .
the river was dark and a bateau mouche went by , all bright with lights , going fast and quiet
many ballrooms mentioned in too many big hotels for him to see los angeles .
" let ' s see what you weigh , jack , " freedman , walcott ' s manager said .
” “thanks , ” i said .
" you ' re feeling it now , fish , " he said .
wasn’t that bright ?
" bill opened the door and put his head in .
" the music started and robert cohn said : " will you dance this with me , lady brett ?
and pop came out and were very disappointed .
“don’t be silly , enrique , ” he said .
' so you can see it was a good bombing .
" you might not like them , " nick said to the boy .
" forget what i said , " i said out loud .
saw he looked ill .
it was such a profound remark that i knew we had ordered too many bottles .
” now in his mind he saw a railway station at karagatch and he was standing with his pack and
" " no gambler has luck with women .
” “but we could have remembered it for another time .
little thing i thought up on the way home .
he’d seen it in the war work the same way .
" " i had a swell time , dad .
” “can chinamen talk ?
“my old man won’t care , ” bill said .
nick watched them a long time .
" " sure , " said harvey .
” “no , ” said my father .
“please don’t worry .
” “nobody i know .
there was a man sitting by it .
” “what were they that were gone , ” the girl asked .
but there is only you .
sent a man around .
" " he ' s not dead , " mike said .
after the war i am in germany .
is provided and each man learns all there is for him to know about it without advice ; and it
“it’s just been freshly butchered .
tickets .
he was the most serious man nick had ever known .
" arriba !
the branches grew so low .
nick sat smoking , looking out over the country .
a large package which he says is for the colonel .
they didn’t know we didn’t want them , but we didn’t have nothing to do with them , and after
you have to be cut out for it .
he was carrying it lower .
' ' i won ' t be rough , ' the colonel said .
“it’s about russia .
, up and out into the open between the two mountains and on , half a mile , to a
one hundred and twenty-five fathoms .
” “no , ” ole andreson said .
i haven’t smoked .
and you can pay me .
" the drummer shouted : " you can ' t two time-- " " it ' s all gone .
bay .
and put them back in the pan .
' ' all , ' she said .
any of the three matadors .
the gripped claws of an eagle .
" you ' re not villalta , " retana said .
" some one , a very good friend , told me once , ' no foreigner can make an american
“stay where you are , ” my father said .
from ear to ear and then stitched up neat and a card on his chest saying in spanish : “this
after the rain and the time in the north when the fall is over and it is wet and cold
i imagine that i learned it too early .
for god ' s sake don ' t be so noisy , cohn !
it is right though for me .
" " jesus christ , " i said , " what kind of blood have you anyway ?
not my fault .
” so i gave him one .
eddy got me the charter so i had to carry him .
the dogs have pointed , and the rhino was not in sight .
i felt hollow as always .
better have a drink .
” bill’s voice very deep and bass over the water .
' ' all for me , ' i said .
or i hope so .
” “i haven’t time to argue , ” mr .
and all the betting was on the nod .
until p .
" good morning , " he said .
it might spoil the color .
birds and then fishes and then countries and cities and then kinds of food and the names of all the
* * * * * sister cecilia came into the room about ten o ' clock in the morning on
" " you don ' t need it .
does that seem the way to hunt kudu to you ?
" come on , jake , " he said , " have a drink .
it were snow and the old man looking at it and saying , no , that’s not snow .
one morning he read in the paper that enrico caruso had been arrested for mashing .
they weren ' t very bright .
" " which do you like best ?
wollen sie ?
" sportsman , " he said .
" i ' m not clever .
however it came out seemed to amuse him and he laughed and shook his head .
they float a long way with life belts too .
” he handed her one of the papers .
maybe they don’t even remember .
chapter viii at two o’clock in the morning two hungarians got into a cigar store at fifteenth street and grand
i know they are bored .
he once tried to warn a girl he knew against a man of whom he had almost proof that he
so today he brought her in to be buried and the priest , when he looked at her face ,
then slid an egg on top of it .
in the night and one big bull track , long , narrow , heart-shaped ; clearly , deeply cut .
another man and from voyaging , of how things , actual things , can be , whales for instance ,
but i saw this just in time to keep from shooting .
the weeds waved in the current and the fish hung in the shelter of the weeds and rose to insects
the hell he’s ever been a good fellow .
” “what made you think i was going to give you any pep talk ?
' ' it wouldn ' t be fair to pop , ' i said .
then , looking at the watch , in that quiet tone , that valuable quiet tone , " savoia .
just biggest cow .
do you want some ?
i was very drunk and i did not want to shut my eyes because the room would go round and
you are a strange and lucky bastard , he thought .
" it is very difficult , " he said .
_ _num_ d soldier_--i can ' t drink the damn stuff .
' ' i see him , ' the colonel said .
the canal , but the banks weren’t like this river .
of my right foot that only served to wear out socks , when we jumped two reedbuck .
that’s the only way you can keep them from rusting on a boat .
" " you wouldn ' t behave badly .
” “how long have you been this way ?
some in berlin .
barnes has seen a lot .
if i did i’d get out .
" " the great italian sense .
there’s plenty for you to do .
sun while i sighted on his chest and then refused the shot , wanting not to frighten the greater kudu
“go on to the infirmary , man , ” he said .
” “he does ?
they fell a little toward us .
they never cared anything for robert browning , nor mrs .
' ' he ' s marvellous , ' p .
“i’ve been writing , ” he said .
ax .
” “will we see the ibises too ?
he said it had been a very pleasant race , and would have been worth watching if bottechia had not
you may not believe this .
looking back , mongrel dog-smart in the face ; whack from the little mannlicher and then the horrid circle starting
" " no , " said the doctor .
besides , i’ve been going good lately .
like a dull afternoon at chicote’s and i decided to leave as soon as i should have bought a round
" " i am sure she would permit it when cayetano is able to hear it .
' ' he is no good .
now , in chicote’s it was so crowded that you had to make room with your elbows to get your
instead he lay there wallowing now in the seas and the old man pulled the skiff up onto him .
they lie like round checker counters wider than the biggest soup plates and toad squatted in their thick deadliness .
” “grapefruit please .
you see they were his guns still and he never bought any others .
i could reach him always , he wrote , through his bankers .
' pull up at the side of the road and cut to your parking lights .
exactly right .
but i felt rotten sick over this sable bull .
but i ' m sick of them .
were you , by any chance , on the carso ?
' all right , i ' ll talk .
" romero called .
' ' also my love .
if you love horses you ' ll get horse-s-- , and if you love eagles you ' ll get eagle-s--
oh , my god , il est crazy pour le vin .
and as he raised the muleta in both hands the bull charged , tail up .
nurses in uniform and in peasant costume walked under the trees with children .
i told my s- _num_ that we should call them the valhalla express .
i can always come in on the glow from havana .
i took my drink with me and i was very proud not to have spilled it or forgotten it .
' ' to-morrow , ' garrick said .
” the detective hit him again and then again and he was quiet .
frazer did not see cayetano again for a long time , but each morning sister cecilia brought news of him
there is always a chance , roger thought , when a drink can still do what it is supposed to
that is the one thing we do alone .
they’re a filthy animal though .
moi , j ' aime les pommes de terre , le saucisson , et la bière .
“now , ” he said , “i want to take it slow and easy .
my sister lives there .
rather awkward .
we have that all straightened out .
' you always hope you have a good master .
they were afraid to travel in the dark and i told droopy he could keep my big gun .
they’re strange guys too .
the second one was all right .
” he called to the driver and told him to spread a blanket over the body and stay by it
i made a circle to look for the big bull but i could not pick his track from the mass
great many people .
“he’ll probably be dead later on .
i know he’s a bad one of some sort .
then there must be discipline .
” his mother said , taking off her glasses .
feeet up and the basilica looked more beautiful than a soap bubble .
liver .
' ' then what is a comfort station ?
’ because this whore i was whore’s assistant to is of humble origin .
against the houses of the square .
“they were like the cochon .
you better be checked out again .
people had been coming in all day from the country , but they were assimilated in the town and you
basin .
“i’d love to have heard it .
him look through a pair of field glasses and he thought he was clausewitz .
he had no love for the elephant yet .
i did not see how we could lose him .
this is his masterpiece .
' that ' s one reason that i cannot marry you .
” john turned the handle and we all went in .
i went to sleep and when i woke up i looked out and we were going very slowly and crossing
all of the night sounds had stopped .
finally the road began to lift gradually into the hills again , low , blue , wooded hills now ,
it was there exactly as it happened with some parts of it indelibly emphasized and he was miserably ashamed at
” “he never shows anything , ” i said .
' that was all they said and the boatman placed the ducks carefully , breasts up , on the bow
they did not want the bull killed yet , they did not want it to be over .
it was like when you shoot in a nightmare .
up , the big cook and the boys held her , and the others pressing forward to lift and if
in a quick circle , breaking the smooth surface of the water , he disappeared .
“do you feel bad ?
pleased , as always to carry nothing , m ' cola with pop ' s heavy gun and another water
i said i’d go anywhere you wanted .
“come upstairs , ” he said .
" " to stay a little while is nice .
" now i believe in nothing .
“it’s all right .
” “are you nervous , nickie ?
peduzzi passed it back .
” “i ain’t slept for a week , ” jack says .
' how many times have you been hit in the head ?
back and on to the loads .
' my colonel , you will allow me to refuse because of the ulcers ?
” he said when he brought it .
' i love it when you all reach the little terrier stage .
of a filling station and a neon sign advertising cabins .
i think it is a little more complicated , though .
john had told nick .
the stars were bright now and he saw the dolphin clearly and he pushed the blade of his knife into
as he looked , the bull gathered himself together and charged , his eyes on the horse’s chest .
' ' have i told you , yet , properly , that i love you ?
she was in too deep water and i didn ' t get anything off of her .
donovan told me he’d been in there the night before a little while with johnson , and eddy had been
stomach .
the other spoke in spanish .
' asked the priest .
' ' if he ever comes back .
on the other side , keeping under the edge of a fold of the valley into the shelter of the
it was all that was needed to set him off .
scrub oak and pines .
" " don ' t forget to tell pedrico the head is his .
“i’ll give you a list of what i spent and i’ll deduct what grub there is left .
” frankie asked .
let ' s go to harry ' s for one , and then i will walk you home .
been .
if you want people to like you you have only to spend a little money .
were done against it .
he spat tobacco juice on the log .
and much blood in the snow .
" come on to the café , " i said .
" i didn ' t mean to wake you up .
for this , that now was coming , he had very little curiosity .
married .
kamau , the driver , was a kikuyu , a quiet man of about thirty-five who , with an old
we lost two beyond the isonzo , one on the bainsizza and one on the carso .
then , on his back , with his tail lashing and his jaws clicking , the shark plowed over the
' hapana , ' m ' cola said .
” wilson called in swahili and the older gun-bearer , who was skinning out one of the heads , straightened
" come on up to the room , jerry , " jack says .
how can i remember if i am not bitter ?
” “we can have the whole world .
there was an explosion and a billowing of white smoke and then the black smoke rolled higher ; but from
“ain’t there something left in that crock , jimmy ?
' ' your miserable boneyard .
don ' t look like that .
“i will , i told her .
” in the back of the store mr .
“damn slashings , ” she said to nick .
you will be sleeping .
and tell the girl , now silently , and that will not hurt her , ever , because she is
it was just a matter of climbing more stairs .
” “marie va chercher de la bière , ” fontan said .
when they were sleeping drunk nickie got his stuff and pulled out .
” and he answered , “oh , i’m still drinking their whisky , ” and you knew everything had gone
but he had never written a line of that , nor of that cold , bright christmas day with the
then he would call up the others .
” “yes , i do .
' with all my heart .
and don’t give me any pep talk either because we’ve got a political commissar and i know what i’m fighting
" " i ' m going to get out of this town , " nick said .
" i ' ll see you around , " i said .
came around the corner , all dancing .
there are lots of things i can never say to you and maybe that will be good for me .
" i like to do a lot of things .
they both lay there not moving now .
” “i like that one better than about the shoe , ” i said .
he had tiny feet that tried to hold on to the hook , and after that one time i never
a porter carried bill ' s bags in from the consigne .
“the express is an hour late , sir , ” she said .
" " but he ' s not aficionado like you are .
" you ' re a drunken fool .
he was feeling better now and so were we all .
, green , basque country , and finally into bayonne .
the houses were in a big grove of elm trees and the road was very sandy .
he had taken the bandage off his right eye and cut the strings where they had tied his ears tight
he was very eager to walk over the pass while the weather held good .
we worked over jack plenty too , in between the rounds .
dead ducks .
poor cayetano , she said .
all from some certain place .
i don ' t know .
' he was almost tall , beautifully built in his town clothes , and he was the shyest man the
“i want to look at the road .
" that ' s what people usually get bitter about .
with a balcony that opened out above the roofs of the town .
the water was buoyant and cold .
that ' s a hell of a note .
discussion of the situation and in no sense a council of war , as you have so often pointed out
' i ' d love one .
real soldiers never tell anyone what their own dead looked like , he told the portrait .
“you aren’t shot bad .
" robert cohn asked .
” the three of us , jack brennan , soldier bartlett , and i were in hanley’s .
it isn ' t all that you know .
but , as a soldier , these other men who policed the battle had hunted him down , and the
" " it ' s rotten luck .
” “do you remember the panorama of the sahara desert ?
of all the romance .
" " who ' s she ?
he had no idea how they really lived nor how they ended .
telling them to forward all mail and telegrams for me to this address .
but we come back here , too .
” “frank had to go back to alcalá , ” another flyer said .
' they won ' t take you to the gritti but they will stop at the _imbarcadero_ past harry '
there would be a priest if he was going to die .
“bring me another glass of milk , ” jack said to her .
his white jacket was purple under the arms .
they would fly .
into them and running then themselves and he and the british observer had run too until his lungs ached and
i slept again and then woke as we were turning off the road and on a track through trees with
" " i would be glad to buy some beer if there is good beer .
" what did you catch ?
a waiter came up as soon as i sat down .
the fashionable people of the town , walked in the street on one side of the square while the café
it’s super good sense .
" " oh , cut it out , mike , " cohn said .
' ' what about the others ?
i stood in front of the door of mike ' s room and knocked .
americans ?
" " i am demonstrating the american uniform , " nick said .
it would be before we would see the enemy , and listening all the while for the first noises that
that the moist glasses would not make rings on the wood .
" " when did you see harvey stone ?
he knew there were good cures in kansas city .
you don ' t have to defend .
what the hell should i fool with broth for ?
very easily at little things that were of no importance .
unload peasants from the country coming in to the market , and we watched the buses fill up and start
” “i’ll just go and see that everything is ready .
' ' very tender and the sauce is not at all sweet .
" yes , " i said .
i ' m learning how to do it , he thought .
" forty years ago .
” “what’s it all about ?
wheeler never took chances .
” “sure , ” hogan says , “a letter only costs two cents .
' ' and what happened to him ?
we were going to attack with the three of us in line and nothing in reserve .
loopholes in the wall of the corral .
hard and cold and lovely .
" " want to take a nap ?
connais-vous des champagnes ?
" " over at the iruña .
" it ' s in restraint of trade , " brett said .
" he ' ll sing now in a little while .
dentuso , he thought .
mama tziggi , who owns all these locusts .
tunic front .
” “we got to get him out to alcalá and we’ve got to get out there too , ” a
" it isn ' t right .
” “there’s nothing to prove he won’t be , ” i said .
he couldn ' t sweat .
' ' you can use _have to_ if you want , daughter .
they were above the tanned line when he washed up in the washbasin outside the house .
that is criminal .
” “if they would simply see one and refuse .
' i am rich , ' the colonel said .
' ' go on , ' the girl said .
” “daytimes , ” he said .
' i ' ve spent all my time praying for you .
nick laughed .
the little man sat looking at manuel .
” the clean softness of the sand made walking a sensual pleasure that could be varied from the dry ,
loopholes running all along the face of each corral .
or not was being forced into that most exciting perversion of life ; the necessity of accomplishing something in less
" " if you like .
well , we had lost him .
i ' ve got some darbs .
” “i want it to be like that , ” she said .
fall .
juma can get wood and have the fire ready .
the no-bugs had it and with the roman talking steadily , i hoped on some congenial topic , the car
he had always disliked the local man evans and had no respect for him but he sensed that the downstate
in the night the american lady lay without sleeping because the train was a rapide and went very fast and
the town ain’t so much , but there’s a lake and a swell forest that we used to go off
now that i had seen a bull i knew they all were cows including the first one i had shot
it would have to stay edge up all the time because if it went over flat you could roll right
“you mean where to land them ?
she had been taken up by them .
he would have to crush many of them , slamming at them with his hat .
' and i said : ' oh , any medals .
" let ' s not say vice , " she said .
easy range while you try to pump a wet shell in .
i ' d like to see mr .
large intestine with soap and water and tucking it back where it belonged an unnumbered amount of times a day
because it is all i have left .
yes , you bastard , but what about the cow you missed twice , prone , standing broadside ?
kicking like a man keeping a ball in the air , manuel kept the bull from getting a clean thrust
blow up the canyon toward us .
that touched the water in the dusk .
but i did not mean it in that way .
, “the very rich are different from you and me .
" " you mean you won ' t .
' happiness , as you know , is a movable feast .
" " cheer up , " i said .
just here .
you know i want you to have fun—” “please don’t say ‘you know’” “i’ll concentrate on not saying it .
it ' s grand the way they bring them out .
” an african story he was waiting forthe moon to rise and he felt kibo’s hair rise under his hand
into a general store by mistake .
' as i was saying , portrait .
but she was gone now , for good and for ever ; cauterized ; exorcized and with the eleven copies
, maybe , they would still be training jumping horses and their hoofs would make the thudding on the turf
she wore no hat and walked with a long loose stride and her hair , which was a dusty yellow
he breathed against it gently .
it was high and dark on both sides of the track .
to see him ?
' at least they say he did .
' ' all right , ' the colonel said and his voice was thickened a little .
' ' is arlington nice ?
“to hell with those sharpshooters .
if it relaxes in sleep my left hand will wake me as the line goes out .
built by my mother .
it carefully and oil it well .
i put my arm around her and she smelled of armpit sweat and dust and old black clothes and her
' we went over .
most of them there unwillingly .
" " i would advise you to , " said the gentleman .
" montoya politely disbelieved .
" he laughed again .
” “it’s way out and the wind has driven the water even further out .
“so long , ” jack said .
down town to the library to get a book , eating lunch at home , reading on the front porch
bring the butter , will you .
with true handles .
his arm was around the dog’s neck now and he could feel him shivering .
but kiss me once more first .
he had been nicer to nick than anybody ever had .
there is such a thing as starting it all over and you’ve been given a chance to and you can
they only deal to you once and then you pick them up and play them .
he watched them holding themselves with their noses into the current , many trout in deep , fast moving water
i must have water here for him , the boy thought , and soap and a good towel .
on the morning train for san sebastian .
” “no sir , ” said george .
a woman that you really love , when , empty , you feel it welling up again and there it
all should be good , but some are good , and some are not so good .
it was a library book—frank on a gunboat .
“it mounts to my head .
don ' t you think she ' s beautiful ?
” “most of them .
gone to sleep .
” “a mile or so up the stream .
” “i remember that .
he was also being consciously practical .
” “i’m glad you’ve got them .
and what difference did it make if he was or was not) had moved through the different arms of the
they have interrogated comrades from the shop where he worked .
poor fellow .
to obtain a copy of _the young doctor ' s friend and guide_ and use it , doctor wilcox .
locusts .
everything he has is good .
' ' do i ?
moved the magazine , and he didn ' t even pay her fare back to the coast .
" you don ' t have to .
couldn’t you be my beau , hare , if i was old enough and if you wanted to ?
he pulled up the undershirt onto his chest and stood , his chest black , and big stomach muscles bulging
it felt comfortable to be in a country where it is so simple to make people happy .
“he’d be better not to do any work at all , ” hogan said .
" " that ' s a good idea , " i said .
as the harvest of the trip he wrote the nonfiction novel green hills of africa , and some of his
, and i never lie and you know it .
' ' i ' m not abnormal yet .
' he smiled and his eyes were as kind as they ever were , which was not too kind ,
" " named harris , " bill said .
” “a girl about eleven or twelve .
” “that’s right .
” “i could see it coming , ” hogan said .
“that kike !
he had done it too many times in his imagination .
fishing kills me exactly as it keeps me alive .
down on his knees , his big head tossing , and seeing the other two still galloping he shot at
” “all gone , ” said eddy .
it made him seem older .
" " have a glass , too .
back on the highway again , and out of the heat of the town , they ate the sandwiches and
while roger filled the gas and had the water , oil and air checked helena ordered hamburger sandwiches and barbecued
tank reserve .
mountains showing across the plain that barker had flown across the lines to bomb the austrian of icers’ leave train
“can they be this stupid and theatrical ?
it always is slipping my mind .
they were only perceptible at first as the light is in the sky before the moon rises .
it and come up with an uppercut that got walcott ' s nose with the heel of the glove .
you wouldn ' t believe what just happened about that one .
" * * * * * then afterwards they sat , the three of them , listening for a black
two .
like a dam bursting .
lip , he realized that they had all turned black from living in the burned-over land .
“here’s where the tough part starts , davey , ” his father said .
and being away from home so much .
she had a momentary feeling of being of supreme importance .
" i ' m going back to the kitchen with the nigger and bright boy , " he said .
the waitress brought in three litres of new wine for the gang and they sat at the two tables ,
' ' how are you ?
“daughter , i’ll take another if you want to make it .
outside now the marge business was no longer so tragic .
you said you loved it there .
floor of the channel and set the click on the reel .
but they lived in such a complicated world of already defined alliances and shifting feuds that krebs did not feel
" " who are the two fellows with john ?
but this was good .
" he could send ten words for the same price .
” “i should send you to battalion headquarters .
seney was burned , the country was burned over and changed , but it did not matter .
wish me luck boy .
“that’s all he want do , ” she said .
they are accused of disloyalty .
on the other hand it is a form of concentration i suppose .
“my package .
" what do you know about lady brett ashley , jake ?
well , that was all over now , anyway .
the biggest one .
the water .
he was still very worried and the absinthe warmth had moved up to his head now and he did not
" what you going to do with us afterward ?
the cutoff barrels of the shotgun made a slight bulge under the waist of his too tight-fitting overcoat .
this one is on me , " bill said .
please , ' he said .
' ' o .
saved my government , in my time when people like benny meyers were in the trough .
but if i had , and could have lashed it to an oar butt , what a weapon .
" i would have thought you ' d loved being a steer , robert .
“come on out , ” claude said in german .
i grew up very rapidly in the veneto myself and i was never as old as i was at twenty-one
we’ll use up another one .
there was plenty of wood cut and he built a very small fire and made tea while he waited to
there were usually funerals starting from the courtyard .
you go on .
” “well , ciao then .
" " he doesn ' t prefer the newer numbers ?
' how are you , daughter ?
there were two flying fish inside .
' ' truly .
' ' do you want to shoot where we ' re going ?
there’s no reason ever to miss one .
' ' well , think about what i told you and turn off on the first left side road you
' ve never seen a bull in the hills .
but listen , jake .
and so far we haven’t had time to make new ones .
he moved toward his tent carrying himself with comic stiffness , walking in the dark as carefully as though he
” “what about coffee ?
the two of them followed the elephant until he came to an opening in the trees .
' ' they ' re tough .
his wife was not in the other cot in the tent .
the bull looked at him .
i was wondering if we could get a miami daily news .
i ' m going to dance with her , lett .
the old man knew that he was dead but the shark would not accept it .
a couple of people i did not know slapped me on the back and when the girl at our table
” then her voice rising , “harry !
” odgar said , his voice becoming husky , near to kate again .
" he cut off the end of his cigar with a gold cutter he wore on one end of his
“it is very interesting and important , the misunderstood gaiety coming in contact with the deadly seriousness that is here
i lit the lamp beside the bed , turned off the gas , and opened the wide windows .
“the papers said they never saw a better faena , ” manuel said .
“there’s no baggage and no arms .
” “i’m dead , ” she said .
i mustn’t tell you .
" " i know what you mean .
" " damn my fish , " the boy said and he started to cry again .
fifty pounds .
' you ' ve got an awful lot of problems on your hands .
" " we will have to get ready .
” “oh , you don’t understand , ” the boy said .
hollow inside he was so beautiful .
" " that ' s quite possible .
alvarito was looking for you .
enemy had advanced .
apart .
“it’s not supposed to be , ” the waiter said .
fontan did not say anything but swear in english .
the chauffeur stopped .
and then feeling the trail smooth under foot , walking along that deep trail , that wound through the dark
the road was enfiladed from that house .
" nor that isn ' t good for me , " she said .
” that night i had dinner at fontan’s .
' ' she ' s marvellous .
you played it right .
the mohammedan religion was very fashionable and all the higher social grades among the boys were mohammedans .
" " no , just go to the fight with me .
' can i stay at the gritti ?
' ' are you happy ?
' ' well , there ' s the fiat garage where we leave the car , ' the colonel said
three shooters rode in the rear seat , on the way to the shooting place .
sing or to be the king or the president .
“would you pic two bulls for me tomorrow night ?
even watching carefully for the firmest footing you sunk down in the cool mud to the knees , and ,
” “do you think you should ?
" well , " i said , " i ' ve got to go up-stairs and get off some cables
make it top sergeant in the old days ; except he ' s dealing always with the brass .
down his broad back from head to tail .
his body was heavy on his feel .
they were widgeon and they came in a whisp that coagulated and then stretched to nothing .
good-bye , my dear , lovely , beautiful .
i can promise you that .
” “then shot in the belly .
_] no , come on .
some one had the bull by the tail .
i’m not ashamed of it .
claude got a couple of tunics from the dead and made a pillow for him .
he could have followed him one time when he had gone in from the road through the hodges’ place ,
hopkins went away when the telegram came .
” “all right , ” he said .
what the hell’s the good in taking chances ?
” “wait a sec and we’ll take it together .
she was very neat and efficient and seemed to enjoy it .
“big ones ?
he wants the title .
" " which champagne would you prefer , sir ?
” “i had a row with dick boulton .
did i do all right ?
” he had called the young gentleman caro several times and nothing had happened .
; besides , it did a picador like that good to worry .
but i don’t want you to get tired of trout .
_ _num_ d soldier_--why didn ' t he come down off the cross ?
then i went below and got out the pump-gun and the winchester thirty-thirty that i always had below in the
' ' but they are dreadful , ' the girl said .
where the sand was thin over the clay there was a pool of water and you could see that a
it’s wonderful .
it making a great noise .
" " then he would know frederick j .
“na , ” said cayetano .
if you’ll only keep me from getting killed i’ll do anything you say .
that is all i ' ve ever wanted .
' ' well , well , ' said pop .
the mud of the bank was soft but there was dry earth underneath and i figured we could shovel our
” his father asked him .
’ “so i said , ‘but it’s all right really .
boat .
jerking them out and eating them with relish .
they were a long way away on the jutting ridge of one of the steep hillsides on the far side
' don ' t worry , boy .
two male and four female .
he disliked bars and bodegas .
” the two cameramen were making grimaces and shaking their clenched fists over their heads in fury .
" eat it so that the point of the hook goes into your heart and kills you , he thought
" so long , " said ole andreson .
” “what makes you think we’re going to the store ?
i only took a couple of drinks .
the fire flamed brightly in the wind and we sat and watched the moon rise and listened to the hyenas
“did you hear them say anything about him at the house ?
business afterwards .
what ' ll i send them ?
i know it ' s awfully hard .
he had a fine face with the long , straight nose of his part of the veneto ; the kind
' breaking spells , he thought .
it was too fast and smooth .
the track over those rocks was spain and i had followed this same route forged on ahead and following close
then they still went slowly until the great lantern that was on the right of the entrance to the grand
" " friends , " said mike .
it was green along the banks and men were fishing along the far shore where it ran deep .
there were always poppies in the wheat in the end of june and in july , and the mulberry trees
i saw the cottage through the trees with the windows shuttered .
" " let ' s ask him .
he felt the line straighten and a sudden heavy firmness .
all three were leaning forward on the concrete railing in front of them .
that hurled the logs against the revolving , circular saws and all the rollers , wheels , belts and iron
of all those who profited by war that they had founded the order .
des saints pères .
" " you ' ll sleep , mike .
bill was at one of the windows .
" well , that ' s one thing you never had to worry about , " john said .
nick felt like laughing .
it had rained a little in the night and it was fresh and cool on the plateau , and there
“that’s three i owe you .
" no , why should i be ?
“my wife does , though .
was it a boy or a girl ?
they had gone on and suddenly nick had raised the rifle and shot before his sister could see what he
there would be no big trout in the shallows this time of day .
after all , it was paris and not everyone has taken it .
' he held her as close as he could and he tried to think about nothing .
andreson , ” the woman said .
look , i will show you a dance and sing a song .
and my old man would kid with them .
he put both hands over her breasts and held her to him .
" " it is still hot to ride , " captain paravicini said .
you won’t laugh , though ?
' that ' s mighty interesting , ' i told him .
he put his good hand down and found that the room waiter had left a second bottle of valpolicella alongside
of the tagus to attack madrid and they would probably try it from the north too .
it was cheerful and the noise of the inhalations and exhalations of the accordion , and of the bells ,
the goats watched me dig .
the other times i punched to the body with it .
he drank some more of the absinthe and he felt better but he was worried .
it was pleasant to be drinking slowly and to be tasting the wine and to be drinking alone .
' ' the hell with anything american except me .
heads off so they would be legal eating .
i saw him reach for the bottle and tip it up .
“il aime les books , ” madame fontan said .
he walked into the house with the paper package and i stayed outside on the grass with the two game-bags
“you can’t tell him not to , ” i said to guy .
” “but you don’t know about it yet , ” the manager said .
' how far away is the country ?
the other whores didn’t smile .
" i got a lot to do .
but not much money was bet and he had won it quite easily since he had broken the confidence of
the square was emptying of people and the crowd was filling the cafés .
the road followed a river .
it was fine lying between the sheets with the thick blanket pulled up and it all dark and the country
" " that was down by viareggio , " guy said .
“i’m only lecturing .
“let him alone , splayzey , ” he said .
a rifle .
on the porch of the concordia , where the rusty bobsleds were stacked , the young gentleman said , “was
made a living from feeding and bedding resorters who rocked in rustic chairs on the front porch of his hotel
” “only when i am touched or jarred .
that made him happy .
[_the three roman soldiers go out the door into the street .
there were so many good-looking young girls .
” evans asked her .
well , people were that way .
that bloody fluke .
” bill stood up .
” the down-state man looked at him .
" you pay me what you owe me or i will take it out of the cash box .
” er the waiter was gone roger took helena’s hand under the table .
the butts pulled out about six inches .
“go on to the mitin .
the sable now were going up the hill at the head of the valley , up the hill at our
“sorry .
“well , you will , ” said the man called doctor .
there’s nothing you can do .
" retana saw him looking at the stuffed bull ' s head .
i won ' t listen .
all of his friends were there .
' ' may i give it to you ?
” “not me .
cohn made some remark about it being a very good example of something or other , i forget what .
nobody , he answered .
boots in the past , and imperatively on these , which hurt .
' ' whatever that is , ' the girl said .
” “what did you do with your shoes ?
" cohn interrupted .
“remember , that he who ruleth his spirit is greater than he that taketh a city , ” said his
don ' t be bitter , boy , he said to himself .
jack was just trying to block everything now .
i ' ll tell you he looked pretty good to me in there to-day .
buon dì , arturo !
” blindy had come up opposite us and we smelled him and turned around .
“it’s right up the road .
, my rifle slung , and droopy staggering steadily ahead , sweating heavily , under the buck .
' he was pleased and excited by the sight of game .
he looked around at the prisoner .
time ' .
because maybe you cannot stay in the town because you have got too few people in , and by now
this cabin .
' ' m ' cola saw the calf .
he ' s a nice fella .
i don’t think anybody fished in here but indians .
" i thought he was going to be sick .
and some com meal .
if you love horses you’ll get horse-shit , and if you love eagles you’ll get eagle-shit .
walcott went down and grabbed himself there and rolled and twisted around .
" you can ' t tell him not to , " i said to guy .
came away toward the applause , his hand on his hip , his cape on his arm , and the
but the thunder doesn’t impress us so much any more .
on the table was an empty glass and a glass half-full of brandy and soda .
manuel was watching the bull .
he wasn’t sitting in front of the fire or going fishing tomorrow with bill and his dad or anything .
he had been solidly hooked .
' it ' s gotten on his nerves a little .
when the native boys put him down at the door of his tent , he had shaken all their hands
“look , ” said the second waiter who was a man of fifty .
bombs hooked up on a harness under their shoulders with the heavy , calf-hide packs and the bucket helmets .
' ' as your physician .
his coat was wet too .
' _es un oficio bastante malo_ , ' he repeated , ' loving me .
" " at the berlitz school , sir .
all the girls , the old woman , and the clean-cut young man sat down at table together .
' ' it was a shame that it should freeze .
it should not be confused with showmanship either .
shove with his boots against the horse and lay clear , waiting to be lifted and hauled away and put
“je veux aller à la chasse moi-même , ” andré said in his high , little boy’s voice .
, getting so close that the bull could see him plainly , offering the body , offering it again a
he walked fifteen miles each day from the river to the high , stony ground and he would fight any
“i’m sorry you feel so rotten , tiny , ” he said .
i’m perfectly all right .
but i have had worse things than that , he thought .
better hell , he thought .
he just pulled his weight and that ' s all .
katy-ay !
" i have never seen or heard of such a fish .
" take a good rest , small bird , " he said .
it was all gone now .
' the concierge came into the room with the portrait , carrying it in its big frame , much as
tell him to rejoin us later .
” “there’s no place you can eat at this hour .
" you said it then .
in the evening we are often half shot ourselves .
chapter vi nick sat against the wall of the church where they had dragged him to be clear of machine-gun
on the station platform were negro soldiers .
“you can’t get anything out of these mossbacks .
i do not know how many times we lost company commanders how many times over .
richer , because she was very pleasant and appreciative and because she never made scenes .
" " it ' s a friend calling me , " i explained , and went out .
churchyard .
' ' don ' t tell any one if you did , ' pop said .
” “tomorrow we’re going to try those farm houses and the church again .
i ' m all for the naked savage , myself , as a guide .
inside it was quite dark .
and pop were , found a deep flowing stream where teal were flying , and killed three .
m ' cola handed me the springfield and i got in the front .
" i ' d like to have seen bill knocked down , too .
” “i have to go , nickie .
we came over the mountains and out of spain and down the white roads and through the overfoliaged , wet
it’s just like homesteading .
now let me tell you about them .
i know what fixes up a bad stomach .
” helena wrote helena hancock on the first page in the rather flamboyant untypical hand that had emerged form the
” “and i work here .
" some one brought me here , " mike said .
“my , i wish we had knockout drops .
" he behaved rather well , too .
there’s plenty of line .
there were little clearings with houses in them , and once in a while we passed a sawmill .
i had another bottle of the german beer and , watching the country , saw , suddenly , that all
” “did molo change the dressing ?
he was through with the grapefruit .
“it isn’t right , ” manuel said .
he is a great fish and i must convince him , he thought .
“maybe we’ll jump him , ” nick said .
' i see him .
' you can call a boy or we can run it ourselves .
" it was amazing champagne .
" " what story ' s that ?
" " the hell he wasn ' t .
' ' it ' s this damned riding in cars .
she ' s gone off with the bull-fighter chap .
she saw why she liked romero ' s cape-work and why she did not like the others .
rogello , basilio , esteban , fel and i are alive .
a cloud had come over the sun .
he’d find them and then bring the men up to them .
" i came from fornaci , " nick said .
“i can’t , ” krebs said .
" " see anybody ?
here’s to you .
' it ' s lovely .
over to the main house for lunch , if he had not been playing baseball or had not been down
” says jack .
" " the lad who sought eunuch-hood .
“you’re nice , odgar , ” kate said .
" so he thinks it ' s all right .
made , knowing the town he would reach for the night , nick noticed which corn fields had soy beans
' ' i don ' t believe so , sir .
finally karl came out of his tent .
are so god-damned beautiful you stink .
she heard him breathing as he held her .
in the river .
the fiesta was finished .
so he tells her he’s tired , and goes to bed , and when she goes to the show he
this boy is a very good painter , for now .
never took drugs did he ?
“i’ve got to have one good pic , ” manuel said .
" " what awful lust ?
her rising from the sea .
salami , everything .
" " i ' m not one of you literary chaps .
' ' what do you mean , as i wish ?
“we will drink champagne .
he knew this was not true because she had not seen them dead as he had in the rain in
it is a prose that has never been written .
“you were very wise , wemedge , ” bill said .
can we tow it in without ruining ours ?
“and i’m not going to be upset , ” he resolved .
“he said , ‘in tactics you attack the enemy from in front .
he crawled forward .
he shot twice over the nigger’s head , coming on , and once low .
“what do you base it on ?
” “i see , ” i said .
“a log like that will bum all night .
he had never written any of that because , at first , he never wanted to hurt any one and
he did not rebait his hook and held it in his hand as he waded .
“i spoke to you .
brett put her hand on my arm .
" " no .
it none of it makes any difference , jimmy .
threaded the line through the guides .
“all i saw was the ham .
i understood how a man might suddenly , seeing clearly the stupidity of dying in an unsuccessful attack ; or
get smaller and smaller and then all bunched up on the turns and then come around towards into the stretch
and then they did not work right away .
the likeness is excellent .
he did not need a compass to tell him where south-west was .
girl to deal with when she is still without experience .
” “let me walk down .
” “i’m going to stay with you .
there had been a great deal of hysteria .
, m ' cola saw it again too through the rising mist of the savage ' s unbelief in what
" " poor , " said bill .
you might give it an honest try .
i hit him four or five times .
, ' all right ' .
lion went into a gallop and was in the tall grass before he had the bolt pushed forward .
i ' ll understand .
jewels .
she’s a sea boat all right .
and the star spangled banner is fool-proof until towards the last .
suddenly fontan took a loose board and commenced digging at the earth beside the back door .
flew only a little way and lit in the willows and with its crested head on one side looked down
the night was cooling outside .
the steps were very intricate and their faces were intent and concentrated .
" well , " i said .
robert cohn asked , pointing with his finger , if there were any trout in the stream , and the
which way they would fly .
' ' rigged up my rod and made a cast and it was dark , and there was a nighthawk
frazer grew very fond of seattle , washington .
cortina is in a high valley in the mountains .
“pour one yourself , ” i said .
" " and the number containing the panorama of the volcanoes of alaska ?
it was understood he would not drink , and he did not want to see his friends or any one
her nose , however , did not look like warm wax .
i should have killed him ; but it was a running shot .
another came in .
shadows on the other side of the stream .
' ' i ' m driving now .
the spring .
' ' it was the boys from torcello .
across were the steep hillside and the gullies we had studied last night .
could not touch him .
he laid down the booklet .
” “do you want to ?
look at your girl sleeping and know this : home is going to be where people do not have enough
it is hard on the right hand .
you could not rest in it .
ecstasy and stroking the kudu ' s muzzle and his mane .
f---- your sister .
' colonel , sir , ' he added .
i love it .
they were not intended to be used in the attack , and they sprawled along this line under the crest
grand canal .
your cattle would die and you would get no price for your coffee .
or i will be .
ahead there was a bridge .
the rod bent in jerks , the trout pumping against the current .
" " he ' s a damned good-looking boy , " i said .
i suppose they figured they were not going to need a hell of a lot of office workers any more
" i asked mike .
i like to drink it unknown .
garrick started to whisper a speech here but m ' cola shut him up again .
' ' don ' t cry , ' the colonel said .
” the little man looked down at nick’s feet .
“that’s a tank , ” i said .
back of the rolling country we were going through we saw the mountains we had come over from pamplona .
do you think i hold that against a man after we ' ve won ?
, sweeping horns , brown as walnut meats , and ivory pointed , at the big ears and the great
the only mystery that he believed in except the occasional bravery of man .
” no , thank you , ” nick said .
after romero had killed his first bull montoya caught my eye and nodded his head .
" yes , " manuel said .
when we woke next the old man was standing with the two official and highly-clothed-in-khaki guides and two others ,
manuel looked at them , standing talking in front of his table .
what did they have to shoot him for ?
" there , my dear .
" so long , bright boy , " he said to george .
the menu .
" oh , can ' t you be decent ?
' ' i ' ll look all right .
nick said nothing .
they came to the post-office near where she lived up-town in new york , and the duty was never exorbitant
i can’t do it while she’s along .
i’ve really got a grasp of reality now .
had to take them away finally .
boat to break ice to put out the decoys ?
examination that he had to take the day before he came down to venice for this shoot , he had
interesting .
we turned up the side road to fontan’s , stopped the car outside the house , and went in .
” “we’re old friends , ” said harris .
i motioned to kamau to stop , and putting on the brakes we skidded just short of them .
palazzos ; or if no one lived there now , knowing to what use the different places had been put
they loved him for his talent , and because he was bad , and he was brave .
he’s drunk , isn’t he ?
kzar came on faster than i’d ever seen anything in my life and pulled up on kircubbin that was going
wounded shot by lieutenant of artillery in first curing post .
there ' s no reason to tell them now .
” “for you it is different .
' you had to use contours you couldn ' t see , they were so small , and ditches and
want trudy again ?
” “why don’t you go to bed ?
only lots of talk in chink .
' chapter vii the bar was just across from the lobby of the gritti , although lobby the colonel thought
we got out and georgette did not like the looks of the place .
' ' we were back two thousand yards from where we were to take off from .
" " get another big beer , " bill said to the waiter .
' but you know these locks .
” “in red lodge it is of all prices , ” said the big one .
have you known her a long time ?
" " let ' s have a look at them .
his own father shot him down like a dog .
" it ' s making me bald .
' ' see that next _campanile_ down there across the plain ?
“mine , ” said manolita .
it was my own lousy fault .
in it was brett .
so i asked him to bring me here .
the first to kill a kudu to get first crack at the sable .
now try and have some fun .
well , i said , after all he’s just an ignorant mexican savage .
” “he certainly could kill that one easy , ” his sister said .
” “naturally .
” “why is it bad ?
but i’d rather not .
when i spoke to the waiter about the shooting he wouldn’t say anything .
regarding the sex of the dead it is a fact that one becomes so accustomed to the sight of all
his two hands touching , the banderillas two descending red lines , and leaning forward drove the points into the
it was hot enough so that it felt good to wade in a cold stream , and the sun dried
" what time you want to go into town ?
quit worrying .
“open up and show them forward , ” i told eddy .
maybe the plane will come .
now the bad time is coming and i do not even have the harpoon .
” robert wilson came up then carrying his short , ugly , shockingly big-bored .
' i am very proud and happy to be a member of the order , ' the girl said .
" the hawks , he thought , that come out to sea to meet them .
hill to prepare for action .
you say .
“you are a liar , ” one of the wicked lions said .
other side of the course i saw three horses , strung way out , coming out of the trees and
water while i swam and i was plenty glad there weren ' t sharks ; but i was tired .
am .
” onèsime said , “merde” and just then we heard a car coming very fast .
we found some blood on the grass stems where i had first hit him , then lost it , then
you won’t mind if i get restless and mix it up with being lonesome ?
' ' if we have any luck the day after to-morrow , we ' ll get plenty .
i saw pop coming out of his tent with a pipe in his mouth .
he looked , said , ' christ ' , and went back into the tent .
it was a big book and it was always on the parlor table and i would look at it while
" i didn ' t know you .
if you go to jail we might as well both go .
bill had seen one season of bull-fights .
at the same time he heard the sound of a bat against a baseball and shrill shouting in spanish from
” “this stream would make us rich if it was near home , ” his sister said .
a lot of people want to slap jack on the back .
i lay back against the tree and watched the wind bringing the clouds and drank the beer slowly out of
romero leaned over the barrera and asked for the water-jug .
see how anybody could call my old man a son of a bitch , and get away with it .
_oh_ , i hope you get them .
then he jumped again and again and the boat was going fast although line was still racing out and the
“he has a little place too , ” indicating the small , dark one .
he brought the glass of water .
” “that’s all right , ” william campbell said .
after we had stepped out into the bushes to let a big car go by jack said , “to hell
“give me back the card and put your gun away .
too , go to bologna .
“she never seen me fight .
i remembered , after my grandfather died we moved away from that house and to a new house designed and
” “hell , ” said john .
he’s gone out the window , ” said the brakeman .
everybody stood up .
too ?
" with my true , wonderful memories .
nick looked down the river at the trout rising .
he’s there , all right , manuel thought .
with .
smelled plenty strong and especially in winter .
manuel drank his brandy .
do with them , and after a while they went away .
" " she ' s very nice .
externally he had been formed at princeton .
the next hillside had been burned and at the bottom of the hill there was a burned area of bush
we use these military titles as nicknames .
the sergeant looked at his face and then reached for his coffee again with his handcuffed hand .
” “it’s very impressive .
" give me back the card and put your gun away .
and there were broken beams , broken tiles , and many holes , some of them yellow-edged from the mustard
" it ' s a sure thing they ' ll come , " i said .
there was nothing much to see anyway .
' we ' ve got eleven , ' says smug face , sorry now .
" brett was nervous as i had never seen her before .
but when it won the prize—” “she wants me to help you .
i was standing up watching for a tail to show .
' no , you won ' t , ' she said .
“it’s pretty quiet .
" bad news for you , fish , " he said and shifted the line over the sacks that covered
” “that’ll depend , ” max said .
oddly enough we’re interested .
' ' you will get it all at harry ' s except the part you figure in .
" " ask him who shot the russian .
coils fast .
“what i wanted , always , was you and now i’m with you .
in the daytime the street was dusty , but at night the dew settled the dust and the old man
the prisoner had taken the sergeant’s gun and nobody seemed to want to go very far into the woods after
well-known pleasant smile , he felt death come again .
" it ' s no good doing a thing too long .
he watched the flying fish burst out again and again and the ineffectual movements of the bird .
i walked past the sad tables of the rotonde to the select .
but the hands and the back hurt truly .
about your going to england ?
“you know i have , ” he said .
“do you have that feeling of happiness about what’s going to happen ?
” “i don’t ask you about everyone you’ve been in love with .
gone into the front line for the first time .
they will probably hit me again .
" " of course it does .
you wouldn’t like to make up a party and see the night life of vevey ?
and put one arm down and lean on it and put her legs out straight .
i had the sights on the buck as he tore away , remembered about the worthless meat , and having
” she didn’t say anything .
” “they must have cut up at the far end first and hauled and piled the bark by the road
' ' he and i used to drink hot kirsch in the winter time .
colonel said to himself , ' i ' d better quit window gazing along this street and make that next
nick swung the rod against the pull .
' ' i can be your daughter as well as everything else .
been to see him since he had been brought in .
that’s what we’ll call it .
” she turned and looked at him and smiled and shook her head .
" " how ' s your boy friend ?
it was not a matter of their twenty-first birthday .
nick sat between the two boys .
walcott came up to jack looking at him .
” manuel suggested .
please tell me .
” he was getting on the man’s nerves now and the man was becoming tired of hearing him talk .
" " that ' s easy .
' ' ah .
” “come in .
” a way you’ll never be the attack had gone across the field , been held up by machine-gun fire
' yes , ' m ' cola agreed .
“they want to see us in half an hour .
" we want to get to the hotel and get a doctor , " john says .
put the papers back and leave the money .
that karl ' s had been a little one , a nothing .
room .
my taste .
but the old man always thought of her as feminine and as something that gave or withheld great favours ,
' ' i love you very truly , ' the colonel said .
how you suppose he smashed his windshield ?
" at six-fifty-five george said : " he ' s not coming .
" give them the proper chance .
he sat down .
" what do you think i ' m going to do ?
i was too wet with sweat to sit down and i signed garrick to keep on going .
' ' the hell with tea .
i don ' t want you to even speak to me .
the skull was quite clean but the hollow horns had some damp residue in them , smelled unbearably foul and
i don ' t think it is .
” wilson stood up and puffing on his pipe strolled away , speaking a few words in swahili to one
lots of it was lovely .
a man beside me leaned over toward brett .
“i need that money too badly .
anything , " guy said .
he was a boy about sixteen .
maybe he can tell me what’s right to do , she said to herself .
" " let ' s go to biarritz and have a drink .
your defence and my defence is no damn good .
what we come ?
get there on time .
better to let her sleep than to wake her up now .
drink some for us when we ' re gone .
better head than this one carried .
of that hotel that cost him sixty francs a month where he did his writing , and from it he
” “i’ll never change it except for cause .
he made the tour of the ring .
we’ll be happy won’t we ?
not following , so i stopped .
" did you see ole ?
" " i ' m sorry , " she said .
" i am a tired old man .
but remembering how it looked now , i knew this was just another blood bath like the somme .
" jake , " mike said .
little sidestep each time as he transferred the bull ' s charge from his own body to the flannel .
" you can ' t go , " madame fontan said .
” “poor helena .
patches and they had what pistols were serviceable and some that weren’t and put it all in the canvas sack
it was at that minute that the first one hit us .
the other , lying flat and handing us one of the bottles , asked in a hurt tone , “on
" " go to hell !
he saw the young gentleman coming down the path and spoke to him mysteriously .
not their feelings nor anything .
" the two at the bar looked over at the two at the table , then looked back at the
there were four crows walking in the green field .
” “you’re not lonely are you ?
' s feet .
that was the only time in my life i got so i dreamed about things .
he looked down at the swirl of water below each leg and tipped up the bottle to get a grasshopper
was waiting .
they would go directly to san sebastian and take the train from there .
' ' thank you , very much , ' the girl said .
i ' d look a fright .
the fire where the ground had been dried by the heat and stretched my legs out , leaning my back
but i don’t .
his life but that old lovely black powder smell and his own people shooting each other and themselves , because
then he said aloud , " i wish i had the boy .
" " i don ' t .
the wanderobo wanted to go .
it had been cropped , by sheep or goats , until it looked like a designed depression in a golf
and at daylight when the bettors were asking that it be called a draw and the referee was shaking his
we have so damned few guns that we’re just used as slightly mobile armored artillery units .
noticed the dark hollows under his eyes .
i washed , brushed my hair .
he turned and the group broke apart and romero was taking him out with his cape .
you know what i’m betting on him ?
" what you see out there ?
when i stopped her out in the gulf and she began to roll a little with the swell it woke
' the second was as good as the first .
” a spanish soldier asked me .
" inside para told him to sit down .
half asleep i had been sure it was georgette .
to windward .
“they’re friends of his , ” john said .
“that’s the peat , ” bill said .
he ' s a lousy runt .
we came out on a cross-street that led to the paseo de sarasate .
he was standing quietly watching the lights working .
she put it on the table and brought a bottle of red wine and sat down at the table .
whatever that means in american .
“what’ll we drink to ?
“oh please darling .
dump your load and get into town .
but i graduated .
i wonder what those old boys are doing now ?
' he motioned for the _gran maestro_ to fill the glasses .
but i think it means a man who has never worked at his trade (_oficio_) truly , and is presumptuous
” “what do you mean , kids , ” the down-state man said .
“it makes me sick to even think about it .
it was sort of stuff like this .
but with no bulges and without the silver shine .
' i like my work very much and i meet extraordinary and interesting characters , also many belgians .
' general .
him watching nervously .
a rim-rock ledge .
m ' cola came up .
he could have wired for money .
" i did not care .
“sure .
she felt wonderful there .
they were both covered with oilcloth .
” “duran took the new race track .
roger thought they sounded quite exact .
hell , they ' ve got a tradition .
and they have to have been over for years and years before they are successful in london .
he liked to look at them , though .
" " you weren ' t bad .
, ' p .
be when i went back to the front again .
“listen .
bumming in all day , a couple of us kids , and my old man made me a sling shot
why do they want to make a frontal attack against positions like those ?
" he ' s a real aficionado .
” “he’s going to get well but he’s paralyzed .
the undefeated manuel garcia climbed the stairs to don miguel retana’s office .
everything else that had been moving , in the bush on the flats , or coming down from the small
“they eat the dinner , ” his friend said .
berries and try to get some birds .
our right and kill any germans that get by us .
they couldn’t help but see that liquor .
nick walked up the dark street to the corner under the arc-light , and then along the car-tracks to henry’s
at all .
fuentes twitched the two banderillas and the light on the steel points caught the bull’s eye .
” his next bird died in the air as the spring arm of the sunken trap swung him up from
i ' ve two weeks allowance should be here .
i ' ve had him for ten years and he ' s never been right yet .
" let ' s not talk rot , " the man said .
they made us read you you know .
" " fine , " i said .
he held it up , the bottom in the stream , and the water poured out through the sides .
" " is she beautiful ?
he winked at the coffee-boy as he poured out the brandy into the little glass beside manuel’s coffee .
her bow wasn ' t very far under .
“you got to take a cure , billy , ” mr .
" " why in hell didn ' t you stay there and meet them then ?
“them indians , ” said mrs .
then for the first time in my life with a good conscience i sleep automatically .
' ' i do indeed .
his people come in and dress him .
i knew that was what it was .
it ain ' t ready yet , but he drank a little bit , and this morning he put a
' isn ' t triumph simply marvellous ?
“i’m sorry as hell .
" where were you , jake ?
he watched , again , the strange play of the light on the ceiling .
spirals , widespread and unbelievable as he lay dead five yards from where we stood when i had just that
they never built any better than at the start there in torcello .
i tried never to think about it , but it had started to go since , in the nights ,
they cannot break that promise and now the indians have taken the country over from the europeans .
” “oh , no , sir , ” she laughed .
“shut up , ” said captain willie .
i could only see their backs but they sat the same way .
" " i don ' t know , " manuel said .
" get some sleep , old jake .
“i shouldn’t have ever got in this war .
“we call anything a bugger , ” nick said .
” “were you there in the fall ?
, achieved with an old coat and a safety pin , whose modesty , pleasantness and skill i admired so
' ' the thing is that , would you ?
isn ' t it , pop ?
it seemed this new country was a gift .
they would never suck him in that way again .
“they’re all bad in the legs .
“there are many lost bullets coming over .
" " well , i never cared for it , myself .
" clear up , head , " he said in a voice he could hardly hear .
they ' re on their honeymoon .
it looked , now , like a gut shot or one through the paunch .
' ' over there , ' the concierge said .
" there ' ll just be another row .
' ' all right , ' she said .
we have some meat .
" they don ' t look happy , " brett said .
” he put out the other hand .
” “he lives on the other side of the paznaun , ” said the sexton .
in a few minutes a girl brought a stone pitcher , steaming , into the room .
wait till you see the aspen turn yellow in the fall .
“i mean you got anything to drink ?
a military power and then take off .
the girl was amused .
not when i first saw him .
of a handkerchief spread over my neck i had a pounding ache in my head .
smell of the smoke of the fire , the smell of my boots steaming , and , where he squatted
" " what ' s the matter with chaves ?
“what the hell ?
" go on to the infirmary , man , " he said .
“please is much better .
he was evidently holding tight onto himself about something .
we had driven from ventimiglia to pisa and florence , across the romagna to rimini , back through forli ,
" those are retana ' s boys .
guide to the camps and the hotels .
i am sorry that i went too far out .
he would see them through the safari on a very formal basis—what was it the french called it ?
well he would never know , now .
they felt very fine .
" i ' m sorry , jake .
when the fish was at the stern , plunging and cutting from side to side in desperation , the old
“imagine being buried on a day like this , ” i said to john .
" " good night , jake .
the cape , to re-charge as he swung the cape again , then again , and again , and again
jacob barnes !
" " no , " the major said .
' ' perhaps , ' the waiter said .
seeing the buffalo still on his feet , and going out of sight to the left in a climbing run
" " i ' ve been away a long time , " harris said .
the bull was slower now , manuel felt .
" joe garner laughed .
once i used a salamander from under an old log .
he turned to me and smiled .
he was a continual eavesdropper .
“is it fun ?
there were many variations of that joke .
" the music stopped .
” al went into the bathroom .
" " oh , i was around .
one of them walked unsteadily .
“anyway , he couldn’t bring her over to be buried until the snow was gone .
" " he didn ' t beat you .
and then looked at himself carefully in the glass , pulling down his long upper lip .
" hello , robert , " i said .
were different and everything was a little different .
" asked my wife .
' would you mind , daughter ?
“he’s going to tell us about the peasant we saw filling the grave , coming into town .
accurate .
on , " mr .
“but i think you would .
' ' if it ' s guided missiles , ' the colonel said .
she was hot from the running and she said , “no .
i only said that once when i was drunk .
" " what do they have them in for ?
" she kissed me coolly on the forehead .
' ' maybe you ' ll have a good year .
they’d kill that bunch of skates for their hides and hoofs up at paris .
i still had the sevastopol book of tolstoy and in the same volume i was reading a story called '
it ' s just my preliminary theory .
he’s a fine writer .
“what makes anyone talk the way they do ?
i guess the cards we draw are those we get .
they haven ' t had a military thinker since du picq .
no , it wasn’t porter .
that is not really true , for he was angry inside himself .
, to see him go over backwards , to see him start that frantic circle , to see that electric
now you can ' t stand on that one .
“can we have another ?
' ' very much .
cabin and hung them up in their cases from the top of the house where we hung the rods usually
” “what’s he going to do ?
" i heard cohn had hurt you , jake , " brett said .
” “you said kids , ” the down-state man said .
” “i wish you luck , truly , and with all my heart , ” mr .
romero ' s brother , holding the bull ' s horn in one hand , the knife in the other
and i couldn’t help feeling that if my old man was dead maybe they didn’t need to have shot gilford
that nigger beat him by a fluke” the ticket window went up and the three indians went over to it
i’d like to go to san dona to see the bridge again .
' i ' ve been trying to learn italian from my friend here .
might intercept them on their way down into the river bed .
then to the grand maestro , who had reappeared , having given his orders , the colonel said , '
” “we got a diner on now .
there had been a little rain , the day before , though not enough to flood the lick , which
" that always helps a lot , don ' t it ?
' my colonel , ' he said .
' i have perfect confidence in droopy .
if you shoot them they still won’t go .
' to-day , kudu .
but we saw it .
number of views seen for a few minutes from hot , empty rooms that are waiting for some one else
as well as any son of a bitch that ever lived .
" utilize a little of this .
three houses up the street was hirsch’s rooming-house .
the snow with their lances .
the boat moved steadily and when the first edge of the sun rose it was on the old man '
” the man took off his cap .
and that’s the thanks of the republic .
nick had circled around through the second-growth timber until they had come onto the old logging road .
“go on to the meeting .
you ' re sure you don ' t mind ?
no you don’t wish you hadn’t been with the kids .
i drank it without sugar in the dripping glass , and it was pleasantly bitter .
" i know now .
the wind was high up and took the clouds across the moon .
' let ' s go and look at them again .
the punishment of the hook is nothing .
” “attack on the farm .
branches broken , the crash of trees pushed over , the rumbling in the bellies of the elephants and the
much , or more , than he did .
mercenaries … they make a thousand dollars a month .
but won’t you be bored just with me ?
' ' that ' s the way it should be .
it had a wire leader and a medium-sized hook and he baited it with one of the sardines .
“roger , don’t you think i really could be good for you the way i was in the story i
down alongside the cot .
“aren’t you going to stay and eat ?
so it is murder , the colonel thought .
“let’s talk about writing .
the biarritz crowd did not like it they thought romero was afraid , and that was why he gave that
“don’t you ever read , jimmy ?
her face was white and she looked ill .
' hapana , ' he said glumly .
there was too much wrist in it to learn it quickly ; your wrist tired and the blade seemed to
only peppermint tea .
the same evening about seven o ' clock i stopped in at the select to see michael and brett .
" well , does your ladyship have a good time here in paris ?
chapter six it was a new country to us but it had the marks of the oldest countries .
the shade of the trees with plenty of blood to follow .
“i understand and i approve .
hose who sprinkled the gravelled square and watered the streets .
" mangez !
then they put whiskey in the wine .
" i ' ll get the plates , " he said , " or bring them with you .
" i ' d be as big an ass as cohn , " i said .
” “there are no good guitar players left ?
" where ' s sam ?
now alone , and out of sight of land , he was fast to the biggest fish that he had
' ' who were these ?
' ' i ' ll try to figure it .
' ' you don ' t want to stop anywhere for the night ?
bill filled up the glasses .
they were laid in groups that were never of the same number .
_wine-seller_--it ' s all right , lootenant .
lake .
" he pointed the drumstick at me and went on .
' the girl said .
' you want to go after him ?
if i know an american girl that lives in strasbourg what the hell is it to frances ?
“an excellent diagnosis , doctor .
" " there ' s plenty if you can pay for it .
fontan he ' s going to have the wine .
that funny voice like he was singing and i gave him a quarter to page mr .
afterwards in the chairs in front of the fire , sitting with the drinks , pop said , ' you
brett had the ear in her hand .
curb .
“but if anyone’s gone it’s silly to old the others .
" " get that well too , " the boy said .
the waiter brought the absinthe glasses .
every day is a new and fine illusion .
” “you good old littless .
“horace here will bear me out that i only speak of it in the very friendliest way .
the bartender didn’t say anything .
she had been afraid last night they would pass out .
the two girls named jeanne and maria had nothing in common except this sudden strange confidence which came when they
, into the deep saucer of _sauce vinaigrette_ .
there was no sense boring this boy , who , for all his combat infantryman badge , his purple heart
" bill asked .
" " no ; i mean really .
' ' no , thank you , sir .
" the little man asked .
” “yes , my darling .
you drink yourself to death .
' ' it isn ' t like any of those .
" no , sir , " said the barman .
' ' please don ' t be bad .
that’s what my old man would say when he’d kid george burns .
it could have been that of a man of twenty-five .
there is one stretch of twelve miles beyond here you can never get through if it rains .
' but i will try .
” “it is a very rare thing , ” the manager said .
father but want to believe my husband most--please , please tell me what to do--i have a daughter born while
i like him as well as i like anyone .
m ' cola was folding the head skins .
but _you_ don ' t drink anything .
” george looked at the clock on the wall behind the counter .
and explain me the things i do not understand ?
swung away toward the cover of the trees as he heard a cracking crash and felt the slam of a
you want to remember that for your next book , robert .
the water was deepening .
i went on down over the sand-bars from where i left that three-masted schooner and i didn ' t find
no matter what café in montparnasse you ask a taxi-driver to bring you to from the right bank of the
forgive me .
” “get up there and pick out a good place and don’t shoot back this way .
let’s go down and watch them drinking .
she was a damned nice woman too .
you folks fixing to stay all night ?
there were only three bodies in the street and they looked to have been killed running .
he was spider kelly ' s star pupil .
brett and i sat on at the bar .
had birth certificates .
he charged straight for the steers and two men ran out from behind the planks and shouted , to turn
my nerves are bad now .
' ' i never was there .
saddle under his arm looking red-faced and tired and too big for his silks and he stood there looking at
rig now to get some sleep , old man , while the fish is calm and steady .
thing touches those boils is a lovely breeze .
' ' i ' m just a crabby bastard , ' i said .
i am as clear as the stars that are my brothers .
fourteen to nothing at the end of the first quarter and that it’s all right .
i never saw a man as clean and as white and as beautiful as steve ketchel .
sticking stiff over the edge of the wagon box .
' ' i ' m sick of them .
so they stop at the bridge on his land .
i went back and the water was clearer all the time and you could see everything that floated out over
" " i ' m not sleeping , " jack said .
it was the yellow gulf weed that had made so much phosphorescence in the night .
mountains with sudden depths of green-rising forest and the solid bamboo slopes , and then the heavy forest again ,
‘maria , some beer , ’ he says , ‘for god’s sake .
he did not care about getting many trout .
this settles it coats the surface of a mirror so that it is as powdered as the windows which have
' we all love venice .
' let ' s not think about anything at all .
all night long on a moonlight night you hear the shots .
and bed , he thought .
' _doumi sana .
“we’ll put on another show for you tomorrow , ” francis macomber said .
he turned his fine , long , tall back on them and looked into the mirror that is placed behind
' ' you want to knuckle down on your swahili then .
there ain’t any room .
" they ' re not important , " bill said .
" then i heard brett ' s voice .
a line of beach with fishing-boats and above , on the side of the hill , a town and then
” asked enrique standing against the sink , holding his wine glass and wearing his apron .
drinking , and the colonel gave him the elbow in the mouth and then , under the light , had
orleans wasn’t much of a town either .
it recounts splendid imaginary amorous adventures of a perfect english gentleman in an intensely romantic land , the scenery of
i went back to the hotel and maera was on the balcony looking out to see if i’d be bringing
thanks for the drink we didn ' t have .
" then i should see the glow of havana .
the three of them , with several of elliot’s friends who called him hubie , went down to the château
it bagged me the same way .
you probably did not hear the shooting because it was against the wind .
” inside para told him to sit down .
“they like me , ” hernandez said happily .
he stood straight up in his rage , his blanket cape around his shoulders .
then up one of those timber patches and across those damned gullies .
“i bucked it for a while with some good people but we didn’t get anywhere .
" the lot the duke sent me for sunday will make a scandal , " he said .
“you be careful won’t you .
he never brought _her_ no good luck .
he had seen the second fin now coming up behind the first and had identified them as shovel-nosed sharks by
his hope and his confidence had never gone .
“any dudes playing ?
” “oh , don’t be silly .
, and in one of them , at a place called pocol , they buried a general who was shot
“lost money .
i told him i wanted to pop out and see you chaps for a minute .
” “yes , sir , ” the porter said .
in the square a man , bent over , was playing on a reed-pipe , and a crowd of children
when we saw two people coming towards us .
“you’ve made your military service ?
' and hands you more shells .
no idea of retribution or punishment .
africa and i have seen lions on the beaches in the evening .
to pot .
i tried to get him to hang him in a tree and leave him until we could send out a
at the farmhouse everybody got down .
the navel and the belly band , and if you did not get him he would move with such intelligence
m ' cola put his finger in the bullet hole in the centre of the shoulder and shook his head
ashes of the fire .
it shocked him .
' i ' m ahead of you , ' the colonel said .
and i am sure many times too that i slept without knowing it--but i never slept knowing it , and
" sit down , gentlemen .
top branches where they could not see him .
“this is all convict labor country through here .
" you have it your own way .
' so we got him off the road .
close beside the boat a big trout broke the surface of the water .
to know it as i knew the country around the lake where we were brought up .
your mediums smacked our house in treviso .
the young gentleman took out his pocketook and gave him a ten-lira note .
“but in the morning we’ll be out of it .
' the _gran maestro_ doesn ' t lie .
it was another of his mistakes and there was nothing to do now except gamble .
“we’ll drink a bottle together .
it makes everything wrong .
” “nonsense .
it was not his country but it was the middle of fall and all of this country was good to
rather than an attacking bathroom , the colonel felt .
" make another turn .
nun , and the radio fathers and sons after the storm it wasn ' t about anything , something about
' ' keep it made up .
i’m paid to do that .
" " he never had a chance to do anything to us .
_] _ _num_ d soldier_--i don ' t want any more .
if it had not been she it would have been another .
he had not expected this .
“i hope i’ll be better tomorrow .
at the field , the roman ' s huts , and the stockade where we had camped , and the
on the barrera below us , his head on his arms , not seeing , not hearing anything , only
” nick lay with his head on the pack and his sister lay by him with her head on his
sun on the wind-swept side of the square .
in san pier d ' arena , the industrial suburb outside of genoa , there is a wide street with
” “why nickie , mr .
sometimes the bad lions ate people too .
it made me sick to see his head all loose like that .
it was the hot , blood-flanked mass of the bull that thudded by , then turned like a cat and
sing hold onto the stern .
there seemed to be enough sand in the clay to keep the car from slipping .
just go in and out .
for him to fire at ducks that were coming to the colonel ' s blind was , in shooting ,
" the door to the kitchen opened and the nigger came in .
there is only the major secret that you must know .
tell me truly .
he knew he could choke it because he was tired enough .
from as far a distance as he figured he could hit the calf of the leg without hitting bone and
we noticed that she wore nothing under her house dress .
i wish to christ he hadn’t got any kind of malady .
“yes , ” he said , “i stayed , you see , taking care of animals .
' ' about this afternoon , ' he says and grins , making wrinkles in the caked dust on his
he noticed her eyelids were pale in the tanned face and how the long lashes lay , the sweetness of
the young gentleman felt relieved .
this i learn from the police who are very efficient if given time .
red sticks , one in each hand , held by the fingers , points straight forward .
" " i have been with girls .
' they had a hell of a nice consul here in _num_ .
“i’ll give you two hundred francs , ” he said .
the young indian stopped and blew out his lantern and they all walked on along the road .
we said good-bye until the next morning .
“it has to be absolute .
how many could you tell like that ?
americans and the russians .
' ' is he really fresh ?
' kufa !
“and any time i may have to take off and go on more .
' ' we can try , ' the colonel said .
good time .
the bed was far back from the windows , and i sat with the windows open and undressed by the
the battler nick stood up .
i need that badly .
packsack until he found the pint bottle of whiskey .
' ' i thought he was with a cow .
" you better watch out to keep prudie , nick .
there was an ant-hill ahead and we climbed the furrowed clay and from the top looked all around .
the funny thing was it looked as though jack was an open classic boxer .
the winner and still the undisputed champion .
” “you’re both talking rot , ” said margot .
_] when the weight starts to pull on ' em .
sometimes we were ordered to do things not in sufficient force—as at celadas .
do i look like a boy ?
“it’s been charming .
“that doesn’t follow .
" hullo !
other side of the plaza .
we had more wire strung than there are ---- in texas .
' i must say i don ' t care for this sportsman in spite of what b ' wana simba
” “yes , ” said the detective .
held between his thighs .
“oh , my sweet christ .
a fifth boat had already turned off into a side canal .
, and agreed to without using anything but a forefinger to signal and a hand to caution .
he opened it and drank a little .
sect and watch the noble exits that they make .
“the money from the film all goes for ambulances .
i ' m not sure i like speed , the colonel thought .
he could not hear them move .
york bar .
it has its perils and its merits .
and he couldn’t keep down his kilos without all that running .
we better get a car , i think .
' but when we came up to him , lying on his side , his heart was still beating strongly
i hung the lantern from it .
' hell , he knows me .
” “did you always like making love ?
tell him i ' m ashamed of being a writer .
the searchlight was full on her and she ran seeing only it , into its white , blinding eye .
sitting around and dick had some cigarettes and all of a sudden the rabbit jumped up and beat it into
' i ' ll see you at dinner , ' the colonel said .
" good-by , mrs .
fishing the creek .
" thanks for coming to tell me about it .
tomorrow would be better .
“better save some for your ride back , ” hogan said .
” i’d have killed him .
“i said i was a different man , james , ” he said .
" " brussels , you mean .
i will take the butter to keep it cool .
“chances are he’s dead in there , ” wilson remarked .
“there’s always a chance , ” he said .
manosduros was zurito ' s nickname .
everyone was excited and ready to go now and the old man was chattering about the bull as he folded
i wonder what it would have been like if i had ever had the money to buy me that kind
something you gentlemen will probably never encounter .
he walked along the road feeling the ache from the pull of the heavy pack .
i can wake up and think about that any night .
of them and one old wormy-looking guy that went by with post-cards of paris , showing them to everybody ,
" they truly beat me .
all he needs is to have corbett pick him to win for it to be all over .
to step clear , leaving the bull facing zurito on the white horse , come up and planted firm ,
we’d been out quite a way and now we were coming back .
“go .
that’s no good .
that would be many runs .
garner unlocked the door , went inside , and came out with a lamp in her hand .
montoya went out of the room .
“campagnero accepted a pair of varas for the death of one rosinante , with hernandez and manolo at the quites
looking at the amount of fat on each carcass in the butcher section , as though he were enjoying the
he had already learned there was only one day at a time and that it was always the day you
it’s perfectly all right for you to look .
” “everybody’s happy , baldy .
“it’s my country , you see .
' ' then as soon as you get your kudu we ' ll move down there too .
“you looked after everything ?
also i have much pain ; enough pain .
it was not so much that he lied as that there was no truth to tell .
” “put him in the game book as a collabo , ” i said .
there are two more hours before the sun sets and maybe he will come up before that .
" " bring us the bill , " i said .
get through the crowd to our table .
makes me damned nervous .
“don’t you feel well ?
" i ' d better go , " she said .
it looked now as though he were moving into a great canyon of clouds and the wind had dropped .
the hill and away from pamplona .
they walked back along the sea and the wind was still blowing and the rollers were breaking far out on
all he knew was that he had once had marjorie and that he had lost her .
hell jimmy , he said , you oughtn’t to have done it .
they were both laughing under the heads .
manuel got up , found the sword and muleta , tried the point of the sword with his thumb ,
” “what does he know about russia ?
i have thought so , he said to himself .
bull had passed , travelling after rain .
one day is as good as another .
the timber on the far side and work along through the timber to get above the sable .
i came out to the fire wearing these and mosquito boots .
" " like algabeno , " i said .
of the skull and the spine and then , twisting with the horns , swung the head loose and lifted
the only natural death i’ve ever seen , outside of loss of blood , which isn’t bad , was death
' no , ' said the old man .
religion is the opium of the poor .
” “me too , ” hogan said .
“christ , ” he said , “i might as well go .
" " really ?
“do your own business .
" you ' re going to lose your fifty francs , " brett said .
thank you .
' this makes me too nervous .
“it was a wonder , ” manuel said .
" he was the best guitar player ever in this town .
” pinin stood still beside the bunk .
car and you will look across and see the man who has brought it to you .
“heil !
i’m going to turn in .
looping in the line with his left hand , nick swung the rod to make the line taut and tried
" by the police , " said mike .
bill had packed the rucksack and we put one of the trout-bags in .
we ' re both good .
" " it is very hot in the summer in madrid .
frankie stood on the dock watching .
they had her daughter ' s measurements now too .
we could see the lights of the house up on the hill .
you’ve been good for a long time now and maybe you can be good .
all i could remember was the wonderful pair of horns we had seen in the game warden ' s office
” the hell with it , thought robert wilson .
they weren’t always right , though .
“well , let’s talk about something else .
and flew over us and back into the trees in the dark .
“don’t you get in any trouble about this .
_ ' ' piga ' was a fine word .
' ' my poor daughter , ' he said .
“well i certainly wish you people luck .
as the skillet grew hot the grease sputtered and bugs , crouching on long nigger legs over the fire ,
droopy was laughing .
i can ' t slide .
he looked around at us apologetically .
of the ocean where he hoped to find fish .
” “do you know what a lengua larga is ?
' ' an easy assignment , ' the colonel said .
smith were cooking for four days for them before they started .
when jack was on his feet walcott started toward him .
i can ' t remember mr .
“no , i understand few words but i speak greek , english , arabic .
he wheeled his horse and faced him toward the toril on the far side of the ring where the bull
' that ' s all the precautions he needs , ' pop said .
” at the conclusion of a closely turned pass of the cape the bull slid to his knees .
honest , watching the race i’d forgot how much my old man had bet on kircubbin .
he sat there , sweating under his arms , his mouth dry , his stomach hollow feeling , wanting to
“it’s sloppy .
her now parted hair forward so that it came below the line of her cheek and , slanting back ,
' you did not shoot him ?
" " oh , darling , don ' t be difficult .
” he’d always said it was .
which was supposed to put you out of business , and then , when it lifted , you checked your
back of them were their people , and behind the banderilleros , back in the passageway and in the open
with a magnum of perrier-jouet brut _num_ , shot a great number of rounds to make it seem important and
' remember that ; never .
after the first two passes with the cape romero knew exactly how bad the vision was impaired .
" " i didn ' t stay to find out .
is a damn poor offer .
you don’t mind , do you , mister adams ?
he thinks it was me .
” “i’ll come back .
“where are you from , marie ?
" there were never more than two servings of lunch on that train , and always plenty of places for
it is unworthy of it to be cramped .
' good and bad .
he drank off his glass .
don ' t make any mistake about that .
" " you were probably damn good for him .
' oh , lord , may they not see it !
than you are .
then the figure was broken .
his shoulders and raising his eyebrows .
" what is it ?
" they put us out in the kitchen , " nick went on .
” “you don’t have to be jolly if you don’t feel like it .
you get plenty trouble .
the other people did not look too clean when they came out from the body of the halftrack .
“we’ll be in now , ” i said to him .
" it never does a man any good .
" " you sound as though you liked her pretty well .
finer , further , finer higher and higher to drive toward happiness suddenly , scaldingly achieved .
i was all dried up inside like the dust in the house .
muy borracho !
" " don ' t think , " i said .
, varied peninsula , heavy with the mounting summer heat now that they were away from the sea breeze ;
as prosperous and as cheery as fossalta , just up the river , is miserable and gloomy , the colonel
i don ' t believe you could fix it , though .
where it hurts is in the head , the legs and the feet .
“hit me , ” he moved his head .
" brett looked at me .
“he is stupid .
v in black paint with drippings of paint down the wall .
the glasses were the biggest hazard and i used to carry four handkerchiefs and change them from the left to
" here ' s the money , " he said .
manuel sat up and looked at him .
" " oh , i ' m sure of that .
“you don’t know all the needs i have for money .
” “we’re either going to have to stop to get something to eat or else get sandwiches and eat them
he would know him again .
an hour he saw sand key light , straight , thin and brown , rising out of the sea right
race , us with the sun at our backs , the biggest black marlin i ever saw in my life
him , ' what sort of meat have you that is worth our eating ?
" we ought to have gone .
their phosphorescence as they threw themselves on the fish .
' you owe it to me to tell me .
" he ' ll be back in about half an hour .
" we came down around curves , through deep dust , the dust powdering the olive trees .
charo and m ' cola both shook p .
the next morning sister cecilia came in .
give or take three .
“wipe out this officer’s eyes with alcohol and water .
” “i’d like to see mr .
” “good , ” said frankie and patted me on the back .
they just want the old tank ahead to give them some cover while they go .
i ' m going to take a nap .
from where she saw it is only a picture .
” “it was very funny with the priest , ” said the sexton .
it floated down towards the logs , then the weight of the line pulled the bait under the surface .
' the roman had gone on steadily talking .
' i ' ll take him , ' the colonel said .
' we had heard a lion roaring just before daylight when we were getting up .
" " yes , this proves it .
" fontan asked .
you were equipped with good insides so that you did not go to pieces that way , the way most
' it ' s the light and the wind , ' pop said .
the nigger came on board with the bait and we cast off and started out of the harbor , the
sun comes out , ' the colonel said .
' ' tell it to me and don ' t be bad .
anyway , his office had a green baize door and a big wooden door , and when i went out
” “what’s the whore say ?
pay .
“just three , ” wilson said .
” he had saved this until the last because he did not want to worry macomber .
not in the open glades , not in the fields where the bush thinned , not on the green hillsides
then , ' no .
” “he does a little of everything .
” “please do not embarrass me , ” he said .
i went back up-stairs and from the open window watched brett walking up the street to the big limousine drawn
” the young gentleman sat down on the bank and jointed up a rod , put on the reel and
we sat and ate the eggs and i watched belmonte and the people at his table .
that has seen what this city has seen .
down below the narrow street was empty .
_ _num_ st soldier_--have a drink of it yourself .
what was this ?
” said madame fontan .
all spring and all summer and all fall he spent on the road with bicycle road-racers .
her lips , quiet now like a child’s asleep , and how her breasts showed under the sheet she had
" " you know i ' d have lived with him if i hadn ' t seen it was bad
" " she ' ll be all right , " mike said .
we were going back to the hotel .
for the meal .
" madame fontan said .
all trains finish there .
“you venerable alcoholic .
“i’d forgotten the lion !
” “what a question !
" you got an indian girl .
then we trailed him very slowly , on to hard stony ground a mile away .
' what is the news of the order ?
in a little while they all began to come in carrying meat and the hides and then i was stretched
seemed like the rear echelon .
with that other thing .
m ' cola and i went on trailing very slowly and laboriously across the long stony slope and back and
the end .
" " let me cover you over .
” “are they yours ?
well , he could always shoot better than i could and he deserves it .
he thought .
you haven ' t seen .
" i was getting glasses and a siphon .
' ' i can smell it .
" i ' ll have a roast pork tenderloin with apple sauce and mashed potatoes , " the first man
” “so am i .
it reflects discredit on me .
” “nor i , ” he said .
the lance and falling to the left side to keep the horse between him and the bull .
i always understood we were the first to use the machines .
the panels were all dark and smoky-looking .
now it is why i am walking at this hour and now it is their absolute security that i can
” “we’ll give him ten minutes , ” max said .
m ' cola looked at him and shook his head .
' have we plenty of salt ?
” “see ?
" " look what he ' s done for villalta , " the first waiter said .
cohn laughed .
” “i’ll go see him , ” nick said to george .
“sure , ” said hogan .
' ' whisky , ' he said confidently .
they all started to die , so the elders got together and decided they should pull out to a healthy
" maybe if i can increase the tension just a little it will hurt him and he will jump ,
i’m too tired .
“it’s been going on all night , you know .
, with their small sad voices are made too delicately for the sea .
" " pipe down , mike .
excursion to madrid from paris , where he was living at the time .
' but don ' t you ever run into anything , or let any sparks strike you , when you
" you never layed steve ketchel in your life and you know it .
but when things are really bad and you are all right , a drink just makes it clearer .
you have said good-bye to your girl and she has said good-bye to you .
elephants , ” “a way you’ll never be , ” “the snows of kilimanjaro , ” “a clean , well-lighted
mister dante thought so .
" just us three .
went alone .
" that ' s so .
c’est très bon pour la santé .
“you’re a good boy , ” he said .
they were sweethearts ; sure he’s a queen , didn’t you know that , of course he is .
” “i threw the caps away .
i asked him if he ever fished , and he said no , that he didn ' t care for
, turned and started off at a trot , and , as macomber fired , he heard a whunk that
' old man .
" " sure , " says jack , " maybe i will .
" you don ' t need to thank him .
came up , stopped under a huge tree about fifty yards from the thorn-bush fence and they all commenced carrying
" " damned well , " brett said .
' ' no , i ' ve done it all my life .
“he says they found the comrade they were looking for , ” i told him .
said , “want an ice , joe ?
" montoya was very pleased .
if they believe the critics when they say they are great then they must believe them when they say they
of beer and johnson with another .
what do you say ?
we went through many towns and cities but it was raining in all of them and when we crossed the
i’ll just have some tea .
i offered him some roasted sunflower seeds and some acorns from the pocket of my mackinaw jacket and we joked
he looks like a nice fellow .
" do we look silly ?
" get out of here !
you ' re wrong there .
with you .
” “you agree , gentlemen ?
but i like them very much and i have never known finer people nor people more as we are .
that was the headlight of the simplon-orient cutting the dark now and he was leaving thrace then after the retreat
you really can start it all over now .
" " i left them in the wagon at garner ' s .
" " but i fear the indians of cleveland .
nick could not hear the words .
' ' it was very pretty , ' dan said .
it will uncramp though , he thought .
probably part of thursday .
when the sun was down they all moved out into the current .
" he ' ll kill him , " said hogan .
he waved to her and she did not wave back .
then they coagulated again and the treacherous duck on the ice started to talk to them .
like a butterfly and a tank .
be very careful and kind .
" " she does .
” “to keep from killing twelve other chinks , ” i told him .
” “oh , he takes bananas , ” the lady said .
how after this box had been given to me by a friend on his return from persia i had only
as a tribute to the great commoner .
" i looked at it .
“i believe you , sir , ” the waiter said .
” johnson asked .
he ' s in bad shape .
as soon as we got to maisons , my old man wrote to milan for his license and he was
there was more wind in the sky than there had been , and soon he hoped that he would see
” “what became of your girl ?
” “i don’t know about that .
don ' t you forget it , harris .
" " clean through .
“they’ve painted something on it , ” she said .
bus ready to start .
' he ' ll cross the stream , ' pop said .
” macomber stepped out of the curved opening at the side of the front seat , onto the step and
the left to be sure the boat was out of any line of fire .
no hard feelings , you know .
“nickie can have prudence , ” joe garner said .
at the bottom of the pool were the big trout .
a taxi came along and i got in and gave the driver the address of my flat .
” “he’s the one makes the noise at night .
maybe he was all bone .
” “i don’t think so .
cut up the meat for the village .
the blind made a marvellous ambush and i was as confident and as sure of a shot at kudu the
” “why did she go ?
“il piove , ” the wife said .
i just started the cakes .
not until after the war when we could talk together .
smith liked jim .
the two sable were watching us and i dropped my head , i thought they might be getting a flash
why ?
they said he fought in the sierra but he was too weak in the chest to continue .
the man wanted to be paid in dollars and i gave him a dollar and a half .
his father drank a whiskey and water from the cup top on his flask as they lay and watched juma
that big yellow horse kzar came first .
watch-chain .
liz and mrs .
the waitress came and he paid for the wine and his dinner .
' i only threw it once to the head .
” “why don’t you send him down on the cable railway ?
my father and burned our villa on the brenta and the day i saw a german officer shooting pigeons with
” “good-by , gentlemen .
" how you know things , " brett said .
none of us had ever seen a wart-hog that would not bolt off , fast-trotting , tail in air .
i just don ' t want to see them .
” “i’m sorry about those baskets , mrs .
but we have killed many things which were not armed .
before the sun .
president hell !
" nick ' s imagination was both stirred and horrified by this and he thought of various animals but none
my theory and you ' ll put me straight anyway .
' now eat , ' he said .
boulevard raspail , and i sat back to let that part of the ride pass .
do not know where either one is buried even .
” one of the men asked .
“i command here , and these comrades are our guests .
there were only the flying fish that went up from his bow sailing away to either side and the yellow
" " does this happen every night at your fiestas ?
” “oh shucks , nickie .
but it wasn’t true .
i’ll bet you made him , ” krebs sat up in bed .
mineral water and small flasks of cognac and sandwiches with ham between sliced long pointed-end bread wrapped in paper and
these additional treatments he requested himself , remember .
” “the attack upset her .
i remember the women going down the trail to the beach for the water with the pots on their heads
“it seems like all kinds of people come by here now .
not the paris that he cared about .
“do you want to put the rest on the beer and the ice ?
let’s not talk about them , ” nick said .
that afternoon john collins showed up out at the farm .
his father was non-committal .
that summer the boy read books that his father found for him in the library and when he would come
" i ' ll make him jump out of the ring .
” “i saw two skunks last night , ” nick said .
" no , " he answered , and smiled .
” “she is all around me , ” he said .
he was sitting there holding onto his belly where the rod butt had hit him .
boys in the lower forms wear .
the second is intercepted by a poor russian .
' ' it was wonderful when we heard him bellow , ' p .
i have bad luck now for fifteen years .
" now i must get your sardines and mine and your fresh baits .
little waves came in with it .
it was pitiful .
” “straight toward the door of the air-conditioned bar .
” macomber’s face was shining .
" " he ' s a beast .
” they started off walking on the soft hemlock needles and the trees were high and there was no brush
the big frame , the quick movements , the wide shoulders , the hooked , hawk nose , the beard
' thank you very much , _gran maestro_ .
gosh , i never saw such a horse .
m ' cola was very pleased and droopy was delighted .
he can ' t do this forever .
tired through to our bones , drinking whisky and soda and talking .
“weren’t we lucky to get her ?
" you ' re going to work to-day , " i said .
crossed the top of a col , the road winding back and forth on itself , and then it was
the rains with no need to travel , the discomforts that you paid to make it real , the names
but you can stay with him forever .
and head her out to sea .
they walked up the road together to the old man ' s shack and went in through its open door
he ' s a beauty .
” “what can we talk about ?
” this was no better .
by the idea of making money from copra .
two slivers of wood into the holes he had punched in the can .
he leaned his back against the stern and knew he was not dead .
manuel opened his eyes and looked at zurito .
it was bent where it had struck the shoulder-blade .
the banner danced up and down with them as they came down surrounded by the crowd .
inside the booth the colonel lifted the receiver and said , automatically , ' colonel cantwell speaking .
they played like young cats in the dusk and he loved them as he loved the boy .
of bait .
” nick climbed the embankment and started up the track .
” “you’re a good tank man .
and the bull got under the horse , lifted him , threw him onto his back .
” manuel asked , looking up at zurito across the table .
” “tell me about how you got married .
' ' the cornet .
no , ” she said .
surprising how few of them died .
brother , that was some storm .
, done under bright lights , with clean linen , the wearing of evening clothes , and abundant food in
many of hemingway’s early stories are set in northern michigan , where his family owned a cottage on waloon lake
" why don ' t you get a job and go to work ?
place , ” and a story called “the light of the world” which nobody else ever liked .
“where’s fontan ?
began to blow back in our direction .
" " you ought to stop it .
“you mustn’t do it , jim .
he had been pulled down tight onto the bow and his face was in the cut slice of dolphin and
“i’ll get some more beer , ” madame fontan said .
it had begun very simply .
' he was very gentle and he could tell what was in your mind , forgive you for it ,
or maybe he just deliquesced .
pedro romero nodded , seeming very far away and dignified when we shook hands .
it was like that going up the stairs in the hotel .
of unique value for his writings .
” “if any chink starts bursting out of the cabin or coming through the hatch , once we’re out and
i’ll get cards printed mrs .
" and what a miserable fish raw .
” manuel looked down at his glass .
" we went out .
" you might , " he said .
we see him jump .
” “you were thinking .
” “with a scissors .
manuel stood up and picked up the muleta .
of us into nairobi .
" " cut it out about the sheet .
, wholesome looking woman who was with him .
" just because you say i wouldn ' t have doesn ' t prove anything .
we will dedicate ourselves to the cheese with happiness .
" this other one , too , " i said , pointing at cohn .
' some of those society kids ' ll say to them .
“why not ?
muscle above the bull ' s shoulder , leaned all his weight on the shaft , and with his left
she had a beautiful complexion and she was very busy and her kitchen help were there as well .
do say something .
” “in hundreds is all right .
people do not want to do it any more because they will be out of fashion and the lice who
that was whipped by the strong , cold wind from the mountains that sharpened all the outlines of buildings so
he pointed , and i could see it was the place .
' ' i ' ll try , ' the girl said .
but she was looking up at the sky behind him and had commenced her small chuckling talk .
a cat can look out for itself , but i cannot think what will become of the others .
that only delayed the presentation of the bill .
” he did not add the rest of it .
' asked p .
droop carried my big gun and pop had his .
but the face of this officer looked like the face of a man during a bombardment .
” “read it .
“we’ll get you right in , ” he said .
probably in the saturday evening post .
" i could not fail myself and die on a fish like this , " he said .
" george asked .
“your friend , ole andreson , isn’t going to come .
“damn crook , ” he said .
' ' i brought my repellent .
anything that size would be angry .
but then i thought there’s no sense spoiling it by doing something you’d be sorry for afterwards .
they are talking .
now here was the frozen lagoon to ruin everything .
i didn’t offer you anything .
“why the hell can’t he stick around ?
in back of us were the woods , below a stretch of meadow , then the sea .
we all got in the car and it started up the white dusty road into spain .
who gets excited every time the weapon slaps against his thighs .
” “you can have them if you like , ” he said .
why did he keep on taking it like that ?
' i think that ' s a laudable attitude , sir .
“let’s stick together through it .
” “oh yes .
the bull hit him in the small of the back .
i ' ll do it , or i will get one off some joker and have it cut down for
batter smoothly and watched it bubble and then start to firm around the edges .
marjorie went to the boat and brought a blanket .
we outgrew some countries and we went to others but beer was still a bloody marvel .
then south .
“no , you were good , ” nick said .
my memory is not exact about this part .
" " it ' s a rotten shame .
he always rode and i didn’t see how he would be frozen up so bad .
m ' cola became very superior during droopy ' s struggle to fire with the safety on and droopy seemed
“ten years at least .
" shut up , mike .
slope .
the music and the dancing were going on .
the police .
i never heard of him .
" nothing until the fifth .
the roman ' s brother and the husband went up the valley to get the meat of the sable cow
" " good night , brett , " i said .
" listen , " he said , " to-morrow my nose is so tight on the handle-bars that the only
there were two from each bait he had severed and the two from the bait the fish had taken and
i’m sorry i was so slow .
was no place to sit down .
but tell me .
looked at the terrace where the tables were all empty except where the old man sat in the shadow of
il ne faut pas manger à l’hôtel ou au restaurant .
only his eyes watched .
" i would not be rude .
“get up forward and give me the depth .
” “don’t make up things .
" wasn ' t that mr .
eat the bonito now .
there was always much paper about the dead and the débris of this attack was no exception .
she feels very badly .
" come on in , hogan , " he says .
shut out the sun and that dampen the houses for a stranger ; out past the last house and onto
” “i’m not in his kingdom , ” krebs said .
morning in the hospital ; and at six o ' clock you could get the morning revellers in minneapolis .
steel lock of his resistance , and the triangular steel point of the pic ripped in the bull’s hump of
paco stood facing him , holding the apron spread , holding a fold of it bunched in each hand ,
i ' m sick , too .
hearing them come by their talk , stepped out with a hand in each low pocket of his raincoat and
look at jo davidson .
josie is .
" you ' re down fine , jack , " freedman says .
" his father got up from the table and went out the kitchen screen door .
they looked over his shoulder .
" " it won ' t make you happy .
i went down and looked at it again today .
they can all count good though .
i saw her face in the lights from the open shops , then it was dark , then i saw
the evening papers were not yet out so i bought three party tracts from an old woman .
” zurito rode by , a bulky equestrian statue .
that ' s the terrible part .
asked him what was the difference between tactics and strategy .
i don ' t carry any military secrets with my toilet articles .
not be seen .
i had all the lights out .
i was afraid he thought he had hurt me with that crack about being impotent .
perhaps he regained , as the result of his enthusiasm and interest , a childlike capacity to record details almost
juma had known it for a long time .
it is a lack .
his need for confidence , but secured temporarily through the absorption of the tablets , said , ' _ciao_ ,
' ' please tell me , ' the girl said .
” “this forest would be a bad place for giants .
they all jumped and stood looking , not knowing where the noise came from .
the girl went into the house as peduzzi pointed .
when i came on board i had just forty cents left .
" " where ' s that ?
” “maybe not .
had decided on .
" " well , anyway , let ' s eat , " said bill .
as a convenience to keep coupons and stamps in and had never seen the pictures .
the young man got down , went to the back of the car and untied the suitcase .
“just like you want him , ” retana’s man assured him .
” the man asked , making a note of the license number in the book .
it was gone just a little way around the corner in that well-lighted part of his mind that was there
morgan , ” odgar said .
“it’s in my name at the desk , ” i said .
" " well , i wish you wouldn ' t ride me about it , " doctor wilcox said .
' ' piga m ' uzuri , ' m ' cola said .
solly freedman came over to our comer while jack is bandaging his hands and john is over in walcott’s corner
' ' i know it is the most unworthy thing about the town .
' ' they ' re terrible .
" " because that explains it to you .
' chaps were throwing things at you and we couldn ' t find out why .
but you also know you are a bastard in quite different ways from her ways .
” “they’re a funny fish , ” i told him .
mantegna he did not like .
in him and he swung over on it twice before they pulled him off it .
“do let’s eat .
or , he added , thinking of hurtgen now , you can take your scythe and stick it .
“this masai cattle is too newly killed .
he was wearing a formal white jacket , cut long , and he smiled at them and said , '
there were long brown mountains and a few pines and far-off forests of beech-trees on some of the mountainsides .
you are with friends ?
they are on their way now to get him .
' ' i ' ll tell you , ' the colonel said .
" " well , " i said , " you ' re not right .
he never lied ever .
snake biting itself because its back was broken .
" " come in at the office .
" " très peu .
" as a mark of confidence .
money hasn ' t come , " he paused .
i had seen it in his eye the first time he saw me take a drink .
we don’t have to talk about it , do we ?
nick took him by the head and held him while he threaded the slim hook under his chin , down
he looked huge in the glasses .
he stood to one side of the door and took the colt out of the holster and held it ,
’ “why did you never ?
then ' mama !
getting in from torino at four o’clock in the morning and beating it out to the stables in a cab
' then you ' ll have to take him .
' ' in the corner , ' said the colonel and hung up .
' i thought i would miss you .
i was always too damned smart .
" he ' d say to soldier .
he didn’t like it any , though .
and then came to the first bridge crossing a feeder canal with steps to be climbed ; i don '
“that’s true , ” madame fontan said .
not a thing .
procured at any ship chandler’s .
she ' s too fat .
o r i g i n a l ly p u b l i s h e d i n
” “it’s that damned roaring , ” he said .
” “i’m awfully sorry i cried , ” she said .
” david was asleep even before his father said good night .
i would love it if you were a general .
” asked the doctor’s wife from the room where she was lying with the blinds drawn .
then while they were eating breakfast by lantern light out in the dining tent , before the sun was up
we were standing on the platform and the train started and i saw the prisoner standing there , leaning the
' ' go on and tell me .
you ' ll like that .
cow , and below , in the tall grass , casting in circles , commenced to hunt for the trail
' ' you know as well as i , my colonel .
' we listened for another shot but we did not hear one and i was sure karl had his kudu
” “yes we are .
“i always knew you were my pal .
the german girls are not beautiful .
above us , on the right , were the hills , wooded in patches of orchard bush .
there were laurel trees along the sidewalk that grew high enough to shade the upper porch and in the shade
a big river .
she says she must see you .
then i didn’t pay any attention to it because i never infect .
thank you very much , ' he said .
her breathe , as the young breathe when they are easily asleep .
you weren ' t bored , were you , robert ?
it was a heavy , double tapered fly line .
" " extraordinary thing , " mike said .
and it ' s a lot of fun , too , to be in love .
” nick looked at his plate .
” after a while he heard his father blow out the lamp and go into his own room .
it was his first meeting with the famous white hunter phillip percival , whom he admired at once for his
there were wrinkles in his tanned neck .
there was smoke from many tall chimneys--coming into marseilles , and the train slowed down and followed one track through
we all had good shooting but it was best out on the lake and for three days afterward , travelling
you asked him for it , and he was a nicelooking horse , too .
they came in well , with treachery speaking to them .
” his wife was silent .
he turned him up , all his legs walking in the air , and looked at his jointed belly .
he would have felt better now if the tip had been seventy-five centimes .
all for morning fun .
” asked margaret macomber .
' he says why did you shoot him twice ?
' ' i ' m not sure you ' ll need it , ' the colonel said .
the grain was just beginning to ripen and the fields were full of poppies .
” “do you feel any better ?
and then with the dew all over everything and the sun just starting to get going , i’d help him
figure him any way you like .
no man who works nights can hold a woman if the woman is worth anything .
masai kill man .
until that clear day in the winter when i went back to have that small wound dressed , and saw
the beach and the curve of the shore .
“well , you’re not , ” said the other little man .
this sudden life and panic all made background for the one i wanted , now trotting , three-quartering away ,
he felt all the old feeling .
” “what are we going to do ?
” “ever do any business with him ?
he reached into his pocket and found a pad and pencil .
in spite of this introduction of emotion , mr .
“go on , tell him the rest , ” said one .
' ' you haven ' t a picture of then , have you ?
ten indians after one fourth of july , nick , driving home late from town in the big wagon with
once bled , i started to open him , with the little knife , still showing off to droopy ,
‘my old man’s jack brennan .
his face drove into the sand .
” “bring me some coffee and milk and a shot of the ordinary , ” manuel said .
the boatman was too far away to hear a shout .
braddocks called down the table to braddocks .
the brown water discolored the sea and as the waves thinned and cleared in breaking , the light came through
the boatman commenced smashing at the ice with the blade of his oar and then started tossing decoys out to
” he whispered to me .
back you could put your fist in , if it were a small fist and you wanted to put it
my old man was dead when they brought him in and while a doctor was listening to his heart with
while he was eating breakfast his sister brought in the mail .
" " the adjutant is at the cable railway , " said the sergeant .
“he doesn’t know or care really .
i’d be perfectly happy .
wheeler ?
' standing in front of the canvas circle of the latrine i looked , as each morning , at that
” ole andreson looked at the wall and did not say anything .
' ' we will serve dinner as late as you wish to eat , my colonel .
” “we really are .
who gives a damn anyway except me and the _gran maestro_ and this girl ; i mean at command level
the girl who took our order put her arm around guy’s neck while we were looking at the menu .
” “i don’t like mr .
he wanted me to say something .
“she had packed all the manuscript folders in a suitcase and left the suitcase with her other bags in her
he charged blindly into the cape and the boy took him out into the open arena .
it was dark now as it becomes dark quickly after the sun sets in september .
“what do you think it’s all about ?
“oh , shut up , ” said the blonde .
" i mean you got anything to _drink_ ?
the grass ; behind him again .
“good night , men , ” bill whispered .
” “i can’t , ” manuel said .
the gyp sprinted and vaulted the red fence of the barrera as the bull struck it with his horns .
he knew that if he could not slow the fish with a steady pressure the fish could take out all
” “that’s a last bottle .
i ' ll tell him .
' do you think that pock-marked jerk is really a writer ?
but this was a long time ago , and then we did not any of us know how it was
good in bed , comfortable , happy , fishing tomorrow , he prayed as he always prayed when he remembered
that’s worth two .
' ' i ' ll touch it now , ' the colonel said .
oh , lord , may they fan !
' ' beech is , to an open fire , as anthracite coal is to a stove .
" put it away , " he said .
the old man unhooked the fish , rebaited the line with another sardine and tossed it over .
” “he was crazy to do it .
“so he is gone .
" but i don ' t want you to , " he said , " i don ' t care
of golden-coloured sand , shored by green trees and broken by islands of timber and in this river the water
now she came in sight , walking across the open toward the camp .
the innkeeper came in and went over to the table .
' i ' m damned glad you got him , ' i said .
there were a lot of gallegos drinking at the bar and some eating .
' ' i never thought about it .
then it came in sight .
" i corked up the fundador bottle and gave it to the bartender .
a mix-up , but paris is all balled up and they never do straighten it out .
” “no , ” said baldy .
' ' well , to-day ' s the day .
it was the bull .
” “i’ve been having it all the time .
his curiosity had been gone for a long time .
all the time now liz was thinking about jim gilmore .
” “do you think you will be able to sleep ?
" i get tired this .
” “better than anything .
the land .
crying , “no kill him !
” “they’ll kill him .
as we came to the edge of the rise we saw the red roofs and white houses of burguete ahead
because mike was trying to make it clear that that was not at all what he was going to drink
it made me damned well sick .
perils and all dreads , held unholdingly , to hold , to hold increasingly , unholdingly still to hold ,
all right , then , they could all be bulls , but i wanted a good one , the best
" which way are you boys going ?
henry van dyke .
“wait till we eat them , ” nick said .
she liked it the way he walked over from the shop and often went to the kitchen door to watch
but who do you suppose that character is ?
” “now , about the loading , ” i said .
i ' ll have to wait until we cross the dese river above noghera to see it perfectly , he
” “try just a little .
were as far beyond him as calculus is distant from a man who has only the knowledge of arithmetic ,
” “it’s too old .
“did you tell him about it ?
wheeler ' s table .
the bull charged and romero waited for the charge , the muleta held low , sighting along the blade ,
then , when we were past , he jumped .
the old man withdrew the blade and punched the shark exactly in the same spot again .
" " the little bugger , " nick said .
the edge of the bush .
' ' i hope you get a sixty-incher , kid , ' karl said to me .
“him fight ?
but , momentarily , she was not with them .
” “are you hungry , nick ?
” “that’s the only story .
thirty-five yards into the grass the big lion lay flattened out along the ground .
” “where did he go now ?
“you look pretty darn nice , ” he said .
get coffee for us , and that we wanted a lunch .
the most sinister .
the other two ate as comfortably as they could .
' not like .
she wouldn’t ever marry anybody that didn’t make her .
deadened him .
the river made no sound .
but he certainly put on a performance today .
roussel .
wearing overalls and a boy’s shirt .
because she had done the best she could for many years back and the way they were together now was
he would like to have one of them .
that ' s just what i dreamed .
and needing to be cut , his eyes very laughing , his teeth bad when he smiled .
and that night missing her so much it made him feel hollow sick inside , he wandered up past maxim’s
' we were too poor .
" listen , jerry , " jack says .
it exploded with a jumping roar and you could hear the fragments whang against the armor .
plaza where he had had his greatest triumphs .
, plunging , the rod bending alive , out of the danger of the weeds into the open river .
" " what kind of a row was it ?
the elevator was full with a party from the floor above so they went down fast .
he was very good at it .
she was combing it with difficulty and without respect , and , since it was very heavy hair and as
i was glad when the horses came back from deauville and the summer .
he sensed it before he knew it .
i remember that after we had searched quite thoroughly for the complete dead we collected fragments .
at the village we stopped in the road in the dark , and i paid the runner the amount it
look at your pa .
' ' but the portrait has value .
but if he keeps up that way he’s going to kill his whole insides .
up ahead and to the left of the other duck that was climbing to the left and as he pulled
he used both of his hands in a swinging motion and tried to do the pulling as much as he
we drove to the scene of the disaster in trucks along poplar-shaded roads , bordered with ditches containing much minute
droopy had gone on down the stream to have a look , and as we lay there , reading ,
" he had an awful time .
" " i ' ll finish this , " i said .
“though the whole plant , ” says he , “was no larger than one of my fingers , i could
“you people from hollywood .
then he took us up and into a rocky , ravine-cut country where the trailing was slow and the climbing
” “yes , really .
we planned to lay up in the heat of the middle of the day and not get back until dark
” he took out a receipt book , made in duplicate , and perforated , so one side could be
there was no underbrush in the island of pine trees .
' ' i was kids in ' twenty-nine and ' thirty .
solly freedman came over to our corner while jack is bandaging his hands and john is over in walcott '
“how do you do ?
alice commenced to laugh again and to shake all over .
" al asked .
' " " they never answer , " john said .
” he looked at manuel , leaning back behind the big desk .
shoot for bone .
pulling with all his strength , the fish pulled part way over and then righted himself and swam away .
claimed nigger owed them money on account of wrecking hall .
there were only four of them .
i’m awfully sorry .
" " do you remember when he used to come to the terrace ?
then in two or three turns more i will have him .
i jumped .
” “i’ve never seen you drunk .
the conductor was coming down from the other end of the car .
“i am a humane man .
they sauntered across the cross roads and turned to come up in the field behind the ambush .
huh , torito !
this morning i feel as though i might be a saint .
i was enjoying the early morning , still a little sleepy , going along a little mechanically and starting to
” “i love you very much .
and we decided to head for camp .
why shouldn’t we do it ?
” “i won’t worry about that because it’s perfectly simple .
" " make it the other side of town then .
" i wouldn ' t like it .
" we wanted to join you .
rose close to the surface at night where all the wandering fish fed on them .
” “what’s the matter ?
” i motioned to frankie with my thumb .
he took out his knife , opened it and stuck it in the log .
i will explain it to the manager if you like .
i ought to be able to get a good map in new orleans .
they were hard and warm against his flat , hard , old and warm chest , and he noted how
elephant as though he was a ship and david saw the blood coming from his flanks and running down his
they used to catch everyone off the trains during the worst of the depression .
manuel shook it .
" " my god , yes , nice fella all right , " madame fontan said .
" one hundred and forty-three pounds , " the fat man who was weighing said .
made up ?
" " tell him he is a beautiful boy , " the lady said .
she doesn’t know .
“when ?
i was glad to be down away from snow .
, and the pouches under his eyes were all outside , so that now i saw him asleep the way
in back of them was the close second-growth timber of the point and in front was the bay with the
a hot armenian slut , that swung her belly against him so it almost scalded .
he is the sort of person they want as a member .
he no longer dreamed of storms , nor of women , nor of great occurrences , nor of great fish
lake , or if he ever saw a horse and buggy , or when he saw , or heard ,
someone tried to tell me you were at college .
' are they lesbians ?
as long as he preceded the burlesque show as advance man he was being paid .
" did he have a jam with soldier ?
and you go right into happiness as though it were a country you were the biggest landowner in .
she certainly would not call early and the shops did not open until nine or a little later .
just bed , he thought .
“thank you , sir , ” said the waitress .
think of the great dimaggio .
own .
it gave me the same feeling that the engravings in the book did and the feeling was confused with the
how i wish those dear days were back .
we were both tired of the sun .
' like ' was the word i wanted .
fuentes stood still , leaning back , the banderillos pointing forward .
you could see only hills and more hills , and you knew where the sea was .
" at a thousand duros apiece , " he said to me in spanish .
the others were trailing up into the timber .
anyway a liar lies best when there is a little smoke or when the sun has set .
' ' he will be , ' the girl told him .
the alcohol .
or , rather , it was bread toasted and buttered .
monte carlo .
i swam out to the raft , pulled myself up , and lay on the hot planks .
“no it’s not .
i went into the hotel and they gave me a room .
' do you like to fight ?
" " i ' ll come along , " bill said .
' you old bastard .
period , he added in his mind .
he leaned forward on the table to read and puffed at his pipe .
, although to all appearances he was dead .
“i am not in their confidence .
' ' the hell with them , ' i said .
“is that them , littless ?
the first cushions thrown down out of the dark missed him .
“well , ” i said to guy , “you wanted to eat some place simple .
but there was something wrong with it .
andreson , you ought to go out and take a walk on a nice fall day like this , '
it is reprinted here in case any one not caring to spend that appreciable sum for a rather technical book
nick noticed where the machine guns were posted and the signal rockets in their racks .
but with the fans on and the windows open it was better and when the bellboy had gone out helena
nobody ought to have a right to say things about mike .
i ' ve got him , i tell you !
' ' she ' s forgotten , ' the colonel told her .
above the stove there was a wooden-handled dish mop stuck in the edge of one of the rafters .
i want to talk to you , jake .
me to the fishing-trip in spain we had talked about last winter .
' am i boring you , jackson ?
i saw the bright flash as it burst and another little cloud of smoke appeared .
my old man and holbrook and a fat wop in a straw hat that kept wiping his face with a
if he’d had the harness on it would have taken him along , too .
a half-pint of maggots working where their mouths have been .
told me a little about it .
he clubbed desperately at what he could only feel and hear and he felt something seize the club and it
i didn’t say anything to them and there they sat , eddy in one of the chairs with a bottle
one cannot go against authority .
close to the window you could smell the inside of the house .
when i had finished too quickly and the time did not go , i would fish the stream over again
he looked down the river .
cohn and mr .
i saw all that .
" do you want me to read to you ?
” “i just wanted to read about the spanish business .
” “if i live long enough the luck will change .
" you must come , jake .
i stopped at the post and they gave it me with mine .
all along the road .
" " say , jack , " i said , " didn ' t you used to play the ponies
they thought i was hell ' s own shakes of a soldier .
the bull is mean and he really runs everybody off .
but he kept climbing , grading up around the hill , and he was travelling fast .
then the open sea .
" he has no more than the shirt on his back .
“he is in much pain .
there would be no lack of anything .
why did she do that ?
there were thirty thousand people lived there once and they built that church to honour their lord and to worship
” “well , ” said hogan , “they’re not such fools .
" look at his hands , " the man said and nodded his head at the cook .
lit on the hillside below .
" how are you ?
and mr .
and rubbed her cropped head against his cheek .
they would be waiting for the old four-leaf clover people who would go straight to hell like a mule and
the cows we were watching had heard the shot and stood , listening , then went on feeding .
onto his knees and had both thumbs well in behind his talk box and i bent the whole thing back
_ ' m ' cola whispered .
” “i don’t like the pitchfork bones , ” his sister said .
” “truly .
” that night jack didn’t sleep any either .
i’m glad to see this at first hand .
make their run .
still they were crazy for it .
” “potatoes , i think , and parings from horses’ hooves they get at the blacksmith shop .
cold .
" several basques said .
mike had one hand on the bar and was leaning toward brett , talking .
they saw when he struck a match .
but this lady---- ' ' young girl , ' interrupted the _gran maestro_ with his whole-face smile .
she was very pleased and confident .
both were great picadors although the first was reputed to have lost much of his ability through drink and dissipation
" " it ' s bad .
” “yes , ” said para gently .
” “thank you , ” helena said .
she liked the way he felt about being a hotel-keeper .
i don ' t want to work that close to him .
he had destroyed his talent himself .
* * * * * the next afternoon i drove out to fontan ' s , through the shade of
the german fell in the same disconcerting heartbreaking way and lay in the road with the vélo upside down and
of a good god-damn about things than almost anybody you ' ll ever meet .
" " they have them beaten , " frazer said .
” madame asked .
“how he could touch the guitar .
' ' we ' d probably better just use one at a time , ' the colonel said .
any rate , my tailor wrote me and wanted the medals back .
and the colonel looked through it when it came .
i think they would have hunted .
andré turned to me .
perhaps i should not have been a fisherman , he thought .
there are two riflemen there already , or some boy asleep .
marjorie rowed up the point a little way so she would not disturb the line .
" i said good night to brett at the bar .
up the road through the town under the big elm trees , past the last cluster of r .
“that’s all that i mean .
he rose to a slight up-run and then the snow seemed to drop out from under him as he went
and sink them in the channel .
shoulder of mountain that you climbed one foot up to the other , one foot after the other , one
wasn ' t me at all .
i swear to god i have .
like ice cream .
to play at night of their own accord .
belmonte wore a blue-striped shirt and a dark suit , and ate soft-boiled eggs .
stand facing me , absolutely still , his nose up , and shot him in the chest .
he just looked over our heads and said , “what’s yours ?
beside a glacier , and in the shade the sweat froze in your underclothing .
" " tell the rest , " brett said .
“would you like to be a fish , butstein ?
“sam , ” he called .
“when you don’t want me i’ll go straight home .
“i couldn’t say anything with that damned suzy .
" " good-by , gentlemen .
out drinking beer and watching the fire and all around they were talking and roasting meat on sticks .
like plummets and , on the others , he had a big blue runner and a yellow jack that had
" " i ' ll bet pa wouldn ' t ever have had a squaw for a girl .
into the tight of the big shoulder muscles as the bull missed him .
as bad a thing as one man could do to another .
of the back room .
there are lots of lawless people in it but the work is done by the prisoners .
from the bush now .
" come on , galano , " the old man said .
of the seat again and said , “thank you for letting me keep him when i wanted him so much
who the hell are you ?
wheeler looked out the window at the snow falling in the light from the station platform .
you have no idea .
" good-by , " we said .
holding the rod in his right hand he let out line against the pull of the grasshopper in the current
' it is the aga khan , ' kandisky said .
he was a little man with a mustache .
“dear , i don’t think , i really don’t think that any one would really do a thing like that
” “you won’t leave me .
“we don’t make much .
we ' ll be above it .
" " yes , " they say .
he’d helped to haul the old man in so everybody could know how bad the old man had been and
” “is he out of his head ?
his adjutant sat at another table .
“what does it matter if he gets what he’s after ?
had said .
the train , with nick on it , had passed through kalkaska as it started to get dark .
they really did .
lincoln just freed the slaves on a bet .
" the original waiter said .
when he woke it was dark and the street light on the comer shone through the leaves of the laurels
“you see , i am commanding the battalion , ” para said .
" he says to tell who shot you .
' writer .
" steve ketchel , " one of the blondes said in a high voice as though the name had pulled
was drunk .
man , who was not an old man then but was santiago el campeon , nearly three inches off balance
" fight them , " he said .
nick opened the meat safe and looked around .
probably meant the end of cuckoldry too .
monsieur will be a member of the académie française .
he opened and emptied a can of pork and beans and a can of spaghetti into the frying pan .
until her husband spoke to her suddenly and sharply , then in explanation and quiet command , and she moved
they were inside the shoals and as he headed her into the channel it was hard to see with the
of the picadors one was a thin , hawk-faced , gray-haired man , lightly built but with legs and arms
line to see if it was possible to gain any on his fish .
the same as ever .
just for how good it can be .
wind under the sketchy shade of some dead trees on a hillside overlooking a little stream and the mud village
how much we owe ?
he wiped off his face .
said , ' sir , there is a dead g .
for our lady .
he heard the stick break and the line begin to rush out over the gunwale of the skiff .
then a steep fall of timber that ran to the blue hills we had seen to the westward beyond the
with the good light , the birds could see the ice and they no longer came in and instead went
” “nothing to eat .
" in the american league it is the yankees as i said , " the old man said happily .
remember him as he was when nick was a boy and he was very grateful to him for two things
she won’t ever see no finer mattresses .
” “have you drunk all your drink ?
i was thinking that i had one good one , a sort of embossed christmas tree , on the bottom
it seemed as though they wanted to touch you to make it certain .
in the monotonous pine and scrub palmetto of the cattle country .
and into the ring .
" the sahara desert ?
basque and navarrais dancers and singers , and afterward the val carlos dancers in their costumes danced down the street
“i’m sorry , nickie , ” his sister said .
" " go on , give us some beer .
" " sure , " said george .
yellow stuff , i thought to myself .
, opened it , and i drank it slowly .
" then he called to the attendant who ran the machines .
go and play baseball .
“there can be no idle hands in his kingdom .
i wish to hell she was here though , if this were a double blind and have her looking to
ad did not answer .
on this night it was really cold outside and he came in with icicles on his mustache and small pus
the bird chirped and hopped about the cage and the young man looked up at it .
" " you get it while i go in and dress .
then i drank what was left in the tin cup that was on the ground by the box and stood
" " go to sleep , " i said .
“you haven’t seen this guy henry around that owns the place , have you ?
“i took it in the first show , the very first show , and it only made me very upset
“eat all you can .
put it in his shirt pocket .
” “look what he’s done for villalta , ” the first waiter said .
“good night , butstein .
john put his kelly down on the table .
they come whistling back , passing faster than you can load and shoot , you brown a bunch to get
the bull elk has a strong musky smell .
it does seem like he didn’t have to have got it .
cohn wiped his eyes and grinned .
beyond all people in the world .
it’s a good fast drop with a christy at the bottom on account of a fence .
he had six bottles of champagne under his arms and in his hands and he said , “what the hell’s
but a cramp , he thought of it as a calambre , humiliates oneself especially when one is alone .
' no second , third or fourth vice-consuls to-day , arnaldo .
“don’t be too fancy .
with the muzzle of a sawed-off shotgun resting on the ledge .
” she sat stiff and alone now , her hands away from him .
" " don ' t be angry , " he said .
the hell there wasn’t !
“and i’ll have to send a truck off to the lake to wireless for a plane to take the three
" " i should like to hear you really talk , my dear .
women sweeping out the boxes .
' renata , daughter , ' the colonel said .
so long , kid .
" we got into the cab , and the cabman put the bags up on the seat beside him and
i brought it .
but i never was anybody ' s sorrow .
“it’s driving west northwest at seventy miles an hour away from a fire that’s burning up what you care about
' forget it .
the offensive and you will see what it will do .
" " i have just been called up for this war .
shot i felt that it was fixed and that we had him .
brett reached out and spread the fingers apart .
” asked a soldier .
“oh , yes , ” i said .
" do you speak other languages besides english ?
“i hurt bad .
maybe he would lose it .
' the colonel kissed her and felt her wonderful , long , young , lithe and properly built body against
good evening , my countess .
we had the roman ' s brother as guide .
i think the story business is dangerous .
of course i do know .
more than once .
_gran maestro_ !
” “that’s the way to talk .
caffeine , we are here .
then after the last one we waited a couple of minutes to see if it had stopped , had a
they went off and climbed the highest part of the ridge , from where they could see down all the
shot went off i grabbed the forceful girl by the arm and dove for the kitchen door .
he tossed into it twice with his horns , banging into the wood blindly .
he was reading the paper through spectacles .
” “do you think it will ever be spring ?
in the evenings he read the toledo blade and the grand rapids paper by the lamp in the front room
” “the back .
" " why don ' t you prove it ?
“i am seventy-six years old .
she cuddled against me and i put my arm around her .
they couldn’t tell anything about me if my hair was cut .
” bill took down the two shotguns from the rack on the wall .
" i ' m sorry as hell , jack , " john says .
“this kind of chinamen no understand write .
' ' consider me not a colonel .
it’s like a lady in waiting i guess .
she’s just built that way .
she brought the coffee from the kitchen and mr .
” he’d say to soldier .
' where ' s that bastard garrick ?
” “he is .
“i don’t know , suzy .
the other riders joked him about his boils .
“maybe i can fix it up on buffalo , ” he said .
” “yes , ” said the other one .
romero laughed .
" " that ' s why i want to question him now .
" you were going great .
once the outfit is over that black cotton stretch we ' re all right if the rain catches us .
women made such swell friends .
the denunciation chicote’s in the old days in madrid was a place sort of like the stork , without the
it comes in small cracking whispers that precede the noise of the automatic weapon .
they were coldly beaded .
there aren ' t any more men like steve ketchel .
“do you think that is the only use i have for morphine ?
” “she’s got eyes like a snake .
i didn’t want to wait around , not knowing whether they saw us or not , so i flashed the
' so do i .
gamer sat close together on the front seat .
” “into where ?
brett went up-stairs .
“oh , enrique , ” she said , “help me .
it ' s a nice town .
“make it two sportsmen .
” chapter iii we were in a garden at mons .
" " i wonder if he does .
poe is a skilful writer .
one can always tell .
that was one of the things about being drunk when you were young .
' that rhino shot has ruined him .
i knew he had been flying with the fascists for over a year , and here he was , in
where did you get it ?
i saw the clearance papers in the net bag hanging up under her framed license where i’d shoved them when
the boatman put the boat in sharp for shore .
and that i would write it sometime .
best spaniards ; the thing that used to be the most clear distinction of nobility when there was nobility .
” the little man asked .
“can i have another ?
but he put on a nice bait and he was fast .
" " at the crillon .
" good-by , " i said .
he only loved people , he thought , who had fought or been mutilated .
" " it ' s too far to go and fish and come back the same day , comfortably .
' look at it , ' the driver said .
of course no man would wish to .
if you prayed for all of them , saying a hail mary and an our father for each one ,
there wasn’t ever anything like it for me .
a newer england that they were making .
' the shooter was thirsty from the hard work of breaking the ice and driving the boat in and he
“are those the only things you have to turn in your suit for ?
, or who wore a cap , or carried any other sign he was a working man .
" there will be bad weather in three or four days , " he said .
i felt so dizzy and sicklike i lost my judgment .
” “here’s to next year .
“seat yourselves , gentlemen .
" what ' s the matter with the old one ?
walcott covered up and jack was swinging wild at walcott’s head .
go down , it was easy to sink if you knew how .
“the pope , herben hoover , and franklin delano roosevelt .
suppose they got any hard-boiled eggs here ?
” “wait till we get out west .
it would not do to expose it to people who would not understand .
“oh , ” he said , “i told you all that once .
' he ' s not a man who drinks labels either .
je tâcherai de la faire , i said .
“frau !
“girls never got a man anywhere .
then watching the object , not afraid , but hesitating before going down the bank to drink with such a
there’s nothing to defend here .
" " he ' s got his points .
the colonel liked to study the spread and high piled cheeses and the great sausages .
“when i go out there i want to be able to call my shots on the bull .
it had been a long night and he was happy to speak to someone .
how would you like to sit on the can as you have sat almost every morning of your damned life
” “i don’t think the vehicle is shot up badly .
and true and only love .
" the canary chirped and the feathers on his throat stood out , then he dropped his bill and pecked
" mademoiselle !
' the colonel heard the slap of the waves and he felt the wind come sharply and the rough familiarity
“you must write a story about this .
and then turn out the gate and along one of those roads with all the trees along both sides of
" " he knocked mike down , too , " edna said .
' ' some crab _enchillada_ , in the style of this town , but cold , first .
the paris edition of the _new york herald tribune_ lay on the bed beside his three pillows .
“how silly .
” jim began to feel great .
nor those of belgium .
i doubt if you could miss it .
" but you have not slept yet , old man , " he said aloud .
' ' let ' s get going , ' i said without moving .
the elevator was no longer running and i watched them go down the stairs .
" " i will .
i brought her back to the san francisco dock , and there was eddy waiting on the dock for me
she was rather splendid , you know .
but it did not start .
" it was noon when i hooked him , " he said .
” wilson went off .
" " that ' s good , " trudy said .
” “yes , ” jack says .
' ' well you know now .
he was not there .
' just one good dog .
you lose one company complete and you destroy three others .
" " les polacks sont catholiques , " fontan said .
six with submachine guns took up positions outside the door .
” “i’m certainly glad you’re not a girl who would say ‘on the rocks’” “no , ” she said .
than he was .
" " it ought to be better out in the country than in town .
' ' the memsahib has the best lion , brother .
the sun was setting and it was getting too dark to shoot , but we followed the forest around the
' he says you and m ' cola wont be able to talk with the natives there .
each little place like that all down the coast has a government delegate , but i figured the chink must
montoya said something about what great aficionados we were , and that we wanted to wish him luck .
sometimes they would swim easily in his shadow .
still done , and passing were the white walls and many windows of houses .
' ' what happened ?
" i feel altogether changed , " brett said .
its lights and tables to the select .
” he had been a very great fencer , and before the war the greatest fencer in italy .
" " he couldn ' t bring her out at all ?
" " all right , " jack said .
" it ' s good it blows us away from the sea , " guy said .
i motioned to one of the guides to go back with p .
they all wanted us to drink from their leather wine-bottles .
about nine-thirty i heard jack getting up in the next room .
" he was an old man , as brown as the others , with the stubble of a white beard
" ' ' i must learn that for in the country .
you wouldn’t believe what just happened about that one .
' re buff gone down the river .
' ' do you think she would mind if we had a baby ?
i really did not need to fight at all except at those two places .
" stick around , jerry .
' ettore , that character with the inspiring face and the nice looking woman with him doesn ' t live
' ' do you think you will be warm enough ?
' this sausage was for bobby .
" how does it go , hand ?
there was a long conversation in which our david simulated the killing of half a dozen kudu from different types
back in the stern he turned so that his left hand held the strain of the line across his shoulders
then , “go get abdulla so that he may witness the manner of the accident .
was some doubt in the minds of the police whether she should be allowed to proceed to lausanne and she
it in the cup .
' ' in my quarters .
that’s the way we’re made to be destroyed .
" you won ' t have a chance .
i wondered where cohn got that incapacity to enjoy paris .
i was in for cuttin’ a man .
a grey , white-striped animal making off through the brush .
learned it in the bible ?
" " oh , no .
“it’s a good thing , with this rain , they didn’t try and pull this fight in the ball park
on two hooks built into the wall of the sunken barrel .
he lay quietly and stretched the stiffness from his body .
doc fischer was thin , sand-blond , with a thin mouth , amused eyes and gambler’s hands .
the cotton was picked and in the clearings there were patches of corn , some cut with streaks of red
kept on writing for months .
great news from the mainland for three days it blew out of the south bending the fronds of the royal
he made a beautiful shot on that leopard , you know .
were diving and jumping .
morning if cohn wasn ' t out of town .
" he can write a damned amusing letter .
he was very tall and his face was smoke-darkened and grease-smudged .
the creek has to come from somewhere ?
' ' jesus , daughter , ' he said .
the _gran maestro_ was festive and well with the morning .
he was a great hunter and fisherman and he had wonderful eyes .
; or when you do something which people do not consider a serious occupation and yet you know , truly
” “are you an italian ?
there’s a farmer comes to see what’s the matter , and we give him something to drink , and he
' i ' m not going to talk to a picture .
“you ought to play the races , bright boy .
he had made my rhino look so small that i could never keep him in the same small town where
what did you do ?
" he laughed , then tapped his stomach .
" he asked doc fischer .
“it’ll look good .
" " come on .
' what do you want for breakfast ?
to hold anything big .
he showed me his hand ; the handle of the razor was in his fist , the blade was open
ever seen and bigger than he had ever heard of , and his left hand was still as tight as
out across the frozen lagoon and the marsh and saw the snow-covered mountains a long way off .
“you see i’d like to have you not just like me in bed but like me in the head and
" " when are you going ?
he looked up and smiled .
the blonde screamers and everyone who had started over there when the shot came drew back away from the flit
the log moved in the sand .
maybe i should say our rich coast .
country and the canyon running down to the rift valley and lake manyara .
it isn ' t bad .
the waiters didn’t know the different wines .
she did not come for a long time .
shoulder for the bullet-hole and then shook hands again while the wanderobo-masai told what a man he was and i
he’s really bad .
it was shaking too .
' and forgive me for talking badly .
the drake came down on the ice , just outside the perimeter of the blind and broke the ice as
” “i want to go , ” said macomber .
" " you might as well stay here a while , " paravicini said .
imola , bologna , parma , piacenza and genoa , to ventimiglia again .
“i’ll be where the big hemlock is that was struck by lightning .
" " i don ' t know , " the boy said .
against the wind they heard the thud of a shotgun .
to ruin it .
“he’s going down all that way .
we were returning to paris to set up separate residences .
then a high one straight overhead , then miss a fast one straight and low to the right , then
anybody can cut you with a razor .
“how do you feel , schatz ?
stopped .
“when a buff comes he comes with his head high and thrust straight out .
" " how ' s your jaw , jake ?
you know what you are ?
” “go .
” “he’s an old man , ” said the doctor to his secretary .
" " it is a very interesting system , " the count reached down and gave the bottles a twirl
he was very fond of it .
he is very thoughtful for us .
bottle behind two wicker jugs full of water .
chapter _num_ at five o ' clock i was in the hotel crillon waiting for brett .
” “why nothing .
" this is country , " bill said .
the old man was talking earnestly to pop , looking him in the eye and speaking slowly , without gestures
" " are you a sadist , brett ?
" " one is asked to .
it would be too dark to do anything about it without a mess .
' i don ' t have to .
villalta standing straight and the red hilt of the sword sticking out dully between the bull’s shoulders .
" i swear to christ i ' ve never been anywhere like this , " he said .
“how did you feel ?
” “save it for the meeting , ” said the other waiter .
man was sitting back in his chair looking down at his coffee and fooling with a spoon and holbrook and
" pretty nice , eh ?
the noise had come from .
' you ' re so sure of a shot sooner or later on the lick .
” “what is there ?
you bet she knows .
then you could climb the bridge and cross it and go down into the market .
' go ahead and draw .
" the cook asked .
' you ' re all clear behind .
you and you portrayed on canvas .
but i can make drinks .
the young gentleman had a musette over his shoulder .
" why , then , do you not take up the use of grammar ?
no not the same .
circles around some hills and finally came out into a meadow full of little , humpy masai cattle and ,
" zurito stood up .
bull ' s shoulder , leaning far in over the bull ' s horns and pivoting on the two upright
” “science took it awfully well .
he can’t come through the swamp in the dark .
are living with , knowing , learning about , and loving , has moved , as it moves , since
all so we call her desdemona .
he smoothed the uprooted earth .
times and enthusiastic still , but shaking with cold .
then his mouth full of ham , “listen you tar heel bastid .
never been shelled , but few travellers would take a good full breath of that early summer air and have
the waitress blushed .
' ' listen .
was going to take care of the boat in his boat house .
you are killing me , fish , the old man thought .
even if he ever was afraid he knew that he could do it anyway .
my swift and my armour .
the other two at the bar moved down to make room for him .
” “grow up , ” he said .
" " that ' s just it , " said robert .
it was a puff , as of a wind that makes a candle flicker and the flame go tall .
discharged from the service some few months ago—and went to his mother’s home in helena , arkansas .
' " " why must not a man marry ?
in the rain , the drums sounding hollow and damp , and the chiefs of the bands riding ahead on
hollow log .
in their tight overcoats and derby hats they looked like a vaudeville team .
t mind it .
" don ' t you remember ?
' ' go on , please .
' i will .
he brought them out and i took a drink from the open one and put them forward by the wheel
love to all the chaps .
" he stopped .
and the colonel handed the big oar to the boatman and sat down .
not the fish .
' ' but you stayed .
a long , long time .
” “and you’re all right ?
he felt the line carefully with his right hand and noticed his hand was bleeding .
ask mr .
" " this place is pretty good , " i said .
these masai , however , ate bread , cold mincemeat , and plum pudding with great relish and much laughter
light whips , why did they not teach you about nets and that lights are dangerous ?
andreson , you ought to go out and take a walk on a nice fall day like this , ’
he has had to leave town .
they had the whole thing worked out and canalized so however you out-thought them you ran right into it .
i know , nickie .
my god , that ' s the first time i ever saw that in my life .
i can do nearly everything later .
” “i’m just waiting for the train , ” said harris .
there was a bicycle-race on , the tour du pays basque , and the riders were stopping that night in
the maid looked up at her .
" she ' s in love with mike campbell , and she ' s going to marry him .
” “i’d like to , ” he said .
" the express is an hour late , sir .
in his leather wallet , walked over to his motorcycle and , pushing it up through the stream of mules
nick pulled against the taut line .
” “what else have you written ?
there wasn ' t anybody ever boxed better than jack .
but his gaze at the foot of the bed relaxed slowly .
t have to .
" " i have no great use for the leg .
what vegetables ?
" hello , jake , " mike said .
he might go into town saturday night .
with duty was involved .
' ' you ' re a strange girl .
and i never tried them for breakfast .
have to , of course .
' ' they didn ' t do it for that , ' pop said .
a spectacle with unexplained horrors .
if you don’t watch out you will bore her .
see how lively he can make them ?
he straightened up , wiping his hand on his trousers .
they never say anything and they ' re always hanging about so .
" " he is rather hard .
but he makes the difference .
” “tell me what’s up , ” said eddy .
that was all gone now , and he did without difficulty whatever he should do .
t remember what the other person ' s said .
i could make the line fast .
it wasn’t any good diving unless you had a big hammer or something heavy enough to do good .
he turned and she had leaned forward over the low seat and kissed him on the mouth .
' no , ' the colonel told her .
and were so foliaged that it looked as though you could walk on their tops .
” al asked george .
you are having much better luck than you deserve .
" and when you ' re divorced , lady ashley , then you won ' t have a title .
such thoughts as mungo park about those formed in his own image .
how can i beat him ?
the stuff is going to come through fast .
she is of very good family .
of course , i told her , and , sniffing , she left my chest to find the bottle and
said boyle .
is that the correct way to say it ?
” the woman brought two glasses of beer and two felt pads .
“i command .
he wished he could draw her face and he watched the way her long lashes lay on her cheeks .
" it ' s too early .
were there poems too ?
" " did you ever think about going to british east africa to shoot ?
the drugstore and the breeze off the gulf .
' ' well , whoever it was put it on us .
her head was turned to one side .
let’s quit fighting about it .
altogether extraordinary .
' i could have made a rough response .
i must get a good map though .
and the next thing all four of them were going out the revolving door in a rush and you heard
then , to really make the break-through good and to leave as few people as possible on either side ,
maybe we say it because we are afraid .
someone put his head out of the cave where brigade headquarters was and then disappeared inside .
it did not mean anything .
“here .
aren ' t they lovely ?
of boss over and unders .
it was only to talk .
” andré held tight on to the gun .
ahead they could see the top of each hill as a notch in the timber .
a fallen tree when , raising our heads , we could see them in the grassy open , about three
i just asked you how long you’ve been stewed , billy .
“it was a accident .
” “he’s got politics .
when will we be tight ?
' ' nothing else ?
" " what do you like to do ?
” “it was tough in the slashings , wasn’t it ?
down by the window .
if their money doesn ' t come it ' s a cinch they won ' t get in to-night .
” “they only came for the fiambre , ” using the spanish slang word for corpse , the same used
we went on out across the street .
somebody didn’t pay somebody so we got the shooting .
he was excited but serious .
“you don’t have to be so bloody noble .
" very much .
" jack stands up and the sweat comes out all over his face .
” “you didn’t use to be that way .
" can you still see genoa ?
all through their upper bodies .
that’s one thing , david had thought .
” outside the arc-light shone through the bare branches of a tree .
' crouched , elbows lifting and falling , knees humping , he shuffled around the table , singing .
" he was all teeth and lips .
we were having .
it doesn’t stop there .
i didn’t figure to get shot .
if it isn’t enjoyable—why do it ?
this is good for you .
so then the letter in answer to the one he’d written came in on a platter one morning and when
people who are out to have a good time ?
and in the first light the line extended out and down into the water .
a bird in a gilded cage .
there are gallons of it , ” the friendly soldier said .
wondered if i got to know her if her mother would let me take her out to auteuil or tremblay
but i cannot stand to ride along it .
i just meant the coloring of their skin through the trees .
the reference , like all references to fashions , dates the story but it is retained because of its mild
when he and the boy fished together they usually spoke only when it was necessary .
' ' i knew there must be a lesson in it , sir , ' the driver said .
i wouldn’t know how to get back here .
” “i don’t know , ” said my father .
the bush country and into an open , scrubby , desert-looking stretch , i looked at him , whose elegance
” “it was further on .
but sometimes the people on your flank would not attack .
it was going well .
' no matter , ' he said .
“he better watch out plenty , ” said billy .
“where are the pics ?
the small things .
was about .
" i wish i had that faculty .
' ' n ' dio , ' he said .
” “so long , ” jack said .
the husband was going on with us , it seemed .
' ' i know it , ' the girl said .
brett turned her head away .
johnson , ” i told him .
i wish i was the fish , he thought , with everything he has against only my will and my
' here goes .
“take me to your company commander .
“there are a few who touch various instruments , ” the big one said .
” “three bottles , ” madame fontan said .
” “i’m not scared .
now is nothing more to worry .
glass he went into a white , deadly , dutch rage and it was quite a time before we were
he did not even nod .
well , so long .
the line was caught .
the little man’s face was bloody and he sucked his lip and looked at the table .
i ' m going to england without a protest .
” “and whisky before .
” “skip it , ” al said to him .
from above we could see nothing of them , so we cut across the ravine and the hillside thinking we
" she asked a waiter and pointed to the long backbone of the great fish that was now just garbage
i ' d like to get her a good purdey _num_ , not too damn light , or a pair
" i shall wet this one in the river .
" what do you want ?
he’s our good friend already .
” eddy looked pretty bad .
i never saw him hit me .
" there ' s no necessity to use a word like that .
but which really said , with the adjectives removed , that i had been given the medals because i was
” “yes , ” i said , “but we didn’t get it .
look at the number of motor-cars now that followed the riders from town to town in a road race .
and what did any whore know about what he went through before be fought ?
wife , or to talk about it having done it .
” the car was parallel to the patch of bush .
" see on the back where they come out .
” then she said , “harry , harry !
that’s it , a great drinker .
at the start of his first season as a full matador , been exceptionally brave and remarkably skillful and he
' my well beloved .
he had been sweating heavily while he had been listening and now he was cold in the shade and the
" writers and artists .
polite and interested in what was the matter , and sat in the machines that were to make so much
that afternoon , late , wilson and macomber went out in the motor car with the native driver and the
in its sheath , he worked his way slowly back to the bow .
hemingway must have been one of the most perceptive travelers in the history of literature , and his stories taken
there it goes .
' ' don ' t you think i should go to the shoot ?
“et aussi , il y a trop de polack .
the porter was awake and looking at me .
' ' i could teach you .
your tubes out and when you started c .
the pic , making a wound , enforcing the iron into the bull ' s shoulder , making him bleed
went toward the woods on the slope of the first hill .
subdue the big fish when they were brought alongside .
” “say that again .
but we weren’t engaged , ” nick said .
nick stood up and put on his clothes .
“just take it easy .
" look , " he said , " do you see any bulls in my hand ?
we sat down at a table under a big tree and the king ordered whiskey and soda .
the trout are in good shape .
" tommy asked .
” “oh , until past two this morning .
delicate scalpeling with the knife , until , the cape all clear and spread back he nocked through the connection
but they still had not dried in the sun nor shed their petals .
” “it’s only ninety miles , ” i said .
' the salt-lick is supposed to be an early morning-show , ' pop told us .
" oh , my sweet christ .
the first time had been when we had gone up with the tanks and picked a place from which to
” “what was my grandfather like ?
" get that little thin mexican in here , will you , please ?
' ' yes , they are .
in the back room brett and bill were sitting on barrels surrounded by the dancers .
" " so , that ' s what they are .
i’ve never seen it .
' ' fill it and i ' ll look at the light and i will go on .
not even to please me ?
it would be quiet in san sebastian .
no special fear of me and i felt his pulse too and i knew why claude had done what he
” “what did you do to him ?
, the cousin of fontan , and she said to me , ‘en amérique il ne faut pas être catholique
" " you ' re right .
m ' cola saw them just before i did and pulled my sleeve .
top of the steep grassy ridge that looked down on to the camp , on to the ravine of the
before a coffee and milk , along with the middle-aged banderillero and other serious workmen .
time now he was in trouble .
at his great ears , and the smoothness and cleanness of his hide , looked at his hooves , that
' ' no , i never drink .
almost none are killed ; but many are relieved .
" we ought to have gone last night .
" " he didn ' t look bored , " mike said .
“an accident that he fired eight shots at you and hit you twice , there ?
“but why should he necessarily lose it ?
of his eyes and his hair all faded in the sun .
many , many people are helping me now .
" the cook sat on in his chair .
“could i have a drink of water ?
" she wants to see the bull-fighters close by , " mike said .
" " like religion , " said the thin one .
" he was sore all day .
he had seen the sable that morning and , slightly suspicious , obviously displeased at leaving that now out-of-sight wife
” “all right then .
the whole trip had only taken ten days .
i ' m really delighted , of course .
chapter vii while the bombardment was knocking the trench to pieces at fossalta , he lay very flat and sweated
” “oh , no , sir , ” said the waitress .
in his left hand and the sword in his right , walked out toward the bull .
“it was like a river in a dream , ” helena said .
in the turtle boats i was in the cross-trees of the mast-head and even at that height i saw much
it was a fine place to work and we made a son of a blind for the camera on a
he advanced smiling , lovingly and yet conspiratorially , since they both shared many secrets and he extended his hand
“big business .
i love you very much .
trees .
with brown pinching heads that would not stay on the hook and emptied into nothing in the cold water ,
” “no , please don’t read , ” he said .
“a negroni , signor barone ?
i’d wanted kzar to win so damned bad .
“i speak too damned sensibly , ” macomber said .
” “well , i’m glad because if i was ruined morally how could i exercise a good influence on you
" we heard the door unlock .
but something had happened between us .
how could i ?
” “do you like the escabeche ?
‘when i came in the house she was dead across the bed .
” “sure you know .
with laughter .
' ' mind ?
the count was funny .
over the side .
juma had looked back and smiled this time and david picked up the two birds , warm and plump and
we , i suppose , i said .
" " was i rude enough to him ?
' " ' it was very wrong , ' said the priest .
" it ' s twenty minutes fast .
“there’s some pie too , ” he said .
he walked past portrait , only looking casually and looked at himself in the mirror .
” george sat silent .
write of it and for once it would be written by some one who knew what he was writing of
" " come on and we ' ll get a drink in the pub next door and send for one
' but you ' re no credit to your town .
_num_ st soldier—sure , go on and kid him .
he had his leather rod-case in his hand and leaning forward to keep the weight of the pack high on
pull up the blanket good and feel that wind .
" " very good .
their left the sun shining on them in the dark foliage and as the sun lowered more came flying across
a liar , in full flower , the colonel had thought , is as beautiful as cherry trees , or
the other two porters said " salut .
' ' will we see them being married for the second and third time and then being blessed by the
i couldn ' t go , that would be all .
of trees .
" i went to austin business college with wayne b .
“listen , ” ad francis said .
' ' i believe you .
anyhow she isn’t going to say anything .
we would attack to the east of aachen a distance of some _num_ kilometres from where they were based .
smith went upstairs and pretty soon smith came out and went upstairs too .
it would be the most sportif country in the world .
we’ve always got trout .
me with the flashlight and the two guns , we started in the dark back for camp .
' ' you ' d better start right away .
” the sexton came , bringing his little bottle of wine and his glass .
" we had coffee at the iruña , sitting in comfortable wicker chairs looking out from the cool of the
the one before a desk , the other in a chair against the wall .
in the late summer , when the doldrums , following the sun , move north , there are often ,
' do you think we might organize a homage and manifestation in some historic place such as san marco or
“please do not say such things .
it was no good .
“we’ll pick the berries and get back to camp .
we sat and looked out .
“i’d rather not touch it .
i knew then that they would all dance with her .
in the states before everything went on the bum there .
“no , we’ll give him a while .
' ' we knew he had it when we left the other camp .
the old man was a hunter .
then get your hand in order because there still is more to come .
living in the muddy , rainy town in the winter , the major of the battalion made love to luz
” “ah , ” said mr .
then he thought , think of it always .
i’ll keep you backed up .
“they were going to shoot you when you came in to supper .
it was p .
is that why you ended up doing what you’re doing ?
” “impressive .
down in the long grass .
' ' look , daughter .
i was going to take three spikes , one for each of them , and drive them into the temples
i ' ll move the outfit and look after the little memsahib .
please stop talking about it .
” so they sat there in the shade where the camp was pitched under some wide-topped acacia trees with a
only to lose it to sharks) .
mind to go out .
he knew then how much it meant to him to have seen the elephant in the moonlight and to have
perhaps i will see you to-morrow .
it’s overdue now .
if you were in a place where you could sleep in the daylight .
” he drank the coffee and wiped his lips with the pink palm of his hand .
connais vous des champagnes ?
i would have walked but you could not hold them , they were like a pack of dogs as we
there was a blue light outside the compartment , and all night the train went very fast and the american
" i thought we ought to give her a little something for last night .
' ah , pop , ' i said .
” “it’s none of your business .
" i think i ' d rather play football again with what i know about handling myself , now .
the country for a couple of weeks , he did not know where , but that he wanted to hold
" i went back to my room and packed up to go in to town .
” “he’s a good car .
' ' i _didn ' t_ believe in the regime .
i went back to the stern .
they sent it through to him without a word and he rode a couple of times .
" max looked into the mirror all the time he was talking .
already she can’t have another baby .
“a good fifty inches , or better .
but they had told him about it .
" " so do you , my dear .
" where shall we go ?
he looked at the gun-bearer and he could see the gun-bearer was suffering too with fear .
" don ' t talk about it .
maestro_ downed a quick one .
” then , “pull alongside , ” he said to captain willie .
i looked around angrily and the man who had jostled me laughed .
' ' you wait here with m ' cola , ' i whispered over my shoulder .
" i got the car out to go to town .
she had a very perfect oval face , so perfect that you expected her to be stupid .
nick saw it was hollow ; pointing up river the current entered it smoothly , only a little ripple spread
he had a pile of saucers in front of him , and he needed a shave .
“the attack has failed , ” i said .
from the top of one rise we saw two kongoni showing yellow on a hillside about a mile away and
" it is not only a question of youth and confidence although those things are very beautiful .
” and paco slipped forward on the chair , the apron cape still held , enrique pulling on the chair
but in the end , it was not a failure .
“then thanks , ” the young man said , not “thank you , ” or “thank you very much ,
" what do you think about , jack , when you can ' t sleep ?
" you ' ve got the world here all right , " bill said to madame lecomte .
well , the wife .
' i was never buried there .
" " on a mangé , on a bu du vin , de la bière , et il y avait
" " to travel is necessary during the light of day .
" " and the one who shot you ?
“you’re too good to me .
he’s just like all these hookers .
' ' and what if you haven ' t a heart , or your heart is worthless ?
" and it is really the first time you ' ve been divorced ?
until you stop that nonsense .
” retana saw him looking at the stuffed bull’s head .
' he took the duck from the dog ' s light-holding mouth and felt him intact and sound and beautiful
' ' i like to feel the buttons .
that will mean he’s turned that boy loose .
” “north , ” said nick .
" " one can , with honor , denounce one ' s assailant .
” “did it ?
his desk was at the far end of the office .
he brought her astern and i let them do the holding in .
perhaps i didn ' t tell it right .
one else and the fear that they might take the same driver twice .
" " did they ?
but i’ll stake out a blanket behind it .
there were only three boats in sight now and they showed very low and far inshore .
i did not know that , but had shot , deliberately selfish , to make sure of the best this
he made over fifteen thousand dollars there in the capital alone .
i looked at them under the gas-light in the dining-room .
it was hard work walking up-hill .
some nice italian kids i met up at cortina own it .
” then they went down the steep bank and across the stream , climbing over and around the boulders and
they were immune to its poison .
" the sort of healthy conceit that he had when he returned from america early in the spring was gone
" i brought them up here , " cohn said .
there were rain clouds in the sky and it was very hot .
john had a bag with him with all his stuff in it .
then everything commenced to run faster and faster as when they speed up a cinematograph film .
had said it was freshly washed .
' ' but are you bitter about everything ?
they unfolded the dark-stained red flannel of the muletas and fixed batons in them to spread the stuff and give
" brett was radiant .
he was sitting down looking at something .
' ' probably , ' the girl said .
and so’s your water .
“it’s gone now , ” i said to guy .
” “pass me a piece of hindu trader , ” another very wicked lion said .
” “so are we .
on the left toward the head of the valley .
“i’ll have a gimlet , ” robert wilson told him .
“what is mashing ?
he brought in the bottle and poured a liqueur-glass full .
she carried a plate with two fried eggs and some crisp bacon on it and a plate of buckwheat cakes
there is nothing wrong with your body .
they were still applauding him when romero ' s last bull came in .
” “aren’t you hungry ?
he was very fond of flying fish as they were his principal friends on the ocean .
the machines , sometimes we walked back together to the café cova , which was next door to the scala
" " i know , " said manuel .
sing , “have you no trust in me ?
it looked like spain , but it was wyoming .
" i just heard them threshing around .
the other is down one floor below the level of the square and has a door that opens on the
pedro romero took off his heavy gold-brocaded cape and handed it over the fence to his sword-handler .
when nick stopped quite close to him he did not move .
" i ' ll bring the food and the papers , " the boy said .
“that’s an awfully big shot , ” nick said .
in the day time the street was dusty , but at night the dew settled the dust and the old
' ' so do i , ' the colonel said .
reached it over the fence to manuel .
we went into the room full of people and braddocks and the men at his table stood up .
” “nickie , they’ll never find us here .
finally , out level .
” “they only started to eat at ten , ” said the other waiter .
i support that boy , but i don ' t want to have him around .
“what did i tell you ?
“is that all right , gidge ?
of the gun-bearers who was standing waiting for him .
, and on the tenth shot broke his damned neck .
" " good-by and thanks .
to the grey , dusty opening in the trees where the salt lick was worn , grooved , and trampled
" " she ' s thirty-four now .
' ' the old man must like them .
and measured the horn with shiftings of his widespread hand .
they knew all about helios and officers’ glasses from the riff and if you wanted to be properly sniped ,
the beer , and then they take the moonshine out of their pockets in a bottle and pour it in
a peasant with a black beard and high leather boots stood beside the grave .
” “it don’t make no difference where it was , ” joe said without turning his head .
over the back of the front seat .
' ' you are never dull , to me , and i love you and i only wish we could
damn bad thing not to get sleep .
not the show in general .
i went down once more with the wrench and it didn’t do any good .
' ' both good men , ' the colonel agreed .
, and the machine was to bend the knee and make it move as in riding a tricycle .
his complicated fireworks that fell into the crowd and charged and chased , sputtering and cracking , between the legs
he takes the half-assed pointer , and he shows us , with complete conviction , and without forebodings , exactly
and as i started to squeeze he started running and i swung ahead of him and loosed off .
" to the crow reservation .
the boy was watching him all the time but he could not talk .
they don’t look too happy though , do they ?
' he says it is his property .
he just brought me here now .
” “he was in despair .
' but he had followed the discourse and , at the end , when the lieutenant-colonel d ' annunzio ,
black hair .
" " what ' s the matter ?
one was to bring down the fever , another a purgative , the third to overcome an acid condition .
' you ought to take a good one .
you were with me and you were asleep like a baby .
and get started .
very attractively depicted and had nothing in common with actual rape in which the woman ' s skirts are pulled
we’ll feed good .
” “i want to go home to bed .
the matador who had once been a novelty was very short and brown and very dignified .
“get up forward , ” i said to eddy .
others were hidden in the reeds and we heard the sharp , small , double report of p .
the boards were hard .
give my love to everyone .
i dropped the morro out of sight after a while and then the national hotel and finally i could just
t have much sense , but they were big , nearly as big as the biggest one .
” retana’s man asked .
he was very tolerant of people who had not his experience and worldly knowledge .
elderly woman with him ate with suburban grace .
bambini business , if you understand what i mean .
' sit down , alvarito .
” “come on with us , ” i said .
' i will reveal .
with jaws that crack the bones the lion leaves , belly dragging , loping away on the brown plain ,
” “do you change how you feel afterwards ?
suddenly , she had been acutely frightened of being alone .
they certainly were our friends though .
they were all three madrileños , like hernandez , boys about nineteen .
' they scare me stiff .
it was arranged , and the wall paper , and instead we had taken the upstairs of the pavilion in
brown hair and brown eyes .
“you’re silly , ” the young man said .
i swam with my eyes open and it was green and dark .
go on back , tiny .
you have been warned , he added .
" he and i , " indicating the one who did not drink .
not to think about it .
" " you ' re a splendid one to talk about manners , " brett said .
, no .
she was practical .
" he ' s a giraffe , " the short waiter said .
he was tall and thin .
that’s when it gets ’em .
then we saw a fresh kudu track beside the trail and then , as we moved through the early morning
cool and sometimes cunning professionalism .
“are you a party member , comrade ?
' she ' s like a little terrier , ' he said .
side to them in time for a shot .
he did not go all the way down but straightened out and swam along and up through the cool ,
i don ' t think that ' s what i meant to say .
” “i’ll pick out you .
part i “the first forty-nine” preface to “the first forty-nine” the first four stories are the last ones i have
steinfelt brought out a bottle and hogan brought in some glasses and everybody had a drink .
when we used to sell them to rios for the havana market we got ten cents a pound same as
' b company was stopped first by enemy action and stayed there of their own accord .
you seem all worked up over something ?
lourdes .
" back to the hotel , " jack says .
“did you see him shot ?
" don ' t try and make me drunk .
" what did you do , dad ?
find the bull ' s tracks .
“i suppose it’s the thing to do , ” macomber agreed .
i don’t see why that had to happen to your leg .
let ' s go over to the iruña and start , " i said .
i ' m quite sure mummy will understand .
i had forty cents , and anyhow the plane was in miami by now .
what is there to eat ?
going to be afterward .
" and besides all the animals were dead .
wheeler was headed for paris .
ran onto the book the boy had done everything hateful and stupid that he could , his father thought .
" we walked up to the post-office and asked for a telegraph blank .
but where ?
what have they got to eat ?
to catch a train .
“the guard will pick him up , ” one waiter said .
if it didn’t get so damned mixed up he could follow it all right .
” the porter took out a pair of gold-rimmed glasses from his coat pocket and looked over the list .
“i’d forgotten what beer tasted like .
might have to take him a bit under .
” his mother asked .
' ' not very likely .
" " no , listen , jake .
“i know , mummy , ” he said .
” “i asked him to eat with me .
i took a drink from the bottle .
they were bloodstained and compactly folded and packed in the baskets .
" " they ' re so bloody , " mike said .
" " yes , " i lied .
her breasts felt plump and firm and the nipples were erect under his hands .
" " i don ' t care who they are , " i said .
” inside the room the major lay on his bunk .
he saw him sharp and clear and in the sky with the mountains behind him .
“ship chinamen never come back .
dr .
about thirty inches ?
makes me feel little bit drunk maybe .
he was the same age as the colonel and had fought very well in the first world war , and
eh ?
he started back along the sunken road toward where he had left the bicycle .
nor have i ever done anything that i was ashamed of except tell lies when i was a little girl
it’s a good thing she doesn’t know i got you that whiskey .
there weren’t any gulls nor terns nested at cat key nor bimini .
” “the same with ditch , ” i said .
" he stood looking after the basket inside the kitchen door .
“here it is , ” said george .
what can i tell you that won ' t bore you ?
” “he was a fighter .
and stick house .
only gun , my small savings and my wife ; also my poems .
his neck muscles lifted in a great lump that is called in spanish the morillo and this morillo lifted like
there he was , face down on the bed , crying .
“you said kids , mr .
“it only cost a quarter , ” the girl said when she came back with the jug .
” “no , james , ” he said .
he came up to the lean-to very quietly and his sister did not hear him .
besides , il est crazy pour elle .
i am sure he had never been in love in his life .
there ' s a lot of oxygen in this air , he thought , as he faced into the wind
” i made him one without saying anything , and then i made myself a real one .
' ' it is , ' the colonel said , and did not add any of the rough or obscene
" they ' re back in the corrals fighting about who gets the beautiful horses , " hernandez grinned .
it was scheduled to leave at two o ' clock .
" shut the door , " retana called .
buffalo , tembo the elephant and as well collecting specimens for the museum of natural history .
" " didn ' t you swim ?
then marjorie rowed the boat out over the channel-bank , holding the line in her teeth , and looking toward
this is the best organized and best run duck shoot i have ever shot at and i have had as
sometimes we came to a dead halt and had to get out and pull a log out of the way
" revolution , mr .
” “well , i won’t .
they started at six o ' clock less a quarter in the morning .
one side and his shirt was torn open .
moved his drink over to the table with the two houseworn prostitutes .
he lay still and death was not there .
" don ' t be cross with robert , " she said .
“keenness of edge , ” he said .
” “do you want me to tell you about the other thing i did for you ?
i knew you were buried .
” the nigger went on grumbling like that and he could not keep from taking the bandage off to look
please don’t .
he wiped his lips .
way we feel about it .
the open car door things had been different .
the game trail , stooping forward , trying to make no noise breathing .
and that you , personally , have much luck .
he smiled his shy smile and said to his low-pitched voice , ' i am sorry you did not have
he smelled it and handed it to me .
the theatrical one of the two trackers stood up .
they didn ' t instal shock-absorbers in this vehicle we ride in now .
hogan ' s .
if he is very dejected looking , you might whisper to him , " listen , mac .
, saw it fold in flight and drop among the decoys in the broken ice .
" big ones ?
“we’ll try the key once more , ” he said .
and then he talks that way .
any of it you want to get rid of you can always tell me .
big supper and they drink one two bottles of wine , and their girls come too , and then they
saw him jump first .
buildings and the streets of the town .
" schön .
that meant he was shot clean through .
; yet the fiesta kept up without any pause .
the turks had come steadily and lumpily and he had seen the skirted men running and the of icers shooting
there comes your girl .
“he says you should denounce him , ” mr .
' ' i don ' t know anything about glass .
" i wish i had the boy , " the old man said aloud .
“none of it was her fault .
“maybe not to you , ” said doctor wilcox .
" how is it ?
" tell them not to bother santiago .
" all right , weigh _him_ then , " jack jerked his head toward walcott .
" " no , hardly anybody .
she smoothed her comfortable lap .
it wasn ' t any good to jump them like that .
fast , just under the surface with his high dorsal fin knifing through the water without wavering .
manuel walked toward him , watching his feet .
” “leave him alone .
“i know i mustn’t kill him , ” he said .
' ' but if i ever write anything about this it will just be landscape painting until i know something
i worked like a horse coming out here .
they were behind him and macomber was filling his rifle , dropping shells onto the ground , jamming it ,
he went out to the kitchen and came back with two glasses and a pitcher of water .
in a mounting , stubborn rage , not making a correction but shooting exactly for the same place in the
you know , portrait that almost no pictures , paintings rather , move at all .
he hit me and i sat down on the pavement .
thinking .
' bad , ' m ' cola agreed .
“keep them covered , red , ” i said .
' ' it ' s a jolly good story , but i wish i hadn ' t read it before
in this higher grass i found that by half shutting my eyes i could see his trail where he had
“that’s right , sergeant , ” began the little prisoner .
he had been cruel and unjust in the afternoon .
my god , that man can talk .
it did not have anything to do with politics .
“look at that .
people or foreigners .
quand j ' étais petite ma mère m ' a dit , ' vous mangez comme les polacks .
“i’m very excited .
" retana said nothing but looked at manuel across the big desk .
then when they were finally back safely with the tusks after all the things that had happened and the tusks
hans , that he skied with all that year , had been in the kaiser-jägers and when they went hunting
i like him .
i had made up my mind absolutely not to shoot unless i knew i could kill him , i had
” “i wouldn’t know , ” said captain willie .
he was simply poison .
“there ain’t anything to do now .
east .
there were eight men in the boat .
he poured himself out another big shot and put water in it .
“the train comes in five minutes , ” she said .
” ad took the sandwich and started eating .
i left him the gun and two cartridges and they were all busy butchering in the dusk when we followed
life of charles the second and looked up every once in a while to watch the locusts .
swam around him .
the business and , being a little out of my head , thought perhaps what i was going through was
” “chicago , ” nick said .
you said she cut him down .
” al was asleep in the big chair in the room with the light on his face .
' ' there are very big elephants near here , ' garrick said .
" " no , " i said , " nothing but rain .
sad , self-righteous , over-fed and undertrained .
i can get transportation from there .
“i wish you’d put down the paper a minute , harold , ” she said .
“and thou ?
nick knocked his clamps loose with one of his ski sticks and kicked off the skis .
" i suppose you think somebody shot him in the back too ?
then when i got handling stuff and went party-boating and broke out this swordfishing in cuba i used to see
fuentes , the tall gypsy , was standing holding a pair of banderillos , holding them together , slim ,
this stuff is useless .
' maybe she will even call , he thought .
commissary mules loaded with sacks of bread and kegs of wine , and a train of ammunition mules , led
everything he did showed it .
" and a quarter litre of red wine , " the sexton told the girl .
i earned that name .
pole and i couldn’t break it .
now that it is daylight let him jump so that he ' ll fill the sacks along his backbone with
all you comrades have to do is listen .
” nick followed the woman up a flight of stairs and back to the end of a corridor .
“i don’t want to throw you off , papa .
the boss of the horns covers any sort of a brain shot .
' ' right , jackson .
_] _ _num_ d soldier_--that false alarm !
" have a good walk ?
' ' i have something here in an envelope that you can put in the safe .
' ' the only one i ever liked was streeter ' s .
his hands lay on the blankets .
you’ve used it well enough .
“why the hell don’t you get another cook ?
“what if he floats up ?
it was brown and muddy .
” the man said .
the sand .
if you can’t see the bill swing where it would be .
” “go on and say it .
you promised .
” “do you know what he is doing now ?
the sword-handler handed him the water-jug .
” “that was in the time of my lion .
" he sat down and looked at her across the table .
” “it’s more fun .
red .
that and being angry too .
distance .
fire .
” if he had had time for another thought it would have been to hope there was no car at
" we sat there on the porch .
finally , to the two priests .
i read the turgenieff .
day’s walking .
“it’s by the spring .
but he did not do it for her at any loss to himself .
" here is the post .
packard said .
" the eleven o ' clock train .
there’s not many catholique in america .
come on , let ' s go back to the café .
i am not an inquisitor ; or whatever the female of inquisitor is .
' ' perhaps .
and pulled the tent up off the ground with the other end of the rope and tied it to the
" as the boy went out the door and down the worn coral rock road he was crying again .
the tragedian and his tracker were in the back .
' ' let ' s go .
this ?
' ' let ' s defer it , ' the colonel said .
on the leaves in the brush from the start .
and this knowledge is wrapped in the rhetoric like plums in a pudding .
“you don’t speak spanish ?
you couldn ' t get out to her .
the next morning they were following the spoor of the elephant on an old elephant trail that was a hard-packed
with this walking .
“come on , ” said zurito .
“i won’t have carl talk that way .
” “don’t think about it , signor tenente .
“no , you’re not .
same bank , grading up through the trees .
nick put on his gloves .
walcott put his hand on jack ' s shoulder and they stood there just for a second .
it’s funny sitting there .
“the swine .
' i ' m sorry , sir , ' the driver said quickly .
we got to get back there before daylight .
toward the right , climbing steeply , and at the head of the valley in some large rocks jumped a
' ' don ' t think .
in the basque country the land all looks very rich and green and the houses and villages look well-off and
eddie gilby lay on the ground with all his chest shot away .
i have seen a lot , too .
in the dark car the machine gunners , their guns poised , followed the sweep of the beam with the
' come on over and have a drink , ' i called .
' me too , ' you say .
a road which wound through the slashings to the camp .
" then after a little : " where you go now ?
he called for corporal punishment the way a showing-off child does for a spanking .
nothing doing .
" " not out of this , " manuel said .
you’re not going .
then he would have a little spot of the giant killer and play the radio , you could play the
' ' when the moroccans came through here they raped both his wife and his daughter .
fishing by pursuing them with your hands or trying to hit them with a hat .
” “you punks clear the hell out of here , ” the bartender said .
it was difficult getting him in , but once in he lay back in the leather seat , and the
i say that too much .
' why don ' t we have any smells from the kitchen to cheer us up ?
still people did .
in the dark with the wind blowing cool through the cabin she said , “now you’re happy and you love
“it does not disturb you ?
perfectly my own fault .
if he lived by a lie he should try to die by it .
' it ' s nothing extra .
“pas bon , ” said red and i tried it again swinging further ahead .
just above the hook or your bait will float on the water .
two shots , maybe .
" we have to go , " i said .
bill wasn’t there .
mirth provoking was the hyena that stopped out of range by an alkali lake to look back and , hit
we missed you .
" i say , jake , i don ' t want to ruin your rugs .
we always went in the old days and there were still good places to go .
he came into the front room still with the wreath of garlics around his neck .
riff .
they always hunted together .
i mean they made the others read it .
” walcott stepped off and grinned at jack .
enjoying living was learning to get your money ' s worth and knowing when you had it .
on his shoulders and showed white in the vague , scuffed red on the plaque in front of his jeep
warm sand .
" i ' m not joking you .
” “you better go around , bright boy , ” al said .
” “well , ” says jack , “i got the dough for them all right .
the old graceful house and the tall , great trees .
it was still raining .
the bull did not insist under the iron .
" don ' t you really believe i love you ?
it had been a good trip out with the boys , once they had met in the garage and a
” “it doesn’t make good sense , ” she said .
hell , i ' ve shot well the whole time .
then the bull turned and came again and , as he watched the onrushing point , he stepped his left
turner watched him .
take that sad jewish face away .
" it ain ' t crooked .
' and when is next saturday ?
we were sunburned and our lips blistered from the sun and alkali dust .
“drop the towel , ” freedman said .
' i was thinking just now of a man named georgie patton who possibly never told the truth in his
" this isn ' t battalion headquarters as we used to know it .
" " oh , he ' d have gotten used to that .
” the man who had winked said to my father over the shoulder of the man he was handcuffed to
' said one .
' ettore shook his head .
" old mike , the gambler .
" " the three told me you win much money .
i wouldn ' t do it .
but i can feel that way an awfully big part of the time .
reading , proceeded .
then odgar would want them to be just the same friends as ever .
most of it’s here .
" " you might take up social service .
" " i wish i was twelve now .
i ' m just talking through a sheet .
my shaving things , hung up some clothes in the big armoire , and made up a bundle for the
" " i ' m awfully glad .
“he went for juma and knocked him over , ” his father had said .
sometimes he wrote in his room .
" " don ' t you want another , jerry ?
" we only had an hour ashore and it was sunday morning .
you never know there , whether there is any truth in the matter , unless you are a bad boy
cave and ducked inside .
it seemed too complicated sitting on the petrol case and i spread my raincoat on the ground in front of
” neither jim nor jim’s big hand paid any attention to her .
” “yes , ” said paco .
' ' you understand what i said ?
get the car across that ten-mile stretch of black cotton road on the way to handeni , we had better
that’s a silly way to talk .
and now let ' s go down to dinner .
girls around supper time looking for somebody to take them out to eat and they’d speak to my old man
he was past everything now and he sailed the skiff to make his home port as well and as intelligently
“a brakeman busted me .
he was very disappointed that he felt this way and more disappointed , even , that it was so obvious
i ' m not being so gentle , he thought .
” “i thought he shot you first and the russian after .
juma had taken the .
' we have books , ' he said .
let ' s go in and see them .
” “bird-shot’d be all right , ” jack says .
“look at that , ” he said .
nous avons chanté , vous savez .
the strange hoarse voice if some pro said , “good bird , stevie .
i tell you the literary life ' s the thing , ' pop said .
" barnes .
' b ' wana , ' m ' cola said , looking at me when i had straightened up and
you can’t drink labels and i sent three bottles back as bad before we got a drinkable one .
what would you do with their wives , he asked himself ?
" well , horace , " doc fischer said as i came in the receiving room which smelt of cigarettes
cripples for decoys and then take only fancy shots because you know now you can get all that we can
“you get in front .
started to move off , quartering away , i held for the top of his back and squeezed off .
” ahead now were the lights of a village where the trees were cleared away and roger turned onto a
“not me , ” said the thin one .
the world’s fair in st .
“that’s lousy soft snow .
' not always .
" " tell her i don ' t take bananas .
' and i love venice .
sing probably scrubbed his teeth two or three times a day .
" " i was hoping he would knock down a waiter , " mike said , " and get arrested
“did you shoot it , francis ?
chapter vi in the bar , sitting at the first table as he came in , there was a post-war
i didn’t know there were kids like that .
” “why doesn’t he get a divorce ?
except straight overhead .
" you are already a man .
we were all insured .
we heard the bullet smack and saw him buck heavily with the shot .
" i shouldn ' t have ever got in this war .
they were our friends , not his .
_num_ , then the smashing and crashing had gone on going steadily away and he had gone into the heavy
' ' sometimes .
” “what’ve i got to go back there to go to school for when everything’s on the bum there ?
not that i ' m feeling up to it .
” “i don’t know now .
“what was it like ?
he had forgotten the discipline of weight on your forward foot , keep your head down and swing .
” “it’s wonderful .
i have been away from my family for three months .
' ' you are nice when you are gentle .
“once a man’s married he’s absolutely bitched , ” bill went on .
“but walpole’s a better writer .
the ghee washed down his pie with a dipper full of water from the bucket .
" " well , " i said , " the saloon must go .
“i’ve seen it before , ” claude said .
" no , " said doc fischer .
it was fresh and nice as you want it below , no smell at all .
brett and mike never got up until noon .
so lovely in the dark .
” “but you don’t have to have anything to do with it .
“thanks for taking me .
there is a picture which shows him on the rhine with two german girls and another corporal .
the ring was gray in the rotting gray log and all around were other long gray trunks and gray brush
“how do you like the railroad business , jimmy ?
, and trout would rise in the pool when there was a hatch of fly .
" " and of course there isn ' t anything i can do .
they were hateful sharks , bad smelling , scavengers as well as killers , and when they were hungry they
” “lend me your apron , ” said paco .
“you people certainly lead lives , ” the waitress said .
” “you hear what the reporters said about him ?
" now , he said to himself .
a negro in a narrow-brimmed flat-topped straw hat and a gray alpaca coat and black trousers was walking along the
she wouldn ' t care for it either .
" no , he said .
stick .
but it isn ' t any good .
but this lion , that we love because he was so good , had wings on his back .
' they look all right with the big one this morning , ' i said .
when the fiesta boiled over and toward the bull-ring we went with the crowd .
yes , quite .
i ' m on the water .
he was too dignified to reply .
he remembered there were nine because joe garner , driving along in the dusk , pulled up the horses ,
deal of style , a fine hunter and a beautiful tracker .
there’s the testimony of the gun-bearers and the driver too .
“they’d make good bait but we don’t need bait now , ” he said .
“it’s making me bald .
you liked to do many things and everything you wanted to do i did .
” “did she get over it ?
' then she chewed well and solidly on her steak and said , ' do you think it is true
” “do you think it will do any good ?
don ' t spoil the fiesta .
will you give my love to renata ?
' chapter viii the colonel said nothing and preceded the boy down the corridor .
“how was that ?
” juma cooked the birds spitted on a stick over the coals of a very small fire .
the bull ' s tail went up and he charged , and romero moved his arms ahead of the bull
” “so you’d believe it .
and anecdotes about who was killed when and where if you want them .
but you’d be surprised .
past i had been giving a sort of garrick performance in picking up the spoor when it was lost and
” he asked cipriani .
nick had climbed over many logs that were higher than his head and others that were up to his waist
“oh , yes , ” said mr .
” hernandez grinned .
" " i wanted to come , " cohn said , " but i thought i ought to bring them
“we’ll give him a little while to make sure he’s solid asleep .
cross-country snow the funicular car bucked once more and then stopped .
“that bastard crosses there every night , ” the man said .
" " i would , " the boy said .
and , finally , out level .
this girl’s mother was and is a bitch and your mother was a bitch .
to the sun , but there was no run left in them .
in badajoz , we have been sacked and pillaged and our women violated by the english , the french and
fell , he was sure there was some great strangeness and he could not believe it .
they knelt down beside the dining-room table and krebs’s mother prayed .
i saw the roman coming and i pulled the zippers up on my boots , checked the cartridges in the
” i thought perhaps he was a little lightheaded and after giving him the prescribed capsules at eleven o’clock i
' ' we can have something to eat .
i ' ve got certain obligations to her .
“i wish we could make a promise about it , ” george said .
they went over and around piles of brush and it was hot in the slashing , and the pollen from
” “who do you think you are ?
then they went into the woods and followed a trail that led to the logging road that ran back into
' tell him to take us for an hour where the going is easiest .
” “but you like the beer ?
walcott just shook his head .
there was a freshly cut kudu track in the wet clay .
the major did not come to the hospital for three days .
" we walked down the boulevard .
' but it is , in a way , a rather rough order .
” “yes , that’s so , all right .
george ' s a great man .
" hello , jerry , " he said .
” “nobody knew where you were but me .
" what ' s the bright boy ' s name down the counter ?
i’m going to need him now .
“i’ll take this with me , ” he said .
i ' d like to give her a vest made of the whole plumage the way the old mexicans used
" you ' re fatter , james .
" you must not joke me like that .
” “for how much ?
i calculated how many days i would be in san sebastian and then wrote out a wire to the office
i’m going right back down to the chapel and pray until it’s finished .
then i couldn ' t do a thing .
i don’t know why .
" is jack up yet ?
then i would have to recognize that i could not remember and give up saying my prayers that night and
" didn ' t you send him with a letter to me in new york last winter ?
' rolling in the mud , ' pop answered .
" the sharks did not hit him again until just before sunset .
the drums marched ahead , and there was music on the fifes , and behind the men who carried the
they rushed it , and of icers came out alone and worked on it .
' ' all right , ' he said .
“out of the hospital , ” zurito said .
' ' maybe they ' ll have pictures of miss bergman .
" " well , i care about you .
“the back is bad .
dutch painters , whose names no one remembers , who painted , in perfection of detail , all things you
“you know , ” he says , “you ain’t got any idea how i miss the wife .
but i don’t like it to be on a basis of stories .
it was only sixteen francs apiece for bill and me , with ten per cent added for the service ,
” asked macomber .
' ' my wife still speaks of them .
“sure , ” said manuel .
the worst .
or you can’t be at them the minute they start .
“so it seemed normal i might bore you .
" " i ' ll say , " said doctor wilcox .
and you claim you want to be a writer , too .
clean towels hung on a rack by the washbowl and there was a pole at one end of the room
" no , " said the bartender and put the glass cover back on the bowl .
its tables running out to the edge of the pavement .
but i stayed good friends with the boy who had been wounded his first day at the front , because
i ' m not going to wade a stream in this weather .
outside it was beginning to be cloudy again .
” “certainly , ” i said .
“swell .
if a trout was touched with a dry hand , a white fungus attacked the unprotected spot .
” “i haven’t spoken to any of them , sir .
m ' cola went jumping down the hill , and across the stream , directly opposite us , a rhino
“let’s drink to fishing , ” bill said .
were you in the war , pop ?
the bus was supposed to start from .
" sure , " said zurito .
” “can you find everything without a light ?
we’ll be up on him anytime now .
" we ' re going to have coffee with the others .
he admired droopy in the same way we did and being out with him , it made him realize that
of the house .
that too would have made a good etching for goya , the visit with the flashlight , i mean .
when he’s married ?
if you ordered a martini it was made with the best gin that money could buy , and chicote had
' ' i ' d get up to that tumbril with you and still be able to spit .
he’d have nothing more to do with the woman and macomber would get over that too .
he remembered it as in a cellar and having teakwood tables and chairs or else they sat on benches .
i never brought anybody here to fish .
' i think he did not only from responsibility but from malice .
he rolled the log over and found several earthworms under it .
" you must go through austrian channels .
no one had ordered any since the war started and it was still the same price as before the revolt
' can i say it to the _gran maestro_ ?
it felt pleasant to be going to work .
there were others who wrote like exiled english colonials from an england of which they were never a part to
' i wanted to have him for you in case any _pescecani_ came in .
” “not so many , harry .
' tell cipriani i will send him a cheque for it .
but un-choleric face , said .
there was a fine beach there .
' it ' s a nice shot .
don’t you want the man who shot you to be punished ?
" " let ' s eat .
' ' you know very well .
" " it ' s somebody to see you , mr .
we trailed fast up the hillside , into the timber , the blood was splashed freely ; made a turn
greek , you know .
“it’s excellent , ” wilson told him .
it all seemed like some bad play .
and i was plenty nervous by the time droopy stopped and shook his head and whispered ' hapana ' .
i guess the way things are shaping up i had better let her sleep .
wind that blew our scent on ahead of us .
” “no , ” hogan said .
for to-morrow , when we make the competition .
and help the girl down .
in the words of that great soldier and gentleman , sir henry wilson : gentlemen , either you must govern
they spent the night of the day they were married in a boston hotel .
” “thank you , ” said mr .
" manuel asked .
" " i ' m sick of paris , and i ' m sick of the quarter .
not beautiful , but that gave you all love , glory and delight and sadness ; and of the way
" he had a hard , jewish , stubborn streak .
to hell with you , lady ashley .
“it was gone .
' ' you savage , ' i said in swahili .
” “the hell with him .
this is the start all right .
" " what can we talk about ?
' ' i promise you , my sweet .
park or me lives on and maybe yet will live to see the actual death of members of this literary
a month .
" these bull-fights are hell on one , " brett said .
dirty bastards !
browned butter .
“what do you mean , kike ?
“it don’t do you any good to talk like that .
some other places were not so good but maybe we were not so good when we were in them .
he tied the mouth of the flour sack and two comers with a piece of fish line and slung it
the order , which was a purely fictitious organization , had been founded in a series of conversations between the
finally they started the train to get to a station where they could send for the state constabulary and send
and hunt any likely-looking clearings .
” “there is nothing to forgive .
and third lines ; although such lines were quite untenable , and they should have brought all their guns up
' ' you always say that and i don ' t know what it means but i like to hear
fountain ; and overhead the cracking , whispering fire like a curtain .
" " i don ' t want you to do it if you feel that way .
swimming on the stream and circling on the surface as the current took them and then disappear as a trout
at him from under a canvas hat .
as i started to get on my feet he hit me twice .
you ' re on a trip to have fun .
they ' re playing for our lady .
” “i’ll do it .
when shall i see thee ?
m ' cola and droopy were casting about like hounds and i thought they were at least fifty yards too
” “isn’t it sort of late ?
" they ' re playing out on the coast and the difference in time will bring it late enough so
what i know best i learned from the krauts , studying them and opposing them .
' he answered the driver .
them ?
' i guess that is one of the things everybody has to figure out for themselves .
' _no !
' they want to hunt around the hill a new way .
while it is , perhaps , legitimate to deal with these self-designated citizens in a natural history of the dead
i had a drink and waved to the vehicles .
this town was nothing like paris nor was it like orleans either .
i have some rum .
listen , " he said to george , " tell the nigger to come out here .
that ' s why i wanted you to taste it .
the wrench was gone and i ' d lost the grapple so i sculled back to the boat .
i fill out a slip there for the questura .
pull , hands , he thought .
“harry , ” he said , “you’ve got to give me one because i can feel them coming on .
all my life the early sun has hurt my eyes , he thought .
” “i know you will , sweet .
those fellows fishing ain’t going to bother us .
but he did not remember him .
he was coming back in three weeks and we would leave for spain to get in some fishing and go
what would we do to a nigger ?
" " why did they do it ?
" i am utterly unable to resign myself , " he said and choked .
' i ' d be ashamed to .
turned himself and the raincoat , with the two hands in the pockets , towards them .
' ' i know some good ones about pound .
it was the same feeling about any action .
" " he wanted to marry me , finally .
we looked in the window .
if a jock’s riding for somebody too , he can’t go boozing around because the trainer always has an eye
estimation .
' i know how to fight forwards and how to fight backwards and what else ?
' i sleep when i am sleepy .
in that ward there was a rodeo rider who had come out of the chutes on midnight on a hot
" " everybody behaves badly , " i said .
there was a series of holes in the top of the bank with a few men in them .
you come down here for a rest .
“are you all right , darling ?
wire leader and tying the hook good so it couldn’t slip and so the bait would troll smooth without spinning
“well , i suppose we got to go eat , ” jack says .
pulling shirts over their heads and pulling boots on and it all smelled hot and sweaty and linimenty and outside
" he said .
he smoothed out the sandy soil with his hand and pulled all the sweet fern bushes by their roots .
' please put your arms around me , gently and well .
brown clouds of the norther .
" i don ' t work for you any more .
he had been there all night and was very sleepy .
it was very beautiful in the spring and summer , the bay blue and bright and usually whitecaps on the
i am from valencia .
what does the drunken one do ?
” “but you’re thinking about something else now .
” he said at the door .
i put the bucket over the top of the stove pipe to keep out the rain and to keep squirrels
“i’ll understand all the time .
it’s true now .
i had black bean soup and a beef stew with boiled potatoes for fifteen cents .
but why the hell sleep with them anyway .
' you must be an old timer out here .
the automatic wind-shield cleaner moved back and forth , spreading the film over the glass .
past the mangroves where the booze boat lay .
at twenty minutes to nine we were not half through dinner .
you ' re only a case of arrested development .
' ' we must have been tough then , ' the colonel said .
" what ' s in there ?
” asked the barman .
but he didn ' t need to be a swine .
of a fine woman .
' i ' ll remember that all week and try to be one .
" " you are a philosopher .
he was seventeen .
in a sheaf of typewritten pages which he replaced in his pocket .
" i ' ll be too old before i can ever do it .
then i sorted out the carbons , stamped on a by-line , put the stuff in a couple of big
it was a history and he was reading about all the engagements he had been in .
“well , he was shot in an accident and i haven’t any one i can depend on in police circles
any of these sentiments to the girl , who would not like them anyway , and was soundly sleepy now
it showed clearly that it was the place .
' ' i got there late .
hazards and i was preparing to hold out against this camp .
" " me too , " hogan said .
why i said to him , ‘stephen i didn’t know you had it in you .
” “i’ll holler , ” nick said .
' ' there were three or four , ' karl said .
" the bird is a great help , " the old man said .
" " what happened ?
" " what were you doing ?
if i hadn ' t been boxing i would have drunk quite a lot .
" very , very short .
“here’s to us , ” she said and gave him the cold enameled cup and he held it drinking slowly
' and furthermore he can take the sleigh .
" asked the woman .
if it wasn’t for fear every bootblack in spain would be a bullfighter .
" we walked arm in arm down the side street away from the crowd and the lights of the square
“but don’t you kill him .
brett went to the dressing-room .
that was good .
" you know i ' ve got to have one good pic , " manuel said .
what do we have to lose ?
" asked brett .
all started some fine ones from there .
hit it and they kept snapping it up and spitting it out as it floated until it went to pieces
what the hell ' s the good in taking chances ?
” “very good , sir .
“we’ll take her .
me to take off the tunic ?
those are something .
the priest looked back at him .
look at frances there , and jo .
and they were jumping in all directions , churning the water and leaping in long jumps after the bait .
" " doesn ' t anything ever happen to your values ?
" " i had a wonderful time .
chapter xiii i heard the drums coming down the street and then the fifes and the pipes and then they
” “they’re bad when they’re drunk .
and cut into little connected sections ; moving with the hills and the hills moving with the trees behind it
the shacks the hurricane blew down and that they use for a clubhouse on sundays when they come out to
with the gondolier ' s wife .
or it can have a wide snout like a hyena .
the right room .
" " see you then .
then , in town , they will fix up your leg and then we will have some good destruction .
always frightened .
' and now , _gran maestro_ , what do we actually eat ; without mysteries ?
you can ' t just take to that stuff , billy .
jack was up in his room .
the street light shone on the brass number on his collar .
' ' from the start .
” “we do wonderful things in the dark , ” he said .
he had only hurt her .
he sure as hell can ' t .
but he would not go through all the talking .
inside the room in the dark .
i must get him another shirt and a jacket for the winter and some sort of shoes and another blanket
the mills were by the railroad and lumber was piled high along the tracks and there was the smell of
they were looking in the shop windows and the girl stopped in front of the lighted window of a jewellery
” “i guess i said a lot of fool things .
there was a mist over the center of the swamp .
then he put more on and rubbed the back of his neck .
" he hasn ' t changed at all , " he said .
as he looked down the negro , who had followed behind him as he moved away from the fire ,
are we going down and see these bulls unloaded or not ?
in their youth .
past the estaminet .
“then the rod won’t be as heavy .
' ' the position has fallen , my colonel .
and , holding it anchored with his shoulders , he carefully felt the pull of the fish and then felt
was raining in one of the interminable winters , when the rain fell always ; or at least , always
that ' s what you really get out of it , ' pop said .
i sat up by the table—” “doing what ?
the other two he spread on top .
i told romero how much i liked his work , and he was very pleased .
" mike went out .
you see this jig we call othello falls in love with this girl who ' s never been around at
because i would not sign for mine .
i wrote a letter .
into the wind .
' ' thank you very much , ' the girl said .
” “i know a lot , ” william campbell said .
" and now the other side .
me , dictionary-ing heavily , ' where was the one they were watching ?
” i gave her some birds .
the rod cost me forty-five .
' ' go ahead and tell .
” “late next summer .
” “what were you doing ?
he looked pale , and his coleta pinned forward on his head , so that it would not show under
' ' _et toi_ , rimbaud ?
l’envoi the king was working in the garden .
there were not even cart ruts sunk in it .
i want to get it .
not like barcelona or lérida .
besides , il est _crazy_ pour elle .
” they were both beet workers , a mexican and a russian , and they were sitting drinking coffee in
because his hands got tired holding the spool of the reel against the drag of the big bait , he
these were higher and thicker even than the slough the buff had come out of in the morning and there
blue hills , dark under the heavy sky , and i felt very badly not to have seen the roman
" i reverse the order .
" f---- yourself , " he said .
“i hate to start them again , ” nick said .
we had put an awful lot of white phosphorus on the town before we got in for good , or
i read it to him and i said i thought he had looked after it .
run out to fuentes with the new banderillas .
david was sure that they would kill him now because he , david , had lasted through the day and
there was a light east breeze coming up and we put up plenty of flying fish , those big ones
" where is fontan ?
' ' i begin to understand a little .
some one had put it in the american women ' s club list as a quaint restaurant on the paris
" were the berlitz undergraduates a wild lot ?
that ' s a fine place , sir .
he could not hit a horse if he were holding the stirrup .
i ' m just low , and when i ' m low i talk like a fool .
" " you ain ' t got an idea what it ' s like , jerry , when you can
bicycle for a blanket and pulled it up under my chin ?
" " you said it , " the other waiter who had come in said .
” “i got to get educated , ” george said .
the chauffeur carried in his bags .
all supplies the same .
it rained all through the evacuation .
“oh , hell , let’s not talk about tomorrow , ” nick said .
they built venice .
his watch was a little fast .
we had a good trip together .
but we had all the wehrmacht stamped martell and some people had as much as six million german-printed french francs
' ' did we ever get it ?
“every man has two hands , jimmy .
a petrol case to discuss the shooting situation with the roman , the old man , and garrick , while
' ' so am i , ' said pop .
his eyes watched fuentes , now standing still .
they can’t have put up much of a fight .
" is your husband american too ?
roger i’m so happy .
why haven ' t you a title , jake ?
i decided not to ask permission but to send word where i was dining .
he was really too hurried to eat breakfast , but he knew he must .
friend high up in the hills , cold at night , wearing coats at the table , having waited so
hopkins spoke without moving his lips .
he was thinking well , a little too well .
london news with its detailed drawings of the war so far away in europe .
doyle .
" " got many antiquities ?
and you can tell your principal that .
but drink was a sovereign opium of the people , oh , an excellent opium .
this does not sound so funny now but it was very funny then .
" they ' re all bad in the legs .
look , ” he said .
he ' s here .
well have a good happy time .
my father came back in the room and sat on the bed .
“i came this way on account of the dogs , ” nick said .
" so , you said that .
' ' i ' m going to give them to you anyway .
he never took a shot out of range nor let a driven bird come too close and he shot with
” “come here , ” she said .
then he looked at the portrait and he thought , i have her in two positions , lying down ,
i won’t be able to take the memsahib .
i do not wish ever to be brutal .
there would be the telephone call .
everything was soaked in it .
' ' she looks so sad to me sometimes across the canal , that i cannot stand it .
that ' s what they call the static element in painting .
he sat down at the table with his colleague again .
" " good , " montoya said .
" " i ' ll go find hogan , " i said .
” “i cannot see , ” she said .
, lead-coloured and solid heavy with the wind and the tide now high over the landing steps of the palace
' chapter xii they were at their table in the far corner of the bar , where the colonel had
" ' so you won ' t hit me ?
” he breathed on the sheet and stroked his nose against it .
“the signor takes a cold bath every morning .
of course it isn ' t .
he had two older sisters who were chambermaids at the luarca , who had gotten their place through coming from
it will be good for us all right .
there’s things about him i don’t like either .
" i missed you , " he said .
" " i believe it .
pop was puzzled why the rhino were all gone .
they all were grey and yellow like wax-works , in the summer .
” i had seen the place clearly enough from where i lay .
bell .
' ' don ' t send out to look for us along the road until day after to-morrow , '
' m ' cola asked .
they were afraid of what the squaws would do to them .
” the old man looked at him .
i felt almost as though i could not breathe when i saw that there really were no folders with originals
“for you .
those make the failures .
" she would not look up .
husband , by now , did not believe in any of us .
" good , " romero laughed .
i know he would have liked to know you .
but he was nervous and it made him angry at himself .
“just talk .
" we stopped and had a drink .
the only trouble was that people who did not fall into any of those three categories were very liable to
as he watched them they changed their positions by quick angles , only to hold steady in the fast water
they came out onto the gallows through a door in the wall .
' ' it ' s marvellous .
" " with me it ' s different .
will joke you out of trying to learn details of the _triste metier_ of war and we will go to
they were not cyclist troops .
we made a big curve so i could see the other cars curved ahead and the engine with the drive
fontan he’s going to have the wine .
” he would put his gun in the rack and wait to watch his father shoot and then the two
his red cheeks were shiny .
“up in the catskills , ” said al .
nothing at all , really .
i am not good for many more turns .
finally his trail crossed the dry watercourse about where we had first come in sight of the meadow in the
lines at and the steady good weather and of what they had seen .
i looked carefully at the whole lot .
“take it easy .
" i don ' t know , " manuel said .
" " castrated ?
the pillars of the arcade .
" brett was smoking .
abandoned it and let the song go back to football .
all day and all night .
than any book , lying in the chestnut woods , and in the fall mist behind the duomo going across
him , the boy paco , those two you have just seen in the leather coats and the caps ,
in the café .
the season for them to bring a good price .
when the doctor came he took the boy ' s temperature .
” i heard one of the flyers say to al .
it was a grasshopper lodging house .
' ' what do you have for politics ?
” “i am a poor idealist .
" let a little mount to your head .
his hand was very fine and the wrist was small .
" manuel lay back .
[he makes a lifting gesture with his two palms together .
david and his father ran along the heavily splashed blood trail .
surely it will uncramp to help my right hand .
' quit worrying .
" nous avons beaucoup de gibier là-bas .
_gran maestro_ is there any more in that wretched bottle ?
" harris called the waitress .
" guy asked me .
“i’m all busted inside , ” jack says .
" " soon as i can .
but he said , “i wouldn’t think about that any more .
' i ' ll show you a place down there where we used to fight when i was a kid
“well , dad’s had a tough time , ” bill said .
" enormous .
ain’t you mixed up in the prices of things that we eat or something ?
manuel , standing at the barrera , noticed that he looked always to the right .
and loved her .
i would like you to have the emeralds and you could keep them in your pocket like a lucky piece
" hogan asked .
i could have in my time .
“evans must have left him home to do the chores .
the old man stood up , slowly counted the saucers , took a leather coin purse from his pocket and
” “ all right .
the room smelled very bad .
" she ' s getting a divorce and she ' s going to marry mike campbell .
' ' probably just the same as when i answered that same question for you at noon .
” wilson said to macomber .
' ' i agree .
don’t let on about that .
you didn’t just make up a story about it .
he could not believe that this had happened to him .
his own body , which was hard and good , but beat-up , and as he kissed her he thought
“we only had an hour ashore and it was sunday morning .
but in this country , if you ever want to know a _really_ tough town where they eat wonderfully ,
" he got the money out of the cash box , although then he always carried a hundred or more
we were supposed to shoot .
” “is that all ?
top secret equals british most secret .
" the cook looked away from him holding his lips tight together .
didn’t they know enough to keep back ?
" " three hundred pesetas .
' he ' s got a grown-up family in the native reserve .
" " i ' m sick of hearing you talk .
it is the oldest and the best , although most people who practise it are unworthy .
if she let herself go it was better .
" " do you want anything of me , signor maggiore ?
” “give hug a lug .
probably i never would have had any trouble if i hadn ' t run into brett when they shipped me
“i could take it , ” the man said .
“what does it say ?
the trout hung heavy in the net , mottled trout back and silver sides in the meshes .
to bed and make wonderful love .
i’ll make some more .
then he came right behind the bait and his spear came out too , sort of wagging clean out of
in the night i hear fontan come to get some more wine , and i tell him , fontan ,
this is a hell of a climate on wine .
" how do i know this ?
i couldn’t bring in a load because you have to have money to buy the booze and besides there’s no
he was sure the others would cheat him out of his share and i was fairly sure they would ,
the head skin and put the head upon his own head and we started across through the rocks and up
” she held herself stiff because she was so frightened and did not know anything else to do and then
he could and allowed himself to be pulled forward against the wood so that the boat took the strain as
at the far end was the stone wall of the corrals , with apertures in the stone that were like
you can be very encouraged about that boy mr .
pajamas and tossed them up to the upper berth , then he took a book out and the bottle and
” i asked guy .
river bed , and across to the steep opposite bank of the stream , and from where we could see
he stopped and shook it .
in spain until later .
solid taxi traffic , and the poules going by , singly and in pairs , looking for the evening meal
but there were four _big_ bull tracks .
“shut the door , can’t you ?
you kill them off .
” “don’t talk that way , dick , ” the doctor said .
then i met him .
then we had to link up with the people who had been dropped , and take and secure various towns
now about this .
jack didn ' t say anything all during the meal except , " will you pass me this ?
do you remember when everybody thought if we only had tanks ?
and it ' s only the high-lights .
her head was back .
" they must think something is going to happen , " brett said .
i have never said anything of a dead that i would not say to his face , ' and he
the car was stopped and there were two fellows crouched down by it .
" " there is no such fish if you are still strong as you say .
the darkness .
he ' s a fine writer .
and language intact so that they were able to live together in the wilderness down to the present day just
' good-bye , _gran maestro_ , ' he said and smiled and gave the _gran maestro_ his crooked hand .
“let’s see what it looks like , ” i said .
“you told him that once , ” i said .
" " i don ' t worry , " he said , " but i can ' t keep from
this car .
there were only two rooms in the apartments where they lived and he had a room on the top floor
hear the head hit the pavement .
maybe better .
he could see the evans boy .
dye upon the paving , the sudden drop down the hill of the rue cardinal lemoine to the river ,
the colonel paid for the wrapped-up package and proceeded on through the market inhaling the smell of roasted coffee and
" " anything .
" should we eat ?
they couldn ' t have lived on deck .
he was still sleeping on his face and the boy was sitting by him watching him .
leaving all shade behind , trailed back across the open country under the noon sun to the car .
brush there was lots of sumac that was bright red .
feeling fit ?
this far out , he must be huge in this month , he thought .
' ' kiss me once again and make the buttons of your uniform hurt me but not too much .
“well ?
" you are very nice people , " he said .
“the third one ?
cut it out and be a human being when you ' re half a hundred years old .
all right , i said .
we were a long way from camp , at least four hours as we had come , and much of
“that’s all right , ” doctor wilcox said .
do you want it rare ?
it was his only remaining reaction to danger except for the perspiring which , he knew , he would always
knife in but it was short and pushed the heart away .
nick had cut them each two slices of rye bread and he soaked one slice for each in the bacon
' hello , girl .
chopping through when we were stopped , avoiding all we could , kamau driving with intelligence and a sound feeling
" " ought not to daunt you .
i leaned way over the wall and tried to see into the cage .
he ' s a hooker and he carries his hands pretty low .
it ' s very healthy .
that ' s an abnormal life .
“you talk like a book , ” she said .
” holbrook looked down at my old man and said slow and careful , “you son of a bitch ,
a novelty ; and the third was a coward .
what do you suppose he said to his mistresses when he wouldn ' t marry them ?
nick tightened under the contact .
we turned up the road .
bill and i took the morning train from the gare d ' orsay .
angle down into the thicket .
the fountains were at the place de l ' observatoire (_water sheen rippling on the bronze of horses ' manes
' ' i know , daughter .
go on , point it at me .
outside the tent the hyena made the same strange noise that had awakened her .
“you would be much more distinguished in civilian clothes .
mister , it was a night about as cold as tonight .
i ' ve got the stuff .
" " what do you call yourself ' walcott ' for ?
' ' n ' dio , ' he said with great force , and from the chop box one of
garner .
but now the line had been pushed down from the lip of the plateau , across the river and up
" he was meaning to explain what had happened .
" " well , " i said , " they ' re always wrong , ain ' t they ?
he was a poet with an income of nearly ten thousand dollars a year .
a sack of liquor only weighs about forty pounds but he had not dumped very many of them before he
a plane , that her mother was her mother .
over her head to smother her , one comrade sometimes sitting upon the head .
" let ' s get out .
” “him ?
i saw him in the moonlight and he was alone but i had kibo .
“prosit , ” said johnson .
one’s theory had been that meant that at a certain time the pain passed you out automatically .
" in a few minutes sister cecilia came into the room .
forward to come to the surface under the skin of the chest .
he watched the school working the water white and the bird now dropping and dipping into the bait fish that
” “it’s better than baseball , ” bill said .
we haven ' t time for such luxuries .
you ' re not immortal , are you ?
they were a tall , good-looking man with features like the roman ' s , but slightly less noble ,
" we each drank a glass of the smooth amontillado brandy .
this is a good town .
the earth along with gino ' s leg , both of randolfo ' s legs and my right knee-cap .
in the grass and the grain , beside the road , and in some places scattered over the road ,
” said his father .
it was simply a splendid portrait painted , as they sometimes are , in our time .
' but where are we going to camp ?
“you can take it or leave it , ” retana said .
' you know i never drank a martini until we met .
did you ever see so much new money ?
the hell with picturesque .
our left .
i wouldn ' t take a nickel from you .
best .
somebody came and pushed him up .
that means he’s been in trouble .
forward onto his nose .
still had many of the hearty mannerisms of his days of success .
" " try it .
he went on with his own story .
" " he went home with frances , " mrs .
he looked up the hill .
you ' ll need to start about three-thirty .
i said good-night and went out .
they came from a little place up the coast called caorle .
you know , when you can ' t shut your hands .
what i ' ll do if he sounds and dies i don ' t know .
' all right .
” “what’s the matter , damn it ?
finally he lost it all .
having ceased to miss or pray daily for her husband , dead , now , twenty years .
had .
but he crowded the current a little so that he was still fishing correctly though faster than he would have
why not me ?
i looked back as we came out and there was only the sea , and below , in the bay
alice was crying so she could hardly speak from shaking so .
he climbed into the front with the driver and francis macomber and his wife sat , not speaking , in
this woman had an attractive , plump , naturally gay face and her mourning was incongruous .
manuel felt the wind on his back from the capes flopping at the bull , and then the bull was
hold him .
she was sitting at the table and smiled at him .
i never heard you ask anybody any military questions .
' none of us great shots is appreciated .
but this bull was a strange bull .
" fine , " i said .
" a way you ' ll never be the attack had gone across the field , been held up by
a fog had come over the mountains from the sea .
road who were leaving the country ahead where there was a famine and there were small trees and close brush
m .
lines of merriment were clearly cut where they radiated from the corners of each eye .
but it is also known who my family are and that i am a good girl .
" so there you were .
' ' have a try at it .
" " hogan was here .
" why don ' t they start ?
“i should have told her it was sort of late for me too .
" he did not take it though .
then he said , " no , no , let us cross over the river and rest under the shade
i never did hit him .
' ' if it were true , what difference would it make ?
i’m disgusted .
i was getting down the bags .
i would dine there again some time and he would be glad to see me , and would want me
he felt a certain family interest in it .
you know him .
" i have to and you know it .
you know where it is .
" it was the arab reminded me of it .
roger walked back to the tourist camp , buying a later edition of the miami herald at the drugstore .
the trees were full of white storks .
not frightfully amusing .
yes , there is a female english .
they can ' t pack it in dry ice .
gis somebody christened them .
' how was it ?
“if you do .
the stern to do the work and make the decision .
, the lion roared again and francis thought he was just at the edge of camp .
' boys who were sensitive and cracked and kept all their valid first impressions of their day of battle ,
one man rolled over and another started to crawl and while i watched claude shot them both .
' ' nothing .
' ' i would love some lobster , ' the girl said .
' ' he ' s got the best buff , the best waterbuck , and the best lion , now
' the long one is for david garrick and his pal , ' he explained .
the divorce was arranged and robert cohn went out to the coast .
“could i speak to you a minute ?
” the girl looked at the ground the table legs rested on .
“they don’t take any chances , those two .
" no one was up before noon .
when the last two bulls had been unloaded the herd were all together .
he could not see underwater in the dark .
' they were all as big as that .
there’s only room for one .
he was tired and it felt good to lie back on the bed with two pillows folded under his neck
would i be up for the depart ?
napoleon wanted them lucky and he was right .
the first thing that you found about the dead was that , hit badly enough , they died like animals
only to get a job and be married .
finally she said , “he’s cold now” and had wrapped him in the paper and put him in the back
' but i think we can walk away from it all right .
the paris edition of the _new york herald tribune_ .
and wrapped it around a cut stick and tied it tight with a piece of fish line .
the bar .
“i’ll ride back now in the afternoon .
portrait was a thing of the past .
“i’d like to cool you , you rummy fake santa claus .
” “what’s a whore’s assistant do ?
“how’s the old wing ?
' mama _piga simba_ .
" fruit , " she said .
' but they don ' t hang themselves , he thought .
both the hands that were fastened together were on the table .
” “somebody shot him in the back , i tell you , ” the interpreter said .
" " hold him tight , " said the doctor .
nobody , he said to himself and to the portrait .
" you ' d think they ' d like to say ' grüss gott .
’ ‘thank you , ’ i said !
" i opened the door and went in , and set down my suitcase .
sheep , and then across the stream and up the bare slope to where the fire was burning in front
“i’m going to have a look beyond .
“won’t you have one ?
that beautiful horse-cavalryman .
he put the dishes back in the basket and wiped his mouth on the napkin .
" " shoot him then , " said the doctor .
" keep my head clear , " he said against the wood of the bow .
he opened his knees , lifted his arm out , and let it hang by his side .
macomber was past dreading it .
” the grouse did not move .
but he had to go out to his field .
' but let ' s not speak about her .
he won’t infect .
” “you go to the mass here ?
what was that about all these women ?
it was the greatness , but it did not make bull-fighting wonderful to him any more .
“fine .
they will bring them in in the dark .
think about prudence and finally he went to sleep .
he was inside the booth telephoning .
the plane will be here tomorrow .
” “let’s chuck it , ” said wilson .
” “the greatest italian sense .
yet risen .
after buying them he must have come in here when the rain started .
” “i think i’d better stay with you to be sure .
in places impossible to land them .
the uniform .
' ' it is their right .
it is very cuban .
" what is there to eat ?
now i will launch myself on the description .
he resumed the pantomime of b ' wana simba and another character known as b ' wana doktor and the
” “you’ll have a nice place when you go back .
i told him it was only a trap as always .
' wanderobo .
introduce her to another to go off with him .
” “what a shame .
it was all romero .
” the doctor said angrily .
nick looked at her fish .
” “i have to go away tomorrow , ” i said .
he jumped and kamau snickered .
zurito , sitting his horse , walking him toward the scene , not missing any detail , scowled .
" " it ' s quite something to have met you , " nick put out his hand .
“if anybody comes in you tell them the cook is off , and if they keep after it , you
" " i was smiling at you and jake with your secrets .
he took one down , blew it up , screwed the nozzle tight , and then jumped on it "
he stood there moving his huge ears .
the little prisoner winked at us .
described as “epiphanies .
' ' what about the hotel ?
and we’ve got the twelfth again in that attack last week by pingarron .
had a nigger in it .
" " what are you going to do for money ?
but you _will_ be careful .
oh he’s lovely .
“but i wish you’d do it the other way .
i bought them while you were away so that you would not have to spend money at the bar .
but he’s not been here .
“what can i write on it ?
he could hear her sounding like a stricken tank or t .
' i love you very truly , too .
from his .
both men ate with their gloves on .
he’s going to send some this afternoon .
there was a clock on the wall , a bar at the far end of the room , and outside
' ' tell him to call back when the riff-raff goes and i ' ll come over .
it was funny there weren’t any sharks though .
he stepped back and flicked it twice in the air .
' a poor effort , ' he said aloud to the river and the river bank that were heavy with
ever known , going back to the earliest thing you remember--which was , with me , the attic of the
grasshopper down on one of the deep channels in the weeds .
but you had a half an hour more before they closed .
she loved anything that was exciting , that involved a change of scene , where there were new people and
he was very nice and i liked him .
the dog , who had been shivering at the colonel ' s feet , pawed his way over the gunwale
“it’s too swell to talk about .
jim was sleeping with his mouth a little open .
” “where did you leave your bicycle ?
“if you love horses—” “yes , you said that .
” “for today ?
i could see the morro light way down to the westward and the glow of havana , and the lights
expeditionary forces , which included all the military politicians of the rear , and who wore a badge of shame
it is easy when you are beaten , he thought .
there was the newly severed head of a rhino that was a rhino .
he ' s dead .
any of the others .
' ' absolutely , ' pop said .
everybody laughed .
ketchup on the daily food .
maybe you could never write them , and that was why you put them off and delayed the starting .
it was dung from elephants that had just crossed the road , and in the cold of the evening you
“so what happened ?
“sergeant , ” the little man said .
' he ' s got blood , ' pop said .
“just to give you that .
" " you don ' t think jack ' s in any shape , do you ?
" come on up to the house and we ' ll eat , " zurito said .
“let’s get clean and lie on the sand , ” she said and they swam and dove in the clean
he only wanted to be with her , and the others meant nothing to him at all .
“was i bad , wemedge ?
' me plenty simba , ' i said .
“why did you bring them in so late , mrs .
" " sit down .
” “you mean you won’t .
” the sun came out .
it’s the noise in those buckets .
" i ' m all right , " jack says .
" " why continue ?
of shells , and filled his pockets and opened another of the boxes of shells in the shell bag so
" i ' ll be right back .
this was a light epidemic of flu and there was no danger if you avoided pneumonia .
” “i watched his face .
the rhino was out of sight now but i could see the shaking of the high grass .
“we’ll go and have a look at the second bull , ” wilson said .
do send the waiter for a taxi .
i wish it was me who could love you .
george put the bottle in his pocket .
he was asleep in a short time and he dreamed of africa when he was a boy and the long
” “well , that girl did it in the bible and since i’ve seen armed men drunk and asleep and
" " don ' t you think we ' ll wake them up , talking ?
“signorina .
you don’t have to say it .
' i ' m feeling better myself .
our civilization—is it inferior to older orders of things ?
the men washed up and waited in the front room for supper .
slip from the universal chaplain of us all , with combined religions .
” “seen the paper ?
was another fellow .
if i hadn’t been boxing i would have drunk quite a lot .
" " i went out fishing in the morning .
i would take it just as well from you , conscience , if you did not try to scare me
” “like , ‘well ma’am , it must be pretty tiring on a hot day like today to be just
i thought it looked like a good place to go , but knew they would all be furious in there
the salamander was very small and neat and agile and a lovely color .
i will tell you about the american locust .
don manuel orquito , the pirotecnico of esta ciudad .
jack didn’t say anything .
there’s something about it , when they come out and go up the track to the post .
” “that’s it , ” said wilson .
manosduros was zurito’s nickname .
it was a beautiful late summer day and there were very few more to come that summer .
back of kzar , moving along smooth and yellow in the sun , was a good looking black with a
just their heads out of water walking ashore , and the shine of the beach and the brush behind .
when he was a leader of irregular cavalry with the red army and held it all one winter when the
” “chicago .
now you have to shave and look at that face while you do it .
he felt the rubbery solidity as the club came down .
the murmur of talk .
” “run along and keep off the road until the column gets up here .
" " you mustn ' t .
have pulled him overboard if he had not braced himself and given some line .
” “do you think i should ?
things out .
” “how would bacuranao be ?
as full as any diaper with one vast , final , yellow cataract that flows and dribbles on after he’s
" " i ' ll write him and give him a chance to pull out of it .
you don’t wash the pickled onions do you before you put them in the cocktail ?
i find it so extraordinarily clean .
" " the _num_ th .
each time he fought he fought to kill and the other bulls were not afraid of him because they came
see !
they’d like to have killed him where they killed his friend .
i do not smoke , and hunting at home i have several times smelled elk in the rutting season before
to-day the waiters did not leave you alone all morning to read without asking if you wanted to order something
it doesn’t have to go any further , does it ?
his mouth , then dropped him back into the stream .
, bow-legged , in tight breeches over his high-heeled cattlemen’s boots that clicked on the floor as he swaggered quite
do you know how to use the winchester ?
“i never heard of him , ” said captain willie .
you couldn’t tell what they were .
' and i named the six cartridges again .
grass stem , hold it with each hand and shave the sweat off his forehead and bald black crown with
the other a lieutenant of infantry and they had fought on the three key points , pasubio , grappa and
" here he is !
” “he better not come then , ” trudy said .
they had put something over his face .
we could see across the hills and away across the plain of the valley to the mountains .
' ' all right , daughter .
he spread the mouth of the sack and looked down in at the two big trout alive in the water
“it makes me nervous .
today’s tuesday .
threw five of us around just as though we were children .
” “the tanks , ” he said bitterly .
to the warm scent of quail .
pedro , who has done this to thee , pedro ?
then he fell into the water with a crash that sent spray over the old man and over all of
you know he ' s extraordinary about buying champagne .
" but tell me what they were like .
whatever you would call it .
or i can drink it myself .
” “go ahead an’ remember , ” the nigger told him .
” i was still shaky from seeing that fish and feeling plenty sick about the tackle and i couldn’t listen
" " oh , shove it along , michael , " brett said .
that ' ll fix you up right .
“you drew the worst lot , ” the boy said .
" the unhurried waiter asked .
” “sometimes he comes here .
man said .
" i saw you out of the window , " he said .
the sand was warm under bare feet .
grey trees and there were many kudu tracks .
let ' s have another bottle of rioja alta .
the fact of a woman caring for him and wanting to live with him was not simply a divine miracle
” “and you have no family ?
" well , no , " said krum .
that was the bad part .
now , broadside , in easy range .
” he had stopped the car and across the darkening swamp they could see the wood ibis crossing the sky
” he was sore all day .
” “oh shit , ” red said .
he had a date at maxim’s at twelve .
when we were close m ' cola threw a stone at him .
go on and laugh , " said bill .
we’ve got plenty .
it was a hot night .
he wrote a novel , and it was not really such a bad novel as the critics later called it
" " you don ' t remember him , " brett said .
" there ' s no use trying to move brett and mike out here and back before the fiesta .
” “gin and tonic .
“must make him stop that racket , ” wilson said .
no it’s not entirely typical .
i walked on behind a man who was pushing a roller that printed the name cinzano on the sidewalk in
a sword with his christmas money .
the tall waiter represented to him revolution and revolution also was romantic .
you shouldn ' t be that tired after a windless night .
" tell him bulls have no balls !
” “what bad luck .
it is unhealthy .
if i have to have it , i will open it , cost whatever it costs .
an american .
” “why didn’t you show them to me ?
” “i don’t want to trade you for a brother .
“where do they come in ?
' i see her in the street with the lovely long-legged stride and the wind doing anything it wants to
at his father sitting on the screen porch reading the paper , and thought , “i can blow him to
” “they did not go to die .
“son of a bitch , i can get in .
' ' there isn ' t any other woman , ' the colonel told her , and his eyes were
why don ' t you pay me the money you owe me so i can leave ?
there was only one evening left now , and no reason to expect we would have any better luck than
" that son of a bitch !
" you looked very , very nice .
" monsieur n ' a que trente-cinq ans .
not since sunday .
they were all mirrored inside and she was combing her hair .
the russian crawled under a table and was hit , finally , by a stray shot fired at the mexican
not angry .
i want to be a writer .
" what shall we do about the car ?
” “you’re sure you’re not hungry ?
the chauffeur came up with a bucket full of salted ice .
he’s not traveling as he was .
” he did .
' i did indeed , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
to tom .
wall of the hut and drank beer from gourd cups that were brought by a young girl and her younger
' ' do you think it is this bad for everyone ?
now the old man looked up and saw that the bird was circling again .
' the girl asked .
' ' we damn well will be , ' said the colonel .
besides just mortaring it all to hell and having all the fire-lanes taped for machine-gun and automatic weapon fire ,
' ' ayee !
in order that there would be no more self-inflicted wounds , and that all others would be punished in the
jerk against the fish .
" he ' s been in his room all day , " the landlady said downstairs .
' ' really ?
" he asked , for confirmation .
_num_ st soldier—just another round .
“i got a favor to ask you , manos , ” manuel said .
” “but the train does not come for three-quarters of an hour .
he ' s headed almost east , he thought .
" i ' ll get out , " the boy said .
he’s about the most interesting man i know .
one , lying down , was certainly much the biggest and the horns , as i caught them in silhouette
the swamp was mossy and not muddy there .
the roman was off already .
things were getting forward in the town .
“you’re damn right he is , ” said bill .
the one thing that he hadn’t understood right had made him nasty .
nothing about fighting bores me except lies .
" how much are the rooms ?
he felt it go in and knowing it was sharp he drove it in again .
" " no , " alice said in that sweet lovely voice , " you haven ' t got any
” the other outfit had been working on their share .
but i wouldn’t want it all this solemn .
we went in through the gate .
places they would be together .
it’s more amusing .
watched the bull’s feet .
i had picked it up when we came into the kitchen to sit after supper .
” “they’ll go home if they’re lucky .
' ' cola .
it was that week that we discovered they still had tonic water .
” “he’s nervous and crabby , ” i said .
was lying on a sort of litter .
he decided that he could beat anyone if he wanted to badly enough and he decided that it was bad
how many will you be ?
gulf off cuba .
he was thinking , thinking if it was possible to be with somebody underwater , he could hold his breath
“have big feet , too .
because you can ' t have scenes without crying , and then you pity yourself so much you can '
it was dated san sebastian , sunday : dear jake , we got here friday , brett passed out on
" " about horses and eagles .
to show him the opening .
you can say they come from the contessa renata ' s estates and are a gift .
his hand and then put them into a chamois pouch and filled the magazine with .
” “do you feel anything strange ?
the breeze high in the tops and the cool light that came in patches , and billy said : "
“got anything to drink ?
i do not know where the doctor got them .
' ' here it is not that way , ' she said , and , with the comb , swung
i can insert anecdotes to make it interesting , or plausible .
will announce dinner , to say , " come and get it , you sons of bitches , or we
" montoya put his hand on my shoulder .
to the bull .
" che ti dice la patria ?
" " those are funny names for indians .
the only way to make it would have been for one man to go alone and crawl and then it
every street was full .
' and we won ' t do it with malice .
all for literature .
” he said , lying with his head on the planks , facing away from them .
" that ' s a good thing to do .
you two young lads ; where are you bound for ?
” “it’s all we’ve got .
" " tell her to go to hell .
tied up me and the cook , and they said they were going to kill you .
carefully and spat on it for good luck .
” and i thought that the police would never be able to tell her that even if they had the
possible .
” “please make the drink and then tell me what happened .
knowing what i know now and having what we have now .
i were riding in this gondola with marechal ney .
dick left the gate open .
" " wonderful .
hard-braided brown lines , the gaff and the harpoon with its shaft .
how should a woman act when she discovers her husband is a bloody coward ?
" " no , we can ' t .
the skiff was still shaking with the destruction the other shark was doing to the fish and the old man
now is all right .
” “francis , will you please try to speak sensibly , ” his wife said .
there was a tall unbroken mirror in one of the rooms of that house giving off the stairs as you
" outside it was getting dark .
the french of the outfit were ashamed and sore .
” “you would embark them for the tortugas where a schooner would pick them up .
” “i will .
" ring for some beer , bill .
“come on .
of course i wouldn ' t .
" " i ' ll dig up the back , " fontan offered .
he cut the rope then and went astern to noose the tail .
' just then the telephone buzzed .
i wonder what the sea looks like from that height ?
into the grass of an adjacent field ; which task being concluded , we were ordered to search the immediate
there were the tracks of three big bull kudu in the moist bank beyond the lick where they had come
“i cannot resign myself .
he could smell him as strongly as he had the night in the moonlight when he had worked up close
” “let’s gel a little tight .
“i guess that’s better .
” he held it out on the palm of his hand .
be on the heavily shaded game trail on the high bank above the stream .
not a costume .
take it easy .
get out and take him .
he sat up , swung his legs carefully down ; they stiffened any time they were out straight for long
i have failed and i speak badly of all who have succeeded .
the maitre d ' hotel said , ' my colonel .
the old man laughed too .
" i want you to meet a friend , " zizi said .
” “is a no necessity see doctor .
he , robert wilson , carried a double size cot on safari to accommodate any windfalls he might receive .
it doesn ' t make any difference with a woman .
he went out and they were alone .
i felt pretty bad about everything and we went in the smoker .
you and your brother are good friends .
desirable mistress .
” “he said he’d been after you for four years .
on holbrook .
" fontan had three bottles of wine .
" " very .
what happens ?
” he asked me , opening the box .
“i never saw him before .
ever touched them , people who wore the purple heart from jeep accidents , insiders , cowards , liars ,
” he went away and i bought the evening papers which had just come in from another old woman and
i ' m not going to be one of these bitches that ruins children .
i didn’t think anything about those people could be good .
i don’t know anything about this game .
what do you think would be good for me , portrait ?
' poor karl .
there wasn ' t a fish .
i only wanted a few good french friends in bayonne to make me welcome in case i should come back
” “my god , yes , nice fella all right , ” madame fontan said .
he felt helena against him where they were crowded .
but it looks to me like these madonnas , that i really saw plenty of , sir , it looks
but he didn ' t feel like it .
" " where was she ?
nick went around behind the counter .
they sat down at the counter .
outside the window it was snowing .
the horses’ breath made plumes in the cold air .
the wind was blowing straight down the lake .
he seems dumb and he usually smiles instead of talking but that’s because he’s deaf .
he took the bottle very hurriedly and tipped it up .
six mules , following one after the other , hauling a high-hooded wagon loaded with freight .
i wonder how the great dimaggio would have liked the way i hit him in the brain ?
it would be easy if there was some boy my own age to copy .
“he says any woman , any child .
it rained drizzlingly and i undressed , got into mosquito boots and heavy pyjamas and sat on the cot ,
zurito felt the moment when the horse was clear and the bull could come past , and relaxed the absolute
“after another little drink .
strong and well armed that they had no other enemy .
they made camp , pop warning them to be quiet , and we sat under the dining tent and were
she looked up to be kissed .
“and i want to eat at a table with my own silver and i want candles .
belly .
it was his first strike .
a heavy hand fell on his shoulder .
” “want me to walk down with you ?
the boat moved into the tunnel of clouds .
” “i knew that , ” he told her .
he had the big colt automatic that had belonged to three other men that i had known of , and
the whites in budapest and requesting comrades to aid him in any way .
“it’s not a fête .
been cut by a stone and needed vulcanizing , --and , without the car , i walked into the town
on the next bottle i forgot and drank it all before i remembered the old man .
they all have nairobi fast life or else rot about shooting beasts with horns half an inch longer than someone
" vice , " said the brown young man , " is a very strange thing , james .
” nick looked on at the moon , coming up over the hills .
' anyway , daughter , you could see the line of them going back towards the east further than you
" " but why are you here now ?
she must have had five million dollars worth in her .
do you have to kill your horse , and your wife and burn your saddle and your armour ?
“‘you’d better find out , ’ the priest said , and put the blanket back .
he penetrated into the far side of the city , the side that finally fronted on the adriatic and that
" you got to quit , " he said .
' what is there ?
i put the nickel on the wood and he slid the beer toward me .
you can hold a place and i’ll go get a bath and join you at the gran via .
” the man asked .
“hello , ” said jack .
the next day pedro romero did not fight .
the mexican told the police he had no idea who shot him .
” “oh let’s .
irregular explosions , it passed close behind us to go on up the road .
" " he says that he is telling the truth , " the interpreter said .
let him ruin it .
" darling !
surface of the ocean was flat except for the occasional swirls of the current .
“let’s not talk rot , ” the man said .
i went to the head of the stairs with them .
the self-confessed bird shot , ' she said .
and i ' d like to have children .
between my knees , pouring the whisky into a tin cup and passing it over my shoulder in the dark
he ' s through .
the wanderobo-masai nodded , his mouth open .
' big !
' ' he has a chance to get a leopard on that rhino carcass this evening , too , or
" " let ' s get out of here .
the cast of characters and the variety of themes became as diversified as the author’s own life .
i was sure the sable could not see us in the forest , nor wind us .
in the stud-book and everything .
“you don’t belong to the club any more , ” i told him , speaking as nearly english as i
but once the winter really came they had ruddy faces .
” “we don’t charge too much money .
so does a coyote every time i ever see one , and a wolf , gaited like no other animal
” bill asked .
but they are working far out and fast .
for a long time , while the sun rose and the day became hot we drove through what pop had
” “at the corner .
well , about eleven o ' clock jack passes out and i put him to bed .
guys would come by selling funny rabbits that jumped if you squeezed a bulb and they’d come up to us
they’re too heavy .
” “well , let’s catch one , ” he said .
that sense blunted when he started to smoke .
so we attacked , the three of us in line , exactly where the germans wished us to attack .
” “i suppose there is no hurry .
' ' about twenty miles .
it ' s a long time .
' you know dos passos ?
' ' not really .
thieves and telephone racers .
” “it’s all right for you to say that , but i do know it .
" " you go to bed .
” “we weren’t engaged , ” nick said .
“you were marvellous , darling , ” she said to macomber .
" hey , " freedman says .
” “sure , ” said the brakeman .
” “all right , ” said the girl .
things quiet down and that down-state man pulls out .
after lunch we went over to the iruña .
' ' yes , but we have to do the climbing .
" " let me send---- " " no , " said nick .
' ' did you land them ?
that ' s the only thing that is going to be difficult about you .
" " you haven ' t been around much , have you ?
' now the reason i asked you about painters , is these madonnas .
they came out from the orchard past the mailbox onto the hard state highway .
i can ' t stop things .
" " do you want it with water ?
was looking in , over to the _num_ franc mutuel machine .
ay !
” “don’t you shoot craps ?
isn ' t she a lovely piece ?
all i wanted to do now was get back to africa .
" i regret the absence of the chocolate , the postal-cards and cigarettes , " he said .
instead of fear he had a feeling of definite elation .
but what is his plan , he thought .
, for good fishing , poor old odgar , poor old odgar , sleeping up there at the cottage ,
' ' if you go in for that kind of thing .
, m ' cola holding his hand on mine , we watched him , only a dozen feet away ,
" after a little while bill said : " well , it was a swell fiesta .
he was very hungry and he wanted to make his camp before he cooked .
“how much do i owe you ?
' ' hapana ' is a negative .
“i know your regular pics .
out of the corner of his eye he saw zurito sitting the white horse close to the barrera , about
, had offered to show us the positions the poles had just captured and , coming from under the lee
” “i never was in woods like these .
” i looked at him , tall and bleary and shaky , and i didn’t say anything .
' who ' s a beautiful woman ?
he smiled to himself in the dark .
” “we said we’d do a hundred though , ” the girl said .
“it’s the first time i’ve ever seen it .
i think i ' ll go to san sebastian .
" " be a good chap , jake .
short stories of ernest hemingway to have and have not green hills of africa winner take nothing death in the
but you didn ' t say anything about it to the cook .
“hail fellow well met , ” the porter said to the chef .
and _you_ should never be stupid .
john told him .
" asked cohn .
" " i know we will .
[the three roman soldiers go out the door into the street .
“look at the barbarity of madrid , ” said the tall waiter .
we kept the blood bright and wet but we could not come up on him .
i knew he had a big oar .
i looked away almost at once .
" what does it cost ?
i ' m going to get that sullen character in now and pick up and get the hell to the
place of its own where many gondolas had come , in their various times , bringing hearty , cheerful ,
but you’re not like him at all .
“all you punks stink .
good-bye , my colonel .
' ever see any wolves out around rawlins , jackson ?
it was all right now .
she was lying on a clear white bank of sand and the spar was a sort of foremast or some
" " why don ' t you go away , then ?
why were copies made to lose them with the originals ?
' but she doesn ' t win any races , ' the porter said .
m ' cola was an old man asleep , without history and without mystery .
charley simmons , who is just your age , has a good job and is going to be married .
we should have stopped .
he had gone ahead down there on his own idea of what the bull would have done .
“my father lives in a city where he stands under the clock tower and looks down on a thousand pigeons
" he slapped me on the back .
' they were moving up the grand canal now and it was easy to see where your friends lived .
green , and the flags hung on their staffs , and it was good to get out of the sun
chaves or hernandez ?
“a little cup , ” said the waiter .
' what do they make there , sir ?
hell , i knew him when he was a good man .
jim held her tight hard against the chair and she wanted it now and jim whispered , “come on for
” they went up the stairs , enrique carrying the basket .
hills through the trees , coming toward the salt , had halted at that exploding , clanking sound .
the last one that you could get was seattle , washington , and due to the difference in time ,
" sit down , " brett said to him .
“i’ll come around for you about a quarter to seven and we’ll go and eat .
and you want more and more , to have , and be , and live in , to possess now
up for us , we used to listen for the whistling call of the bobwhites in that country to the
" she stopped again .
trees grew around its open area so that it was as though the game were in the blind and you
both sides just below jack ' s ribs .
gone .
as you were , ' he added .
the pleasant , though dusty , ride through the beautiful lombard countryside also was a compensation for the unpleasantness of
wonderful after the barbecue .
' ' i went to call on him once in dublin , ' p .
after ascertaining their customary daily wage , pop told them if either of us killed a kudu the guide would
“wouldn’t you like me to read ?
to the music .
' droop had removed his fez and held it in his hand .
figure it as well as you can and then really do what you have to do .
the far hills , and come down to the irati valley , " i pointed out to bill .
pay me .
" he ate the other part of the piece that he had cut in two .
come on , bo , we ' ll go in .
” i guess that was part of the dream and why the hell shouldn’t it be ?
you ' ve often been very cheerful .
the two of them , they _were_ the first thing he had suspected , looked at him with hatred and
" well , he ' s always been fine to me .
” “i’m too dirty to eat .
the country club .
" i set down the glass .
start all over and be absolutely unable to get past that .
' ' but you ' re not a writer .
it could not be more than a mile away .
it is of no importance .
it hit manuel on the foot .
” the sergeant moved his wrist under the table and looked at the little man’s face .
“not so long , wemedge , ” the ghee answered .
“it ain’t a bad book , wemedge .
locked tight together and turning his body like tightening a screw brought his skis sharply around to the right in
but it was not ruined .
' ' do you know what it ' s like ?
i must figure out some way to do it .
” “you don’t want to get in any trouble , do you , suzy ?
he was watching manuel out in the center of the arena .
‘not for hundred fifty dollars .
" we lay with our heads in the shade and looked up into the trees .
" tell her we are very ill , and have no money .
“they were going to kill ole andreson , ” george said .
belmonte watched romero , too , watched him always without seeming to .
you know what she said : ' yes .
this was a very fancy café before the war and this used to cost five pesetas when there were only
the line went out and out and out but it was slowing now and he was making the fish earn
' it certainly was a lovely present , the colonel thought .
" i ' m not embarrassed .
“you’re talking without witnesses except for turd-face evans .
" it certainly shows you the power of the catholic church .
“why doesn’t anyone drink to me ?
it’s notre dame .
garrick was to go to the main camp to get his money .
i’d rather have been with the kids , he thought .
whoever or whatever of our friends that will be afoot at that hour .
” she slept curled up in the deep seat and roger drove , watching the wide road ahead for stock
you always said you loved paris .
“you’re sure you wouldn’t like to stay in camp with her yourself and let me go out and hunt the
what’s our name ?
at their backs , and it shone on the camera lenses and made them blink like a helio and the
he was a very serious coffee drinker .
all the tables were set now , and already several were filled with people eating .
come on , robert .
was a lovely girl and very beautiful and kind—” “i was never jealous of her , ” the girl said
charo , the other gun bearer , was short , very serious and highly religious .
round .
we stopped in babati at the little hotel overlooking the lake and bought some more pan-yan pickles and had some
forgive me , maria .
three ; i hide my head in the sand like an ostrich , confident in the greatness of france as
“marsala , you like marsala , signorina ?
' i suspected so , ' the head keeper said .
sifting through the cloth dirt in the linings of his inside military pockets .
at the station the train was late , and we sat on a baggage-truck and waited outside in the dark
there was a little stream and a bridge , and spanish carabineers , with patent-leather bonaparte hats , and short
' b ' wana fell down , ' m ' cola said and imitated me pitching forward .
" " you will not , " nick said .
a man asked us for our papers and when i said , “foreigners , ” he said to go along
roger kept on reading his paper so helena propped hers against a water glass and read too .
" she stood up and straightened her dress .
” “they ate a big supper and now they’re sitting out on the porch and drinking .
' since then , there was scant friendship between them and the colonel enjoyed trying to take the morning paper
where have i heard it ?
and pop had left , and bringing my mosquito net .
must have been some slip-up , he thought .
tom saw me looking at her and he said , “come on .
" " the first .
” “lonely , ” roger said .
_ _num_ d soldier_--just for two , george .
” “come along .
" " sande booted three of them in yesterday .
bill and mike were with edna .
he was comfortable but suffering , although he did not admit the suffering at all .
” “did you get any pictures ?
the critic looked up to see zurito , directly below him , leaning far out over his horse , the
“how are the cabins ?
montoya came up to our table .
“oh .
it was thirty-five hundred instead of five thousand and by three-thirty they had bought a used buick convertible with only
" tell him you ' re coming .
" this is a good place , " he said .
there was the bull .
leaning back , inciting the bull with the banderillos , fuentes jumped , both feet off the ground .
these were wooded and there were clouds coming down from them .
we followed them in , moving very quietly on the game trails , pushing the vines aside and seeing the
could tell which way the wind blew by simply scattering dust .
wind had made of her hair .
place while the shark tore the meat loose sluggishly and slid down from the fish .
yankees of new york were playing the tigres of detroit .
so we started for camp , me with the tripe bag on the end of a stick over my shoulder
by mistake .
a little marsala ?
onto the dam .
' take a shot of this , ' he said to the boatman .
they went up-stairs laughing .
should we have a drink sitting down , renata ?
he had been thoroughly practical .
" he wants the title bad .
then he saw him , very near , in the current , shaking his head , trying to get the
the cross roads .
' ' tea instead of coffee and whatever the _gran maestro_ can salvage .
“fortunately she did not see it from too close .
' they always have .
there’s one shell .
“juma’s your friend , you know .
" old james , " the other client said .
the boy had given him two fresh small tunas , or albacores , which hung on the two deepest lines
please stay by me and see me through this .
we ate them every day .
" " oh , cut it out .
that’s not his trade .
' he has a crippled , ' he said to the boatman .
they found there was nothing to do in dijon .
they jumped the stone wall and came jammed down the stretch toward the big waterjump right in front of the
and if it is you’ll find me there by the big basswood tree .
he went below and came up with a blanket .
' come on .
his pack balanced on the top of the stump , harness holding ready , a hollow molded in it from
" bring me a bottle of sion , please .
what about the game ?
“it’s five o’clock .
from his shoulders .
wasn’t good for a boy to go banging around .
over here , the way they ' re brought up , they ' ll all make you a good wife
i left him sitting among the archives that covered all the walls , and i shut both the doors ,
it seemed too many people to be hunting with , but they all moved quietly as snakes , and i
' now ask them to ring harry ' s and see if the contessa is there .
' hapana elephants !
it is a very rich indian who raises sisal .
" " you wouldn ' t mind , really ?
i felt it sitting by her .
' ' good , ' she said , and kissed him hard so he could feel the sweet salt of
' ' you haven ' t heard it yet , ' i said .
he looked down into the water and watched the lines that went straight down into the dark of the water
in again into the shark ' s yellow cat-like eyes .
' they continued to sit at the table in the corner and some people went out and others came in
“look at them .
" " lie quiet .
they all watched him walk up the hill and go inside the cottage .
slept or read while we waited for the lorries to come up .
nobody but kansans ever had anything to do with it ; except maybe us who fought .
“no , i wouldn’t let you take the chance .
can kill and come out of it , doing something you are ignorant about and so not scared , no
" some encierro .
“no , ” my father said .
if that ' s the way you look at it .
" " ah , " said the lady , crestfallen , " he doesn ' t take bananas .
" the old man looked at him with his sun-burned , confident loving eyes .
“you would land them wherever your best judgment dictated .
luz would not come home until he had a good job and could come to new york to meet her
” “the other one , the big one with the spit tobacco face and the blue suit , is the
” nick told him .
" ils sont des sauvages , les boys , vous savez .
isn ' t triumph marvellous ?
" " where ' d you get him ?
he works hard .
he looked all clean except for some smudges around his eyes .
“that’s true , ” he said .
” “sent by the police to see me .
sometimes they attached themselves to him .
but when the country had been lumbered off he had stayed and bought farming land .
” he told her about it as well as he could within the limitations of his knowledge and his information
get it , nor even see one .
when the sun was up and we were warmed after the misty cold of the morning i settled my rump
does it look too wild ?
" " i thought he shot you first and the russian after .
nothing , nothing can touch them .
then once they were at the barrier it got me worse than anything .
droopy had left watching them pointed where they had crossed a deep gulch and gone into an open patch of
through the glasses i saw belmonte speak to romero .
that’s why you stop it all the time .
road to hell paved with unbought stuffed dogs .
" " it is fine for hunting and fishing , " i said .
at him at regular intervals to check if he was with them .
he really did .
we shook hands .
" come on , " she whispered throatily .
' s radar and it was called off .
" " i am sure .
he poured an inch and a half of white horse into one of the enameled cups , unscrewed the top
of dust .
under the leather cover , which was worn and stained , it was engraved , on one side , to
that would come all right .
as many as fourteen mines deep in certain stretches , so when the vehicles churned down to a new string
there were trees inside and a low , stone house .
“he’s got grub and he must have his rifle .
but be ready for the rhino after you shoot .
" " i know it , " the boy said .
if you never thought about it you couldn’t lose it .
” “let’s go up there , ” i said .
he wanted them long and solid to hold in the ground .
back at army they know such things are bound to happen .
handed it over the barrera to manuel .
" is it raining ?
the two men smiled when jim came in with the jug .
hm , the wife .
” marjorie said .
it ' s even a shame .
“how’s to let me take a couple of dollars , harry ?
that pop would not want it .
that ' s the worst thing you can say to insult a man in spanish .
it was clear and smooth and very brown .
down at his body in the water where he fell from the mast , and always , italy , better
to hold , and with his heart beating and his captured , hopeless eyes .
we could see the vertical white stripes on their grey flanks and it was very satisfying to watch them and
i ' m not much of a shot , and i ' d rather stay in that sack .
paid for the drinks , leaving half a peseta tip .
he had come up so fast and absolutely without caution that he broke the surface of the blue water and
i haven’t sat still this long for a long time .
it was as smooth and undistinguished now , as it was all along the river .
“you keep it clean and wrapped up and it’ll heal by itself .
the shooter , who was not a colonel now , nor anything but a gun handler , rose in the
” george asked .
' what does he hear ?
with another .
take all-day trips in the boat together .
the brown skin came taut over her cheekbones when she smiled and the undercolor showed .
we’ve narrowed down on the corridor that runs up into university city .
it had stopped raining outside but there were big clouds over the mountains .
you ' ve got a young party .
' it ' s in my _num_ .
" just ahead of them was the crowd , and some chap tripped and brought the whole lot of them
' m ' cola , ' you say and point .
" one of the fishermen shouted .
' _tembo_ , ' m ' cola said .
“would you come and bring a bottle of something ?
the auctioneer stood on the street corner talking with friends .
” “twelve hundred dollars , captain , is not to be despised at present .
" it doesn ' t matter now .
said , ' i can ' t remember it .
, crouching to shoot in the dusk at the same time pop did , we cut down three that fell
have to check that figure .
i’ll love to .
i just meant i didn ' t remember when duck shooting was good .
i have seen monsieur work at the café on the corner .
a track near it .
those people in the first rows of seats who knew what they were watching .
she was very handsome , and mr .
" nick showed him the tessera with photograph and identification and the seal of the third army .
” “your temperature is all right , ” i said .
at her eyes and at the way her hair grew on her forehead and at the edge of her ear
almost white now from washing and the sun .
' ' too hard to explain , ' the colonel said .
all luck .
" the gentlemen are just come down from the wiesbadenerhütte , " the innkeeper said .
the pink wall of the house opposite had fallen out from the roof , and an iron bedstead hung twisted
it was a country to wake from , happy to have had the dream and , seeing if it would
come on , let’s go .
" you can go anywhere you want .
thank god , i ' m a travelling man .
' ' don ' t say rough words .
” we stood and watched .
" zurito sat his horse , measuring the distance between the bull and the end of the pic .
wood of the bows where the ship lay anchored with the evening off-shore breeze and he waited to see if
” “if they see one american uniform that is supposed to make them believe others are coming .
“i make fun of everything , ’ he said “i think it will be fine .
“is war , ” i said .
the locked doors of the shops , their windows lighted , the avenue broad and shiny and almost deserted .
“lung and gut shot , ” his father said .
" " it don ' t make no difference where it was , " joe said without turning his head
when i’d sit watching him working out in the hot sun i sure felt fond of him .
” “you said that before , ” al told him coldly .
" i think it ' s a brothel !
" " really .
did we ?
that ' s the way the money was bet in the garden .
“i’ll make him jump out of the ring .
” “we’ll go see him .
probably the only person in the world that did .
when they have made enough to go home they leave , bringing out their poor relations to take over from
” “shut up , ” said al from the kitchen .
he should have killed himself last week .
but there wasn ' t any girl and the portrait was as it was painted .
" i feel tight .
' ' it does not bore me .
" " it ' s better .
” nick went out .
he decided to bring it to a boil .
' ' just a touch .
and way down the street , and then i went to sleep .
from the water and then re-entered it , smoothly , like a diver and the old man saw the great
have you heard anything ?
brett ' s face was white and the long line of her neck showed in the bright light of the
but because he got thirty thousand pesetas and people had stayed in line all night to buy tickets to see
” “oh , wemedge .
and garrick .
” “all fishing , ” bill said .
” “i’m almost sure .
in remembering that , there were only two people , so i would pray for them both .
“but tell him that i feel very sick and would prefer not to talk so much .
when once , through my treachery , it had been necessary to him to make a choice , the old
' i mean it truly .
she wore a slipover jersey sweater and a tweed skirt , and her hair was brushed back like a boy
' ' put your hand in your right hand pocket and feel very rich , ' the girl said .
i went on shaving .
' ' should we take this new bottle in the gondola ?
, one shot ahead , caught a man in the running crowd in the back and lifted him in the
je n ' aime pas les houblons .
they would eat by themselves .
the other yellow .
" " it wasn ' t bad .
“that’s no good , ” madame fontan said .
” “don’t worry .
" " no , here .
only i have like buzzing noises all the time in the head .
i don ' t seem crazy to you , do i ?
else , and then i saw one .
" how would you like to see me bring one in that dressed out over a thousand pounds ?
" " i wish i ' d been up .
walcott came right out after him .
there was nothing earlier .
best race courses in the world .
“sit down , ” he said .
and he answered , ' no , general , i don ' t hear any crickets or seven-year locusts .
” “stop it , ” i said to guy .
you dropped and lay flat ; making a mound to shield your head ; working your chin into the dirt
" you are a beautiful boy , " i said .
” “he says we’re punks , ” tommy said to me .
and tried to slug the men carrying him away and yelled for his sword but he fainted .
which is quite an old place .
of cape and then was left with nothing , fixed by the pass , dominated by the cape .
" had no idea what hour it was , " brett said .
got to take a lot of things in this world , joe .
” “i never knew anybody as fine , ” she said .
and his face was white and his hands were white and thin .
' ' i couldn ' t tell ?
i ' ve had a better time every year since i can remember .
a very long barrel .
' ' i will go in .
the setting of the sun is a difficult time for all fish .
the baggage car .
couldn ' t we all be buried out at the ranch ?
karl and i had each tried to give the other the better chance on everything that came up .
“probably alone home by himself .
" you want me to go ?
doctor .
his flask since there was no water .
“i heard the trap , ” the boy said .
all the time jim was gone on the deer hunting trip liz thought about him .
all during the meal she would blow out her breath in the cold damp air .
" " so long , you chaps .
“i hope they have a lot of good luck .
” max looked at george .
fifty grand " how are you going yourself , jack ?
five lire for a favor .
the café was like a battleship stripped for action .
” “i see your point absolutely , ” said mr .
' ' my husband , ' said my wife .
" we called the waiter , paid , and started to walk through the town .
splendid .
“my lovely , ” he said .
” the man called “listen” through the curtain .
we got plenty , " morgan said .
now chief of staff .
“henry ford put them out of business when he published the protocols of the elders of zion .
the stretcher-bearers asked the doctor to go in and have a look at him .
outside , the snow was turning to rain .
on her face .
they also shelled you with heavy artillery fire and with at least one railway gun .
" " come on , harvey , " i said .
” “i don’t feel like seeing anybody .
ever since these tusks had grown beyond their normal size the elephant had been hunted for them and now the
on the short cut to the road .
you see , they signed on for it .
well , it was a rotten way to be wounded and flying on a joke front like the italian .
i had not seen p .
' ' the krauts .
“i beg your pardon if i intrude , ” he said in english , “but it has just occurred to
i will make a partial refund and ship them out again .
_ _num_ st soldier_--say , george , can ' t you give this gentleman something to fix up his stomach
shot high in the air , end-over-ending into the crowd .
” at six-fifty-five george said : “he’s not coming .
there won’t be any rain .
" isn ' t that a pub across the way ?
he ' s not so interesting .
to hell with those heavy guns .
it was the stadtswald and it was where the german high command had figured , exactly , to fight after
' ' let ' s skip him , ' the colonel said .
he was wearing a leather coat just like all the rest of us .
her hair was tied once close to her head and it floated all out in the water .
" he nearly killed the poor , bloody bull-fighter .
a helio .
called again .
he had hurt her .
to work is normal .
“after we bathe we can go out .
' ' i ' ll bust the son of a bitch .
” fontan asked .
be happier and that there was nothing coming up except to be lonely again and then along comes this girl
“salud camarade , ” he said .
" he said it , " alice said and smiled .
then it had made her angry .
tabeshaw ?
“chesterton’s a classic .
he left it there to remind him to get a new one and afterwards i think to remind him of
usually , as people , they are very boring to women .
they only felt from the distances that it was there .
" it ' s funny what a wonderful gentility you get in the bar of a big hotel , "
' i ' ve been trying ever since i woke up .
" where did cohn go after he hit me ?
“do you want the memsahib to go ?
" how would you like these ?
” “you’re all right , carl , ” joe garner said .
” “didn’t i !
the wood of the tables shone from wiping and there were baskets of pretzels in glazed paper sacks .
and his arms and his old legs .
there were many of these inciting cards which had evidently been issued just before the offensive .
all through the bog were snipe and black and white godwits and finally , not being able to get within
" " he ' s a good chap .
" " no understand , " the lady said .
how surprised i was the first time i saw him with the tunic off and noticed how old his upper
“so , ” said the doctor .
" he was talking to a man who was no longer listening .
eating-house .
as we started forward the sable jumped and ran past us , crossing the trail ahead .
but when his mother died his manager thought they might not always be so hot on each other .
that comes when you have bet yourself out of a bad hole and i was wondering how badly the bet
just the thing we always need in this life .
it is better that you hear it from me if you have curiosity on this subject , than that you
“it’s our old drink for out here , ” she said .
” “how would you stop her ?
crossing the seine i saw a string of barges being towed empty down the current , riding high , the
i would like to live long enough to write three more novels and twenty-five more stories .
" didn ' t jack johnson knock him out though ?
“ought to have a look at the proud father .
" " will you be in paris ?
f .
" you ' re sure this thing has trout in it ?
there was no moon and they walked ankle-deep in the sandy road through the trees down to the dock and
don’t .
" " kikes , " this broad goes on .
he talked spanish quite well , and the innkeeper would not take our money .
but it was not and he found that out in the next three days .
there was a big fire in the fireplace .
" " go get some wine , " fontan said .
hand and the girl found two enameled cups in the packages they had brought and the carton that held a
chapter xv they hanged sam cardinella at six o’clock in the morning in the corridor of the county jail .
later on i saw a cat working on him too .
" it ' s my real name , " alice said .
” said krebs .
send carl up to the house , will you ?
" and those green trousers .
it would be good training .
of the woman that i pay alimony to , who could not even make a child .
, yellow-and-black-labelled german beer with the horseman in armour on it in order that we might remember the place better
there was another roar from the arena and then applause , prolonged applause , going on and on .
” “you won’t take a cigar ?
" it is not bad , " he said .
feet of dark water .
” “on a mangé , on a bu du vin , de la bière , et il y avait aussi
had not .
it is very dangerous .
he got back into the car .
john jumps into the ring .
" brett asked .
“is jack up yet ?
" " fifty lire .
i made quite a good shot on the tommy .
about the new house i remember how my mother was always cleaning things out and making a good clearance .
” “are there other ways to attack ?
” “he’s smarter than he acts .
” “we’ll take a long walk before you turn in and get you good and tired .
" they lost today , " the boy told him .
“write down the numbers on the bow .
and bull-fight posters .
” “come out after supper ?
i did not go where they have the wild ducks .
" you ought to write a book on wines , count , " i said .
“thanks for coming around .
' and for a while he was and he drew all the circles .
" he put his hand on my shoulder again embarrassedly .
" tell her they ' re playing them off their feet , " mr .
several women were nice to him in new york , and when he came back he was quite changed .
” “you’re damn right nobody did .
' the stones are in my pocket .
they ' re dead , he said .
” we were packing up the cameras and equipment when the steel-hatted authority came in .
i felt sure i could remember anybody with a name like aloysius .
" " i don ' t like it , " said the cook .
he rested sitting on the un-stepped mast and sail and tried not to think but only to endure .
" i want a leather wine-bottle , " bill said .
i took his temperature .
now the moors .
i am sorry , gentlemen , but i have to leave you .
" " watch how he handles a bull that can ' t see the color .
he was more enthusiastic about america than ever , and he was not so simple , and he was not
the guard spat in the dust .
" " must be swell being a steer .
just then the singing really started in again , and you cannot gossip very well shouting , so it looked
” “you’ll left-hand him to death .
without all those people .
you know , slim , good clothes , and shiny hair .
" don ' t be sore , " john says .
he had been a good soldier .
" but it gives you the idea .
and that count .
crouched there and he could not move , or speak , he heard the woman say , “ bwana is
" eat it a little more , " he said .
“no , sir , ” said the barman .
i ' ll be at the crillon at five .
i saw him up , the others passing , spreading out , then bunching .
what do they say about them at the café ?
doctor wilcox looked up at him , then at me .
there ' s nothing to that .
' but i ' d rather dante wrote it .
” retana said nothing but looked at manuel across the big desk .
forget it .
with the maid holding the umbrella over her , she walked along the gravel path until she was under their
, smugly , ' what ' s the matter with them ?
very good ' , and i told kamau to go on .
he wants more artillery but there isn ' t any more artillery .
" he had the pack on his back and i put the worm-cans in one of the outside flap pockets
“come on up to the room , jerry , ” jack says .
' ' remember to take it very easy .
' b ' wana fisi chokes them with his naked hands .
the hawks soon enough .
” “yes , comrade .
it was all great fun for us , the deep-sea fishing on the pilar that gregorio fuentes , the mate
it was there for all fishermen who wanted it .
probably a better town to live in than this one .
where the hell do you think you get off ?
" i ' m never going to die .
" " won ' t you have a drink ?
then he stroked his head and held his hand and felt his pulse .
but if you’d be patient with them down at the hotel you’d get rid of them .
he kissed her on the mouth , gently and hungrily , and then it was as though there was static
' ' daughter , why don ' t you lay off paris ?
' this one .
' and this game is even worse .
' what there is of it .
" they want to see us in half an hour .
i wish too many things .
“just close that sandwich , will you , please , and give it to mister francis .
if you ' d leave them alone you ' d get one .
it would have been the hell of a mess .
” the waiter said .
both monsieur and madame were there .
' ' he made a damned fine shot at that leopard , ' pop said .
” “i’m a good man , harry .
“your feet are in good shape .
no mr .
” “aw , hare , you don’t love me .
but i was in bad shape .
“look at the seats opposite us , ” my father said to me without looking toward them .
" this fellow raises the grapes .
the trouble is you cannot send it to the rolex representative when it goes wrong .
or to get who did you say it was to paint frescoes ?
" so what happened ?
when i saw i was clear i got on one knee , saw the bull through the aperture , marvelling
over his head was a bull ' s head , stuffed by a madrid taxidermist ; on the walls were
really the damnedest .
i said , “grüss gott , ” to the priest as he walked past us coming out of the churchyard
' they haven ' t enough stuff left even for a fire-fight .
the gypsy was walking out toward the bull again , walking heel-and-toe , insultingly , like a ballroom dancer ,
' ' you see , he is really serious about something , ' kandisky said .
" zurito looked at his hands .
' no , ' said garrick .
held in the north and the shadows from where a light went on .
" " i can ' t talk the language well enough .
“you must have had a very good summer .
the young sleep good , he thought .
well , when he makes his shot some may break back this way .
” “don’t stay away an awfully long time though .
“always .
" i went on looking for the tackle and putting it all together in the tackle-bag .
' ' must be nearly five hundred yards .
john told her .
in february we were here where we are now and the fascists attacked .
' ' there ' s no reason why we shouldn ' t get one on the lick where karl shot
we were all friends together .
” “we have to get set now fast again .
you wasn’t here , i suppose .
the man who owned him , if anyone can own such an animal , knew what a great bull he
we went to work on the trench and in the morning the sun came up and the day was hot
" i ' m worried whether i ' ll be able to go through with it all right .
his eyes fixed on it while bill poured .
it had that aged look you see in photographs of jeffries and sharkey posing thirty years after , the ugly
i looked at her , seeing her quilted blue robe in the firelight now , and the light on her
so bird shooting became this marvellous joke .
you bitch , the colonel thought .
' they ' ll never believe you .
" spezia is my home and italy is my country .
“come on , ” said nick .
” “you know what he looks like , ” frank told him .
“yes , ” he said seriously .
before it was really light he had his baits out and was drifting with the current .
but his platoon , who had not followed the speech , there being no loud speakers then , and they
comes--when the time comes , i mean--i ' ll climb right up with him .
even crack it .
i washed , changed my shirt , and went out in the town .
" in the restaurant we ordered hors d ' oeuvres and beer .
people can get hurt at it .
both .
he tipped the big five-litre bag up and squeezed it so the wine hissed against the back of his throat
” “yes , bratchen .
che mala fortuna !
“no , ” retana waved his hand , “i never smoke .
" " should i ?
smith’s .
bath .
george and nick were happy .
we came on into sight of camp and shouted .
i wish it had been a dream now and that i had never hooked the fish and was alone in
” “how are you going to get your groceries back ?
' serve him .
” “and he’s only going to see us once , ” al said from the kitchen .
austrians had dug .
“you do business him ?
brett ' s her own name .
, or a disease as a subject , while , really , it was just something quite irreplaceable that they
" " his pants looked mighty like billy .
himself there was no discomfort , and climbed up on the running-board on the left-hand side of the car ,
" " can ' t remember .
a rather pretentious title .
he had been a heavyweight prizefighter and he was too long for the bed .
with what must have been the last shot in it because i saw him throw it down , and old
cayetano ' s better too .
i got to like it , though , part of it , anyway , and say , it’s got the
it looked all right to me and i turned off the light .
do you ?
” “are you in the university ?
and the purple stripes that banded him .
if you get in trouble call me up .
he will be shot .
[_he winks at the wine-seller .
just drop it .
what does madrid care about galicia ?
she shook her head .
when he came back , there were large framed photographs around the wall , of all sorts of wounds before
“you haven’t got a cigarette ?
” “i’m still asleep .
” “i do .
“no , not today .
to do it .
' that ' s easy , ' she said .
" " what do you mean , mike ?
they don ' t steal .
it ' s a strange , tricky town and to walk from any part to any other given part of
he opened them and looked up again .
“sit down , littless , and take a rest , ” he said .
he had written the start of all he was to do .
hernandez shrugged his shoulders .
his body no longer housed him fittingly .
or you go off to be alone and think or not think and pick a good piece of cover and
” “i’m going to have to leave now , ” i said to frankie .
droop found a fresh rhino track , too , in the mud .
_num_ d roman soldier—what the hell , george !
were heavily contracted during the coming season and the three of these subalterns would probably make much more apiece than
of course it’s not like that at all .
but listen , billy , and i ' ll tell you a secret .
” he looked over to where the huge , filthy birds sat , their naked heads sunk in the hunched
" you ' ve a nice friend , jake .
” “listen , pepé , did you pick up a certain luis delgado at chicote’s ?
“forget the whole thing .
" " how do you mean , signor maggiore ?
” “we bought it from the intendencia of one of the brigades , ” she said .
evidently he did not want to move , having fed , probably , when we had heard him roaring in
he was through with the grape-fruit .
the shelling was over .
him ?
" she put out the cigarette .
the evening breeze blew the smoke toward the point , so marjorie spread the blanket out between the fire and
” “you figure it out , ” i said .
the birds were all pulling out and leaving her and i headed for sou’west key towing the skiff and the
' that is what you should see .
he was delighted with his experiment and they developed it as far as possible .
” nick waited more than an hour in the second-growth timber and his sister had not come .
" she looked at me , her hand on the table , her glass raised .
pentothal but there was no question of administering it today .
” “bring another of the yellow gins and some bitters , ” i said .
you call up anytime mr .
the brother half believed in the bull , i could see .
“they were skunks .
" " faut les connaître , " said johnson .
” “we have observation on the road where the point will come from the two vehicles .
“good work , ” and he turned to grip macomber’s hand and as they shook hands , grinning at each
only preparing the best way to be overrun .
us across the open space where the gully that we could not see opened on to the head of the
that’s the unwritten law .
there were many eels , alive and no longer confident in their eeldom .
” roger read the paper .
' ' do you have any fresh asparagus ?
the steamer magic .
“do you mind ?
but that damned sable bull .
” “later on , ” i said .
i was holding on the point where his neck joined his shoulder when pop stopped me .
them kept after him , first one talking and then the other , and the fat wop always butting in
' ' you hit him , ' said pop .
" " he ' s such a fine boy , " said montoya .
” “put it on the bill , ” jack says .
he remembered barker afterwards coming into the mess and starting to tell about it .
the drinks drove the past away the way the headlights cut through the dark and roger said .
but the hurricane took it and it is all gone now except one house that some gallegos built out of
“who ?
" that ' s dirty .
" " are you sure ?
" " nous avons pêché sérieusement .
those are the kind of innocent-looking gullies we got into that night coming home .
he backed jack up against the ropes , measured him and then hooked the left very light to the side
hogan came to the door and i said , " say , hogan , haven ' t you got anything
but it is a uniform .
" " if you like , " brett said .
then he fastened on a hook that he took from the pouch ; then holding the shank of the hook
" " he lives on the other side of the paznaun , " said the sexton .
“i’ll only take kongoni , ” wilson said .
” “at the drugstore , ” the cashier said .
like now only lots to eat .
” captain willie asked .
“i don’t know , ” manuel said .
blood pumped regularly from between the horse’s front legs .
it was not yet light when some geese flew overhead and the light was still too grey to be able
the little man whom nick knew by name as a former champion fighter was silent .
“you’ve got to sock him .
i’ll knock your eye teeth down your throat .
and i will read the new fresh _vogue_ and _harper ' s bazaar_ ?
“that’s a lot of money .
she simply used the exact words or as exactly as she remembered them .
” “sit down , jerry , ” jack said .
instead of e .
everything about him was old except his eyes and they were the same color as the sea and were cheerful
“no , ” said the porter who had ordered sportsman .
" that man will see you .
” “you have to now , nickie , don’t you see ?
they ' re plenty up above , too .
it is enough to live on the sea and kill our true brothers .
have you got any liquor ?
maybe , the woman that ran the house would cook in the evenings .
it was a very long and even more lucky shot that broke a hind leg .
we were closer than that .
she leaned forward on the barrera .
it was a hell of a note , all right .
' ' and how are you , supreme commander ?
do you want a dessert ?
” just then the waiter came over .
i still thought he might be out on a time or he might be there at the hotel feeling too
" " you ' ll be daunted after about three more pernods .
” “will you read it ?
training that way .
the mercenaries signed up for six months .
he was a fine fish all right .
” “there at that table with the flyers .
“should we say a hundred dollars apiece ?
” he slipped into the familiar lie he made his bread and butter by .
what kind of blood is it that makes a man like that ?
" knock on the wood .
' the boatman took the flask and drank deeply again .
he’s a marvellous lion .
" it was a hundred and two , " he said .
" i ' m rather drunk , " mike said .
' ' he thinks they ' re terrible .
" ay , " the old man said .
luz wrote him many letters that he never got until after the armistice .
“i feel absolutely different .
right up to the guard .
' you good , brave , lovely girl .
see you at lunch .
“what would you like , sir ?
” “i am happy , ” said the waiter .
feathers .
“off and on , ” i said .
then i saw him going almost straight away up the valley in the tall grass and i hit him again
i read all your letters .
" i had picked her up because of a vague sentimental idea that it would be nice to eat with
” yes , i guess it was , he thought .
” “be yourself , ” walcott says .
” the three of them started for the door , and i watched them go .
on top of a hay mow .
jack stepped on the scales with a towel around him .
let it quiet down again .
wednesday’s payday .
being hunted , the game had learned to come only at night and leave before daylight .
the piave .
for one who had aficion he could forgive anything .
' ' i like to drink the same wines as you if i drink wine .
” “is that him ?
not common sense .
the pull against his back .
but nothing came .
it was a little past noon and there was not much shade , but i sat against the trunk of
" that was extraordinary .
glad everything’s so good with you .
next year i can do it .
why is it that all the fast-moving fish of the dark current have purple backs and usually purple stripes or
i wouldn’t have you do it if you didn’t want to .
there were many cars standing on tracks—brown wooden restaurant-cars and brown wooden sleeping-cars that would go to italy at five
' ' i ' m getting exercise , ' i said .
" below the line where his ribs stopped were two raised white welts .
” “have you got an indian girl , nickie ?
' please don ' t forget to remind me to give back the stones .
do you have to kill me too ?
the small shrimps that were in it fell onto the planking of the skiff .
" i sat down and opened the _pirate_ book and commenced to read , but i could see he was
and now this life that she had built again was coming to a term because he had not used iodine
he left the door open and a cool breeze came in .
to concentrate looking and the only birds you could see were birds flying .
' no kidding .
, ” the doctor said .
we have to .
said nothing .
“nor a policeman nor one of those boys that sell cigarettes .
“camels , ” she said .
man carrying a suitcase came up to the car and asked us to take him in to spezia .
” “we wouldn’t mind that , captain doctor .
" " they won ' t , " i said , " and schmidt won ' t be president either
” “a little ham , ” he said .
” “it’s coming along good now since he spliced the bone .
“you’ve got to realize , ” he said , “that i don’t want you to do it if you don’t
" please don ' t touch me .
” “we should have gone before .
or you can shoot me .
no , he would not write that , although it was well worth writing .
the blade cut the hair off close to his finger and thumb .
of meat .
" i could feel her crying as i held her close .
sent four of the ducks i promised to those i promised them to at the gritti .
" " if we can get past ventimiglia .
' ' he died .
” “shut your drunken mouth , ” i told him .
he reported at bologna , and i took him with me up into the romagna where it was necessary i
who in hell thought it up ?
i feel fine .
are .
prisoner to fire off samples taken at random from the lot .
it’s changed a lot since we came here .
any place .
“all in good time .
after all you are a rich american .
“four reales .
i walked up the road and got out the two bottles of wine .
“i’ve got a right to eat this kind of stuff , if i’m willing to carry it , ” nick
i’ve got the stuff .
" the waiter wiped the edge of the table with a towel and shook his head .
his neck was very red and the blond hairs were sunburned .
do the females have horns ?
" well , you get your boy friend to sleep ?
" she wouldn ' t eat anything and she wouldn ' t sleep at all .
" " don ' t remember .
now maybe you’re lucky with women .
” “but things are never really successful until they are over .
' ' better have some more beer , papa .
please don ' t let ' s ever talk about it .
that ' s the best .
droopy asked for the knife .
the eye of the elephant had opened wide on the first shot and then started to glaze and blood came
' good night .
" soldier would ask .
it was still green but he sucked the acid juice from the bite and spat out the pulp .
you got me here .
why did they make birds so delicate and fine as those sea swallows when the ocean can be so cruel
our friend and his family did not come back .
we had kept the same glasses .
on the board sidewalk that led to the icehouse from the kitchen she stopped and put her hands in her
" " you don ' t know him like i do , jake .
” she said scornfully .
i pulled back the bolt and looked for the best pair of horns .
“do you have any hindu trader sandwiches ?
priests from galicia who were sitting at a corner table and drinking if not too much certainly enough .
“i’m fine .
“i was there once .
he was completely done-in , his face was badly scratched , covered with mud and bleeding , and he was
you know you could do it , mr .
a severed femoral artery empties itself faster than you can believe .
" " he didn ' t want to drink with me , " said the sexton .
” “quite a way .
" don ' t worry about money , " mike said .
“what’s the dope , george ?
in the glass .
the man who had been gored lay face down in the trampled mud .
" " won ' t it be splendid , " brett said .
i was tired all the way into my bones , my head felt cooked , and i was thirstier than
we came down from the pass through wooded country .
cojimar .
' poor papa , ' p .
frazer on the head .
he lived upstairs above the blacksmith shop and took his meals at d .
” “good-bye , ” said alice .
he was a little man and he wore a cap .
it wasn ' t the way he talked , " peroxide said happily .
they would have to come up from catalonia and take it .
romero spoke to the bull and tapped one of his feet .
crowd applauding .
' ' but when you retire and live here .
” “i am sorry you were here alone all day” she said .
his eyes watched manuel .
boy , what ' s your name , giorgio ?
it’s very good .
finally , the road came out on the top of the hills .
it is quite strange and the top organization dislikes those who have fought .
then you can bathe .
it certainly would be odd if instead of going to hell , as we always counted on , we should
gun-snouted beetle and went out of sight in the trees .
" if you aren ' t in with him , you might just as well go out and shoot yourself
course of the irati river .
across the grey ice .
' a damned big cow , ' i told him .
” “there’s that whole other bottle in the carton that isn’t opened .
he started to sock with his hands low down by his side , swinging at walcott .
they were very satisfactory .
we could not make our way through but had to be moved with the whole thing , slowly , as
but when the colonel became a general officer again , as he had once been and thought in terms that
the machine was beating them .
there was no heat in the restaurant and we kept our hats and coats on .
“he said ‘you’re a lovely piece , alice .
” “who are the two fellows with john ?
you came out like joselito and belmonte .
the referee was talking with the judges and then the announcer got into the ring with the megaphone and says
thumbs up , first finger down , spread to catch the eye of the bull .
but the shark jerked backwards as he rolled and the knife blade snapped .
the ghee had been looking at the lunch nick had wrapped up .
i would not even write a letter .
she was right up close to the port hole and i hit the glass twice and i didn ' t
though i was a writer and supposed to have an insatiable curiosity about all sorts of people , i did
my legs are all right .
a pair of pin-tails came , suddenly , from nowhere , slanting down fast in a dive no aeroplane ever
” said james .
” “i don’t want to do anything bad , ” nick had said .
there was a mist coming up from the bay .
i ' m having a hard time handling it .
well , when he came back to mexico from spain he got the first notice .
watching the cleaning up is bad for you .
he’s pretty big for the skillet , he thought .
i ' m going with you , if you don ' t mind .
” “no , the russian first , me after .
and dusty miles of this , and then into a valley of sun-baked , eroded land where the soil was
it was silly to have said it .
" he looked up at the sky and then out to his fish .
but what about the rest that he had never written ?
” “why not stay in camp ?
” “what about the treatment ?
" " do you want to see him ?
t , you never missed when it was really important , he was sure of that , that was one
so you’d better go easy .
” “i didn’t say it was morbid .
' ' we ' ll see , ' the colonel said .
you wouldn ' t think a good german cat would eat a good german soldier , would you , daughter
" i ' ll give you two hundred francs , " he said .
“i got to get there for supper .
" " splendid .
just then , watching his lines , he saw one of the projecting green sticks dip sharply .
until only his metallic eyes showed , and they were red-rimmed and sore , sat thinking .
adams looked at it and at the water rising and then flowing clear in its gravel bed beside the road
' ' you will , boy .
“all right , ” the gypsy said .
spending the time he had with the children had been a valid excuse and he knew nothing had been planned
how many days of heavy brisa have we ?
it was all so slow and so controlled .
brett held him and wouldn ' t let him get up .
the girl came up .
he should be back .
he’s just like he always was .
i knew i was quite drunk , and when i came in i put on the light over the head
yes , she did .
” “oh sure .
with the pain of the bone spur in his heel .
back corner of the lot .
“gee i’m glad she’s going out there with her father , ” the waitress said .
' in this country you find a bridge or a railway station .
at the inquest .
“here comes a big one , ” she said .
then the man of the job says , ‘what a matter with you , john ?
pulled the bull to his knees .
, or to be hurried .
the khaki-clothed guide referred to this professional hunter as b ' wana simba and the name infuriated us all .
the sun was two hours higher now and it did not hurt his eyes so much to look into the
they crouched in a point of dried reeds before we started .
jack didn ' t laugh .
came out from behind one of the mud and wattle huts , and guided us back down the road and
” “where is he shot ?
” “if we have any luck .
“fellow gave me this for you , ” he said and handed me a rolled-up sort of tube wrapped in
" i wish i had a stone for the knife , " the old man said after he had checked
above , all the boxes were full .
he had already , since he had mounted , sitting in the half-dark in the big , quilted saddle ,
dust .
off at the edge of the wooded hills on the far side above a masai village .
but they always lifted it and moved it back ahead of the attack .
" " you ' re too damned smart , " doctor wilcox said .
you aren ' t going to die .
really afraid of them .
" that has only happened once .
was very funny , as a joke on mr .
our guest put his head in the window .
what you call a t .
we both drank .
spain were appearing in magazines , but too late to have been included in “the first forty-nine .
into the cockpit .
" drink this .
' to us , of course , such things are always interesting .
on his trousers , and lifted the carcass of the bonito by the tail and dropped it overboard .
the garden was sold out .
you have a pistol , go out and shoot him yourself .
' the fright p .
they ' re fine kids but i want a boy .
then he touched his forehead with the bloody finger and made the speech about ' wanderobo-masai wonderful guide !
he wrote this letter at the club , cold sober , and mailed it to new york asking her to
there wasn’t any sense in wasting gas .
the best tunes they had that winter were " sing something simple , " " singsong girl , " and
he moved , still cat-like when he moved , although it was an old cat now , over to the
i really think she meant them .
" brett came up the stairs .
” “well , what did you have to hit me for ?
but there weren’t any cigarettes and postcards and no chocolate .
but tell me again .
" " listen , " george said to nick .
but it seemed like everybody steered clear of giving my old man any mounts .
keep your hands off of people .
' my old man ' s jack brennan .
he lay for a long time with his face in the pillow , and after a while he forgot to
michael ' s trying to get his mother to put up for it .
those damned tracks all the time--what if i never see one ?
i ' m quite serious .
i could stand on the letters of her name on her bow and my head was just out of water
to me , sir , ' jackson said .
saragossa was a good anarchist town .
uncle george gave both the indians cigars .
had hit him but there was only one bullet hole , well back , just below the spine and ranging
i moved too , so he would know i was awake .
it makes a sweet hurt , but i think we would do better to find out what the _gran maestro_
" gradually and then suddenly .
" " monsieur is going to divorce , " the first porter explained .
did i not .
” “you don’t think jack’s in any shape , do you ?
” “we are robbing you .
anyway , we went down-stairs to the bar and had a whiskey and soda .
different people asked for , and it was as real as minneapolis , where the revellers left their beds each
' ' let ' s talk about mr .
i ' ve done nothing but walk .
“yes , ” said macomber , standing up .
passing the skinner ' s tent he showed me the head which looked , body-less and neck-less , the cape
” “won’t we stay there a while ?
johnson , what do you say we go out tonight ?
tuna held crosswise in his mouth .
' watch , ' i said , and tipped the bottle up and let it all go down .
” “not now , ” the sergeant said .
' ' very good , my colonel .
that is a sensible order couched in simple language and easily understood .
in the dark he kissed her , brushing his lips against hers , feeling them both fill without opening ,
“it’s soft , ain’t it ?
“tanks .
" the nigger and my bright boy are amused by themselves .
' i suppose it ' s merely condition .
" everything tastes of licorice .
then we made the break-through as soon as the valhalla express had gone home , stretching in its beauty and
now he could still feel all of that trail with bare feet .
“and tomorrow you can follow it on the radio in the car .
' i ' ll be a sad son of a bitch , the shooter said to himself .
jim .
" " don ' t be a fool , " i said .
the dead grow larger each day until sometimes they become quite too big for their uniforms , filling these until
just when the sun made the water blinding in the glare before it went down , you were liable to
she pulled hard on the oars and the boat went way up the beach .
while we were waiting around i told the forceful girl i thought the whole thing was a pretty good story
now the problem was to so use the terrain that we might locate them , and get up and into
" " no , a beet worker .
set the table for lunch .
hung back over his withers .
i had not been thinking about her side of it .
jack was as safe as a church all the time he was in there , as long as he was
the sun .
“so many people in the ward , ” the mexican said deprecatingly .
" johnson asked the other porters .
' ' no , ' the colonel disagreed .
passes .
“then we’ll hit that old logging road .
after you’re grown-up they send you to the penitentiary .
” “wonderful .
” “i am strong , ” he said .
“how much is the wine ?
i ' d look so like hell .
can ' t do it more than twice in an evening .
he used three pillows , as amaldo knew , and his extra bottle of medicine , not the one that
have you got any more by walpole ?
he saw him first as a dark shadow that took so long to pass under the boat that he could
" i ' m clear enough in the head , he thought .
the académie americaine , she said .
“come in here a minute .
maybe we move in different circles .
it had started the night before when he had wakened and heard the lion roaring somewhere up along the river
“they are not so stupid .
d ' you like it ?
rubber worn on pavements , comfort facilities , and cokes in red vending machines .
but for myself , now , i can make no exceptions .
on the trip , at that grant and at a bustard once on the plain , still he beat me
the heels touched .
she wrote our father .
" i say , do i look too much of a mess ?
much they had finally , always , with the corrosion of the quarrelling , killed what they had together .
“do you think that it is fun to do this ?
i got out the dictionary and asked the old man if there were any dogs at the roman ' s
it was numbing cold .
he must have gone through plenty of that before by the look of things .
he did not wish to be unjust .
“come on , ” said wilson .
s , heart and her dark hair , of an alive texture , hung down over her shoulders .
“keep me from talking , enrique .
form of souvenir .
' _bathi_ yourself , ' said pop .
he stopped stif and one of the monos held his bridle and walked him forward .
" the girl smiled brightly at the woman , to thank her .
” i heard him roll in his blankets on the straw and then he was very quiet and i listened
he was feeling better since the water and he knew he would not go away and his head was clear
" montoya smiled .
" they beat me , manolin , " he said .
” you can get a good meal at the perla for twenty-five cents .
“let’s go there .
he did not look up at us .
do you think you can find an eighty-five ?
republic .
he was sitting at the table smoking a cigar .
it turned on its side and then righted itself .
all the time rockets were going up .
" up at the hotel jack took off his shoes and his coat and lay down for a while .
“it’s coming right off the big lake , ” nick said .
inside it smelled of fresh tanned leather and hot tar .
“i took once .
home and into their fathers ' businesses .
" " it would be grand .
of course once you were inside the protecting trees , and in the blind , you were wonderfully placed ,
' ' maybe there are others .
you know my name isn ' t really harris .
it was a pretty day all right .
" " stay away from the quarter .
” “he knew i’d blow his head off , ” al said from the kitchen .
not he .
" " i do .
the critic of _el heraldo_ reached for the bottle of warm champagne that stood between his feet , took a
i doubt if they will .
his leather coat was dirty and greasy , his eyes were hollow and he needed a shave .
” “i have no fear .
i must get the heart .
please come on .
enrique could not see the color of his coat or trousers , but he was a negro .
“he’s in my charge .
pebbly where he stood and pebbly and full of boulders beyond ; where it curved near the tree roots ,
as i lay in bed before i went to sleep , with all the things of the summer piled around
" the one blonde looked at the other and shook her head .
it was crowded .
” “oh , what the hell , ” said max .
” we went first to the german in the road .
” “they aren’t really drops , ” nick told her .
the camera was at an angle on one side of the balcony window as carefully camouflaged as a machine gun
“boat coming , ” he said .
said when he had gone into his tent to bathe .
" won ' t you have a kirsch with me ?
there were many good pieces of old jewellery in the window and they stood and looked at them and pointed
i hunted for them and found them and carried them down-stairs .
“where you say you’re from ?
' ' do you think they would have done grappa , pasubio and the basso piave as we did ?
“au revoir , ” he called to them in his exemplary french .
they were hunting game .
until he became bored and then walking down through the town to spend the hottest hours of the day in
" bill put his arm around mike ' s shoulder .
' at lunch under the green fly of the dining-tent , in the shade of a big tree , the
” “we were awfully lucky to get away .
then he pulled several yards of line from the reel and tossed the hopper out ahead onto the fast ,
write it down .
then once , twice , he came out stiff as a post , the whole length of him jumping straight
the brush and we chased it but we couldn’t find it .
by the arm , the two sisters of paco were still in the moving-picture palace of the gran via ,
” “i don’t know , ” his father said .
" we rode in a taxi down to the palace hotel , left the bags , arranged for berths on
why shouldn’t you be sleepy ?
you see , there are a great many facets , or shall we say angles , to my issuing the
they are excellent soldiers , he thought .
" " you ' re right , " brett said .
want to know .
“yes , sir .
i can ' t .
had to postpone the treatment .
knowing you have broken them ?
down about two hundred yards were three logs all the way across the stream .
george looked up and saw the back of her neck , clipped close like a boy’s .
the review commenced publication in carmel , california , and finished in provincetown , massachusetts .
he knew when he was ruined .
" mind you ' re at the select around ten .
you’re a good shot now .
" will that hold you ?
now i will rest an hour more and feel that he is solid and steady before i move back to
tell me , does everybody always know about everything that happens in this town ?
we turned up the side road to fontan ' s , stopped the car outside the house , and went
“what about the two bright boys and the nigger ?
it was thickened and tight against the side of his head .
" " have another brandy , " the count said .
there was a herd of hundreds of cattle ahead being driven down to the coast by somali cattle buyers ;
let’s go .
you killed biggest cow .
” “but this is the one you’ve got proof of .
there isn’t any killing nor ever going to be any .
” “ten years , ” said mr .
brush from under the stern .
hill on the right to sit there with our backs against the hilltop and glass the country .
“you’ll get all cinders out here , ” my father said .
, but their wings go to pieces in the water and they make a very blowsy bait , while the
“i ain’t going to move .
the peasant in the high boots took the spade from the sexton and went on filling in the grave--spreading the
he liked the market best .
' you know that .
” “yes , ” said “sliding billy” turner .
it is strange to remember how we fought back there along the canal that winter to defend it and we
under another tree i could see the poor old wanderobo-masai holding his first and last job as gun-bearer .
look at the beggar now , wilson thought .
“you’re ten years older than i am .
it was not the way either of them painted .
well , i killed the engine and climbed up forward to have a look around .
the rest of his face had been burned and then tanned and then burned through the tan .
" " ' well , ' said olz , ' when she died i made the report to the commune
' ' we ought to get more literary conversation from him , ' pop said .
but that night he was caught in the wire , with a flare lighting him up and his bowels spilled
the muzzle of the gun rose and lowered , then swept to left , to right , and back to
" " from me , " said the thin one , " he won two hundred and eleven dollars .
the door would not swing open because the sergeant was lying across it on the floor .
it had cleared and there were no clouds on the mountains .
when i was a little girl i didn’t like the smell of the hops in the carts .
but here we had not seen a white man for two weeks , not since we had left babati to
“double-crossed somebody .
there was a good smell .
“worst one can do is kill you .
nick walked back up the ties to where his pack lay in the cinders beside the railway track .
' hello , my great beauty , ' the colonel said .
“that’s me .
friends in the town , and then drove out to fontan’s .
my brother .
for his arm and i went back to town and they put me under five hundred dollar bond .
" they are something , " brett said .
” “he’ll be good to me .
” “you’d never remember .
“you’re a drunken fool .
" the barman went far enough up the bar so that he would not hear our conversation .
the prisoner sat there .
he did and it was pale and cold like the wines of greece , but not resinous , and its
artists liked the way the palms grew and the bright colors of the hotels facing the gardens and the sea
” “i’m sure there will be .
' we have fun though , don ' t we ?
i am no longer interested in any but the picturesque aspects of the whole affair .
the others started back to camp with pop and m ' cola .
i said i would go with him , just to devil him .
' ' and we would throw all the left over grenades away and bounce them down the hillside coming back
" " don ' t drink it fast that way .
the schooner moved out of the bay toward the open lake carrying the two great saws , the travelling carriage
there was a big bump coming up .
” johnson asked him .
the principal buyer walked ahead , tall , good-looking in white turban and coast clothing , carrying an umbrella as
“take it easy , wesley .
“wasn’t it awful when you couldn’t drink at all ?
' ' i ' ve forgotten .
garner , " nick said .
montoya was standing there looking more embarrassed .
i went out .
" it ' s nothing to worry about .
” “towards barcelona , ” i told him .
it rests me .
' and you look wonderful .
those kids had me spooked all right .
which is sheridan more like ; mantova or verona or vicenza ?
“heads , ” i said .
we sat close against each other .
" " let ' s go out and eat in the town .
“he’s dead in there , ” wilson said .
reading them over , the ones i liked the best , outside of those that have achieved some notoriety so
nick drank and wiped his mouth on his napkin .
“i know it , ” marjorie said happily .
you have eaten bread and drunk wine with us .
" " he ' s drunk .
' ' but we fought ?
you stand right there , " al said .
lasted just four days .
but mostly it was making up stories .
" i ' m tired of it .
with his mouth shut and his tail straight up and down we sail like brothers .
he washed his hands at the stream .
” “the dark forest , ” bill said .
” “something like a hundred , ” i said .
the valley while we were glassing it and when i pretended i was going to shoot him garrick became very
' you prissy jerk , the colonel thought .
brett was wearing a basque beret .
we were passing three cars that had been in a wreck .
i said to him : ' mr .
it had been a good country and we had made a mess of it and i would go , now
" that ' s a good name , " manuel said .
followed him and come close to him in the clearing so that he had seen the great tusks .
“sure is hell keeping it down , joe , ” he’d say and lean back and shut his eyes and
” he smiled again , showing his bad teeth .
” “you’re coming on all right .
that was the year they both bought seminole shirts at the trading post at everglades and wore them in the
he arranged the shooting stool so he would have the maximum swing to left and right , opened a box
bill and the ghee were in the front seat , tired from the long swim .
you know what you can do with it .
” “i’ll go down and see , ” he said .
“different than you , you old lice .
uzuri_ , mama ' with much feeling in the accenting of the word ' mama ' .
there was nothing before .
" where ?
” “i see .
but don ' t get rough with me .
' nothing .
" " maybe he thought that would make him lord ashley .
there were plenty of nice things floating around in it .
“we must have a serious talk , ” the german said .
“but the water’s not as fine .
" you know , " he said , " i missed a lot , boxing .
aloysius kirby announce the marriage of their daughter katherine--i knew neither the girl nor the man she was marrying .
” “i believe him , ” said cayetano softly .
“there are officers from the fort .
do you care ?
at the table there was another woman who had hair three times as white as hair can be , the
to remember the bull as i had first seen him , so i went , in the dusk , to
" give him ten francs .
“you can read it out at the field .
i ' d followed a fine one out of the country missing shot after shot all morning after a series
only away from home .
” asked the mexican worriedly .
the pace .
we crossed the spanish frontier .
you are a bastard , he thought and looked down at the girl asleep on the seat by him .
is a many fascist here ?
' ' if you can get to our camp we have a mechanic .
he was wearing his cape and had his cap on , and he came directly toward my machine and put
what do you want done with the head ?
" " they ' re all about the size of your smallest .
d get rid of me the same way .
it was probably not like that and was like a dream and he did not remember its name nor where
do i have to tell this story ?
time at least , but he got another good one and they went off in a wind-lifted cloud of grey
i couldn’t do it .
" " i ' ll bet he writes to you .
movement , his big gun ready , the second gun-bearer looking ahead and listening , macomber close to wilson ,
' porters don ' t cost as much as petrol .
“i know , ” manuel said .
i do not like to ask questions , and where i was brought up it was not polite .
” “for one thing , he’s certain to be suffering .
" " oh , some one took her home .
i had held full on the centre of the shoulder .
“look , ” he said to macomber , and pointed .
' ' it sounded awfully jolly to me , ' pop said .
' it isn ' t indicated ; in fact it is definitely contra-indicated in increased intra-colour and intra-cranial pressure .
it took an indian to make money from sisal and on the coast every coconut plantation meant a man ruined
or is it that they pick men they can handle ?
didn’t you hear me say no ?
" bill had gone into the bar .
" this is the eleventh time my boots have been polished , " mike said .
" " you ought to go to bed now so that you will be fresh in the morning .
“i talked about it and now i’m through .
i’ve needed it so .
bill and the ghee had come out of the water farther down the shore , walked down the beach up
[_he makes a face .
he fell .
' i ' m sure i missed him , ' p .
" my god , hello , " she said .
" just a little , " said brett .
" mrs .
he wrote for me to come home--i went , and found he is taking a course of injections and i
do you think we could have lunch and then take a nap or read or something and then swim ?
“will you have some , mister adolph francis ?
' n ' dio , ' i said .
bring me all the feldbuchen and you hold the money for splitting .
" but we have .
” “i know how to do it .
” “in the bahamas i guess .
the wind was good .
san sebastian .
” “no ring .
ps _num_ e _num_ a _num_ _num_ _num_ ′ .
“we’re going after buff in the morning , ” he told her .
' ' wonderful except for the ulcers and a small cardiac condition .
” he gestured with the bottle .
he was impressed .
“oh , well .
her bible , her copy of science and health and her quarterly were on a table beside her bed in
really you don ' t know how much it means .
i ' m a pasubio boy , too , if you know what that means .
with its green lawn .
and the other was telephoning in french for them to send the ambulance to take him out to maisons .
“his own father shot and killed him .
not like this girl who slept as though she were awake and alive ; except she was asleep .
few times , blurred and i could not call them into my mind and finally they all blurred and all
it was not worth it .
those at toussus le noble and at le buc .
" mademoiselle , " he called again .
no one is interested in it , abstractly , except soldiers and there are not many soldiers .
listen , hank .
“what was it about writing ?
already i was half glad the novel was gone because i could see already , as you begin to see
it narrowed in a high grass a hundred yards above the dam and then , walking slowly and carefully ,
" " you ' re right i said it , " said the tall waiter .
” “is that a crap game ?
they’re taking it now , coming in from the west .
” “good-bye , fred .
but every time he gets in there close .
" i thought they ' d killed you , " he said .
to _num_ .
it was my fault but i was glad to see it run at first .
they were just germans on stolen bicycles .
” pretty soon the telephone rang and they said the taxi was waiting .
" don ' t think , old man , " he said aloud .
he ' s a fine one , ' pop said .
” “thank you , ” he said and got to his feet , swayed from side to side and then
there never was such a wonderful , lean , running built horse .
" i just can ' t read him .
" it got all right .
then they were running back from all along the line .
' can you tell me anything about the war ?
you ought to know .
he swung the tiller across the shark ' s head where the jaws were caught in the heaviness of the
a day’s wait he came into the room to shut the windows while we were still in bed and i
only she was full of water .
we played cribbage and he won three dollars off me .
and meanwhile , stretched flat on a bed in a darkened room in his house in triana , manuel garcia
that school has gotten away from me , he thought .
' that ' s because you can slide .
“and that , ” the extremaduran said to me , nodding toward the battle police .
" " you got to get all right .
” “tonight , sent by the police , they come to serenade me .
there was no one in the town at all .
' too dark to shoot unless we ' re right on him .
they had this knowledge shared between them and it was for this reason and for a true , good hatred
they were farther away now and they looked more like spain than ever .
cohn , of course , was much younger .
" " you don ' t have to say that again .
" " il est crazy pour le shooting , " madame fontan said .
the wife stopped lagging behind and walked up .
with uplifted , white-muscled , tendon-marked naked forearms , and white bloating belly , as the black men fleshed away
“why don’t you try to go to sleep ?
the roman did not call them tarahalla and that name meant nothing to him .
” john says , leaning over him .
none of us spoke and everyone seemed to regard it as a pretty serious business .
" don ' t you kill him , nickie .
” “what’s that ?
mexicans up to see poor cayetano .
” “what were the other violations ?
it’s very healthy .
" " thought any more about going to south america ?
we are smoking the enemy with artillery and mortar .
along on my elbows , the bullets whocking into the brick wall over my back and twice spurting dirt over
' ' where did you read him ?
' no good , ' i said .
“does bwana want ?
i have read mostly the classics and i read the illustrated papers for the scandals .
' ' but what about thoreau ?
he had announced this intention .
he had only been at it three years .
“well , here’s to the lion , ” robert wilson said .
" you see .
i had never liked him and i liked him less now .
he’d had the butt under one leg and the rod across his lap .
" the damn police kept arresting chaps that wanted to go and commit suicide with the bulls .
” “they aren’t very smart so far .
, she asked him , holding close , ' do you still love me in the cold , hard venice
to the right , and we saw a whole new range of mountains off to the south , all brown
she said nothing and neither did he , and when the great bird had flown far out of the closed
" " i want another one , too .
i stole that , he thought .
the river cut to the edge of the uprooted tree .
you live by co-ordinates .
” “what did you lay off them for ?
" nick told him .
people .
it was very hot , but i kept on the shady side of the streets and went through the market
kamau brought me the tins and i told him to open one of fruit .
manuel nodded , wiping his face .
' ' why do you like the hand ?
there was no one there .
i’ll give you a little one .
" she looked away .
' is there any news from the order ?
after the funeral every one sat in the cafés out of the rain , and many colored pictures of maera
what he said was , “we lost a gun-bearer .
jack didn ' t talk much .
“over you go .
the hills ahead were not wooded , and there were great fields of yellow gorse .
he liked the girls that were walking along the other side of the street .
brett did not turn up , so about quarter to six i went down to the bar and had a
the surface , and they would hit a man in the water , if they were hungry , even if
' but maybe not with the same intensity .
would you buy a lady a drink ?
i hope i have made myself clear , gentlemen .
you ain ' t got an idea what it ' s like when you can ' t sleep .
oh harry !
and scored for turpentine .
“hello ?
just then the stern line came taut under his foot , where he had kept a loop of the line
they had been to the morning show at the bull-ring .
have a boy of her own just my age and was going to a place in new york to be
romero did not look up at us .
there was a general store and inn on each side of the line .
” part ii short stories published in books or magazines subsequent to “the first forty-nine” one trip across you know
” “and arturo ?
" " they took about twenty chaps to the infirmary , " mike said .
i was awfully slow wasn’t i .
but that is not why i wish to feel him .
“take this bottle and the sausage and i’ll wash the shirt in no time .
he ' s hunting now .
then he lay down on the bed .
” “i’m going to fix you up good when we get in to the place , ” he told him
' ' can ' t we make trips like that when we come back ?
as for the story of the cuban fisherman , he did eventually return to it thirteen years later when he
we started out the door .
i think you’re all right .
" he did not say anything and she looked at him and put her hand out again .
” manuel lit it .
nothing had eaten any breakfast .
it sounds as though you were practising your trade .
order him replaced .
it didn’t show what an awful beating he was taking .
panic through the sun-splashed timber .
“didn’t you know he was a nigger ?
" now let ' s sleep a while , john .
” “tell me they aren’t any good any more , ” said the flyer .
” “i’ll wash them , ” said al .
” the general was coldly furious .
his head and drew him out from under the stern .
” “get a sleep , ” i said .
the old man carried the mast on his shoulder and the boy carried the wooden box with the coiled ,
someone might take him , in a short bout .
i dressed slowly , sitting on the bed .
the sun was hot now and the old man felt it on the back of his neck and felt the
they can ' t hear .
i was the first boat out and you never saw water like that was .
through on the escape-route road .
the critics have made them impotent .
' ' didn ' t you hurt your bad hand ?
writers should work alone .
to think about .
i’d half rolled , dove , and then pulled up out of it and i was looking back and down
but he might wake up and see you .
one day at auteuil , after a selling steeplechase , my old man bought in the winner for _num_ ,
the steer ran awkwardly and the bull caught him , hooked him lightly in the flank , and then turned
” “i know they do .
chapter xx the colonel stopped at the reception desk in the lobby , but the concierge was not there yet
the train passed through many outside of paris towns .
" " do you think they will send americans down here ?
i don’t know how he could but he seemed to .
' please let me fill your glass and you , please look at the light on the ceiling .
” “comrades , ” said baldy .
" " a twelve-gauge pump .
" he ' ll make a beautiful bait .
we’re under the american consul .
” her lips were salty and her face was wet with the seawater and as he kissed her she turned
the heavy scrub .
bill was a good drunk .
” “you’re not going .
“watch her , ” i said , and i took her in to where i knew they could see us
macomber had not thought how the lion felt as he got out of the car .
he was barefooted .
i was stiff from sleeping on the ground .
it was his mother and he wanted to do it himself .
" " where did you know him ?
i put my hand on his shoulder .
“she did everything there was to be done .
his old legs and shoulders pivoted with the swinging of the pulling .
” “we’ll have that and then , in the morning , we’ll be on our way .
what a bloody balls .
' ' not till the end when it was over .
she had abandoned treachery for an attempt at security .
we had scouts out on three different hill tops and we were waiting for it to be light enough for
the v .
" " that ' s not ironical .
it was a club only you didn’t have to pay any dues and you could pick a girl up there
“your mother wants you to come and see her , ” the doctor said .
after i ' d gotten more womanly , of course .
there was that comic slap of the bullet and the hyena ' s agitated surprise to find death inside of
george went out , pulled the little thing in the box and came back in the room .
“sergeant , why did you kill this italian ?
" do you know any dirt ?
" he said to bill .
i won thirty-eight dollars from him at cards .
' pop told him solemnly .
chains while the roman elder and the rest unloaded the car and carried the heaviest things up the steep bank
you ask me that ?
they commenced by smelling of all the pistols .
“no , i’m not .
he wasn’t strong any more .
" i knew you were in a motor-car from the way the dust was .
" she wasn ' t crying any more and she was calm .
” the man saw where the water was rippling smooth off the bank even when he could not see the
there was plenty to eat last night .
there was a label on the cologne bottle with the address .
" you are a rotten dancer , jake .
“you’ll dent in the screen , ” bill said .
” “do you love me ?
range of the ducks , i began to shoot snipe to m ' cola ' s great disgust .
" want to take a turn out to the park ?
" she asked seriously .
" " half-pound one ounce .
” “where did you learn about that type of gull ?
oh the good , fine , lovely here in the dark .
” he went in and the conductor swung up and the train went out .
in the weeds he rose on one knee , took the shock of the pain , held through it ,
it was not the easy grin of the confident , nor the quick slashing smile of the extremely durable and
' bulls ?
i’ll carry the rifle .
his sisters envied , and he had a ready and unpuzzled smile .
the two men went on .
“lock the cabin .
“i’m so glad you’re americans .
fights and almost always at some time in the fall of the year and always when leaving paris .
“how many tubes has the radio ?
but it would be too dangerous .
have a drink in the monteleone bar and that kid that looked just like saint sebastian was paging people with
the cocked gun , behind my back , made me black angry .
the flopping and bouncing mr .
" i wouldn ' t be surprised .
it was a hot day .
" i should have gotten some kek for him , " madame fontan said .
' not manoeuvres .
juma gave him the rifle to carry after they came upon the last pile of dung but after an hour
” “still i have no real confidence in the integrity of basilio alvarez .
' ' what ' s the matter , portrait ?
morning to make that trip down to the studio .
" was painted on the banner .
he lived , he would have someone to talk to at the early hours that he woke .
infantry covering fire when they attacked .
he saw her going down the street .
so on some nights i would try to remember all the animals in the world by name and then the
now he leaned back , calling to him .
said no .
she made no noise of crying but they could see that her shoulders were shaking under the rose-colored , sun-proofed
but daddy paid him adequately for the portrait , and , while it is not truly me , it is
the sword at the spot high up between the bull ' s shoulders .
“you been here long ?
i ' ve just seen that kind of country before .
“i go on her wherever she goes .
they ' re very angry about me , he says .
' also any particular planet that you wish to be and i will give you an accurate location of the
it was right after the medals .
owns a chain of sweetshops in the states .
" he ' s out in the barn with a couple of his customers , " i said .
“no , ” i said , “that’s all i want .
he felt a reaction against deep wading with the water deepening up under his armpits , to hook big trout
“well , they’re always in new york or philadelphia now , ” bill said .
" you did not do so badly for something worthless , " he said to his left hand .
they ' re not really jews .
" i ' ll get some more beer , " madame fontan said .
i’ll go down and i’ll get a good five hours’ sleep before it starts .
alone with the pain in the night in the fifth week of not sleeping i thought suddenly how a bull
but i don’t carry anything to the states that can talk .
its wide beam was playing over the weeds , where the girl , maria , lay hidden .
" when we were up in his room i never saw a better-looking kid .
“that’s why you like it .
” “honest to god ?
then she broke away , suddenly and hard , and looked at him and said , ' i suppose we
the third roman soldier is sitting with his head down .
" " down by the lake .
the flask was flat and of silver with a leather cover .
i have seen him come into an hotel and change from his proper uniform into a crowd-catching kit to go
there were no tracks going down the stream so we knew they were down in the part of the stream
retana gave them to zurito .
the hot fried ham and eggs tasted wonderful .
know the names of , walled thick with forest , past a hindu ' s trading store and many huts
i may lose so much line that i will lose him , if he makes his effort and the drag
" his own father shot and killed him .
" " eat ?
we could see the car outside , through the window .
so the three of us sat there in the stern and drank a highball together .
' the bwana can shoot after you cannot see .
some are dead and others still live .
romero , watching , saw the bull start to turn his head .
" but you haven ' t got the boy , he thought .
” “i am sorry for that , too .
he didn ' t come here to do anyone any harm .
“jesus christ , ” i said to him , “you said you’d pay that and you took money out of
" " i don ' t lie to you .
and tell them to fill her up and check the oil , mac , the way it is in american
” captain willie asked again .
" you ' ll not fish without eating while i ' m alive .
“that man would see .
they sprinted , were beaten , laughed , and then we were leaning out , waving , and they stood
” “and , ” the major looked at him quickly , “that you are not corrupt ?
there aren’t any more men like steve ketchel .
' you look well , andrea , ' the colonel said .
hirsch , ” nick said .
it’s a clear night .
” “i wanted to try this new drink : that’s all we do , isn’t it—look at things and try
they were all out there on the pier and it wasn’t at all like an earthquake or that sort of
“see you tomorrow night at chicote’s .
water and raising and dipping her head , splashed water on to her back .
” “until you’re too tired you walk in the sandy part of the road when ; their horses made holes
also i ' ll tell them it is a portrait of my daughter .
bastard and why can i not suspend this trade of arms and be a kind and good man as i
he was too tired to go any farther .
in passing under the last bridge .
" " he says we ' re punks , " tommy said to me .
he had to stop and wash his hands .
" nothing , " he said aloud .
an angle as though to cut someone off .
but he ' s spooked this country to hell .
he stood up as i came in .
my father threw it at a bat one evening .
“your father is worried , too , ” his mother went on .
ticks .
" " or wear purple undershirts .
“and a fellow i used to know who’s in tanks .
i leave him alone .
to them .
in english .
" " how are your kids ?
we wished him " mucha suerte , " shook hands , and went out .
sun .
' ' and you don ' t want arlington or père lachaise or what we have here ?
” “hey , al , ” max called , “bright boy wants to know what it’s all about .
' how far would you call it ?
' ' we ' re going to chuck all this , ' pop told p .
” “i wonder if he’d like to go fishing , ” bill said .
he was not lonely after this last time as he had nearly always been no matter with whom or where
the kitchen was dirty and sloppy , but all the doors and windows were tight shut .
“they ought to put some gravel on that stretch , ” joe garner said .
” he said to frankie .
" brett smiled at him .
" ' ' he ' d devaluate , ' the colonel said .
” but that night after dinner and a whisky and soda by the fire before going to bed , as
he said it all .
he isn ' t the way he looks in a photograph .
“et vous , monsieur ?
he had seen many handsome young couples break up and new couples form that were never so handsome long .
" " he would make a very good member .
” asked mr .
altered , and in a short time the soil , once the sod is turned under , is cropped out
out at the front , got hysterics during the bombardment before the attack , and para had had him walk
that’s all i have now .
the men were just home , that was all .
" " it ' s not worth it , " i said .
i didn’t believe he could do it when he was so old and tired .
then he cut a pole and put the bag on the end of it , running it through the flaps
perhaps i can give you a winner at enghien today ?
” “oh , shut up , ” marjorie said .
“put his papers back on him .
the edges of the blood on the black-surfaced road .
that we were always trying to get shells for , strapped to his leg .
not to have been bombed .
scared sick looking at it .
whether a bite from a chinaman was poisonous and listened to her running nice and smooth and the water washing
" " good night then .
he could not understand duck-talk through a burlap bag .
" i haven ' t seen you since i ' ve been back , " brett said .
' m ' cola was not jealous of droopy .
“come on up to the house .
" he seems to be going anyway , " guy said .
” she wasn’t crying any more and she was calm .
but he cleared the harpoon line and let it run slowly through his raw hands and , when he could
only pushes it a little , skilfully , to be more handsome ?
“does he still play them ?
dirt road , with the swift flowing canal beside it , and the thick hedge beyond .
” “no , ” said the sister .
don ' t be obstinate , darling .
then after a while it was better and i lay in bed and listened to the heavy trams go by
when nick had asked him to smell of it his father sniffed at it indignantly and said that it was
i wrote out for him where to eat in milano and the addresses of comrades .
but i did not know that then .
he’s all by himself .
thanks for having us up in the room .
he went down the stairs and out of the door into the hot brightness of the street .
“he writes the books himself , ” he explained to madame .
turner had been in this room much longer than he should have been , he had many things to do
' m ' cola said definitely and finally .
" let ' s bet on something else .
" wasn ' t i , though ?
“you know when i get going i’m good , ” manuel said .
from the moment the first bull burst into the ring he was overwhelmed by the experience and left the scene
i think we could conservatively describe them as unfavourable .
at the foot of the bed , looking very strangely .
listen , mr .
he wasn ' t a good writer like you are , was he , robert ?
you must forgive me .
_] that ' s a nice little wine .
” nick came down the slope , holding the helmet in his hands .
” “that’s a nice word too .
lower that was dark and foul with stomach content .
perhaps it is a little complicated by claustrophobia .
seals , came walking back and stood in a group talking , under the electric light in the patio .
” “his pants looked mighty like billy .
“have you any chili sauce ?
it bellied and pulled hard in the current .
” “what do you keep on doing it for ?
ahead was a river-valley .
he turned , and advancing his right foot slightly , made the second pass , gained a little terrain on
i think he ' s off his feed a little .
' all cows , ' he said .
we went close to the curb to avoid a tram .
” “of course it does .
sister said .
yellow , the road was dusty with cars passing , and all the small wooden houses at the edge of
then after him the farmer’s land ends and there’s a section of cedar swamp with sink holes and you’d have
she waved to us and fontan went in the house .
” “no , ” al said .
we all moved over to the big table by the wall to have coffee .
“no , ” he said , very shyly , he did not like mantegna .
' ' please don ' t be rough .
" " what makes you think that ?
he looked ruined .
" hello , " she said , " i ' m so glad you ' re here , jake .
" the other way from you , " tom told him .
i caught two yesterday .
he said he would go attend to it that afternoon when he went to town .
we are an old town and we had fighting men , always .
we ' re going to go .
in the afternoon we moved up into the house .
but when i came out of mine i was selfish .
" brett drank from her glass of absinthe .
" let us not doubt , brother .
yet warm , as they take warmth and as all good stones have warmth , from his bad hand into
you couldn’t pull out any line .
" " you ' re happy , all right .
" we can ' t stand here .
' ' no , ' the colonel agreed .
" this is on me .
chapter three droopy ' s country , when we reached it that evening , after a hot ride through red-soiled
“it is your room , isn’t it ?
lake , flying very lightly and with flutters and flew down close over the water and then high and turned
" " he ' s a good man , " i said .
jack wouldn’t take the foul .
if you wanted to shoot we could have gone shooting in hungary and been comfortable .
the water was lapping in the piles and the point was dark across the bay .
very much .
“we’ll eat a couple of apples .
“with no g-men nonsense , ” said the secretary .
" the old man had taught the boy to fish and the boy loved him .
he put on his belt and his harness and put out the big rod with the hardy reel with six
shifting in values gradually .
' ' that ' s bad , ' the colonel said .
i ' d rather like to pray a little for him or something .
that’s a proverb too .
then he was up and i hit him again and he took it and was in the bunch .
they felt as though they were married , but they wanted every one to know about it , and to
' but you won ' t tease me , will you ?
” “i wanted to kill them both last night when they were asleep .
' there ' s nothing holding us up and i guarantee they won ' t stop at either of those
" we said and leaned the skis against the wall and took off our packs .
if there is anything in the course you do not understand please ask questions .
there were four of them and they were in a hurry too but they were very tired .
you hit the nail on the head there .
” “i don’t think you ought to work any more , ” hogan says .
" " well , i ' m tight .
at any time he knew he could strike the river by turning off to his left .
he ' s got a heavy beam and a big spread .
" where did you wash ?
“you’ve been in the hospital .
“he would have left you too .
i will send a corporal with you to show you about and you will make a tour of the lines
' rub it , ' i told him and rubbed mine to show him how .
did you ever read _king lear_ , daughter ?
” but one of them was already unlucky .
" i cannot be too far out now , he thought .
on the place where they would come out back of the trees and then out they came with the old
iodoform , carbolic and an overheated radiator .
of his left hand .
then the music started again and we danced .
' stand by it once , ' he said .
“i don’t need your coat .
' so then , daughter , not to bore you , the wind was from the east and the smoke
a big cedar slanted all the way across the stream .
' that ' s your rich coast in fish .
” “we’ll get the berries another day .
i said it for a joke .
' after a long stretch of the million-mile country , the country began to open out into dry , sandy
i mean really .
“oh darling .
anyway , i could shoot now .
too fine i’m afraid .
sometimes you ' re forced to , though .
“i’ll save time with the boat .
the workmen dug holes and fitted in the timbers , each timber numbered for its regular place .
” “what’s it like over the khud ?
” “the firestones are very old .
be indecorous if the race is to be carried on since the position prescribed for procreation is indecorous , highly
to hunt them .
various capsules .
” “so long , frankie , ” i said .
' ' good night , mr .
” “it’s good and cold .
down here everybody aims to mind their own business .
with our car .
beer , and then we ' d like the hops .
i could just reach it with the grains pole and i tried to break it with that but i couldn
“edgar hoover exaggerates his publicity , ” said the doctor .
“i told you i didn’t carry anything that can talk .
“i can’t see any more , ” she said .
" i wonder what a bone spur is , he thought .
" he held the tiller under his arm and soaked both his hands in the water as the skiff drove
she liked it about his mustache .
in montoya ' s room were their photographs .
it is good half an hour down .
' don ' t you ever tell him different .
it would not be possible to walk through a swamp like that .
” “well then , as wilson said , kill him and stop his roaring .
" " but remember how you went eighty-seven days without fish and then we caught big ones every day for
” “no , ” roger said truly .
" don ' t think about the wine .
but four hours later the fish was still swimming steadily out to sea , towing the skiff , and the
the other fellow pulled the one who was hit back by the legs to behind the wagon , and i
" it ' s my business and i ' m going to do it .
he heard the tiller break and he lunged at the shark with the splintered butt .
the cool evening .
i sat in one of the wicker chairs and leaned back comfortably .
in america , and he had discovered writing .
” “it’s too morbid for the st .
' say it again .
it was seven years later that his father read the prize-winning story again .
the day , now , i lay in the shade with a breeze in the trees and read with no
' noises m ' cola had made .
, and then they take the moonshine out of their pockets in a bottle and pour it in the beer
it must be quite a difficult trade being an ex-fascist .
“yes , ” said my wife .
my father spread all the blackened , chipped stone implements on the paper and then wrapped them up .
" but you know i ' m not much on those sort of places .
he crawled inside under the mosquito bar with various things from the pack to put at the head of the
“i’m going to take a little sleep , ” he said to the adjutant .
' ' don ' t you know i want you to die with the grace of a happy death ?
" talk about something else .
” he took out a notecase and looked in it and laughed .
it ' s very good .
” “i don’t want you to do it if you feel that way .
second-rate matadors lived at that pension because the address in the calle san jeronimo was good , the food was
then i ' d make all my leading ---- characters ambassadors and the unsuccessful ones could be corps commanders or
” “maybe you told me about them , papa .
but i told you last night i couldn’t .
" the two other whores , the big ones , acted very quiet and placid as though they didn '
any foreigner can flatter him .
” “oh yes i did .
christ , if he ' d only kill any damn thing clean .
bending a razor back over the hand is the only progress the nigger ever made .
nothing , he thought .
” “i was saving it .
” “good-night , mrs .
you don’t deserve to have a mother .
" " oh , go to hell , cohn , " mike called from the table .
was .
and arranged in a looped fringe on their foreheads .
" if durocher had continued to come here each year your father would think him the greatest manager .
you come in here and act snotty about my face and smoke my cigars and drink my liquor and then
frank sat on the front seat to drive to the barn and put up the horses .
" as a matter of fact , supper was a pleasant meal .
fans going in the sun .
but we ' ve had enough of a chance for me to know .
trail ; pointing with a grass stem at the spots to save talking , until it ran out again and
" " yes , sir ?
" " will i ever live with them ?
john knocked on the door .
she had only gotten on just in time .
” “frances wilson .
the windows on the sunny side of the street were shuttered .
' when the moon is dark he is not worth eating .
" listen , billy , " william campbell said , " i want to tell you something .
i finished the meal and sat back and smoked a cigarette and worried my head off .
” “why do i know that ?
is for the general staff .
” “it’s an awful thing , ” nick said .
he was good and sore .
' ' yes , ' said the old man and roman nodded .
" after about thirty minutes or so hogan and i went upstairs .
' ' i would probably end up as an unnecessary please myself .
" " it ' s been damned hard on mike .
“oh , a lot of things , ” the negro answered from the fire .
' don ' t shoot men ?
it was bright and cold and the air came cold through the open wind-shield .
we were all very impressed by these masai .
when do i eat ?
outside , the sun went behind a mountain and there was no more light on the wall of the hut
" what ' s the matter with you , son ?
then , ahead of us , we saw him , on his back , throat stretched out to the full
he had been a dock worker before he got a job as a stool pigeon for the havana police and
never fought .
” “dump this liquor , ” the man told him .
i know we’ve got those .
what ' s the use of taking care of yourself all these years when you can ' t sleep ?
the word ' _simba_ ' .
' the colonel made no small talk on this but said , ' i love venice as you know .
“nice work .
, and took a taxi to the café select .
" " no , the russian first , me after .
“he’s a pretty smooth boy , ” hogan said .
the old man knew it too .
linked them all up .
i’ll go home anyway if i’m a bother or a nuisance or an expense .
" he ' s a great friend of mine , " brett said .
do not like the subject so they say it is all a fake , yet you know its value absolutely
" thank you , so much , jake .
said , ' go on , boy , look through the rest of it .
i love the very high brass like i love the pig ' s you know .
" " and if i do it you ' ll be happy and things will be like they were and
only three chinese women .
he would have liked to have a girl but he did not want to have to spend a long time
” “you want anything from the drugstore ?
" jack sat down on the porch by me .
his shoulders he walked along the road that paralleled the railway track , leaving the burned town behind in the
" " absolutely , " i said .
” morgan asks him .
i ' d get a good tailor to cut it and we would make it double-breasted with no pocket on
" " i don ' t have it my own way .
he knew he couldn ' t beat walcott .
they sat down in the shelter of the warehouse and jim pulled liz close to him .
he certainly did used to make the fellows he fought hate boxing .
' ' only when it rains .
he was wearing droopy ' s tunic and that he had been a porter before he became a gun bearer
he did not even watch the big shark sinking slowly in the water , showing first life-size , then small
or maybe we have a differing definition for the word .
' mummy says she can ' t live here too long at any time because there are no trees ,
“that has only happened once .
“how is the bull ?
“if you love women you’ll get a dose , ” william campbell said .
” “an awful lot .
more .
he’s still sleeping .
“claude , i promised them two vélos .
” “want to look at them ?
where they were intensely disappointed in the garbo film , which showed the great star in miserable low surroundings when
grabbed me and held me and two big stretcher-bearers were going out after my old man and around on the
” bill was buttoning up his sweater .
” “corto y derecho , ” he thought , furling the muleta .
“well , it’s not right , ” he said .
then there was a cutting through red stone and clay , and the sea was only occasionally and far below
frazer ' s wheeled chair .
” he stopped , then continued .
if i had a private room and a radio i would be crying and yelling all night long .
" " and when the chasse is gone ?
holding him by the ears i handed him back .
you know i wrote a diary of that alaskan trip .
" you don ' t believe i love you , do you ?
in london .
“that’s nice of him .
” “wasn’t his name stanley ketchel ?
' i feel so wonderful about just being supposed to have killed him .
timber on the mountain .
in the meantime it was my own damned life and i would lead it where and how i pleased .
' kubwa sana !
' ' i ' ll ask the _gran maestro_ , maybe he knows .
" he puts lemon juice on his hands , " the man said .
i asked for the key , but the porter said there were two comrades upstairs in the room taking a
my soldier suits , the medals and decorations with the citations and some books .
harbor past the morro .
” “i can row up the lake to home this afternoon and get one of our kids to let me
s , and you can telephone for someone from the gritti to get your bags .
“a tip , ” i told him in spanish .
but he had a big pack load from the kitchen .
" i wouldn ' t joke him .
" come on , fish , " he said .
ashley , chap she got the title from , was a sailor , you know .
he came from a village in a part of extramadura where conditions were incredibly primitive , food scarce , and
more important than the president , he says .
last for me .
” “it probably was bad .
place like sheboygan .
that seemed to handle it .
" they ' re pretty funny .
" for this señor .
none of those spiders take drugs either , he thought .
but i wanted to see the other .
name of the man who pulled the trigger .
half the camp was strung out across the hills waving and yelling .
" " come on , " bill said .
they were coming up on mestre fast , and already it was like going to new york the first time
“where was i ?
that was about the first funny thing .
the stone was chipped and split by the fire .
mais ici rien que de churches .
i was not trying to sell him .
he wrote many letters , of course , and in one of them he says that it is his turn
i just asked you how long you ' ve been stewed , billy .
on the table and lit his pipe .
perhaps i would be able to sleep .
she left him and went off with a miniature-painter .
“i will describe the strange and beautiful scene .
i didn’t save my maidenly state because i thought it would bore you and besides i gave you up for
' ' none ever has been in but he thinks you can make it .
and besides he ' s dead .
but nobody has any manners .
the big camera was the most expensive thing we had and if it was smashed we were through .
” “and where was that ?
while he was dumping the liquor he heard the sound of a motor and looking he saw a boat headed
bill and mike rolled .
” “don’t even be that .
, ” john said .
" " at the napolitain .
but it isn’t right .
i told him .
” “when’s it for ?
he stood there and i looked at him .
s shoulders .
i took the gun down with great reluctance , clowning for m ' cola who was grinning , and it
“there will be years of work before we will need this again .
i saw he was angry and wanted to smooth him down .
i told kamau to stop and go back and as we backed into the firelight there was a short ,
" " i ' ve got to go in and see harvey stone a minute .
” “sure , ” said nick .
' ' do you want me to shut the windows ?
" " i like him , " i said .
the warden ignored the hired girl and said , “what is it , evans ?
liz sat at the table after she put on the food and ate with the family .
he went to find him .
nick looked back from the top of the hill by the schoolhouse .
the quai at smyrna indian camp the doctor and the doctor’s wife the end of something the three-day blow the
better than anything , except seeing a ship sailing along through the country .
" you can work with young hernandez and kill two novillos after the chariots .
were made of gunny-sacking , came striding up to the bridge .
, tendalla .
he also ate alone at a separate table and he smiled very rarely and never laughed .
" " all right , " said nick .
of m ' utu-umbu camp .
fell twice , hard , once dropping my gun and having it slide away over the ice .
jack didn’t talk much .
" where were they in the woods ?
" just take it easy .
' he stepped out of the car and walked across the wide , hard-surfaced road and looked at the narrow
around noon i ' ll get up .
he was damn nice about it .
" no .
he shut and opened his eyes several times , then said , “hello comrade santa claus” to al .
but i won’t have to send it .
' but it is awfully cold with the windows open .
johnson took his hand off the reel spool and it started to whiz and the old marlin turned and went
but i suggest that we get several fiascos of the good .
" " thirty-five pesetas .
' we ' ll work around her , ' pop said .
“now what are the circumstances that would—that have made you consider …” “i’m broke .
” it had moved up on him now , but it had no shape any more .
" " he ' s lonely .
“sure , ” jack says , “he ain’t going to last long .
there wasn ' t any answer .
" for god ' s sake , " he said , " why did you say that about that girl
i stood up and we shook hands .
“come on and eat , nick , ” “all right .
we went downstairs and ate in the big dining-room .
he waited and we came up .
his face was sweaty and dirty .
“it isn’t so noisy now .
what rot .
at the news-stand frenchmen , returning to paris , bought that day’s french papers .
" that ' s damned nice of you , but you see i can ' t write checks .
it makes my gut sour .
since a long time we had all felt good about karl ' s rhino .
“yes , ” nick said , lying , his face on the blanket .
he shot again , remembering to lower his aim , and they all heard the bullet hit , and the
she was gone and he had sent her away .
at first it was far away and no one could tell what the noise was .
" i got no kick on him .
no other important papers ?
we would all meet at the montoya in pamplona .
he had no nose then and his face was to be rebuilt .
' ' in this side alley , if you know no one who lives in it .
he looked back at the gritti and saw the windows of his room ; still open .
' ' yes please .
there was nothing to do now but pull the bell cord , or enter with the key .
nick stepped out and walked into the firelight .
they can bury them any time as far as i ' m concerned and it would be much better for
if he looked too steadily they were gone .
we would have to fight on another day and i was sure this was the rear guard and all we
at the gritti does he ?
it wouldn’t look slack unless you knew about it because of the pull of the belly of the line in
collected as a boy and preserved in alcohol , the alcohol sunken in the jars so the backs of some
' ' he ' s poison .
just right .
one must grant that .
the rooms on the side of the grand canal .
and at the white caps on the lake out beyond the point .
i don’t want to be shot .
" here ' s the pub , " mike said .
and bergamo .
i ' ve been wanting to talk to you .
the old man could see pieces of the meat of the fish spilling white from the corner of his jaws
" the free turkey at woolf ' s , " i answered .
nothing had happened .
i was the first boat out and i seen a spar floating and i knew there must be a wreck
you must see how it was .
then fifteen cows and one bull .
most men die like animals , not men .
' ' i hope it is not serious .
fast .
he hasn ' t learned it yet .
' ' do you remember everything from the old days ?
“senta , caro !
he had rigged his harpoon long before and its coil of light rope was in a round basket and the
i am a cheap card player , only that .
“damn you .
he’s all lead .
i never saw such a horse .
that was the whole thing .
' ' yes , ' i said .
the door of the house where the boy lived was unlocked and he opened it and walked in quietly with
' shoot the bastard , ' pop said , making a gift of him .
i slapped the roman on the back and we went through the thumb-pulling again ; me pulling his thumb too
" he put his left foot on the heavy line that the left hand had held and lay back against
" " why , signor maggiore ?
“those peasants are beasts , ” said the innkeeper .
with the second-growth timber solid beyond it .
and a day .
he did not speak again .
" " and , " the major looked at him quickly , " that you are not corrupt ?
she sat down on the bed .
' ' i was a bloody , stubborn fool , ' i said .
' hapana whisky ?
' we ' ve got god knows how many rhino scattered about here .
the bottles were half full .
you’re disgustingly immoral .
who is laughing now .
you will pardon me if i break off our conversation ?
but don ' t you _really_ think pop ' s handsome ?
“get to hell away from me .
“and why shouldn’t you be ?
“there’s the boys that always work for me nights , ” retana said .
" i know you ' re right .
brett and mike and robert cohn .
a shooter , then , except potentially and was a colonel of infantry in the army of the united states
' just another one of those .
things were just as they were when he had decided to come here and let things blow over .
a porter opened the door .
” “h’m , ” said the gentleman .
they had cherry pie .
s- _num_ advises that s- _num_ wants red to button up by _num_ .
when the shooting was free , they became very good at it .
you should see that boy now mr .
had gone to if they were out of town .
do you see how clearly you see the men with your glasses ?
' ' there were more maps in the room than our lord could read on his best day , '
they had been addressed before by d ' annunzio after victories , and before defeats , and they knew what
” “he comes here to eat every night , don’t he ?
behind us the concrete stands filled solidly .
i rather liked him and evidently she led him quite a life .
, cider mills and dams and always with open fires .
you forgive this will you , daughter ?
” “he isn’t very smart .
only the pain of touching or jarring .
" " see you at lunch .
, i dreamed about it and it was a strange mixed-up dream and i dreamed it was the hand of
" " none of your exalted connections getting divorces ?
" how ' d you feel that way about dogs so sudden ?
then we heard the cough again , a little ahead and to the right .
” “five years ago , he says .
” “what’s become of your mate ?
" i don ' t want to sit here on a night like this .
he did not look at nick .
when he had finished his work with the muleta and was ready to kill , the crowd made him go
" " all right , " said brett .
he grinned and said , ' more beer ?
” “i don’t want to see any more ever , ” the girl said .
' when the _gran maestro_ came over , happy , conspiratorial , and ignoring his ulcers , the colonel asked
" " do you really think so ?
slough of higher reeds than any we had come through .
” “i see , ” said johnson , “and you say you have never been divorced ?
thing up .
“adios , ” he said , for he spoke beautiful spanish , being a lion of culture .
he had lit like a cat but without a cat ' s resiliency .
hogan had come in and was standing beside the table .
it was an idiotic idea , he said , " a theory , like another .
to sleep , waking occasionally to see the headlights shining on a wall of tall trees , or a naked
certainly not upton sinclair .
but the old man had raised his hand up to dead even again .
” “that’s not the unwritten law .
by those who got really aroused although he never knew anyone to pay their bills after a camp meeting or
” nick went inside the cottage .
it’s lovely .
“and i’ve got a bad headache .
“come on , help me with this elevator .
” his mother went on crying .
i’ll wash this one out .
' ' no , ' pop said .
” “he has very rare ideas , ” said another soldier .
" pernod is greenish imitation absinthe .
i put on my pajamas and got into bed .
” “of course you’ll be a saint , ” mr .
i am too old to club sharks to death .
it is much more difficult than poetry .
“well , that’s what you’re out here for , isn’t it ?
finally i found blood on a grass blade about fifty yards up the valley and i plucked it and held
it looked as though it was the same as ever , only now instead of walcott’s punches just missing him
ahead was the smooth dammed-back flood of water above the logs .
he had a bottle of water in the bow of the skiff and that was all he needed for the
" " i suppose not .
they walked or trotted on into the bull-ring .
the taxi rounded the statue of the inventor of the semaphore engaged in doing same , and turned up the
“all of six thousand feet and i think my diaphragm is busted loose in front from when she came taut
it was dim and quiet , and there were other people praying .
” “well , ” i told him , “i’ve had action enough for me already today .
“i’m hernandez , ” he said and put out his hand .
" you don ' t smoke much , signor tenente .
“that’s a swell log , ” nick said .
he stirred it and drank it down , sweet , hot , and warming in his empty stomach .
the drums pounded and the pipe music was shrill , and everywhere the flow of the crowd was broken by
“where is fontan ?
" " take it back .
look at him .
how the hell could he know .
” “that’s healthy .
language she did not know .
” “that’s mighty good of you , frank .
that ' s really funny .
“later on i might want to use the bed but that won’t be until much later .
slant change in the water .
" frances was a little drunk and would have liked to have kept it up but the coffee came ,
' ' fairly so , ' the concierge told him .
knew it and he knew it .
” “i told you already .
” he took another sip of the absinthe and rolled it under his tongue .
” the detective jumped up and jerked the other prisoner over on the seat .
i had been shot and i had been crippled and gotten away .
" " the bulls were fine , " cohn said .
they’ve got a buoy on her now .
that was the phrase for it when a safari went bad .
" " a little .
” “lie down a little while , nicolo .
up ahead now there was a crossing place of gondolas at the santa maria del giglio and , beyond ,
” he left the sack with the birds and the berry pails with littless and went well upstream .
“they are so big and lovely .
” i did not say anything .
” he had only fought twice in spain , they couldn’t stand him there , they saw through him quick
like to go ?
" " good , " he said .
" he raised his chin up and pulled it from side to side .
" " but i was going great when i got hurt .
” “that’s all right .
the silk-worms fed in racks of mulberry leaves and all night you could hear them eating and a dropping sound
show .
that have preceded it .
maybe they will be back with another truck today .
' ' you ' ve plenty of petrol and we ' ll leave some here , ' pop called .
we followed droopy into the thick , tall grass that was five feet above our heads , walking carefully on
“you’ve gotten awfully brave , awfully suddenly , ” his wife said contemptuously , but her contempt was not secure
' ' she ' s been around a long time , ' the colonel said .
too many times he had seen the horns , seen the bull’s wet muzzle , the ear twitching , then
am heartily sorry for having offended thee who art worthy of all my love and i firmly resolve … ,
that was a fine way to act .
" i want to sit down below , next time .
he had been on the point of feeling himself go each time .
' ' you know , i ' ve never seen one , ' pop said .
there was a heavy dew and as the wheels went through the grass and low bushes he could smell the
they were from two to three feet high and when i touched one it was quite warm .
' no , i can ' t say it .
" i asked guy .
but what the ---- security is there better than i can give them ?
the correct procedure , and one which should be taught all young officers at every small-arms course if i had
perhaps he had been wrong .
” i hit him in the face and he stood up and then climbed up onto the dock .
mike helped me up .
" but i will see something that he cannot see such as a bird working and get him to come
” “here’s the lunch , ” said wilson .
want to get in the game ?
i had to slip her plenty and i hit pretty hard .
“it’s intolerable , ” said michel .
couldn ' t kill that many .
you ' ve lost touch with the soil .
we got a carriage outside and rode up to the café .
besides they do not bleed much .
” “you didn’t wait so very much .
he did know , though , that this thing had come that he must go to and aid in every
' it can ' t be .
the sun was out and the day was bright .
" i asked the other one .
for good .
fuck-all rien .
he felt the tight-pressed fullness of her lips and the way her body shivered against his and then came the
looked him up .
as we went out the door i looked back and there were three girls at his table .
“where are we in canada ?
i have a good life but i must write because if i do not write a certain amount i do
" i took a drink .
it was pork that wasn ' t cooked !
john .
" " well , " i said , " it ' s easy .
“the nurse should be here from st .
" i ' m through with all that running around .
“say , ” he says to john .
that was flat enough .
“i want to stop .
' ' i agree , ' ettore said .
he’d have , maybe , taken a trial trip with one of razzo’s skins early in the morning after just
“i have experienced profound emotions , ” baldy said .
it was liking , and liking the body , and introducing the body , and persuading , and taking chances
they could kill their lonesomeness in that woman , or pool it with hers , or make something with her
“now will you take us over to that boat , ” he said smiling .
“give me a response .
here he comes , manuel thought .
kitchen .
” “i’m lonely now thinking about going away from you .
then , at the end of the fifth swing , he held the cape against his hip and pivoted ,
his nerves went bad at the end of five weeks , and while he was pleased they lasted that long
" " hell , " said john .
” said the innkeeper .
" " do you suppose he ' s got the con ?
the bull wanted it again , and romero ' s cape filled again , this time on the other side
the man who had winked smiled .
' ' can ' t it be possible ?
was furled around the mast .
the curve of her forearm could break your heart , and he thought , christ they are dead and i
you never notice them .
it ' s just to let the air in .
pedro romero smiled .
that doesn’t mean she has to be a bitch any more than you have to be a heel .
i did not sleep much that night on the sud express .
it seemed they were discussing money .
" my god , isn ' t he beautiful ?
he wore a black smock like all the rest .
out at the barn after they were hitched up the down-state man said , “we didn’t do so good ,
she ' d out-manoeuvre you the best day you were ever born and she would stay and fight where you
look at them there on that hillside .
let go of me .
i had seen lying down .
“i got to go over there , ” manuel said , and started on a run for the other side
' ' i thought we drew lots for where we would hunt .
if you’re up in the stand with a pair of glasses all you see is them plunging off and then
that ' s what he wants .
first time a girl is unwell , but i have been upset .
i can make up well .
i am glad you know .
she had liked it .
he did not see the fin of the other .
” “let’s eat , ” i said .
” “but instead ?
the old man was crouched on top of the loads at the back , close under the roof .
he said something in chink and the others started going into the water off the stern .
i know that , " he said .
’” “why must not a man marry ?
you’re asking for it , you know .
” “is .
after a while jackson drove the car down the ditch and willow lined road with the car ' s big
if you can shoot up the shells before they will swell , m ' cola delighted with the spill .
frazer and wanted to know if there was anything he wanted them to play , and they came twice more
" " i think it ' s the best thing to do .
he’s got the numbers of the boat .
he leaned all his weight against the wood of the bow .
in spite of the obvious importance of the paris years on hemingway’s development as a writer , few of his
somewhere , in each boat , there was a sack with one or two live mallard hens , or a
, ' the colonel said .
' ' tarahalla .
" " won ' t it ?
and we could see the collars now and faces were clear then clearer .
" feel pretty happy ?
who can we borrow that from ?
" there ' s some pie too , " he said .
white blossoming of grenades that is the very shape of battle we would have something that we needed .
he sat down again , coughing .
then , seriously , “you been down there ?
but she doesn ' t know it yet .
” they picked a huge wave this time and when it hung and curled to break roger threw them across
his face was red .
' m ' cola had gone up the hill a little way .
all the others he avoided all contact with .
yes .
they came alongside .
” “we’re all going to the club , ” the girl said .
i ' m going to town .
“you’re pretty near as old as i am , ” zurito said .
we intended to come , but we were too tired after the trip .
" how long were you over ?
' ' on the dead angle of any shell-pocked slope if they would graze cattle over me in the summer
“returning to the razor , ” george said .
" " they are all very much the same , sir .
“what did he say ?
" " where ' s that beer ?
the flying fish are too big for him and they go too fast .
i heard my name and called down the stairs .
there’s liable to be a hell of a lot of trouble .
we came up behind a prairie-dog town and stopped the car to shoot at the prairie-dogs with the pistol .
then , speaking confidently , to the detective , “he don’t know who shot him .
“sure , ” he said .
“gee thanks , ” marie said .
do you realize you ' ve lived nearly half the time you have to live already ?
" " maybe it will get better .
who ordered that one ?
it isn ' t just americans , it is also me , myself , my grey hair , the slightly
what was his talent anyway ?
" now she is so much dearer to me .
_komm ' susser tod_ , he thought .
or muck about danger .
" we were sitting now like two strangers .
hirsch , ” the woman said .
” “some .
he ' s so big .
" the old man looked from his glass across the square , then over at the waiters .
for kudu .
they were as unjust as dante ' s but he drew them .
' ' yes , many .
that was what the paper said .
“you see the magazine , of course ?
“let’s try and sleep a while .
“before lunch , ” jack says .
_ ' ' wait a little , ' i told him .
to do .
“listen billy , dear sliding billy , i have a surprise for you .
i am all right .
" that ' s not very polite .
there was an iron pot of stew .
you hear a loon holler a couple of times when you got an empty stomach and you’ll be back .
there was something else .
from near tafalla .
then a couple of guys came in and one of them patted me on the back and then went over
do you remember the flying inn ?
' and we are almost there .
” “what are you going to do to him ?
he liked to look at them from the front porch as they walked on the other side of the street
" i ' m sorry , fella .
“write about something that you know .
“he had no warning and no chance to prepare himself , ” the one in command said .
then we can share it .
" " good night , darling .
sharkey beat him .
' ' it ' s riding in the damned cars that ruins us .
i think it’s really the nicest ones that go out to torcello .
' ' i know it , my dear .
“how many did you get , onie ?
” george looked up at the clock .
some quickly from a little wound you would not think would kill a rabbit .
table .
he was sitting on his bed now , cleaning a shotgun .
crawling up , we saw a large rhino and a small one standing chest deep in brush , facing us
“but we fought .
and felt her touch the glass with her own .
he prepared the harpoon and made the rope fast while he watched the shark come on .
but nobody would ride twice in this thing on purpose .
" will those last ones fight as well as the first ?
the car stopped .
he could not know that wilson was furious because he had not noticed the state he was in earlier and
“don’t you worry about him none , mister adams .
the guard will get him .
, said : ' my colleague who works at his hotel , says that he drinks three or four highballs
romero was in the centre , belmonte on his left , marcial on his right .
it did not seem like a very long ride .
" " i don ' t want to take a cure , " william campbell said .
" " day after to-morrow .
' over there , ' waving at the dark , and i could not make out the story .
but i have no real information .
i say it was a row .
” somebody asked .
” “hear anything interesting ?
he could ruin me by jumping or by a wild rush .
you can get the train up from there to-night .
“give me bacon and eggs , ” said the other man .
" one of the broads says .
there were the young warriors who had run with us , and now their women and the children all came
but she can ' t see us or smell us .
holding the rod far out toward the uprooted tree and sloshing backward in the current , nick worked the trout
" " work for the good of all .
' ' weren ' t you frightened ?
' are there any calls for me ?
and sit down with me and lean back against the tree with the towel and a sweater wrapped around his
' you ' ll wish you had never heard of breakfast .
you don ' t have to be afraid .
there is to know about the town .
he just enjoyed , completely , hearing them lie at the moment , unless , of course , something concerned
slowly up the trail with the mules .
i ' m not a fighter .
' he resumed , ' the place is full of correspondents dressed according to their taste .
" " hombre , si .
some were lying down .
" i don ' t want to lose the way to fornaci .
” “i hope so , ” he said .
" " can ' t we go together ?
the half-track came on very fast and now we could see the faces quite clearly .
” “well that pretty well fixes things up , ” roger got up .
there were other things that held him back too that he did not understand yet .
" i only mean it in the friendliest way , doctor , " doc fischer said , looking at his
' ' did you ever have a daughter ?
" although i don ' t know how , me not being a plumber , they expected me to steal
” the room at the florida was crowded .
" i ' m going right down to the chapel to pray .
of them i save your life .
" " i don ' t know , john , " i said .
this i learned in a place called the pentagon building when i was still permitted to enter that building by
" " oh , " he said .
it was a big red sail , raked sharply down from the peak , and it moved slowly behind the
they opened the door and went out .
i’m not afraid because i’m with you .
" " you interfere with this one , " he looked at the cook .
” “roger , tell me , did i really walk so it pleased you ?
his jaws , made a turn around his sword then passed the rope through the other gill , made another
" let us rejoice in our blessings .
" " how old was i when you first took me in a boat ?
yes you are , he told himself .
how , how can he do that ?
besides , this is la suisse romande .
" he ' s his name stencilled on all the capes and muletas , " she said .
” “this is my card , ” harris said .
” “it seems an unnecessary expense to me .
' we go to camp , ' i said to m ' cola .
“you’re the most wonderful diver , wemedge , ” kate said , touching his back with her foot .
” “what are we going to do tomorrow ?
the crowd was so thick i couldn’t see him again except just his legs going by and some yellow and
i say this is a gloomy subject .
when are they going to tear that damned cinema palace down and put up a real cathedral ?
i believe she is his aunt .
he thought of how some men feared being out of sight of land in a small boat and knew they
i get them all the time at the mess .
“very bad politics .
but he is used to punishment .
” “all right , you go .
" " i want you here , " he said , " and i will pay you .
brilliant people in detail .
“she owns the place .
” “i’m ad francis .
it felt good to be warm and in bed .
" there is no sense in being anything but practical though , he thought .
let ' s see what else they have .
little the worse for drink , only a little the worse for bed , but town & country never showed
one held two litres .
" " i can ' t take it .
“bigger than a cat .
we talked about one thing and another , and i left him to come to the office .
, and at whatever angle his wings drove him in full , low flight above the green grass toward the
not a damn thing .
weed-grown slashing .
" " we danced at some club .
chapter two i do not remember going to bed nor getting up , only being by the fire in the
my dear she has never , really never , looked better .
the wrench was gone and i’d lost the grapple so i sculled back to the boat .
and if you don ' t you are stupid , the colonel thought .
" that ' s the first time he ' s called her up since he ' s out here ,
horthy’s men had done some bad things to him .
the kind they issued to the air force once by mistake .
” we sat there on the porch .
“sure , but you live in france , ” madame fontan said .
” william campbell shut his eyes .
' the wind was very cold and lashed their faces but under the blanket there was no wind nor nothing
and understand it .
” “why don’t you take them down to the hotel and try to sell them to the resorters ?
” “perhaps we’d better wait until later .
listening all the time , even when our guest had arrived ; listening while writing letters , listening while reading
ground and crossed with branches .
bottles of regal beer they had forgotten to drink , helena was still asleep .
' there ' s no real crime here now , ' the night porter said .
if you want to , ” said the boy .
“he says it was an accident .
but at the bar it was pleasant and the place had been nice until blindy had come in .
” “yes , ” john says .
banderillero again , and two very houseworn-looking prostitutes .
see them there so clearly in my mind .
i know also about my wife--completely .
' seven cows .
” “a lot of things .
in the mile deep sea .
in schrunz , on christmas day , the snow was so bright it hurt your eyes when you looked out
l .
' i shouted , running across the hill toward him .
” they climbed , but with constant small descents , toward the height of land that separated the two lakes
she was really quite deaf ; she read lips , and i had not looked toward her .
“i’ll get some more water , ” nick said .
" and the kid ' s , " i said .
wife , them both grinning with excitement , and wilson leaned forward and whispered , “see the birds dropping .
' ' i get rough when you get rough , ' she said .
you don’t have to be afraid .
he had resisted this as he had resisted writing that the palm branches blew forward making a line against the
to the new works , she said .
“he can hit , ” nick offered .
don’t you think i could be good for you ?
there were birches along the stream and it was not big , but narrow , clear and fast , with
he never thought jack could have stood it .
“darling , please don’t drink that .
” you see , he’d been a good man once .
it ' s all been published .
nothing was ever stolen in the hotel montana .
his sword was as long as a baseball bat and tapered like a rapier and he rose his full length
he was aware of that fact and in his preface to a moveable feast wistfully mentions subjects that he might
only just don’t call me blackie .
the committee .
" what the hell ' s he sleeping in the daytime for ?
” they went out and there was supper and then the radio , turned to be as quiet as possible
the driver looked around .
when i was a little girl i didn ' t like the smell of the hops in the carts .
kelly .
“you get along now , suzy .
so i am .
jack stepped forward .
” the young gentleman looked back and shouted something .
“do you cock it first with your thumb ?
the giants and the dwarfs were passing .
we’ll take this crazy up to headquarters .
" like to go ?
there was a great noise going on .
she wasn ' t strong to climb .
for the north american newspaper alliance .
the mules came through the gate in a rush , the whips snapping , bells jangling and the young bull
" what have you got ?
' ' daughter , that ' s one of the few things i know how to do .
] _num_ d soldier—you’re a regular christer , big boy .
droopy ' s got blood .
but it ' s the best book we ' ve had .
” “he didn’t want to drink with me , ” said the sexton .
the bull could not make up his mind to charge .
" he was more than any husband could ever be , " peroxide said .
on .
you have a fine body and you must not think about that .
“try and not feel too bad about it .
“i don’t know whether that lighter works .
he gave bruce two dollars .
' the colonel looked out of the windows and the door of the bar on to the waters of the
" with so much flying fish there should be dolphin , " he said , and leaned back on the
“i want to work , ” manuel said .
and her remains dumped on the common boneheap .
' ' nearly nineteen .
left is loud .
he walked just like his joints were backwards .
always went down to help him carry either the coiled lines or the gaff and harpoon and the sail that
" " if he says anything , just say you were tight .
i was way out toward the quicksands and i didn’t find anything so i went on .
“three marsalas , ” said the young gentleman to the girl behind the pastry counter .
' we stood listening and there it came , clear , a long , moaning , unmistakable bellow .
" " tonight , sent by the police , they come to serenade me .
he gets a little dull .
' ' i never wanted to hit anyone ; except perhaps andrea .
captain willie threw out his clutch and the boat drifted .
finally , though , i went back to trout-fishing , because i found that i could remember all the streams
there was yellow weed on the line but the old man knew that only made an added drag and he
it was still cool from the night and opened by the tin-opener it creamed into three cups , thick-foamed ,
we ' re all having an hors-d ' oeuvre .
then when we were about two miles offshore i slid him over .
the major sat at a table against the wall .
why didn’t you help the elephant when you could ?
they passed like railway trains .
“it was perfect .
' watch it , roman .
" " doesn ' t it mean anything to you ?
” “nothing to be sorry about , ” the man said .
rails .
“you are crazy .
i undressed and put my clothes in the hammock and put on pajamas and got into bed .
when the priest uncovered her face he asked olz , ' did your wife suffer much ?
“aren’t you going to shut it ?
then karl came out and i said , ' hi , karl ' .
his hand pushing the pommel , his left arm crossed low , his left shoulder forward , his weight on
two policemen grabbed him and rushed him over to the fence .
it had been our first camp in africa and the trees were as big , as spreading , and as
father had said , “do you want to make peace , davey ?
' bring .
” i said to hogan .
“you can’t fire me , ” william campbell said from underneath the covers .
“it’s about time , ” he said .
down i started the engine and headed her in slow toward land .
awfully decent of you .
the revolutionist in _num_ he was travelling on the railroads in italy , carrying a square of oilcloth from the
' ' please tell me .
“signorina , ” peduzzi called tenderly , “come up here with us .
” “uh , huh .
and he did that just to please me .
" " you have everything i have .
i told m ' cola we would hunt up the valley on both sides , finish skinning out the head
it was strange how easy being tired enough made it .
let ' s drive about a little .
and choking me with both hands like he was trying to kill me and all the time i was trying
he had it screwed down tight .
” “what you mean those roads ?
but it doesn’t look so good .
" you ' re not a bad type , " she said .
” “it doesn’t make any difference , ” she said .
“no hay derecho , ” the waiter said .
" he pressed on the iron and clearly showed he was no horse-lover .
' chapter xix the colonel breakfasted with the leisure of a fighter who has been clipped badly , hears four
“no , ” said the manager .
“he is poorer than we , ” said the little mexican .
" " i won ' t eat down-stairs with that german head waiter .
” “well , we better wait to cook until night .
spezia’s a lovely place .
in the stream .
don ' t you kill him for me .
' ' very well , ' the girl said .
hen and a drake , and in each boat there was a dog who shifted and shivered uneasily at the
” “listen , ” red said .
to the fiesta at pamplona .
this dead , head-severed dream rhino , and instead we all spoke like people who were about to become seasick
it gets me worried , though .
but these trees had a great spread of branches and were in leaf and below them , in the stream
i woke thirsty and was unscrewing the top from a water bottle when i heard a rhino snort and crash
“get him out of there , ” manuel shouted to the gypsy .
all round people were saying , “poor kzar !
" i asked just to be friendly .
i served in the montana national guard when i was sixteen .
the birds had come into the old elephant trail to dust , walking neatly and plumply , and when the
but they always over-reach .
it ain’t just a bluff .
he lived in seattle from two o ' clock on , each night , hearing the pieces that all the
” “i don’t believe it .
" " i will have everything in order , " the boy said .
i’m going to have three .
' ' was he bad there ?
” “i haven’t been .
” “i’ll bet you made him , ” krebs said .
nearly all the girls lost interest in him .
leaning back , inciting the bull with the banderillas , fuentes jumped , both feet off the ground .
" john said to him .
you’re not interested in my troubles , ” he addressed the first porter .
” “straight drip .
they were the weaknesses that developed alongside his strengths like the crevices in a glacier under its covering of snow
that’s the first whiskey i ever stole anywhere .
" nick looked at his plate .
" " it ' s ours .
risen steadily while he swam .
’ what you say we drink some more this fascist drink ?
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--what ' s the use ?
“and packard will figure out something .
“here is where juma wounded the big bull , ” his father said .
i ' ll be in the chapel praying .
' ' i don ' t like that word your sex .
still had that evil habit and now it had caught up with me .
caffeine puts a man on her horse and a woman in his grave .
for anything that came to the salt had to come out in the open twenty-five yards from any cover .
' ' tell me about the last war , ' the girl said .
” “does it come out on the secret place ?
i tell you truly i feel o .
the body was unspeakably mutilated , they used to put in this same paper .
on the day of his arrival in milan a munitions factory blew up , and with the other volunteers in
' so , he got out of bed , favouring his bad leg , which hurt him always .
he was a delicate old man who used the slang and knew the popular songs of his period of military
the others ate a big meal .
' ' well , let ' s just walk then .
hello , ' he said .
you can hear silk-worms eating very clearly in the night and i lay with my eyes open and listened to
then i remembered our standing at the bar having a martini , and i had that wonderful feeling of relief
" " i haven ' t got any medals .
rushing , the current sucked against his legs .
the big thing was that marjorie was gone and that probably he would never see her again .
she extended her hand to the _gran maestro_ lightly , and fastly , so that it darted as a rapier
' unless you are a mechanic .
” “that’s the sort of name vou’d have , ” the cook said .
“no one will castrate you .
he leaned forward and took the ham and eggs .
“i hope you sleep , signor tenente .
robert cohn tried to say he did not want any of the second meat course , but we would not
harris .
' he ' s getting much too easy now , ' pop said .
campbell had said : “come in !
you never see him .
felt it go out of me and go off and then come back .
that burano is a very over-populated little island where the women make wonderful lace , and the men make bambinis
there were a few platoons , no companies , and , the colonel drought , i barely have a squad
that ' s two dollars and a half .
but that isn’t his country .
the big ducks with the green heads .
retana smiled at him and said something .
" " what ' s it like ?
" brett turned to me .
“it’s all in the bill , ” he said .
something is always tricking him , the need to do things other than in a regular order , or by
a sixth story , “under the ridge , ” would appear shortly in the march _num_ edition of cosmopolitan .
' ' well you are mine now .
“you splayfooted bastard .
and we watched them go back a couple of hundred yards to the edge of the forest .
as he looked down into it he saw the red sifting of the plankton in the dark water and the
it was no one ' s bloody fault , especially not the fault of the man who commanded it .
” “send pinin in to me .
" " not really ?
to their source and fishing them down stream .
' ' garbo .
” fuentes came up with the muleta and the sword .
" drop the towel , " freedman said .
" i don ' t know , " she said .
we had lunch at the inn and harris went with us to the bus .
' he went over to the car .
they ' d never be beautiful to-night .
the final stuff with the sword was all he worried over .
i had the wheel and i kept yelling to johnson to keep his drag light and reel fast .
” “all right , ” manuel said .
die , and often lay in bed at night by myself , afraid to die and wondering how i would
“let them beat through the weeds for the other side , ” the lieutenant in the front seat said .
the same tracks we had followed led , logically and with no possibility of doubt , from the road to
" " they ' re all at chapel , " she said .
" they don ' t divorce much here .
that was one of my father ' s favorites .
“he is my only brother .
" " his , " she said , and nodded at the count .
i put my arms around her .
he meant it , simply and truly .
her hand was shaky .
nick finally opened it .
the tanks get smacked even as fast as they could move and they could move fast both ways .
very brave , very arrogant and extremely ambitious .
there were yellow butterflies and white butterflies around the blood and the streaks where the bodies had been hauled .
at the end of that time his wife came into the tent , lifted her mosquito bar and crawled cozily
” krebs kissed her hair .
” “have we got a name for this camp ?
' i asked her , the whisky racing my mind back to wyoming .
” george said .
“au revoir , mademoiselle , ” he said .
“cochons , ” i said .
his mouth was very dry and it was hard for him to talk .
" don ' t you think that was funny ?
“sure , ” said retana .
' just then who should come into camp but old karl with his two naked savages and his half-size ,
sort of like a moving picture palace , isn ' t it ?
but you must have it with me .
robert cohn was once middleweight boxing champion of princeton .
with shade-trees on both sides , and then levelling out through the new part of town they are building up
so now , going along the sandy track of the road in the car , the lights picking out the
he got up and went over to the bar .
" she sipped at her glass .
started wondering about where he was , and regretting i hadn ' t seen him since that night in montmartre
” later she said , “they didn’t plan things right for me to have two breasts and you only one
not know how wilson felt about things either .
that’s what they do in england .
he shut the door and then opened it .
" " i ' m ready now , " the old man said .
they were playing the gramophone and it was full of smoke and there was a crap game going on the
they both stopped in front of the bal .
and if i ever hit you i ' ll break your mucking jaw .
' where is that boy with the whisky ?
" mais il est trop jeune .
i sweated so that i was soaked through my shirt and undergarments and when we came out on the shoulder
the man ' s chest .
the joystick works the same way .
she enjoys things so .
' kayti turned away in fire-lit slanting smile .
now i remembered it and said to pop , ' ask him where he got the new coat ' .
or is it some sign of weather that i do not know ?
” said macomber .
over-foliaged country , he had seen guns hidden under screens of mulberry leaves to the left of the road ,
' ' i am not , really .
i guess if you are doing it for dough there isn’t enough dough to pay for doing it .
” “yes , sir .
" " that makes nothing .
us .
” “that is fear , ” said another soldier .
city , montana , on the day they have the old timers ' fish fry .
" but he ' s not aficionado like you .
my son " --he pointed the razor at me-- " go west with this face and grow up with the
we’ll hunt along easy .
“schön .
“he gets a little wild sometimes .
try and get a little sleep .
we stood now in the shade of trees with great smooth trunks , circled at their base with the line
to the dining-room , the _gran maestro_ came out of the bar .
" " don ' t you think it will be a bit rough on him ?
i said .
” “yes , ” said my wife .
" " i guess i said a lot of fool things .
' tell me , what do you think of ringelnatz ?
it was the ice that had been broken to put out the decoys and it had re-frozen lightly .
' ' i don ' t care who lives in it .
bell , ” nick said .
' they embraced and the colonel felt the rough texture of andrea ' s handsome tweed coat that must have
he was crying .
don’t you ever lie to me no matter what and i won’t lie to you .
he would miss that one .
strung out on the plain , and away off on the shoulder of the first dark mountain was the gray
start photographing them .
” “i’m full .
" can ' t you stop that sort of thing ?
” “i’ll see how i do .
under way , you take that pump-gun and blow them back as fast as they come out .
pull of the sail he felt that perhaps he was already dead .
' ' good night , ' she said .
knew they did , but he said nothing of all that , only , ' whatever you say ' ,
sheer violence of the bulls .
his shadow seemed to float down the stream with the current , unresisting , to his post under the bridge
the shooting ' s over .
' ' you have a heart and it is not worthless .
i did this and returned over the bridge .
“i was up at henry’s , ” nick said , “and two fellows came in and tied up me and
” nick asked .
was rising .
' that is twenty years at five hundred lira a year for the medaglia d ' argento al valore militare
” “how would seventy-five do ?
walcott hit him twice .
when the old man had gaffed her and clubbed her , holding the rapier bill with its sandpaper edge and
” “who was the guy you married ?
' ' is it a cadillac now ?
chapter _num_ in the morning it was bright , and they were sprinkling the streets of the town , and
but it makes me feel very strange .
i only meant i’d like to talk about it if you’d like to .
” “thank you my dear blessed .
there was no one to help him so he pulled the boat up as far as he could .
Ça , c ' est le meilleur .
she stood up and went out quickly .
but if i do it , then it will be nice again if i say things are like white elephants
" as we passed .
“don’t tell me any stories .
“he’s gone , ” johnson said .
" play the cucaracha another time .
“the sleep was what i needed .
“i’m just scared , you know .
very honourably .
" please open the wine , mademoiselle .
” “i know what i’m talking about , ” said the short man with the very thick glasses .
" " give me chicken croquettes with green peas and cream sauce and mashed potatoes .
“francis drinks a great deal , but his face is never red .
" he got many people out here now ?
” “you’re not going to die .
continuing of his mother ' s grave .
” “we better go down and see packard .
" have you been in this pestilential city long ?
s- _num_ wants you to button up and use plenty of artillery .
“are you a fascist ?
' do you want meat , or fish ?
, to the inn .
" retana looked at zurito and started for the door .
his nose .
” “we’ll see what there is in the paper , ” she said .
” “i’m not joking .
we had all thought he was a german who had stolen civilian clothes , but he turned out to be
the snow had crusted hard .
they make wonderful glass day-times for the rich of all the world , and then they come home on the
” “better bring a woolly .
“you’re all right , ” he said .
walcott clipped him with a left hook and jack went down .
it was a very interesting thing to think about and for a while it killed off trout-fishing and interfered with
“that’s the side our bum tire’s on .
he didn’t seem to notice her much .
” “you can take the leg off and that might stop it , though i doubt it .
" the sexton came , bringing his little bottle of wine and his glass .
“american men are the only men in the world to marry .
" " he says some fellow that he doesn ' t know .
” “how lonesome have you ever been ?
” “i forgot to ask .
" this is pretty good , " jack says .
“that’s truly what he said .
he made his way up the creek , keeping back from the stream but once stepping onto a piece of
' mine .
" gentlemen , " i said .
i spread a newspaper on the stone and brett sat down .
the spanish civil war and one about the cuban fisherman who fought a swordfish for four days and four nights
wife said .
" " gad , yes !
you could hear it since noon .
he shot very quickly and beautifully .
it was a nice big room with two beds and a door opening into a bath-room .
should we get started ?
“i’ve been thinking it over .
i knew him like you know nobody in the world and i loved him like you love god .
he handed it with the hilt up and the blade dripping with the blood from the heart of the brave
it might even be bad for you .
browned side up , the other sizzling .
“while the sergeant hit him in the face with the handcuff on his right hand he picked up a steel-bladed
out across the paddock going to the bar for something cool ; and flicking his boots with his whip ,
' by stairs or elevator ?
to captain paravicini .
all right , what was i going to do now ?
” in the ring they lifted you and carried you , running with you , to the operating room .
my mother had gone inside the house .
” the waiter took the brandy bottle and another saucer from the counter inside the café and marched out to
the colonel , being then a lieutenant , and loving his platoon , had joined with them and uttered ,
" although it is unjust , he thought .
three hundred francs to do that .
" " don ' t be an ass .
” “no , beauty .
" " what do you mean ?
“there is tonic water still in the bottle .
it was me .
' i never could , ' says p .
, a sail moving along .
this set his heart to pounding and he hurried back to his own room but cornelia was asleep .
my eyes , my mind , and all inside of me were full of the blackness of that sable bull
champagne .
i had a new thing to think about and i lay in the dark with my eyes open and thought
k .
was leaning my neck back to get the crick out of it .
” “i have not thought about it , ” he said .
chapter _num_ i do not know what time i got to bed .
" " that was a fine way to look at it , " the cook said .
“i really have no rank .
but i always give him the cape .
' ' chap that wrote " but before i go , george moore , here ' s a last long
' that ' s the hotel where we are stopping at , jackson .
the bull , striking into the wood from side to side with his horns , made a great noise .
w .
” “yeah ?
" " let ' s find bill .
' ' i don ' t .
it was a cold fall and the wind came down from the mountains .
“when did you come up ?
“it’s mine that’s red today .
they ' re the commonest big antelope in this bush country .
” nick turned his head carefully away smiling sweatily .
“you are not angry ?
what you have to do now is watch her when he hands me the money and put her ahead .
over the fire he stuck a wire grill , pushing the four legs down into the ground with his boot
” “go get some wine , ” fontan said .
i was back in france .
it sounds horrible .
" muy buenos , " i said .
' ' just as much as i like to be in the prado .
we ' ll take some punishment to-morrow .
they wore gathered over the shoulder like a toga ; but when they had passed , the high trees beside
' ' yes , ' said arnaldo .
“you ever seen any peat ?
i know what your own dear grandfather , my own father , told us about the civil war and i
steer .
the singing had died down momentarily , or there was a break in it as there is sometimes in a
' ' come on , ' i said .
” “you mean you’d go in by yourself ?
" he ' s out at chantilly dining with some people .
” he’d say .
love for those who had been there and had received the castigation that everyone receives who goes there long enough
" but i guess you have pretty big doings yourself over in london .
but almost everything bad that had ever happened to him had happened when he was drinking absinthe ; those bad
only an occasional small starry splatter on the rocky ground .
" don ' t let him get too bad .
with his shirt ripped open you could see the flit king had no undershirt and the soles of his shoes
fontan will have the wine .
“i thought maybe you were .
as he knew .
what are bulls ?
the young gentleman came out of the hotel and asked him about the rods .
” he sat down and wiped his face .
” “blood is thicker than water , ” my father said .
" we were outside jack ' s room .
” asked the other .
” the buzzer rang and he folded the razor and handed it to me .
i suppose they all end up like mongolia .
” “it’s all right , ” bill said .
his face was serious .
“they don’t make them any more .
what will you do now if they come in the night ?
he had slept on his right side because he had a .
i see the point of valéry ; although there is much snobbery too .
he’s a real black nigger , smart and gloomy , with blue voodoo beads around his neck under his shirt
" bill put the trout in the bag and started for the river , swinging the open bag .
but now in sight of the fires and on into camp .
” “it’s a pleasure , sir , ” said george .
rich from milan , fat and hard as only milanese can be , sitting with his expensive looking and extremely
else shot .
he was trying to come up , still holding onto the luger , only he couldn’t get his head up
" we saw that one at a funeral coming into town .
cayetano’s better too .
he knows we’ll be happier if we don’t get too good a look at these skins , ” another pic
“oui .
to really gamble .
' ' in the meantime you might as well drink this .
i wet my finger and put it up .
“that’s what i want to be .
i love your hand and all your other wounded places .
do before the war ?
in those days the snobs among the rich young men of madrid hung out at something called the nuevo club
" he ' s an awfully nice man .
” “also i should not speak cynically or brutally .
his bare feet felt the sandy planks of the dock .
" " get two or three rods with reels , and lines , and some flies .
“a bottle of sion , ” nick said .
" " not much .
“don’t worry and don’t do anything bad .
a new boom .
the waitress came toward the table .
quickly as it came .
" " i ' ll pay you soon , " he said .
the grey dim sky , slanting towards the decoys .
to brett .
there were numbers of rhino trails there in the woods and many strawy piles of dung , but we saw
, go sliding down along her and then off and down to the quicksand and go in .
" where ' s the bathroom ?
" " but with women ?
” “it doesn’t bother me .
” “you keep on reading , ” she said .
he said a camp meeting or a revival was bad enough but at least there was some sexual intercourse afterwards
“i don’t think so , ” she said .
” “i don’t want a porter , ” mr .
out in the plaza they were stringing electric-light wires to light the plaza for the fiesta .
” “it’s a beautiful , beautiful place , nickie , ” his sister said .
of sight , i knew i had him .
' ' and how are you , yourself ?
” “he must have come in the kitchen , through a window maybe , and loaded that stuff .
we tried the new wine .
the shivering increased as he pulled in and he could see the blue back of the fish in the water
it was sad and embarrassing .
' the portrait , as before , did not answer .
dome of the capitol standing up white out of the edge of the sea .
“i guess that’s all .
she told him off .
" he is poorer than we , " said the little mexican .
i don ' t smoke , sir .
it was dark inside .
both guy’s feet on the first-speed pedal , up and up , back and forth and up , and ,
“i know comrade henry here is not , ” the little man said .
fix yourself on that figure .
he had to go wherever they sent him , i know , but i don ' t know what he
make it fifty , and there was a lot of wire , and you kept stringing it and rolling it
” “why don’t you tell him ?
enrique went quickly to the back of the porch but there was no light there except that which shone on
” “at drinking .
i know .
i don ' t wish to be rude ever because i will be living with you from now on .
it is not a _grand vin_ and bottling it and putting years on it only adds sediment .
“he’s in good shape , ” zurito said .
twice he , too , had a reaction against the war and against talking about it .
” “you’re drunk , ” i said to him .
' ' i don ' t know it .
he stood smirking proudly , then turned so i could see the head-dress from the side .
' ' you said please without a pause before it .
” manolita started to laugh again and we got up to go .
a little ashamed , and regretted that i was such a rotten catholic , but realized there was nothing i
nick adams , cross village , michigan—common-law wife .
was almost comfortable .
“you’re here with your greatest friend .
“he’s in his room and he won’t go out .
the one i lost on i hit twice but it fell dead outside .
the address was : " barnes , burguete .
" two other people had been in the lunch-room .
' write these down for me , please .
i shot again at the bull and threw dirt all over him and they were off .
he could hear the ducks passing in the darkness , and feel the restless lurching of the dog .
' ' i did not mean it that way .
he was very cheerful and said the states were wonderful .
" " good trout , all right , too .
” they started down across the hill to the creek .
i’d go ahead of him when we hit the road and i could run pretty good and i’d look around
” “don’t be melodramatic , harry , please , ” she said .
' ' and no one will come in and make remarks and speak badly of me ?
your leopard ' s as good as his .
" that is very beautiful .
' this has been rigidly confirmed by some politician in uniform who has never killed in his life , except
“i can kiss this sheet and see right through it at the same time .
" " well , " the count shrugged his shoulders .
over to the stream to see if there were any trout .
, and i left him .
" that was a good thing , too .
i went with a boy named billy gilby and his sister trudy .
at the end he turns to be a little child again , though with his manly force , and fills
" i ' ll tell you what they were like .
why don ' t you ever get drunk , robert ?
it’s barred but i forget and let the bars down .
' ' when did you get like that ?
” he reached for the package under the nigger’s head and swung it over the side .
he raised it to drink and looked ahead at the high grass with the flat-topped trees behind it .
hogan came out the door and walked over to me .
behind the wooden counter is a hebrew wine-seller .
she is too conceited ever to be sad , and she married me to advance herself in army circles ,
i wish i could fight it again , he thought .
then he heard the little man say , “i got an awful headache , bugs .
the ladder was leaning against the roof and i found the old berry pail beside the woodshed and climbed the
woods .
” “i don’t know , ” ad said .
” “oh i can be much better than this .
” “i have them .
some of the covey lit in trees , but most of them scattered into brush piles and it was necessary
if any supplies have come i’ll bring them down tonight .
' ' she is .
also i have never denounced anyone before .
but if it’s extra loud it’s to your left .
the boy had copied it exactly from the book and used the original title .
saw the nigger getting his face down on the paving to give them another burst .
into the open lake , carrying with it everything that had made the mill a mill and hortons bay a
" i ' ve the wrong type of face .
not as we know voices who have heard the good ones in our time .
“you oughtn’t to talk to me like that .
but to each one it meant a different thing .
hummock of grass , put the kidneys beside it .
as we went out of the door and turned to walk up the street , a big seguridad car drew
soda .
” everybody felt terribly .
he’d be reading the paris-sport and he’d look over at me and say , “where’s your girl , joe ?
” “i let it go .
' molo had everything packed in a rucksack and i found my field glasses , m ' cola taking pop
the colonel paid him the pittance that they cost , which must have been much greater than the pittance those
but he did not even watch it now .
in his own bulls he was perfect .
usually when he smelled the land breeze he woke up and dressed to go and wake the boy .
“she was a fine woman and i felt better already because i knew there was only one thing to do
old magic of the city and its beauty .
do you think it could be true ?
' ' let ' s talk about something else , ' p .
” “do you understand dialect ?
' we ' ll just ignore it .
' you ' re very distinguished looking , though , ' p .
the blades in the water , he began to row out of the harbour in the dark .
he knew that now , even though the light was so good that every wave showed on the grand canal
the taxi backed up to the curb .
even if he’s got a wrong point of view he’s better off .
” “tonight we’ll have champagne for the lion , ” wilson said .
him on the legs with rods and all , in a procession , trying to get him toward the bull
' i said , pointing at garrick who was getting into the car .
he opened it up .
" he went in and the conductor swung up and the train went out .
" " why don ' t you give him an overdose of morphine ?
' ' suppose we ' d been down there with all that stuff coming out .
the two men on the next seat were about the same size and build but the one on the aisle
he was right to keep his eyes shut when he first dove in .
listen you ever been south america , west coast , magallanes ?
" " he can strike me too , " peroxide said .
“here comes mr .
” they climbed into the motor car and , in the gray first daylight , moved off up the river
' ' you ' re a good girl , ' i said .
campbell home directly .
it was quite a bite and i put iodine on it , and then i sat there steering and wondering
it was possible then and for five years after .
” he was that way all week .
it was cold and complicated getting dressed ; i had not worn shoes and stockings all summer and it was
i have no complaints against work .
him , and i admired him and respected him , but he was slow , and all the while we
" we ' re made up of all sorts of things .
, then me with the springfield , pop with the mannlicher , p .
" " you have a good start .
i gave them all names and went to them on the train and sometimes walked for miles to get to
" you ought to play the races , bright boy .
he saw a highcheekboned , thin-lipped , slightly pudgy face with deep set grey eyes and a contemptuous mouth looking
he seemed to know all about influenza and said there was nothing to worry about if the fever did not
, and he and i would come down alone and find the bull .
nick was hungry .
" " i don ' t believe she ' ll ever marry him .
and have better contacts for what she considered her profession , or her art .
the man had a shot-gun to shoot any cripples that might be escaping where the dog could not get them
beer , and then we’d like the hops .
” “what did our mother give them for supper ?
with stuff coming in from france they ought to be able to build up in the basque country and beat
' you beat-up old bastard , ' he said to the mirror .
" and thou ?
” “it doesn’t bother me to hold it either .
“you do something awfully good to me .
' ' he ' s very intelligent , ' my wife said .
" what are you going to do ?
it costs more now .
i want you to take them as soon as they leave the trap .
' the lobster , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" " i myself am somewhat in retard , " johnson went on .
don ' t get sore at this stage of the trip .
" " wanted to , " he said .
his face was very white and there were dark areas under his eyes .
" a friend of my brother ' s came home that way from mons .
” “we’ll wait and see .
" " i haven ' t got it .
romero rose , too .
' ' this one best .
that one ' s a good bull .
tom reached over and took the glass off the free-lunch bowl .
“i’ve never felt any such feeling .
” asked enrique .
this was almost the best hour of the day .
you can ' t blame them , now .
she had been married to francis macomber for eleven years .
" " oh , don ' t start that again .
' ' you .
but she saw the change in francis macomber now .
" " sleep well ?
” “we were mean to lie to that waitress .
” he found some bottles of red wine that was drinkable and i sat around and checked the weapons and
the president looked down from the box and waved his handkerchief .
, a line of beach with fishing-boats and above , on the side of the hill , a town and
the two harry morgan stories , “one trip across” (cosmopolitan , may _num_ ) and “the tradesman’s return” (esquire ,
his pack was heavy and the straps painful as he lifted it on .
from where you’re sitting your glasses make a blink that everybody on that hill can see .
then it came again .
, how the old bull had come out of the bush , groggy as he was , and i could
' ' we ' ll run them out of the country .
" i ' ll be back when i have the sardines .
" but her jew has gone away .
he could not see by the slant of the line that the fish was circling .
' ' sold to trust , ' the colonel said , this being the code designation of the task force
” “loss of blood .
" that ' s the new development , " william campbell said .
” “quinine .
he heard the hyena make a noise just outside the range of the fire .
" how can you say such things , frances ?
' ' listen , daughter .
" he can ' t pull that stuff with me , jerry .
” “comrade , ” i called the waiter .
they are in a semi-circle , covered with cut grass and connected by a heavy tarred line which may be
“ask the senator there , ” he nodded at my father .
“let’s talk about something else .
he had the tin of vegetable shortening and he cut a piece off the top of an empty flour sack
we are a poor province .
" how did the paseo go ?
“i don’t like to leave things behind .
i could not remember who burned the things even , and i would go on until i came to people
" " oh , i am .
" he ' ll be up soon and i can last .
it ' s too damned awful .
i read it in the paper yesterday .
i am very sorry .
' people must be very complicated .
' but for a big rhino you want to go up on mount kenya .
eddy was a good man on a boat once , before he got to be a rummy , but he
then wilson had said : “hell of a fine lion .
" where did they all come from ?
she wouldn ' t look up .
” “no , ” he said , standing up , and buckling on the big web-belted colt he had taken
you will pardon me .
that day of watching the camel flies working under the horse ' s tail , having had them myself ,
" why he went in and found brett and the bull-fighter chap in the bull-fighter ' s room , and
catsup spread , two fried eggs and the warm promise-keeping coffee .
they were each over three feet long and when they swam fast they lashed their whole bodies like eels .
the killdeer plover fed .
" " what company does he command ?
and under the shade of the arcade that runs all the way around the square .
slate , that was doubtless one of the " quaint " features , paid it , shook hands , and
“you’re very mistaken , ” she told him .
poor frances has had a most unfortunate experience .
title .
a country house , or a church , or hire giotto to paint you any frescoes , if you '
it never occurred to me that garrick had never seen a sable and that he knew no more about them
maybe he suddenly felt fear .
let ' s go over to the suizo , " i said .
i do not think i could endure that or the loss of the eye and of both eyes and continue
” “he likes it .
in the dark i could not see his face very well .
complete short stories of ernest hemingway scribner _num_ avenue of the americas new york , ny _num_ this book is
" he called to the bull , " tomar !
” “you feel all right ?
" he ' s pretty bad , " i said .
at present we have two good writers who cannot write because they have lost confidence through reading critics .
” “canada .
" " i ' m going to fish a fly .
you ' re on the ball .
trees over a ravine that ran down from the side of a ridge to the water and we leaned the
they sat down at the table under the window .
there are enough problems now without sin .
" i shouldn ' t have gone out so far , fish , " he said .
he’d lost weight out at hogan’s .
" " where did they find you ?
” “what do you think they will have to eat at the green lantern ?
belly , hard little breasts , well holding arms , quick searching tongue , the flat eyes , the good
” “dear , dear old butstein , ” nick said .
i wouldn ' t ask you like this if i weren ' t .
_num_ , then the heavy rocking double report of his father’s .
grey in the early morning light .
" but he seems calm , he thought , and following his plan .
that’s the good destruction .
they better be good , his conscience said .
, driving into the western sun , the bush thick to the edge of the sand , solid as a
" where the hell have you been ?
” he saw on ahead where the road turned to the right and ran northwest through the forest swamp instead
i had on these crêpe-soled boots and it ' s soft cotton dirt .
" " what did you do ?
” “i hear most of what goes on .
” “and if they come back on your hands ?
of her ; the biggest boat i ever saw in my life laying there and i went along the whole
" i was afraid of just that all night , " she said .
" " well , " he says , " like about the wife .
manuel lifted the muleta at him .
' putting down his knife .
' ' i ' m sorry , jackson , ' the colonel said .
“i’m sorry for them now , ” his sister said .
“take the wheel a minute , ” i told him .
" he spat in the road .
i went out on the first roll with four kings .
" a bugger is a man who has intercourse with animals .
isn ' t it a nice bar ?
' ' does he speak of us ?
" get two rods , then , and bill won ' t have to buy one .
seeming more discouraged than before , to bring some guides whose names dan had written on a piece of paper
and falling to the left side to keep the horse between him and the bull .
deep , wide , silver and barred with purple and interminable in the water .
if i had not plucked the grass with the blood on it i might have held them .
” “i don’t like it , ” said al .
cameras .
taste it starting to go , but it wouldn’t justify making a row about , when al wagner came in
they laid maera down on a cot and one of the men went out for the doctor .
what star must our college students aim at ?
' we were looking out over that grass .
i looked back as we came out and there was only the sea , and below in the bay ,
" " science took it awfully well .
” “not if we’re going to canada .
there was a great shouting going on in the grandstand overhead .
' the girl hard-worded him .
' ' you don ' t stay gentle very long , ' the girl said .
“come and eat .
when it tired him he looked at manuel .
the ribs of the second bird .
the colonel .
" i just heard it somewhere .
maybe one of the other waiters will denounce him .
not a one .
the gentleman sat down .
we were glad he had it and all of that had taken on a correct perspective .
" " that ' s what you wanted , wasn ' t it ?
maybe he just trusted me .
but i do not like to hear it spoken of either .
there were three of them in the row behind us .
' and then going over to the heads , his eyes shining and kneeling , stroking the horns and feeling
' ' shouldn ' t you take the medicine ?
" " one bull went along the barrera and hooked everybody over .
one to her and i couldn’t get into her .
out over three hundred fathoms of line .
“i’ll be out there , ” retana said .
" i understand i was tight last night .
it’s simply horrible .
there was no brusqueness .
" " the hell with you , " doctor wilcox said .
' i was just kidding you , ' i said in english .
that was zurito .
“good thing you go .
the bar was not full .
effort .
' ' i have read only the one thing .
” she had gone to kill a piece of meat and , knowing how he liked to watch the game
" " i would take a nap , nicolo , " paravicini said .
' ' ronald jackson , t _num_ serial number _num_ , will present himself in the lobby of this gritti
the guard in front looked around .
bull as he moved away , hearing the bullets whunk into him , emptying his rifle at him as he
” they were walking down the hill toward the river .
so he wouldn ' t send me any bills .
i have to get these back to you fast , daughter .
" " how are you , jake ?
he looked at the names .
he walked home .
” “i’d better go up the street , ” the motorman said .
he’s got a nice wife .
he smiled happily , remembering the old days .
" " couldn ' t we live together , brett ?
" " you neither .
those were guineas .
' as we trailed the buffalo we went very slowly and quietly .
in the damp pads the gut leaders had softened and nick unrolled one and tied it by a loop at
" i could see how it had been .
and if he marries me , like he ' s always promised he would , that would be the end
i think he has the same pits on his heart and in his soul and maybe in his curiosity .
macomber said .
" " how did you know it was them ?
' open it up , ' he said .
" we have to get to pisa , or if possible , firenze , to-night .
what was it caesar said , ' and the bravest of these are the belgians .
“ain’t nothing like that this side of miami .
now i will pay attention to my work and then i must eat the tuna so that i will not
" americans make the best husbands , " the american lady said to my wife .
the organization called shaef was then based on a town named versailles outside of paris .
jack took off his shirt and collar and put on a jersey and a sweater , so he wouldn’t catch
' ' how do you do that ?
“with a party .
nick stopped and picked up a wagner apple from beside the road , shiny in the brown grass from the
” down in the dining room the tallest of the waiters , who was overdue at the meeting , said
do you have money ?
one was a bank statement .
“i can’t slide , billy .
then he looked down at the machine and jerked his little hand out from between the straps and slapped it
' please know i love you and that i wish to be delicate and good .
there was not an empty seat except in the president ' s box .
for that i will not go and be a nuisance .
“we just started .
“there’s two wardens coming in that’s after nickie .
there was a line of shattered houses on his left and the brick wall of the barracks on his right
with a hyphen , you know .
" " she was with you .
the faithful bull one time there was a bull and his name was not ferdinand and he cared nothing for
you won ' t ask him to stay ?
" " ole andreson ?
the narrow streets of the town since early morning .
white reports that they are in fair shape .
but please let’s not talk , darling , because i’m very sleepy .
“i pray all night and i pray in the daytime .
” when she left , wilson was thinking , when she went off to cry , she seemed a hell
above all don ' t be sad because he is going now .
you might get back into it again .
you’d be surprised .
" you were quite green , robert .
could make a short cut and get back before the sun set .
" you call them bananas ?
" " just a bright boy , " max said .
my stetson , and sent droop ahead to look .
" " don ' t you dance , count ?
the chef and i are kindred spirits .
we also know they are difficult .
and when my old man got off him , all sweating and happy in the place stall , and went
skirted the high edge of the meadow and then were in timber again .
" " put some water in that , " i said .
there was a tin cup on a forked stick that was stuck in the gravel by the spring and nick
ice around with his finger before he drank .
saragossa is bad , he thought .
isn’t that what you got me in on this trip for ?
" we must go , " i said .
“but i know you wouldn’t do such a thing , captain .
“mister campbell , ” mr .
” “i believe he is .
the dead were present in their greatest numbers , a withdrawal having been forced and an advance later made to
macomber looked at wilson quickly .
manuel stood alone , facing the bull .
" " what ' s he going to do ?
" it ' s pouring , " john says .
of the night and full of excitement as we came up to the fire .
what do you think it ' s meant to have that damned jew about , and mike the way he
" let me do it , " i said .
another girl came in from the kitchen .
' ' how do you make a break for armour to go through ?
it was good marsala .
oh please .
but what a great fish he is and what he will bring in the market if the flesh is good
of his knees , the substitute bull-fight critic of _el heraldo_ scribbled : " campagnero , negro , _num_ ,
i’ll tell you about him .
” “couldn’t you be though ?
hat just ahead of his drinking .
" shrimps ?
—charles scribner , jr .
this was a great day , after all .
you know how crazy they are about bambinis and the less they got to eat the more bambinis they got
" " technically .
i feel like hell .
one shook his head .
' lion , lion , rhino , buffalo , kudu , kudu .
“there’s no use getting drunk .
we stood at the counter .
” i showed him on the map .
it drew up tight on the heavy cord and he looked at it in disgust .
' the hell with the road to trieste .
in the white water at the foot of the dam it was deep .
do it tonight .
” “not very long .
dear henry was just a bonne bouche .
man was sure that by gaining some more line he could have him alongside .
harris ' s table .
“i think that’s carrying it a little far , ” his father said .
” “i understand it making you sad .
it was to remember him always by .
” nick adams came up past george , big back and blond head still faintly snowy , then his skis
all of it .
he and kibo moved back , the wind on his neck now , and they backtracked out of the forest
" god help you , i thought .
then there must be the conception of what it can be and an absolute conscience as unchanging as the standard
' so he got me some medals , you know , miniature medals , and handed me the box ,
” there wasn’t time , of course , although it seemed as though it telescoped so that you might put
they said there was another one but i didn ' t see him .
' what do you want , my lady ?
he was a poor bloody colonel , too .
“oh , no .
” “they got ten pesetas a day , ” i said .
" " cochon , " he said delicately , hesitating to use such a strong word .
m ' cola went over and looked and they both followed it a little way , stooped close over it
jack’s face was the worst thing i ever saw—the look on it !
that was all that mattered .
he hung unsteadily in the current , then settled to the bottom beside a stone .
the road climbed up into the hills and left the rich grain-fields below .
headquarters of the party written in indelible pencil and saying here was a comrade who had suffered very much under
" want to ride through the town ?
he couldn’t sweat .
" he held the bottle , looking at it .
t catch cold when he came out , and put his ring clothes and his bathrobe in a bag .
' ' let us not name them .
, and in some ways , in the several months that they had known each other , he seemed to
i’ve got to work today .
” his hand covered the other , the pressure between the fingers barely touching and then his lips wandered up
“that would have been sensible .
" that boy ' s just crazy till he can get in the water , " his mother said .
also all these men were gentlemen , or wished to be .
” “and the date was the twelfth ?
i keep them in those full-length clipped sheep’s-wool cases soaked in oil .
positions and counted the people .
“only two bottles beer , ” she said .
" " he ' s dead .
come on , galanos .
i simply think he is a british general .
all the shops had their awnings down against the heat .
" too hot .
it was made of worn black leather with a handkerchief wrapped around the heavy end .
” “listen , amigo , ” cayetano began , “i am very weak .
on the other side was a thorn-brush-fenced cornfield , a steep , stump-scattered bank with corn planted all over it
“i plan to , ” said al .
he turned .
” “of course , ” said nick .
him up the stairway , and then laid him down .
it was miura bulls , and a very bad bull-fight .
buy a london paper and a bottle of evian water .
that and shaving .
i’ve seen it there too .
" how are yours ?
signor tenente .
" they ' re savages .
i had accepted the big one now and was happy to see him and that karl had him .
when he had thought of anything except his work .
" how can i beat him ?
it was too late in the spring to be up in the silvretta .
mike went on talking .
” the nigger raised himself up to look .
in the center of the wood lot four hemlock trees grew close together .
“but i am drunk , ” said baldy .
“i love it .
he was sorry when the magazine became too expensive and he had to give it up .
' he paid the owner of the motor boat and told him that he had not forgotten about the jeep
no , he had never written about paris .
” “yes , sir , ” the waiter said .
“what’s evans carry when he goes after a boy who’s licked his own boy twice ?
he thought a moment , and signalled for another dry martini .
" save us a table for three , " i said to the german .
and where they lived and worked to hold us up .
jack poured in some water .
and why do you hate the russians ?
he can no longer see .
brueghel would have been in a hell of a shape if he had to look at the country like this
we could not afford to waste film and you had to be awfully careful of the cameras .
but this is how it was reported : " order a .
" i put a two-franc piece in krum ' s hand .
we always preferred one that we called the medium-brown .
with streams i really know .
“it’s a strange creek , ” his sister said .
the sommelier brought the beer , tall , beaded on the outside of the steins , and cold .
" let us hope so , he thought .
' ' tell me something more about paris because i love to think of you and paris in the week
' ' hell , ' said the colonel .
he probably wouldn’t do it .
' ' both of us .
' chapter i they started two hours before daylight , and at first , it was not necessary to break
” “it wasn’t their fault , ” said baldy .
' i believe you did shoot him , ' i said .
this lardner , he’s so wise now , ask him about when he picked willard at toledo .
he swung with the charge , sweeping the muleta ahead of the bull , his feet firm , the sword
feel badly .
" it was beginning to get dark .
” nick was looking down at the little man .
i was way out toward the quicksands and i didn ' t find anything so i went on .
“oh roger , ” she said .
" he wrote me from san sebastian .
“you’re through .
“another brandy , ” he said , pointing to his glass .
o ' clock that night , if that train still left at five ; the cars were marked paris-rome ,
somewhere , are “the short happy life of francis macomber , ” “in another country , ” “hills like white
' s _num_ -gauge and saw the ducks wheel off and go out toward the lake , the other scattered
" what is it men feel about quiet ?
” “i don’t believe schmidt is catholique , ” madame fontan said .
débine-toi .
nor about any of them .
pivoted weight of his body .
" " i thought you were english .
' i don ' t know why we let her come .
robert browning , nor for their dog .
" he smiled .
“i’ll be back , ” i said .
my clothes , had a bath in the canvas tub and came out to the fire comfortable and relaxed in
me , papa , if it bothers you .
“if anything happens so we haven’t time to get her up , we can cut loose or break her off
' ' and you are most beautiful and i love you .
” “i don’t know yet .
empty lard bucket .
nick could not check it , the line rushing out , the reel note rising as the line ran out
snow falling in the light from the station platform .
poor russian .
' ' lodges and tourist camps , ' the colonel said .
i knew that i was shooting well again and i wanted to make a shot to impress droopy .
" the crowd were yelling so you couldn ' t hear anything .
when the doctor came he took the boy’s temperature .
big bull tracks .
he read on .
" it ' s very bad for him .
" i want to stop .
it was higher than a big scythe blade and a very pale lavender above the dark blue water .
happening .
” “wasn’t it that way with you when you started ?
the headwaiter sold this out of his private stock which he was holding out either to take home , or
' splendid , ' pop said .
“you aren’t drunk , ” bill said .
“do you and the chef always talk that way ?
“franz , come over here .
' cola asked about the camp .
” they ate the strudel and drank the rest of the wine .
there was a little under six hundred yards of thirty-six thread .
the heavy trees on our side without showing more than a glimpse of his bulk in the reeds .
i ought to put in forty gallons anyway .
because i don’t care about me .
then you need a lot of stuff coming up .
it bores me very rapidly , and i can detect it at over one thousand yards .
john , came out in a car from town .
” he hooked each of the skinned perch through the tail .
he had come in with me an hour before .
” “i’m glad we’re going through it fast .
like iron , who always wore cattlemen’s boots under his trousers , drank too much every evening and gazed amorously
oh he’s fine .
' ' i would not want you to be in any way other than you are and i love you
gun-bearer ran like hell and the bull went off slowly into that bush .
my lousy chicken heart .
frazer received no picture of denver from the radio .
” “i believe it .
spray vapor .
he’d just take a little something and head for the railway .
“good night , sir , ” said the chef .
" he handed it to me .
" i was thinking of colonel lawrence ' s book .
' ' been in france lately ?
” “oh , yes , ” jack says .
the waiters were sweeping out the café and mopping off the tables .
" " everything .
they don’t know who you are any more .
everybody was too drunk to pull him off me .
" he asked .
past .
boat moved slowly through the dark water .
“he got that high voice out of the same fight .
he opened the screen door and went out across the grass to the cottage .
“i can’t quote , ” he said .
“you tell them why , ” he said .
” he wrote best always to marie from roger hancock .
the negro picked him up , his head hanging , and carried him to the fire .
he had to go wherever they sent him , i know , but i don’t know what he had to
i thought the eyes would come out of jack’s head .
the log was surfaced off , and there was a sapling bent across for a rail .
” “i have never denounced anyone .
some dancers formed a circle around brett and started to dance .
air passage .
toward them .
to take an early plane the husband knocked upon the door to wake him and they each drank a glass
' ' do you really hunt elephant in grass like that ?
" i told him .
his going made an awful row i heard , and i think that was where frances lost him , because
” we’d come in that town at one end and we were going out the other .
i can’t sleep , jerry .
i loved my old man so much .
you will play football again like a champion .
of the road .
“do you know frederick j .
” “i’ve located everything on the list .
, and all the basques waved good-by to him .
” said the friendly soldier .
he went past these , stopping to ask one seller where his clams came from .
does anybody know the password for tonight ?
” they sat against one of the cedars and nick opened the birds and took out their warm entrails and
i hate to have to thump him and it’s the only thing to do when he gets started .
lice is the plural .
” “the man is not crazy , ” cayetano said .
what did he ever do to you ?
” approaching them was the middle-aged gun-bearer , limping along in his knitted cap , khaki tunic , shorts and
the way i thought out would be best to speak to her was to say , “pardon me , but
" " i ' m fine .
' we ' ll have just one , ' i said , ' and then we ' ll _bathi_ .
“trust you .
know the secret of his success ?
also i won ' t need to tell her for quite a long time .
boys were watching .
we found the big leather wine-bottle leaning against the wall in my room , took it and the field-glasses ,
nothing but green grass-covered teller mines .
typewritten page in a sheaf of typewritten pages which he replaced in his pocket .
something .
you ' ve got to go through with this thing now .
' ' please give me two tablets from that bottle and pour the glass of valpolicella that you neglected to
droopy did not sleep .
it was a good lunch .
' god , what a kudu .
reading light fell off the iron bedstead and hit mr .
” he asked the woman who was sitting by him in a canvas chair , now , in africa .
the others i do not know .
it started but before he had said , as fast as he could , “oh , my god , i
' ' he is , ' the colonel answered .
the swamp was all the same on both sides of the track .
chapter _num_ at noon we were all at the café .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--[_getting up from the barrel .
” but walking down the stairs feeling each stair carefully and holding to the banister he thought , i must
we could see seven .
i thought it was really a shame that he could not have his ostrich plumes .
“all that bastard cares about is trailing me , ” he said .
long time ago good .
' did you see him ?
why didn ' t she go off with some of her own people ?
" " jolly good idea , " said harris .
he was all right .
he turned right and drove on another paved street past vacant lots and scattered houses until they saw the lights
” “say it .
o .
“you’d better drink a bottle of beer , ” i told him .
” “i couldn’t tell what was missing from the woodshed .
" " i can ' t stay , " jack says .
i thought at first it was a boulder falling , but m ' cola whispered .
you crossed the creek on a log and if you stepped off there was the black muck of the swamp
he is working .
must stay there .
” asked the doctor , his face very red but his love for information still unappeased .
then i saw the black back , the wide-swept , point-lifted horns and then the quick-moving , climbing rush of
krum put his head out .
' i started to let the beer go down , saw the roman following the motion with his own throat
" i want to be castrated , " the boy said .
name francisco , and there is a madrid joke about a father who came to madrid and inserted an advertisement
one of them was saying , “it is ten days since i have been here waiting to see him and
, ” said charley wyman .
" then he began to pity the great fish that he had hooked .
the cold of the night .
, righteous , pompous about the shutter and inclined to be abusive because we could get no picture .
one of the boys says he heard the faro , too .
“are we going after that lion ?
he watched charo watch for the sun to set with that blank look on his face that it put on
" he was an ass , though .
tasting .
' ' i believe we could .
i was not sure of their size either , but i judged the range to be all of three hundred
they used to go in with schooners and load guavas from the river and there used to be a town
the shore .
' ' if you ever hit andrea , hit him with the barrel ; not with the butt .
” “in principle , ” para said and smiled , for the first time , showing yellowed teeth .
“i’ve found everything , ” his sister said .
i cannot know .
" " no , i don ' t want any .
i liked to see him hurt cohn .
” “i don’t know yet , ” i said .
just then he saw a man-of-war bird with his long black wings circling in the sky ahead of him .
get up and we’ll go out and wait for the ambulance .
' s going to handle him brings the gloves and i pull them on and work them around .
“it’s strange the way it carries .
scribner and design are trademarks of macmillan library reference usa , inc .
” “i think i can last , ” jack says .
“i’m hungry , ” he said .
" " he spends a lot of time there .
you ' ll never know .
” “must go in the water first , ” she said .
but not alongside of this robert cohn .
“you come by tonight and i’ll have some stuff made up for you .
" " well , well .
“i just heard them threshing around .
the bull ' s head was down as he watched the muleta .
but he took it with his old wild-boar truculence , as he had taken everything all of his life and
' ' he has your valpolicella in the big wicker fiascos of two litres and i have brought this decanter
that ' s why i would never go to russia .
then , and his father would say , " they ' ve run up the flag .
he ate alone at a small table and looked up very little .
" some day somebody will push your face in .
rim-rocked us on the hill .
the weather is cloudy and the place is _num_ .
we could get along .
“he hasn’t got anything more .
” i did not say anything but i was glad he was awake .
now is the time to think of only one thing .
that crazy at the lunch counter and a ham and egg sandwich on rye .
' in your name , ' he added .
we stopped the car at the edge of the bush and getting out and sitting down with the glasses saw
” kate said .
" no , " said manuel .
“we better not annoy him , ” nick said .
” “come on , baldy , snap out of it .
she was losing altitude fast and i came up and over and dove on her again .
he seated himself , asking brett ' s permission without saying anything .
in some high grass we found blood , at a pretty good height on the grass leaves on both sides
" " glad to meet you , " i said .
“you know i’ve got to have one good pic , ” manuel said .
just where we want to go .
manuel held the cape close in front of him , a fold in each hand , and shouted at the
, stumbling as his feet hit the still speeding-by of the earth , and then he was shooting at the
miami from under the mattress and cleaned and oiled it and filled it up and put it on my belt
from the stream .
hernandez came over from speaking with his own manager .
then he went on , not smiling , " and you don ' t really want-- " the major paused
” “couldn’t you have gotten into something else ?
how he’d tried to steal some feed that didn’t belong to him , and when the sherif put the handcuf
” william campbell shut his eyes and took a deep breath .
" " that ' s a lot of dough .
they only looked down and went on towards the open sea .
it will make you sick .
trigger came to what , in a squeeze , seemed metal stuck against metal .
the tail .
" i ' m awfully glad to meet you , " robert said to bill .
this isn’t a part of the country where you eat very good either .
' frightful , ' pop agreed .
” “read what ?
” “i’ll send a runner with you .
but that means nothing because i cannot read other naturalists unless they are being extremely accurate and not literary .
" " i ' ll get another knife and have the spring ground .
he , very probably , saw it as quickly as any man who was civilized and had to read and
" i ' ll bet you fifty pesetas they ' re here to-night , " bill said .
and moved high in the sky as the breeze freshened and the shadows of the clouds moved over the swamp
" " you don ' t have to call it .
' ' _have to_ ?
" " but are you strong enough now for a truly big fish ?
maybe i ought to be in something else .
“please don’t cry , my blessed , ” he said .
“pic him , manos , ” he said .
knowing it was all a bloody balls--if he can ' t stop crying , break his nose to give him
" i say , you were cold , " mike said .
” “no , ” nick adams said .
only the old waiters know him and the old waiters do not denounce .
so she woke him when she came in , wilson thought , looking at them both with his flat ,
we’ll hit water again tomorrow .
patrons of the arts and letters have discovered the forum , he read .
i ' ll come up and see you .
the road of the pass was hard and smooth and not yet dusty in the early morning .
you know i love you .
' ' you aren ' t on the junk , are you ?
anyway his papers were french and they said he was from soissons .
' the colonel did and loved her so he could not bear it .
he and mrs .
a rest home or something of the sort .
” “i get more than that for pic-ing .
i would make mistakes of course .
" " oh , come off it , " brett said .
certainly you do not want music .
" the adjutant made a motion with his hand to the second runner who went out .
noise she made .
" a collection of globos illuminados .
" well , i ' ll tell you .
" i should have thought any one in that family would be interesting .
the porter said it was a very good cut but that the cow was lean .
and it ' s been a long time .
they were not the ordinary pyramid-shaped teeth of most sharks .
" yes , " sister cecila went on .
oh .
c’est comme les churches .
“carry that bicycle off the road , ” i said to the copains .
of them would walk off together to the outdoor bar .
he looked as broad as a salmon .
sun , under a tree beside the road .
i could not see his face clearly under the hat , but it looked badly marked .
he cut a piece of line and tied the fish ' s lower jaw against his bill so his mouth
notebook , “large and with enough horns to satisfy the cash customers , campagnero showed a tendency to cut into
when he did he did not hear the trap and killed the bird with his second barrel far out so
" he was riding horseback .
” the hired girl did not say anything but went into the main part of the house , shutting the
” “all he can .
” “‘vice is a monster of such fearful mien , ’” the young man said bitterly , “that to be
the old road was so overgrown that he had to stoop many times to avoid hitting branches .
bring it in , henry , " said the count .
" they ' re only dangerous when they ' re alone , or only two or three of them together
try and find something heavier than the wrench but i couldn ' t find a thing ; not even a
my father helped them with the sergeant .
going to get it .
offered the man one of the bottles of wine .
” “might put it on , ” said wilson .
' ' kandisky , ' he said and bowed .
, or over-flunkied , in a city of great hotels and the colonel loved it .
buzzard .
any further concern you may have is about yourself and that is just a luxury .
" his father sat down in a chair beside the oilcloth-covered table .
” “well , ” jack says , “i’m going to need a lot of luck with that boy .
in every sort of light .
” “and i’m a rummy fake santa claus .
only too many oc-toe-pus .
he did not hurry and he kept his lines straight up and down .
“his initials were e .
' i figured that i ' d by-pass brescia .
so that we could lean back against the trunks .
he had wet his hand before he touched the trout , so he would not disturb the delicate mucus that
” “don’t you feel all right ?
' tell him i am b ' wana fisi , the hyena slaughterer , ' i told dan .
i hope i do not have to fight again , he thought .
" now let me get through the eating of this dolphin and get some rest and a little sleep .
joyce was of medium height and he wore his eyes out .
“manolita’s at the florida .
" i ' ve never seen one , " the man drank his beer .
and here were sable now , and i must play it right and get the best one .
“why , that one’s a great bull-fighter , ” retana’s man said .
' ' i love you .
eyes of night birds that squatted close on the sand until the bulk of the car was on them and
a catalogue of old books ?
' ' they come from the dalmatian coast do they not ?
andré sat reading in the corner .
we agreed he must have just come in from the garden .
but sometimes he cannot escape from hearing .
” “off the through freight ?
” “god make it get dark quick , ” she said .
but it was a fair-weather breeze and he had to have it to get home .
he reached in his pocket .
“i’m awful sure , ” nick said .
started running across and to the right , the whole plain back-grounding into moving animals against the rise of the
mangez ici !
and got a book out of the pack and settled down under the tree to read until bill should come
“you ain’t got human feelings .
it was cold on the water .
" " they lead such a quiet life .
jack stood on the porch when they got into the car .
* * * * * in that hospital a radio did not work very well until it was dusk .
speed made as you dropped down like a bird .
' being born there isn ' t everything .
don’t be weak and indecisive now .
gate into the ring , and as the bulls passed , galloping together , heavy , muddy-sided , horns swinging
it was like navarre in droopy ' s country too .
a flock of dark ibises , looking , with their dipped bills , like great curlews , flew over from
" " a bottle of sportsman , " johnson said to the waitress .
" " all right , " i said , " but see you look after it .
and ate them filaments and all .
a very fat woman came to the door .
" " il fait de la vendange .
" " i was stinking in every attack , " nick said .
they wore brown uniforms and were tall and their faces shone , close under the electric light .
" you ' re an expatriate .
“hello , butstein , ” he said .
“who will ?
" downstairs , the doctor left three different medicines in different colored capsules with instructions for giving them .
i could not let him take the trouble .
he loved the taste and the feel of whiskey .
i hope they can fix my arm .
mike was unpleasant after he passed a certain point .
i saw the sign hotel montana on the second floor .
and the other way the narrow crowded world of the rue mouf etard .
’ “big hugalug” “feels better , ” she said .
” “good-bye , jimmy , ” fred said .
over here , the way they’re brought up , they’ll all make you a good wife .
” “good-bye , ” she said and kissed him .
“he was the easiest man to do business with i ever met .
“should i let it drop ?
“yes , ” i said .
he remembered poor julian and his romantic awe of them and how he had started a story once that began
brett sat at the ringside between bill and me .
” margot looked at them both and they both saw that she was going to cry .
by then the sun was up and the road was becoming populous with travellers , both white-clothed and naked ,
” “put on these arm bands , ” claude said .
“one catholique is like another .
" another quarter litre ?
sex explains it all .
he was a natural welterweight and he’d never gotten fat .
' ' let ' s not talk about it , ' p .
we sent two bottles on with mr .
” “like surrealism ?
“he’s too damn close , ” zurito said .
it was terrible .
by this time i was wishing i had not stopped into chicote’s but had gone straight on home where you
" " what a shame .
it was cool in the shade , sitting on the log .
his big whip and the jocks fiddling them around and then the barrier snapping up and that bell going off
" said bill .
” “people who know how to fish catch them .
' i don ' t feel at all like being rough to-night .
the young gentleman went outside the door with a glass for peduzzi but could not see him .
toward us , throwing the water high each time he landed .
it would not be bad to eat with a little lime or with lemon or with salt .
have it here where it is quiet .
it sounds as though he were right in camp .
the dampened , mud-weighted cape swung open and full as a sail fills , and romero pivoted with it just
i’d like to hear them talk sitting in our own house .
he had once been a captain of hungarian hussars , and he had once captured a gold train in siberia
" wait , " the bicycle man shouted from behind the car .
you should never have killed this italian .
but from his home town , and he wanted to be the big , generous matador with a fellow townsman
he lay there for a long time .
“i’ll leave it open .
' ' wild , ' she said .
you can have it if you like .
walcott went in .
he heard the ca-ra-wong !
their bodies .
her eyes had different depths , sometimes they seemed perfectly flat .
” “will you mind reading mine sometimes ?
” “an s .
nick dropped carefully down the embankment and cut into the woods to come up to the fire through the trees
" " yes .
i doubted this but read the three leaflets and drank the gin and tonic .
i looked at my father .
" we ' re going to have a regular meal .
” “the sort of problems i meant were : we could go into the market together or to the cockfight
” the maid laughed .
i’ll surprise you .
“i see .
he’s been training jack .
' ' when someone brings saint mark back another time under a load of pork from alexandria .
“you must not joke me like that .
he thought they were a special glamourous race and when he found they weren’t it wrecked him just as much
if you think the logs are stolen , take your stuff and get out .
“look at the three of them .
” “you’ll be one .
" so you ' re going to be one of these popular champions , " jack says to him .
i know what we had before we came to the café .
' ' to go and get dressed properly and be ready to start .
the fields were brown and the vines coarse and thick .
there was only one other person in the room and he was awake too .
' ' i didn ' t know that .
” “i seen her a couple of times , ” the negro went on .
" i feel confident today .
finally i saw them and i shouted to m ' cola , ' run , run ' , and pointed
" the mexican said at the door .
' ' and why has it not been written ?
he had a date at maxim ' s at twelve .
" " what will your family say ?
that boy .
” “what the hell do you put it on the card for ?
he smiled at her now and she looked away from his face at the way his shoulders sloped in the
don ' t think of that .
they took a long walk along it in the late afternoon , swimming out , lying in the clear water
farewell , a long farewell and take it with you where you go .
and it would be more fun with two of us .
set .
” “but we can be jolly can’t we ?
she was very forceful , and cohn never had a chance of not being taken in hand .
you stay here and rest .
” “i never eat at the hotel .
nor you .
she kissed the count and put her hand on his shoulder to keep him from standing up .
" " i ' m not joking .
the machines were new then and it was we who were to prove them .
” “très peu .
i should have known better .
' ' but it was all luck .
the bolster between her legs ; big , fat , honest , clean , easy-going , very religious and never
but he ' s bitter about american women .
unless the honourable pacciardi stops them on the line of the piave , which is a river which no longer
suddenly seeing it clearly , as you can see clearly and justly before you die ; seeing its hopelessness ,
' he hated to have anything killed except what we were after , no killing on the side , no
' ' your lovely mother would not mind ?
" " well , let him behave , then .
in the family buddenbrooks , and had climbed in and out of her window in _le rouge et le noir_
they started to walk up the hill toward the town .
but now he never would .
each year when he would take him and start on his speed he would start killing a six or eight
that ' s good .
then stooping and holding up a leaf with bright blood , slamming me on the back , m ' cola
they’ll have a copy .
took a couple of deep breaths and dove over off the stern with the wrench in my hand and swam
i’ll tell her i’m in some trouble with the game wardens and that they’re looking for me and i have
" oh , for chrisake , " the detective sergeant said , and put his notebook in his pocket .
” “i love it the way it is .
all he knows is to get in there and sock .
he sure is a mean son of a bitch , jackson thought , and he can be so god-damn nice
” “you might think about some one else .
it was very deep and very impressive .
telephone , nodded and smiled his glass-eyed smile .
the detective came running by ; then ran back .
i ' ve found it better not to talk about my neighbour .
” “we oughtn’t to talk out loud , ” i said .
to the little stream that came out of the mountainside , and found a fresh lion track and many rhino
” “will you want to eat soon ?
big cars out from charlevoix , rich slobs riding behind their chauffeurs , came up and passed , hogging the
they were a club of some sort , and all wore workmen ' s blue smocks , and red handkerchiefs
besides i caught that on the dirty boat out from marseilles .
she was an extremely handsome and well-kept woman of the beauty and social position which had , five years before
" " that ' s an idea .
he stood there for some time watching and listening , then he took his sweater off the bird cage and
with their capes .
we all three went back to the hotel .
” “married ?
“if you make a scene i’ll leave you , darling , ” margot said quietly .
the taxi stopped in front of the rotonde .
" you know how it is , though , with a wife and kids .
if kerensky had shot a few men things might have been altogether dif erent .
_ _num_ d soldier_--wasn ' t i standing right by her ?
they had taken him for a soldier in nineteen fourteen when he had come back to visit his family ,
he thought taking them with the water now , was in bad taste .
i’ve never become one .
” “maybe it’s because i’m younger , ” she said .
the other said in french , " i don ' t know them personally but i ' ve often heard
often i ran out of bait because i would take only ten worms with me in a tobacco tin when
the light is very good and also , now , there are shadows of the leaves .
always , though , you crossed a bridge across a canal to enter the hospital .
moment of silence for our glorious dead , with a solid and ringing ' evviva d ' annunzio ' .
" " just temporarily , " i said .
pop and i were a little drunk and p .
one pair was narrower and taller against the side of the hut .
' the colonel started to walk towards the door of the house .
“no , thanks , ” i said .
plenty coyotes , though .
” she looked at him with her well-known , well-loved face from spur and town & country , only a
there was a light in the concierge ' s room and i knocked on the door and she gave me
" " sure .
" " great , " i said .
” “i been on lots of roads , ” blindy said .
it isn ' t heavy , he thought , it is lighter than anything there is .
” “he was gay all right , ” i said .
' the girl asked , and swung her head back and stood there with the black sweater of the portrait
it was quiet in the harbour though and he sailed up onto the little patch of shingle below the rocks
he drew out the sword from the folds of the muleta and sighted with the same movement and called to
hell with this walking .
" mike started toward him around the table .
floating and bloating face up and face down regardless of nationality until they had attained colossal proportions .
he tipped the cognac out of his saucer into his glass .
, with seats on the roofs , that went back and forth to the suburbs with , at certain hours
' i know quite a little about them , burnham .
" the lady took my hand .
" that sounds like a good idea , " cohn said .
hundred yards of thirty-six thread .
” “it will .
because i wrote the book myself , ' his best friend said .
" that don manuel chap is furious .
he had been in love with various girls before he kissed mrs .
" " please ?
' i checked out on elevators long ago .
the canary from palermo , a cloth spread over his cage , was out of the draft in the corridor
that’s the one where they go to bed every night with the naked sword between them .
” “shut your dirty mouth , ” said the first soldier .
b i c yc l e , ” n i c k s a i d t o hi ms
his sister felt them , warm and _num_ ullbreasted and beautifully feathered .
” “i don’t know , ” nick was startled .
but , nick , boy , you certainly didn’t feed her too much yesterday .
' ' what do you want for the end of the meal ?
knew him there and it ' s true and you know it ' s true and god can strike me
' ' you ' re not worried about that , are you ?
well as necessary , to his position and the colonel extended his own hand , which had been shot through
in the cup .
what would you like me to say ?
" yes , while you ' re in there , " retana said .
nick moved along through the shallow stretch watching the banks for deep holes .
" " it was a trick , " peroxide said .
“come on , skip it and let us get upstairs .
batting average even in something as simple as war .
he wasn’t though .
' hey , karl , ' i yelled .
“schmidt is catholique , ” madame fontan mused .
“i’ll wait till tonight .
we left the lorry under some scrubby trees about two miles from the lick and walked along the sandy road
the woods and were gone .
back holding the small camera to my belly , trying to keep my head lower than my shoulders , hitching
" can i go out to get sardines for you for tomorrow ?
the only shadows were made by rocks or by the hut that was built under the protection of a rock
” “of course it will .
“you know i never knew you were drunk until you started talking coming back in the camions .
shout and blew the klaxon and i let the gun off , the flame cutting up into the dark and
just touched their toes and ankles .
michael and all .
' you go to hell , ' i told him cheerfully .
he stood there watching the dark , where the things were coming from .
' billing and cooing , ' pop said .
he was a blond with wide shoulders and arms like a heavyweight .
, theatrical bastard , so i told m ' cola i would drink a bottle of beer .
“want me to put out another rod ?
“if that’s the way you feel about it .
' ' take it to the room , please .
then i had creditors , too .
' ciao , then , renata .
he straightened his coat with his gloved hands .
the wanderobo evidently said we were hunting kudu and were in a hurry .
” “he buys a little stuff here once in a while .
weren ' t here to listen .
lucky buttocks , the unfortunate chest and the other places .
from behind him , he heard the incoming whisper of wings and he crouched , took hold of his right-hand
“you think we make a baby ?
the monument to josé marti by drunken american servicemen and , always , the price of sugar .
way through the untracked , parklike country .
“what does it cost ?
now go to sleep , mike .
" i don ' t even listen to it , " he said and shut the door .
" going out to lunch ?
tell him it is very exciting and sometimes members of the tribe are chased across vast spaces with empty pistols
do not think that i am very much impressed by that as a boxing title , but it meant a
” “i’ll have what you need .
i couldn’t imagine how the gunner’s mate knew enough turkish to be insulting .
but i won’t have fights .
” the girl held the field glasses to her eyes .
the current carried away the crumbs .
this was the main thing he had learned so far .
they ' ve never been on time anywhere .
' when will you learn that i might joke against you because i love you ?
do you think there is only one way in the world to get to trieste ?
forelegs and dumped them into the shallow water .
" he sat in the outer room and read the papers , and the editor and publisher and i worked
the concierge stood there waiting for another tip , probably .
death .
prairie and the pines , into the hills of the lake country , the road striped black over the long
“the nigger and my bright boy are amused by themselves .
down the corridor and those entitled to use them gave due warning beforehand and water was heated and towels laid
liz was sitting in the kitchen next to the stove pretending to read a book and thinking about jim .
a single mule was hitched to one of the cages and dragged it up against the gate in the corral
' ' i do not care .
manigua thicket is a scrub acacia thornbush from africa , the first seeds of which the creoles say came to
he could see both ways on the road and he looked up the hill and then down to the dock
” “i’d better get to sleep , ” david said .
“did you say eleven or twelve years old ?
out to hunt again .
” “roger , you mustn’t say that about boring me .
” i asked the innkeeper .
this matador had an intelligent , very open face and he carried himself with much style .
no , he said , he hadn ' t .
" " and if the tessera is false ?
' i drank the tea and spat the leaves into the fire .
off on the right , almost closing the harbor , was a green hill with a castle .
i was , truly , very fond of him and he was entirely unselfish and altogether self-sacrificing .
" " let ' s lay off that , " bill said .
it had been , too .
the only times i used to ride through it was in a camion .
” “it was extraordinary .
" " my god , nous avons chanté .
he pulled the reading light with his bad hand .
” “i thought you said you didn’t see them .
a big porcelain stove shone in the corner of the room .
" wait a minute , " somebody said .
on the trail .
barnes , don ' t be ridiculous , " the count said .
she looked up at him .
see , as wide as all the world , great , high , and unbelievably white in the sun ,
" " always , " said the count .
" speak german , not dialect .
it was too far away .
chapter iv it was a frightfully hot day .
a pair of scissors and something to sew with and lorna doone and swiss family robinson .
face .
to buffalo .
” and leaning back , swung the cape forward .
wouldn’t do any harm .
' i had to make a decision about that , as about the other different things .
then something came into his head .
maybe he had his oryx by now .
“thank you , ” the old man said .
and erasers nor my pencil sharpener that was shaped like a fish , nor my envelopes with the return address
' in the morning we were dressed before daylight , ate breakfast , and were hunting the forest edge and
manuel noticed while spreading the muleta that the white base of the horn was stained red .
" " i ' m coming over some night .
he did not think it was true .
write .
the tall gray motor-buses were the only life of the square except for the pigeons and the man with a
then i couldn’t do a thing .
” we went along a side road that cut up over the hill and cut across the fields back to
” “not too .
we ' ve got plenty of time .
“come on up to the house and we’ll eat , ” zurito said .
now he knew there was the fish and his hands and back were no dream .
" you ' ve blinded me .
' no thanks , i think i better go to bed .
while the game trails ran now smoothly to the dry waterholes , and there was a new water that he
everything .
told him to look alive or i’d see he got about fifteen of the best .
" " tell the rest , " bill said .
" " i owe everybody money , " mike said .
they rowed on out of sight of the mill , following the shore line .
" " son a bitch , " billy said .
folds in the sand with his slippered foot .
there were a few men sitting at tables against the wall .
” “i’d like to get my savior packed full of nuggets worth sixteen dollars an ounce .
t he get any letters , what did the guide say kongoni for that time , they did , he
” “you’re sleepy you mean .
wasn’t it marvellous , margot ?
afterwards he had sat inside the woodshed with the door open , his shotgun loaded and cocked , looking across
” “not always .
to settle into david .
then he found the sheet and the sail filled and he brought the skiff onto her course .
tell me the rest when you come back .
it bears a fruit you can ' t eat and it is purely kansan .
a jockey—and then we always sat at the same table and they got used to seeing us there .
" you ' ve no idea , jake .
" what ' s yours ?
and the trade wind is rising .
you work now , fish , he thought .
" " eat those garlics , robert , " mike said .
" " you know i didn ' t believe it at first .
it was all different .
if there is a hurricane you always see the signs of it in the sky for days ahead , if
we might jump something and spook the sable but we had to take that chance to get around and above
“i hurt , ” the nigger said .
” he caught her at the door .
sorghum , and , driving easily , his son asleep on the seat by his side , the day '
i ' ve seen it for some time .
wonderful ?
tell me that .
i left everything and i went wherever you wanted to go and i’ve done what you wanted to do .
we never knew him very well because he went so quickly .
if you go away i can’t talk to you .
head down , swing and speed .
to-morrow , sable , buffalo , simba .
and know where to shoot , unless you are unsteady from a run or a climb or fog your glasses
' ' please .
' ' who had florence and rome ?
gentlemen , either you must govern--or you must be governed .
what can one do ?
" i ' m nervous .
" but why should he necessarily lose it ?
she started all that .
” they went down the hill and across the long field and through the orchard and then through a rail
" drink it slow .
" go up to the café and see brett and mike ?
” the waitress left the table and went over to the bar .
those were two fine fish you took yesterday too .
" " you have youth , confidence , and a job , " the older waiter said .
" seven .
” “i better go .
he knew what a huge fish this was and he thought of him moving away in the darkness with the
' ' didn ' t like it .
jack didn’t laugh .
sweat trickle down his back as he rowed .
“i did not like it either , ” he said .
i laid them out , side by side , all their heads pointing the same way , and looked at
you said it and you love me .
they were always very polite at first , and it amused them very much that i should be an american
as it turned out , hemingway’s plans for that new book did not pan out .
” zurito stood up .
let ' s do it again , please , now i am in the lee .
" " his niece looks after him .
” “will you come over and watch me play indoor ?
" this fellow was just a punk , you understand , a nobody he ' d never seen before ,
“how’s wall street ?
" what the hell ?
did you practise a sport ?
“how about something to smoke , jack ?
" " tell her they have a touchdown already .
” someone had pulled the handle on a machine and blindy started listening to the whirr .
' is this the best sausage that you have ?
' ' please stop talking about it .
' ' daughter .
god how i hate that word and how it was used .
at the place de grèves .
" " can ' t the steers do anything ?
worn road through the forest .
dollars and a half a week ?
what we call grasshoppers that is ; and what are , really , locusts .
" retana did not smile .
" " oh , we ' ve so much money now , " brett said .
i have to remember yours all week .
” he said to al .
i was very hungry and the food at the gran via was lousy .
around to the garden .
" brett looked at the yellow wall of the chapel .
the waitress watched him go .
” so soldier went off on the train to town that same morning .
" " and the bulls all came in right over them , " bill said .
" your wife ever see you fight , jack ?
enormous vienna prize-fight .
” “nobody .
" " i know it ' s silly , " nick said .
go on .
” “now i’m happy and i love you .
tear down the notices , pulling the paper off in strips and washing and rubbing away the paper that stuck
we were ready to start .
” “want to hunt tomorrow ?
you haven ' t slept nights ever since i been with you .
he smiled his dirty little pink-and-white smile .
it was just that we were an older country in america and the biggest game was gone .
” “she’s going there .
" cohn smiled again and sat down .
but looking at him lying there it certainly was a temptation .
, deep as a deep mine , that is within them .
with a horn through him .
" den i think a tabul for two will be enuff .
there’s two american girls at the florida .
is the best of all the year .
holding her tight against him , her head back now , he heard the sea on the beach and felt
" you ought to try it some times , jake .
' ' i am stupid , ' the colonel said .
" didn ' t you know he was a nigger ?
it certainly was hot .
" " he just a big bluff .
the other two porters said “salut .
“then you’ll see where we’re going to live .
still , he had come home .
_num_ st soldier—she’s a nice-looker .
, and the train was much nearer paris .
you know almost no one does and you don ' t use scent .
i cut out the engine and went back to the stern .
he is not the villain .
and i started out to look for her .
” “when ?
" " well , " i said , " so long , soldier .
' you couldn ' t read it .
' ' do you want a table ?
” when my old man grinned , nobody could help but grin too .
" " you have ever been in love ?
we had to get some zebra hides that we had promised friends at home and it needed time for the
be done , every one of which you sign .
' ' the three of them .
on the other side were snowy mountains .
“i’d like to see the world series , ” nick said .
” “well , ” he said .
" " when did you see brett ?
” “i’ll do what you say .
a single shell came in over the ridge and fountained in the dirt and black smoke just short of the
he hit a tire on the car because i saw dust blowing in a spurt on the street as the
take president coolidge .
the hop head was rich .
he looked around at them .
bigger than anything i’ve ever seen .
one he folded double , next to the ground .
how some of that gang that hangs around the dock would be pleased at that , i thought .
“there’s coffee below , ” i told him .
" galanos .
they’re bigger than european patridges .
“ham and eggs for the son of the champion ?
that’s the same fellow who put me adrift down the road tonight .
away the grass to take some pictures .
he had mimicked exactly the expression of nacional .
” he handed over a pigskin bag .
' ' i don ' t think that would be so terrible in a city as old as this and
i put down money for the wine , but one of the men picked it up and put it back
” she brought her hands down from her head and clenched them by her sides .
they kept it up for more than a dozen shots .
” “how will you know when to cut the pass ?
' ' is it right ?
pocket .
down-stairs .
they were just slow thinking it out .
' we ' re none of us ever drunk .
i put the bathrobe around him and he holds himself in with one hand under the bathrobe and goes across
i ' m through worrying .
” “you know some girls , don’t you ?
of wilson’s big rifle , and again in a second crashing carawong !
the snow driving like a sand-storm , he knew the pace was too much .
too steep , walking them , and leaving them beside the cut , walked over to the entrance to the
also , i read your letters .
john put his hat down on the table .
death he had walked away from had found him when he was just over the ridge , clear of the
them , and we needed meat .
i felt relieved then and then , finally , she told me .
and out onto the plain and along past the smudges that were burning brightly now , the grass all consumed
this stuff don ' t get you anywhere .
” “another fool .
i yelled to johnson to let him have line but before i could say a word i saw johnson rise
i could see this new comrade was getting a little on his nerves .
eyes , moss growing on the base of his horn that grew out forward from his nose .
” “won’t the lady want sugar , sir ?
the burlesque show caught william campbell at kansas city .
“i will be going , ” said the middle-aged waiter .
” “sure , ” he said , looking at her .
" from bayonne .
so now when he went into kill , and it was seldom , he could not look at the horns
“that’s all right .
" " i ' m going to marry him , " brett said .
' ' in the leg first , i think .
" " i think they would .
i mean this sort of good .
the driver was asleep .
in the firelight i sat on a petrol box with my back against a tree and kamau brought the whisky
i never had anything wrong with my heel except the time the sting ray stung it when i stepped on
“i guess so , ” said nick .
watching the skinning .
now here is the situation--i married a man in u .
' kamau asked me .
adams we want to speak to her .
" he shut his eyes , and in place of the man with the beard who looked at him over
french .
beating time on bill ' s back .
“i don’t feel like turning in yet , ” nick said .
" he loves the sun , " the american lady said .
them over to dinner and her telling marge all the time what to do and how to act .
" the innkeeper asked .
empty a minute before , that the waiter , holding the bottle high up over his head , could hardly
saw out of her own eyes .
she worked out from under him and sat up and straightened her skirt and coat and tried to do something
i will leave word with the padrone at the hotel office .
it , so she had to attack me .
” “you’ll kill him marvellously , ” she said .
i met him on the stairs , and took one of the bags .
i never saw it before it was smacked , he thought .
how many times have i done that for nothing .
' ' i have heard of him .
" " a wife would be no good to him now .
camp , and brett had her fortune told .
holding on inside , his right arm through the open window .
" " i say , weren ' t you there ?
” “not him , ” nick said .
then blinding as they mounted a hill , blinking as they came near , then dimmed as bill passed .
' i will , my colonel , ' the waiter said .
he should have been killed in the heavy artillery bombardment that always preceded the attacks .
with a house , and we did not want to get in trouble from stray bullets going toward the house
" " how ' s the writing going ?
i can work slow and i can see the words when i say them .
the doctor skipped quickly behind him , tripped him and , as he fell to the floor , kicked him
“if it was belmonte doing that stuff , they’d go crazy , ” retana’s man said .
your first seeing of a country is a very valuable one .
” zurito asked , big and looming beside manuel in the dark .
” i had all the papers in a bunch that the broker had given me and i paid the bill
' there was no sign that she heard it , so he tired of it .
we ain’t going any pace here , and they ain’t really bad jumps either .
the dark ones last the best , he thought , and looked at the bony structure in that face .
death of belmonte .
i heard the rocket and i knew i could not get into the ring in time to see the bulls
” pinin was the major’s orderly .
“they’re the big cowy things that jump like hares , aren’t they ?
“nous avons beaucoup de gibier là-bas .
“i do not want to see .
i left some money for the roman and one of the kudu hides with the boy .
then the road came over the crest , flattened out , and went into a forest .
" " continue , slowly , and wait for luck to change .
the bastard spooked at fifty yards .
where i come from they speak german .
' ' yes , sir , ' said jackson .
those kids were like pancho .
" " lean on him , manos , " manuel said .
being awake .
he looked at the girl , since they were alone now , and he said , ' how are you
that ' s right .
" " he depresses me so .
" " ledoux and somebody .
all the piles of lumber were carried away .
' that is why i used it and its female population as a symbol .
“i’m the only one here that ever knew steve ketchel and i come from mancelona and i knew him there
' ' where you go , you know---- ' ' oh , ' the girl said and blushed .
, and i was tired of looking at both of these young people .
” “as you want , hombre .
“you’re the only friend i got .
i ' ve tried so very hard , but she doesn ' t seem to take an interest in anything
did you get many , nickie ?
” said george .
i wonder if he cried , too ?
gritti palace hotel , into the light and warmth of the lobby .
“hello , harry , ” he said to me and waved .
" the anis del mono man wiped his mouth and stood up .
as they turned out of the door to the right , i saw a closed car come across the square
it was covered with mud and was stopped beside some boats that had been pulled up beyond the waves .
about nine o ' clock in the morning they would start using the x-ray machine , and then the radio
” juma was pointing out the scattered bones and how the big bull had walked among them .
” his mouth was full .
the roman was going , as near as i could make out , to spy on one of the herds
" come and eat .
[the second roman soldier smiles at the hebrew wine-seller .
why not leave him there ?
didn ' t giotto describe a circle , he thought ?
that it was well into the second year of the war , that he was in a city under siege
the barman poured it for him .
“that’s good .
" i don ' t know where she is .
” “i can’t stay , ” jack says .
jack sat up and looked at us .
” “why they want to shoot ?
shutters .
' ' don ' t take off your tunic , please .
then capes far down the coast .
“everyone fears planes .
i say , give a chap a brandy and soda .
i have to think too hard to ever be lonely .
“none of these guys are going to send you away , though .
” “i see , ” nick said .
two men were going by in the street .
the opiums are for before and for after .
a boy came out and took our bags and we went in to the desk .
” “i’ve seen you plenty .
but he ' s my next-door neighbour .
” “i don’t need it , nickie , if we’re short .
pretty well through , too .
inside on a wooden bunk lay a young indian woman .
but you take it easy now .
” “i’ll bet pa wouldn’t ever have had a squaw for a girl .
’ dans son pays c’est comme ça .
" " what did you lay off them for ?
” “for my own business .
and of the darkness that stopped the tsetse from biting .
the road was a track over shelves of solid rock , worn by the feet of the caravans and the
” carl asked .
one turned and went out of sight under the skiff and the old man could feel the skiff shake as
he’s a nice boy .
tout le monde est allé dans le truck .
she lost a fine man and nothing really interests her now except efficiency .
' ' you are a lucky girl if you can write truly what you hear or think .
it doesn’t have that quality the gulf stream water has .
i ' ll try to remember his name .
he looked at him sitting beside him on the seat .
i noticed it was cocked , looked at m ' cola , furious with him , kneeled down and shot
and i ' ll do it and then everything will be fine .
" what will you do when the war is over if it is over ?
after he drank this eddy said , just as though he was happy , “so we’re going to run chinks
, commanded five thousand dollars as the price of endorsing , with photographs , a beauty product which she had
i ' d make some money some way and when we came back we would come to the old man
' don ' t kid me .
” “eat that other egg .
" " another bright boy , " al said .
” “run along , ” said the chef .
i’d have been glad to do them with you .
the right hand and did the same thing again .
" i have a date .
” at this time he had a contract for six fights at four thousand pesos a fight besides his benefit
and if it was summer , and there was no one in town , you could always sit and enjoy
you get started on the tub .
you can see the rebecca light from where she is .
nick felt odgar glow .
ranging from the comic to the serious and the macabre .
' ' i wanted to take the necessary precautions , sir , on your valuable property .
braddock put in .
" " i wish you ' d let me pay for it .
' m ' cola was whispering to pop and nodding his head emphatically .
crushed by the hooves of the horses of the other people and nothing left to him for the rest of
when you have shot one bird flying you have shot all birds flying .
” “you ought to go to the movies more .
“none of your damn business , ” al said .
skidded , plowing sideways to an almost stop and wilson was out on one side and he on the other
it showed very tiny and then made a wide circle and the boys ran out and lit the fires ,
italians came from a long way off to look up at the war monument .
" " why didn ' t you keep him ?
' ' better to die on our feet than to live on our knees , ' the colonel said .
' chapter v but he continued to look and it was all as wonderful to him and it moved him
" that ' s not irony .
they’d have made me stay in the line all the time .
” she didn’t drink so much , now , since she had him .
" i tell you straight they shot him in the back .
“but you always fall for somebody else and then it’s all right .
' ' i don ' t think it ' s advisable , ' pop said seriously .
” “i’d love to do that .
it’s a proverb .
“that was why we left the continent , you know .
so now let us take it .
i ' ll see what i can do .
one hand .
it was a torcello boy who was running arms into alexandria , who located the body of st .
it said in black’s to avoid all alcohol .
i won ' t take more of your time .
“can’t you believe me , mother ?
just looking for you .
certainly such a man is dangerous to our cause .
" it ' s a fine crowd you ' re with , brett , " i said .
" nick asked .
" " no , i have to go .
if there were women in the room he stared at them .
madrid kills spain .
' hapana !
and all the wounded were wounded for life .
he opened the door to the platform .
” then a little later , “well , ” he says , “they’re right .
" they went out and there was supper and then the radio , turned to be as quiet as possible
" " don ' t ask that again unless you want to make me sore .
his mind was working very hard and clear .
" sure , " said fontan .
the number had been cleaned at lunch .
" " we ' ll give him ten minutes , " max said .
for them to live in , he corrected .
the two sharks closed together and as he saw the one nearest him open his jaws and sink them into
' piga , b ' wana !
” running with head down enrique came toward him and paco swung the apron just ahead of the knife blade
harry , ” said the nigger .
now he had to atone for that and recover his respect by writing as well as he could and better
“the significance of the particular day is not important , ” doc fischer said .
but don’t ask me any questions , see ?
” “tonight’s my night , ” the young fellow who was playing said .
i guess my older brother has that , he thought .
in the mountains too , sometimes , the snow fell on the dead outside the dressing station on the side
service in _num_ and that same year he was sent to china , shanghai—he staid three years—and came home—he was
there never was a man like that .
the hell with these sexual symbols .
i believe in you and i’ll tell every one in the world that you are the only one that matters
he wouldn’t go to confession to father but he promised to say his prayers , and not a mexican had
the opening in the hidden trench into driving flight .
he handed me the meat which was wrapped in two envelopes which had brought copies of the spur to the
iron soap kettles , and you asked grandfather if you could have them to play with , and he said
these scenes form a fine short story in the vein of “the battler” and “fifty grand .
“don’t get huffy , doc , ” said dick .
" " have you seen the number with the colored plates of the north american fauna ?
too fast .
" you should have brought many things , he thought .
they only found one of the bullets .
or foreigners .
climbed up and cracked his whip , and we drove over the dark bridge and into the town .
i asked if you had been in love--with a girl .
he was quite a way up the hill .
he had drunk his second brandy .
” “yes , ” nick said , “that’s the way it is everywhere i’ve ever been .
but the shooter did not know it and he thought , i do not understand him but i must not
maybe not as well as last year .
he never wants anyone to carry anything .
a ship moves when she is carrying too much sail .
she was his mistress for over two years .
they ' ve got a buoy on her now .
” george laughed and the chef laughed .
, right over the wheel where i could reach them .
” the unhurried waiter asked .
' ' not me , ' said pop .
' they take snuff , ' pop said .
” “put your hand across the lower back .
it was difficult to stand or walk on the glassy surface and the red dog slipped and slithered and i
gloomy as hell .
” he twisted free .
” “it is thy problem , ” i said .
a wonderful day for trout fishing .
" i know you will .
it will probably be hell though and i don ' t even believe in hell .
” “you better run along , comrade , ” al said .
his head rested on his left arm .
we never talk about our clients .
man’s wrist and the sergeant’s wrist hit the little man in the face .
” “true .
the day , the finest one there is , and looking at the thick bush we passed in the dark
” “no , of the marsala .
" beautiful lady , " said bill .
" " h ' m , " said the gentleman .
“don’t look now .
nick pulled hard on one oar so the boat would turn and the bait spinning far behind would pass where
she asked .
to see the edge of the forest clearly in the glasses .
i rather liked the count .
the only thing that makes the pack bigger is my blanket .
' i have been .
the entire operation will be practically painless .
' give the _gran maestro_ another short _carpano_ .
“i’m not afraid .
" when i think of the hell i ' ve put chaps through .
if you don ' t mind me changing my mind too .
stephen brat-gilch .
made more mistakes .
" we touched the two glasses as they stood side by side on the bar .
bullfighters never became first rate ; but the descent from the luarca was swift since any one could stay there
' we want to give him plenty of time .
there had evidently been considerable talking going on .
a wife wasn ' t what he needed .
you don’t write her .
“can’t you put on a bait like that , captain ?
' ' i made them early .
' ' yes , ' everybody agreed .
“he wouldn’t get his travelling-clothes dirty .
in some summers , a hurricane or two would cut swaths through the shack houses of the poor on the
there’s one thing about you , daughter , he thought .
the open water of the brown canal .
in twenty years of observation in civil life i had never seen a dead mule and had begun to entertain
“it’s going to be a bitch , ” his father said .
they’d always pick out the darkest place in the hold to have them .
” “how do you want the money ?
we all shook hands again , using the thumb which evidently denoted extreme emotion .
with her .
tell him he can find me in the book .
as you want .
” he asked , keeping his face out of the way .
” “i think it was just that boy of his found it .
good detail maps .
“all right , ” i said .
i turned on the light again and read .
" there is very much slave work to be done now that the fight is over .
but they did not show it and they spoke politely about the current and the depths they had drifted their
when i made you get rid of your little secretary on the magazine i ought to have known you '
out the best ones to each other , unclasping their hands to do so .
" " i don ' t need it , jack , " i said .
” “i’ll get supper .
the yellow water and the crests , detached by the wind , blew across the road .
' ' it wouldn ' t be right .
close behind was another string of mules and another wagon .
but it might be very late because she would be sleeping late .
" unless you want me to tell you some more travel stories .
should care to read it .
” “i know , ” said suzy .
he ' d lost weight out at hogan ' s .
the sanded arena under the arc-lights , the cuadrillas opening out behind , the picadors riding after , behind came
this is hardly sweet at all and all the strength is still in it .
' ' you damned liar .
but it is damned careless .
' ' we cannot all be combat infantrymen , ' the girl told him softly .
the dirty bastards !
i said , " what b ' wana ?
" he ' d be better not to do any work at all , " hogan said .
, received their congratulations , and then gone into the tent and sat on the bed until his wife came
” “no understand , ” the lady said .
” “you never know .
straight up from the cove .
he held her head lightly with his good arm and the other arm held the high ground now .
oh , lord , may he hit one !
every once in a while the nigger would doze off and i was watching him , too .
have them sent to the game department .
it will be harder to eat than the bonito .
" you ' ll shake hands , won ' t you ?
' he wants to know if you are going to shoot something else , ' pop said .
if they did not turn up on monday at the latest we would go on ahead up to burguete in
“you can’t shoot in this wind , ” bill said .
” “you’ve gotten awfully cautious on me .
he was conscious he must do all this , but his only thought was in words : “corto y derecho
" you looked after everything ?
on the table had frightened and disgusted her .
as we got on the bus he handed us each an envelope .
” “you’re a writer all right , ” said one flyer .
“i don’t even know where i’m going .
it was inside his identity book .
they might have fought .
" you can ' t forgive me ?
it is better to be lucky .
' not in my position .
attack on perticara and asalone and he had never written a word of that .
” “well , ” said the chef .
you’ll never know .
i had a water glass like we use sponging and my hand shook so i could hardly hold it .
in and shoved it forward softly , lowering it with my finger on the trigger so that it was ready
the sun shone on his face .
“oh , ” said macomber blankly .
' ' do you work at it ?
jack was lying asleep on the bed .
“what will yours be , tom ?
" he looks as though he ' d been hit plenty of times .
" john says , leaning over him .
” “what town are you from , comrade ?
the moon affects her as it does a woman , he thought .
' the boatman took him carefully and put him in the burlap bag that was under the bow .
” peroxide said proudly .
he had stayed so close that the old man was afraid he would cut the line with his tail which
as it was getting dark the train passed a farmhouse burning in a field .
” on the train going into town jack didn’t talk .
bad , but the good would get out .
come on and lead at me .
" we ' ll go up to my hotel .
where were you ?
" it ' s pretty grand , " bill said .
he did not even think about it .
they were staring at brett .
” nick bit into the sandwich .
” “photograph well ?
” “is it a virgin stream ?
" you don ' t look well , " retana said .
cars .
” late in the afternoon they were still tracking through the broken country .
i said that i had been in spain for a long time and that they used to have a phenomenal
; his split hand .
that fellow shiras—” “you call him that fellow ?
he appreciated my valuable qualities .
down the road through the trees he could see the white of the bean house on its piles over the
the daughter came up and wanted to know what we would drink .
“there’s that .
“too green .
' ' goddamn it , i could never hunt sheep again , ' you say .
they spend money on themselves or for vanity , but they never pay .
but it needs an engine .
and the bull charged and villalta charged and just for a moment they became one .
to obtain a copy of the young doctor’s friend and guide , and use it .
it was sharp and hard-feeling and heavy .
” “clearly , ” said the smallest one , “and costs more too .
" the cab stopped in front of the hotel and we all got out and went in .
' what is it ?
" " what rotten luck for me .
then when he ' s groggy he fouls him .
” we’d had this bird out three weeks fishing the stream and i hadn’t seen any of his money yet
injustice everywhere .
" they ' ve put him away somewhere .
you see we make our writers into something very strange .
off .
" on the train going into town jack didn ' t talk .
you bastard , thought macomber , you insolent bastard .
i nodded to him and raised my drink and we both sipped at the drinks .
' i was partners with my brother in a garage in rawlins , wyoming , sir .
” “and vicente ?
, squirted his flit gun at the back of a waiter’s neck .
we had been up that morning since five o’clock .
“what the hell’s he sleeping in the daytime for ?
he saw the reflected glare of the lights of the city at what must have been around ten o '
we had several fines after the coffee , and i said i must be going .
“i’ll kill her , ” he said .
i looked over a couple of times and jack wasn’t sleeping .
" so many people in the ward , " the mexican said deprecatingly .
' _hapana_ , b ' wana !
jim was short and dark with big mustaches and big hands .
zurito had his head down once , but he ' s come back .
it don’t do my girls any good .
then m ' cola and droopy were pointing , and pop had me by the sleeve trying to pull me
in that helmet to breathe until they dig me out but i know nothing about that .
" he ' s taken it , " he said .
' ' he thinks you ' re funny , ' pop said .
" he ' s got this jewish superiority so strong that he thinks the only emotion he ' ll get
please keep on telling me .
“is that the thanks of the republic ?
“no , ” said the bartender and put the glass cover back on the bowl .
" that ' s an old one , " manuel said .
he tried five times and the crowd was quiet because it was a good bull and it looked like him
he didn’t like it .
i ' m mrs .
' ' we did .
“i love the kids .
' putting great hate into the word .
so that we would get some use out of him .
“he’ll sing now in a little while .
wait till we ' re gone .
" jake , don ' t get drunk .
' ' i am industrious .
was that a running shot ?
for several years , lay on its side in the grove of birches that bordered the cedars by the stream
there were furrowed brown mountains , and above them three peaks and a glacier with snow that you could see
“it’s not very pleasant to have your wife see you do something like that .
oh , my god , what a man he was .
be told there was no one home , chez barnes .
' ' i was all set to bust her , ' i said .
“say it again .
hearing the thing roar gets on my nerves .
sometimes you have to switch fast .
“i’m sorry i was nervous , littless , ” he said .
” “down by the lake .
“don’t you think he’s cute ?
" to-night , " he said .
how do you do ?
and then the air is full of them , and you cut down two , then two again , and
" twelve pesetas .
and ten and twenty percenters and all the jerks from wherever who never fought and hold commands .
chapter xvi the colonel woke before daylight and checked that there was no one sleeping with him .
a stairs to get to it .
the farmhouse is built on a hill that commands an unobstructed view of havana and the coastal plain to the
the streets feel as though they had just been sprinkled .
haven’t we seen enough fights in families ?
but there was nothing there at all , not even my paper clips in a cardboard box nor my pencils
' you ' ll get a sixty-incher .
m ' cola stopped dead , leaned over to look at the damp sand , then whispered , ' man
“that’s three times , ” she said , in the dark .
she lay , quiet and loving , and whatever it was that they possessed was in complete communication .
strip of the timber .
” “cadillac is where steve ketchel came from and where ad wolgast is from , ” the shy man said
still , i suppose that is young for a great writer .
' he paused while the _gran maestro_ poured the roederer brut ' _num_ .
you can’t let him get away with that .
” “well , ” i said .
nick spread the mouth of the sack against the current and it filled , heavy with water .
to the ring .
just the sweetest little thing in the world , and he thought she was wonderful , and then i came
directly opposite his room , that there would be no telephone call for several hours .
he did .
he kicked his suitcase under the table to be sure it was there .
hope he’s a shootable cat .
we got out past the reef and i looked back once and saw the beach and the mountains starting to
a fat man came up .
" " did you ever meet him ?
' that ' s fine , ' said karl .
we called this house the old homestead .
hirsch , " the woman said .
the dancing kept up , the drinking kept up , the noise went on .
he had been in many towns , walked much , and seen many pictures .
" signorina !
but you never saw a fellow more loyal nor with a better heart .
" " couldn ' t we go off in the country for a while ?
the two prisoners ate with their left hands and the detectives with their right hands .
' sonsabitches .
we’d keep right on running out toward the mountains and then my old man would yell , “hey , joe
the old man took it and drank it .
' manamouki kubwa sana , ' he said very sorrowfully and patiently .
the toes touched .
i want to stay in my own room .
the next day his wife came in from tafalla to be with the body , and the day after there
’ that’s exactly what he said .
zest .
we must let him stiffen up .
it was firm and juicy , like meat , but it was not red .
i forgot to give bobby the sausage .
valley , sable started to pass at a running stampede .
i don’t understand it at all but i believe you .
of the snakes and specimens were exposed and had turned white--if you thought back that far , you remembered a
" he asked , keeping his face out of the way .
' they ' ll return them all right , through channels , ' jackson thought , and put the car
” “he’s really very nice .
" sam , " he called .
steinfelt , ” john said .
hills we had seen from burguete .
scythe tall was out as he smashed at that tuna .
while a man who went with prostitutes would contract hideous venereal diseases and that the thing to do was to
his acquaintances , who had heard detailed accounts of german women found chained to machine guns in the argonne forest
” “i’m going to die tonight , ” he said .
to the salt .
there was no chance of kicking this time .
“he’ll have to feed , davey , ” his father said .
“how the hell do you get that way ?
there were remedies which cured this and it was well worth going through for what i had seen and where
" there ' s nothing funny , " the cook said .
you with the crow wing hair and the break-heart face ?
' the hell of it is , ' i said to pop , ' when i ' m in the
” “don’t mind me then , because i’m going to sleep .
or you must be governed .
' the rhinos had turned and were feeding .
" " i ' ll go see him , " nick said to george .
george looked at the clock .
” “you will not say such things !
salt water out of my head , and swam slowly and steadily in to shore .
marry them .
well , he would not have to fail at trying to write them either .
it was a beechwood forest and the fallen beechnut burrs were under his shoes as he walked between the trees
“just coming out of the mcalester hotel , ” a flyer said .
it was afterwards .
they didn’t do much to this in the bombardment .
“i don’t love anybody , ” krebs said .
” “they were damned fine .
of lung in to see the trout rise in the rapid heavy flow of the water .
” “god looks after rummies , ” i told him and i took the thirty-eight off and stowed it down
they made a curve and crossed the tagliamento on a temporary bridge .
in war the dead are usually the male of the human species although this does not hold true with animals
” finally we could not see genoa .
" " that ' s the name for it .
but in the meantime there is this .
he shadow-boxed a few rounds .
frazer asked the night nurse .
her , and of course in a little while i felt like hell again .
the great dimaggio is himself again .
i say stop it .
” he says to john .
there ' s nice , warm , muddy water .
" come in and have a drink .
right now they want more trout dinners than chicken dinners .
the big native dance festivals .
” “you can’t insult me , ” said peroxide .
it is the mistakes that are no good to sleep with .
am i walking slowly enough ?
” “you have everything i have .
“don’t be a damn fool .
" he was happy feeling the gentle pulling and then he felt something hard and unbelievably heavy .
the boy was as pretty as a girl and looked rather shy and stupid .
” “how do you muffle a hammer ?
kibo and i found him and i never should have told them and i should have kept him secret and
and baked-looking and furrowed in strange shapes .
let ' s go after lunch .
no one truly ; which was understandable in cold people from a border province .
will you have some more coffee , mister adams ?
" " well , i want to go to south america .
i liked charo much better then .
' i love you .
i threw him the stern line and he made her fast , and then came aboard ; longer , blearier
where do you come from , you pasta-eating lion ?
you love them .
" what time is there a train for madrid ?
" oh , go to hell , " bill said .
he had a real elk’s tooth too on his watch chain .
" having a good trip ?
she wore a handkerchief over her head .
incidentally , daughter , the weapon , not the old pistol , the real pistol , has missed more people
i’m no doctor but i know that .
” “i’m jolly .
” “i can fly anything , ” said the woolly jacket man .
the referee called them out to the center of the ring and jack walks out .
' there ' s the view , jackson , ' the colonel said .
” “no breakfast , ” she said .
' ' i hate it but i love it .
“no , wait , go below and open up all the ports to get the stink out and bring me
' where is your shore patrol ?
' ' well , you know now , ' the _gran maestro_ said and did not finish the sentence and
' it was not my choice .
find the air of the valley drifting with flying locusts and karl already in camp with his kudu .
" never mind .
newspaper correspondents .
” “glad to meet you , ” i said .
” “helps what ?
manuel picked up his suitcase and went out .
damned touching scene .
” he asked , putting the book down .
you could look down on both sides into a steep ravine , and then went on along the edge of
he knew it could not be more than a mile .
the cossacks ' that was very good .
jack .
” “i can give you ham and eggs , bacon and eggs , liver—” “i’ll take ham and eggs ,
“what do you want ?
” “i am sure she would permit it when cayetano is able to hear it .
that form inland to the south and move northward out to the sea .
i’ll hand these out to a few people openly each year until the time’s up .
the food was good and so was the wine .
“everybody’s got to go .
he wanted to live along without consequences .
we better get whatever there is each day now and as much and as well as we can because it’s
” “it does no good to discuss it .
there might be a big one around that school , he thought .
” “it’s a nice day , ” i said .
" " sit down , jerry , " jack said .
bottom in a varying mist of gravel and sand , raised in spurts by the current .
no more than a peek , really .
he tried to settle more comfortably to steer and from his pain he knew he was not dead .
i lay on the raft in the sun until i was dry .
so the cape swung out like a ballet dancer ' s skirt and wound the bull around himself like a
“she’s blowing , ” nick said .
they both chuckled .
rod-case to go to burguete .
” “was it a kid ?
” the waitress came with the two breakfasts and they both drank their cold grapefruit juice and started to eat
we watched him going from above in the timber .
first it was dark as a shoal in the blue water that was more than a mile deep .
when the fifers stopped they all crouched down in the street , and when the reed-pipes and the fifes shrilled
' the wanderobo-masai was nodding excitedly .
you ' ll stay here , won ' t you , robert ?
” “no , ” the peroxide one said .
' ' but they all fought ?
" " oh , " said bill , sucking the drumstick , " how should we know ?
but their manners were not good in respect to a man of my rank and age .
" " jacob .
i ' ll tell molo to pack your things .
” “there were some small ones when we first came .
mike and brett fixed it up with us about coming down here .
he got up from the floor and reached for the whisky bottle .
" " from me , " said the smallest one , " he won one hundred and eighty dollars .
" no one should be alone in their old age , he thought .
“please don’t , ” the girl said .
” “i don’t like to substitute , ” manuel said .
you know you do .
” “juma and i are all right , ” his father said .
“it isn’t like fiddling while rome burns , ” roger said .
" " there was nothing ever like them .
" is it the nocturnal to-morrow ?
“i’m sorry i didn’t realize that .
' ' you ' re lovely .
' ' you are , ' the colonel told her .
he hit him solidly and from as high up as he could raise the club .
' ' tell me about paris , please .
“i’m going right down to the chapel to pray .
then there were three more of them that came out of the forest , dark in the shadow , and
" you write the books yourself ?
' ' never , ' the colonel told her .
" " you ought to , " carl said .
then a fellow boasted that he could not get along without girls , that he had to have them all
they were all black .
god rest you merry , gentlemen in those days the distances were all very different , the dirt blew off
' ' he is well taken care of .
the mexicans came and brought beer but it was not good beer .
hit them .
_] _ _num_ d roman soldier_--jesus christ .
i never wanted to go .
strike a canvas-covered decoy , rising , his wings beating , the talons caught in the canvas .
” there was a huge cooked ham , rosy and white edged in a half-opened tin on the table beside
his shoulders told him .
he had done some of the worst shooting at game i had ever seen and i had shot badly twice
” the girl came back to the car .
" he started up the bank .
under the double green fly of the dining tent pretending that nothing had happened .
there was a crest on the announcement .
i feel good now .
and the birds are gone and the woods are no more fun to walk in and it rains and you
the people shouted as each new luminous paper bubble careened , caught fire , and fell .
my name is hobin .
' the biggest whistler said .
“how do you do , comrades , ” said baldy , bowing .
look at rockefeller .
but then i guess angry is about the best way that you can be when you attack .
wind hits it , his legs tight together , the muleta trailing and the sword following the curve behind .
' _gran maestro_ , ' the colonel said .
i hoped we might find the rhino but while we came on much fresh rhino dung there were no tracks
that limits you of course .
' waiter , _ancora due martini_ .
“he was practically floating around .
' i ' m sorry i can ' t go on the shoot .
” “ich spreche deutsch , ” she said , and stroked guy’s hair .
” “do you want to come up and hear the game this afternoon ?
then he looked behind him and saw that no land was visible .
wrapped around his neck .
' charo asked .
that white bank of sand .
” he was pretty close to the shakes and when he came near me he had a breath like a
he never used command cars , nor semi-armoured vehicles complete with sand-bags .
” “yes , ” she said , “under the table .
" i went in and ate dinner .
but i never got into it .
” “where did you learn your english ?
but they hurt now , a stronger logic , and the situation was unhelped by the statement that men '
“what of it ?
i’m going to get some sleep .
then he started to snore .
" the waiter took the brandy bottle and another saucer from the counter inside the café and marched out to
“i wonder if she’s got any cake .
that i had seen in africa .
take a comb and a towel .
" i don ' t think i can eat an entire one , " he said and drew his knife
the bar-tender told him and looked at him with his wise italian eyes , not merry now , although the
would start for camp .
he rowed the boat around to troll past both the feeding fish , then headed it for the point .
' ' you ' ll be back , ' pop said .
she knelt there .
the trout threshed heavily , half out of water in the leaves and branches .
she went downstairs and we heard the stairs creaking .
" _you_ don ' t have to laugh at all , see ?
from the grappa ?
" it might make such a mess .
' ' that is me , ' i said , very pleased .
he thought that coming home had not lasted very long .
’ “‘where is the place this paco was wounded ?
five or six , i guess .
jack looked up .
" " i was on a business trip , my dear .
we headed up a pebbly , boulder-filled , dry stream bed overgrown with vines and brush so that , climbing
here for the first time .
" but now i am reformed out of the war .
we’d jammed an absolutely perfect barricade across the bridge .
they went up-stairs and i stopped to speak with montoya .
" " no , " bill said .
' hemingway is my name .
all angleworms in a bottle , trying to derive knowledge and nourishment from their own contact and from the bottle
there was a bus to burguete .
out of water .
i know about command and , at your age , i used to take considerable pleasure in exercising it .
" and it doesn ' t make any difference to me whether you believe it or not .
they sold extra for gigantic prices .
' baboons , ' he said .
there are no villains , i presume , in a democracy .
what a spectacle !
he was still a hero to his two young sisters .
drink out of them .
on the wooded flats where you wandered as though through a deer park .
drakes actually call better .
i haven’t even had my coffee yet .
the weedy field from the back windows of the next two houses .
“he’s a silly piece of work , ” al said .
you always ; no matter whom she loves nor where she goes she loves you more .
i thought it was really hard .
he is out with his lady .
, mutilated head slid forward and macomber , standing by himself in the clearing where he had run , holding
he looked down for the muleta .
" " i ' m glad you ' ve got them .
but i couldn ' t live quietly in the country .
“they will , ” said maria .
he did not move but his eye was alive and looked at david .
“it hasn’t been shared right .
” “oh , ” said macomber .
“the razor’s no defense .
” “not that well .
“thanks .
so now there were only the two of them left again , running , and it was hard going and
three houses up the street was hirsch ' s rooming-house .
ettore , with his emaciated face and his love of joking and fundamental and abiding disrespect , came over and
' ' how is your health ?
it was getting cold and the night was clear and there was the smell of the roasting meat , the
cape when skinning out the head-skin .
tusks so tall and thick that no one could believe them even when they touched them and no one ,
he ' s handsome .
when you came round the shoulder of the mountain to trust these sable to stay where they were and ,
in bed .
they probably didn’t know where they were when they ran with that blow but they come close to making it
“and when he hit the prisoner .
it ' s one of the few things to our credit that we never smacked it , and to their
that night charley wyman stayed to supper at smith’s .
nick’s father always assumed that this was what would happen , and hired the indians to come down from the
off across the infield all in a bunch starting on the first swing like a lot of little toy horses
artesian well where the water came straight up in the sunlight out of a brown water-film covered pipe .
” “it sounds good , ” i said .
" " any time , " i said .
“but i guess i have to go away for a while .
i can make them start all right and i can take them up to where they will have to quit
" oh , the dirty bastards !
" manuel said , " toro !
" " he wanted to fish .
come ashore again for the rest of the day .
“that doesn’t make any difference , ” bill said .
nor sell things .
damned if he wasn’t .
represented that always characterizes pornography and i remember thinking how much i disliked pornographic pictures and painting and writing and
front with forest beyond it , and drank their just-cool lime drinks and avoided one another’s eyes while the boys
” “you shouldn’t be jealous of either of them .
” “i hope not , ” nick said .
then below the secret place there’s real swamp .
came up to it , trickling smoke in the bright sunlight .
' ' i ' ll try very hard to be gentle , ' the colonel said .
” “you’ve got some good kids , ” hernandez said .
i caught the bat in the landing net and kept him in a box with screen over it for a
he raised his baton .
' ' how do you know this ?
” “if you want .
' i would love it .
they knew how garlic could be used to produce certain effects which could absent a man from an attack and
" " it ' s not so good in the daytime , " i said .
manuel leaned his head back to avoid the clattering banderillo shafts .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--it takes some of them pretty bad .
he started jumping in those long lopes and every splash would be like a speed boat in a sea .
“the razor , please , ” he said .
i went down and saw that o ' brien boy at police headquarters and told him that he ' s
here is mine .
it .
" i ' m going to pay you .
he put a handful of coffee in the pot and dipped a lump of grease out of a can and
on the quai at smyrna the strange thing was , he said , how they screamed every night at midnight
' t overhear you don ' t get anything that ' s of anything but journalistic value .
it swirled against the log spiles of the bridge .
” “won’t make no difference to you , comrade , ” said the man handling the dice .
" you were saying .
he wasn ' t ashamed of me long .
“i hope to god he was , ” peroxide said .
i will not let him suffer .
we ' ll just find some water .
of benchley in tyrolean costume , to have him know your name , to call you a poet , to
packard will be studying things out .
when he went through all that barbering .
she was his best sister .
his shoulder .
he was sure then that he had the negro , who was a fine man and a great athlete ,
there’s a good skate , that old willie .
” he moved ahead of his sister , holding the rifle in one hand , keeping a little way away
he had kept with him all the time in his hand , they started on the trail for the shamba
we were camped .
there ' s not many catholique in america .
" it was the only way to kill him , " the old man said .
ahead a man was pedalling a bicycle and using both his hands to read a paper .
it hurt him to drink out of the jug .
" you won ' t stay ?
' as true as i can tell and let it hurt who it hurts .
splayzey what ?
the old man let him hit the fish and then drove the knife on the oar down into his brain
carl and nick unloaded the things from the back of the wagon .
" that ' s it .
" ' how did her face get that way ?
i just meant who was he ?
do you still want to be like her ?
” “i’m all ready to go , ” his sister said .
camp and cut the logs up with the cross-cut saw and split them with a wedge to make cord wood
i can explain but it is quite long and may bore you .
green turf , and i hung my booted legs over the side to let my feet cool and drank the
" " it ' s cold up here , " bill said .
' what time do you close the bistro ?
eddy and billy tabeshaw leaned on their cant-hooks sweating in the sun .
the mosquito made a satisfactory hiss in the flame .
” “if the shoe pinches put it on .
" " we can have the whole world .
' ' oh , ' she said .
“the hell there is .
" " you haven ' t used it properly .
take us over to that boat .
“it’s a crime .
the snow looked very white and pure and unreal .
it was a fine sunset and there was a nice light breeze , and when the sun got pretty well
" aren ' t you going to let us in ?
“don’t i share in it ?
i am sure his loss was a blow to science as well as to his family .
i had not asked him why he had twenty up-country natives with him , nor where he was going .
" brett took them .
' ' do you want to draw first ?
this restaurant was in the basement and you had to pass a guard and go through the kitchen and down
“i’d been saving it for the bad weather , ” bill said .
” “our saviour ?
" knock on that , " he said , pointing to the barrera .
cohn ?
all seen through the aperture , i froze myself inside and held the bead on the top of his shoulder
false friends .
” “listen , comrade .
" " i am a poor idealist .
of the skiff .
manamouki !
the dark clear water flowed fast and its rushing made bulges on the surface .
of the forest .
in spite of hungary , he believed altogether in the world revolution .
at least he carried lists of horses at all times in his pocket and frequently spoke the names of horses
” “do that then .
' but why not have a drink ?
very quiet and healthy .
” “it is for this that i now hate russians as well as all other foreigners , ” said the
she wrote this letter , writing it steadily with no necessity to cross out or rewrite anything .
” “because they are the representatives of tyranny and i hate their faces .
" lie down , old man , and i will bring you your clean shirt .
“these peasants are beasts .
for years he had never enjoyed fried bananas because he had never been able to wait for them to cool
" " i said it should have been trepanned .
the tanks had failed again that day , and the drivers coming down from the lines in their leather helmets
” “get off of her , ” i told him .
why did he sit there ?
we’ve only got four minutes more .
“i got him that time , ” zurito said .
he is silent these days .
oh , jake !
' ' tell me first what are the things , the actual , concrete things that harm a writer ?
from the new wine-bag .
after that their manner changed a little toward me , although i was their friend against outsiders .
” the tall one said , “yes .
” “there’s probably a reward for him .
“all the time .
his mother cried when he brought cornelia home after their marriage but brightened very much when she learned they were
he sat on his heels and watched for the safari .
i lay at sou’west key a day and nobody came after me .
“you’re an awfully good girl .
cat in the rain there were only two americans stopping at the hotel .
up to the windows .
' then calling in that feeble , clowning falsetto , ' kayti .
she bit uncle george on the arm and uncle george said , “damn squaw bitch !
" i voted against prohibition to please him , and because i like a little beer in the house ,
gave her two hundred francs .
” “it’s all right .
right away of course .
i read it all the way through , including the petite correspondance and the cornigrams .
not that old displaced engine boat .
you go ahead with droopy .
' you would not throw me off any high cliffs .
” “i love it too .
” “that man with evans is no good .
tolstoy was a small man .
i could not make out whom they belonged to .
she’s friendly and she’s all right .
his tail went up and he charged .
' that ' s goofy wanderobo and that lousy old fake .
' he had made another decision .
" " will you excuse me , sir ?
“leave it as it is , ” said wilson .
morning .
there probably wasn ' t only one .
i found her .
nick kissed hard against her back .
” “no , ” said al .
telling it ?
have written about , some of which might have become short stories .
rough the water was .
he came down a hillside covered with stumps into a meadow .
” “i think we’d better go in , ” helena said to roger .
the sleeve of and he clubbed him twice behind the ear and then smashed him with his right as he
the _gran maestro_ knew about this , since he had been an excellent sergeant in a good company of infantry
we cannot do anything for you .
' ' we were _awful_ , ' p .
he took a pint bottle out of his side pocket .
” “no , it is not , ” agreed the waiter with a wife .
he wanted me to grow my hair out .
always been a great lover of stuffed animals .
nor those of france .
he was shaving .
“they’re nice and fresh .
over the hill and herded up again together here .
in the dust of the hole until it was too dark to see the front sight on my rifle ;
the finest .
” “the lady ?
‘my god , ’ i said , ‘they’re too tired all right to come , ’” madame fontan said .
i read it .
” “i wonder how it can get so white and so floury .
i could see that kamau was excited and , looking back , m ' cola nodded his head up and
” “but the st .
i said ' jambo ' , as they came up .
it all looked as though it belonged to somebody but it was nice looking country and the beeches and the
“ i d o n ’ t w a nt t o l o s e the w a y
the bull looked at him and was no longer fixed .
and fool people , but it didn’t have any effect on people that knew anything about him .
i do not remember going to bed , nor if we went to bed .
" " you haven ' t seen me lately .
there was a great deal of money , also wet , and onie and claude and the other outfit cut
' ' i like lombardy poplars and plane trees the best , but i am still quite uneducated .
he ain ' t going to last like you and me , jerry .
” “well , mr .
i don’t think she meant to .
“i only just got it , ” she said .
‘you want to know ?
" well , i hope you have lots of luck , " he said .
“both the same , ” he said in that same comic lilt .
how much do you think he knows about the country nick uses ?
it was getting lighter now and the shooter could see the low line of the near point across the lagoon
" prosit , " said johnson .
you paid some way for everything that was any good .
you were born to be a fisherman as the fish was born to be a fish .
' ' to my room , ' the colonel said .
manuel thought .
" you see them ?
" " thanks , i will then .
" " i ' d scalp him and send it to his mother .
they dug them all up anyway , the colonel thought , and buried them in that big _ossario_ up by
rotten poetry .
' he ' s no better than what you have , ' he said softly .
" thanks , " said the darkest and smallest one .
" you have blinded me !
" finished , " he said , speaking with that omission of syntax stupid people employ when talking to drunken
taut that beads of water were jumping from it .
we were going to hunt up the hill side to the right and then we would have checked it all
” “i told you .
“hello , ” she said .
" stick around .
” “i must work , ” the waitress said .
or anything about them .
" pipe down !
he did not smile .
, if it bothers you .
“the other was a present .
must have spooked off .
” “did you see anybody ?
nick lay back with his father’s arm around him .
strings of beads .
my hand is only cut a little and the cramp is gone from the other .
his flanks were wet and hot and flies were on the little openings the solid bullets had made in his
across the square the white wicker tables and chairs of the iruña extended out beyond the arcade to the edge
” “mostly gulls and terns .
" " hombre , there are bodegas open all night long .
the town was getting ready for the fiesta .
we got plenty , ” morgan said .
did not notice them .
what had gone through because when the kraut bazooka hit and the vehicle went up we all dropped our heads
” “i nearly said it again .
then people commenced to come running .
the bull , waved his hand and the gypsy ran out , trailing his cape .
there are but three of the two hundred and fifty of them left alive and they are for the town
so i told him the fellow would be sent on ship and be most severely punished .
” “better not drink more than half a one .
nick lay on the bunk .
not want to die , would share the contents of a match-box to produce the infection that would keep them
” i got out of the car without a peso in my pocket and i didn’t know where i was
well , i’m glad you’re not sore .
bill was very funny .
crawling where the hair was thin .
two of them looked like brothers and the other one , pancho , was a little taller but the same
” now the lion looked about him at the faces of all the nice people and he knew that he
he believed it to be an accident .
below were the hills with oak and chestnut trees , and far away below was the sea .
” “nothing , suzy .
but the others .
which is very well described .
a symbol of authority .
" " mandarlo al carajo , " said cayetano , who was very tired .
i sat there with the old thirty-eight flopping against my leg when she rolled , and i looked at him
' i hope you get a lot better one .
i shivered .
” “you do it , ” he said .
he called him the spanish lenin and then the poor man tried to live up to it and somebody let
" " you like the bull-fights ?
the same and give you the same feeling , but it didn’t .
he felt uncomfortable and afraid that any minute a gamekeeper or a posse of citizens would come over the bank
the gate was up , and i sat on one of the squared timbers and watched the smooth apron of
america was a wonderful place he thought .
“please , daughter , ” he said .
“wouldn’t talk rot if i were you .
just hold me very tight and hold the high ground , too .
' ' i think so , too .
” “i’ll get littless to take him a note .
that’s a nice safe lead in baseball .
right by tues .
' ' belly-ache , ' said pop .
i can kill him .
" when the taxi stopped i got out and paid .
afterward we passed through the landes and watched the sun set .
unless i wired him otherwise , and would meet him at bayonne , where we could get a bus over
” she went away and mr .
” “il faut revenir tout de suite après le show , ” madame fontan said .
' we will do it all in the cold .
” “don’t neglect to insert the brandy , james , ” the first client said .
" cohn said nothing .
” “my boy went up there and said he saw blood coming out from under the door .
i’m just tired and i wanted to talk .
jack ' s sitting on the chair .
” “who do you suppose that little guy was that talked as though he knew so much ?
“my heart’s slow .
we came down out of the mountains and through an oak forest , and there were white cattle grazing in
they realize , of course , that it is a difficult voyage .
' ' would you like lobster , daughter , to start your dinner ?
” “only feebly , ” said johnson .
the unnatural high mountain spring , into this may morning in the valley .
she embraced guy .
taxicab through lincoln park .
' chapter two so in the morning , again , we started ahead of the porters and went down and
” “that’s where we always stayed .
“what do you know about that ?
the beer and drink it .
as he heard their voices his tail stiffened to twitch up and down , and , as they came into
t ' sun su .
on this side there was no shade and no trees and the station was between two lines of rails in
" silver beer , bevo , ginger-ale , " george said .
he straightened it over his knee and gestured with it to the crowd .
' ' let me feel your hand , ' she said .
" you are of the great translators .
i opened it .
any time you can better one , go ahead .
he had so much equipment on and looked awfully surprised and fell down into the garden .
then he buttoned the pocket .
then he said to the woman in the booth , ' let me try a little of that sausage ,
" " there ' s a law against it .
" well , " said guy , " he went twenty kilometres with us .
” “ ’bout time you cover me up .
i had better keep the fish quiet now and not disturb him too much at sunset .
he had to sit down five times before he reached his shack .
“that’s all .
hot .
the bed of the stream was marly and between the ruts of deep water green weed fronds swung in the
" what ' s this ?
all for fun .
” “if you hadn’t left your own people , your goddamned old westbury , saratoga , palm beach people to
jack is irish and the irish always get a pretty good hand .
wouldn’t it be awful if we were the kind of people who grated on each other’s nerves and had to
“i taste everything but the potatoes , ” he said .
if they’re wrong i hear them wrong and i can do them over and work on them until i get
fifty grand “how are you going yourself , jack ?
in the night i spat something strange and felt something in my chest was broken .
' simba , ' he said , and did not look pleased .
' ' please turn your head , ' the colonel said , ' and i will tell you .
out in contempt , and his face turned yellower , and he moved with greater difficulty as his pain increased
all we wanted was to go early to bed .
but farther on we came on some droppings in the rocks with blood in them and then for a while
“i’m nervous .
' he asked the girl .
an appointment to go to an anarcho-syndicalist meeting and paco had agreed to take over his table for him .
manuel offered him the cape again .
for a long time he had been thinking about all the fine places he would like to be buried and
because i don ' t care about me .
when he held them back up in the water they looked like live fish .
' the girl said , and she ran her fingers very lightly over the scarred hand .
bill and i sat in the down-stairs dining-room and ate some hard-boiled eggs and drank several bottles of beer .
we should not question .
looked up there he was right beside us .
each man had his own meat or collection of pieces of meat on sticks stuck around the fire , they
brett smiled at us .
” “may your father remain undefeated , ” the chef said to me .
it was easy to find because of the bend of the river , and where the heavy machine gun post
he raked out stone axes and stone skinning knives and tools for making arrow-heads and pieces of pottery and many
on a high bank under a tree , and i always ate my lunch very slowly and watched the stream
i like to see you take the khuds .
packard , ” nick said .
” “all i tried to do was see if you wanted a girl and not to talk too wet about
the bull could not charge without gathering his feet together .
i couldn ' t get it going .
" " i won ' t fish , " brett put in .
domenico , ' and left the gritti .
some one rapped on the cage with an iron bar .
" well , " said johnson , " the subject seems to be exhausted .
' it ' s just a question of confidence .
” his father picked up the knife to cut the pie .
” “glad to meet you , ” bugs said .
" " are you in the university ?
" " brett ' s got a bull-fighter , " mike said .
” the young gentleman asked the girl .
member of the national geographic society , washington , d .
a new swimmer on a shallow , shelving beach , into too deep water ; and he sought to reassure
he’s not so interesting .
country .
he ' s waiting to marry this lady .
" i ' ll climb onto one of those ponies while you collect the kids , " zurito said .
' good evening , contessa , ' the concierge said .
he was just tight , that ' s all .
" " plenty , " the old man said .
a large , grey animal , white stripes showing on his flanks and huge horns curling back from his head
, and finally the crowd were actively against him , and he was utterly contemptuous and indifferent .
opinion , should be without a length of mosquito netting suitable for the improvisation of one of these grasshopper seines
tell her how they beat their old mothers .
and climbing small hills and going down a long steep slope , we made our way back to camp to
i do not have to go yet and we can have a while .
' ' damned if i know !
go away for a while .
” “where’s that ?
” “no sir .
how much is that in pounds ?
but it isn ' t right .
she would be glad to be rid of it , i think .
“well , hare , ” she said .
" how many corridas you had this year ?
“mais il est trop jeune .
dad ?
" " a fall off a horse .
' exactly like that .
she could not have known my address .
the road .
come on back and we’ll get a little something .
and making a very careful stalk .
“i’ll put something on , ” kate said .
' last night , ' m ' cola said .
that’s a marvelous drink you know .
i guess everything reminds you of something “it’s a very good story , ” the boy’s father said .
he knew where he wanted to strike the river and he kept on through the pine plain , mounting small
but these poisonings from the agua mala came quickly and struck like a whiplash .
“listen to him , ” said carl .
” “i’m sorry i was so sleepy .
like to ask young lowry but i did .
mine i must improvise to his because of his great size .
" i see them together every day .
" what are we eating ?
rope out in the sun with the sweat pouring off his face and him skipping rope out in the white
" i got to keep warm , " he said .
who ' s michael ?
' ' i wish , ' she said .
bill and i were very excited about pedro romero .
he had a couple of friends with him .
they were nice-looking fellows all right and i would have liked to have done them the favor .
' pop told the masai something and we shook hands again , parting on a most excellent basis .
he had run across the field on our right beyond the farmhouse when he saw the first jeep come up
now am i hokay , only with the ringing in the head .
“i promise you .
on rare occasions i had seen what i took to be dead mules , but on close approach these always
monty was a character who needed fifteen to one to move , and then moved tardily .
i don ' t like cohn , god knows , and i think it was a silly trick for him
" retana asked .
“they sleep just like pigs , ” he said .
we always just said _merde_ and let it go at that .
" i could not find the bathroom .
i will take this officer next .
when i put my hand on his forehead i knew he had a fever .
stay and listen with me .
also he was sure that he loved her .
roger read the paper trying to figure out from the various bulletins what had happened , really , and how
where the other ear should have been there was a stump .
' what makes the stink ?
” “i don’t feel too good about it , ” jack said .
paco took a napkin one of the priests had used and standing straight , his heels planted , lowered the
the nigger kept on talking .
" i don ' t know .
' go ahead and comb your hair .
“you’re a good boy , pinin .
and what the hell is ecstasy and what ' s ecstasy ' s rank and serial number ?
for quite a while .
he and the wanderobo .
why , who could prove anything ?
one hundred yards is all right .
“nor mine either .
' ' do you think we could once more if it would not hurt you ?
' i ' d be glad to do it for a month .
bed on the newspapers .
dead if it isn ' t true .
“what do you think about the shape i’m in ?
anything made him want to fight and he would fight with deadly seriousness exactly as some people eat or read
became dizzy again .
the others went on ahead of him down to the lake shore where the logs were buried in the sand
“you shoot very well , ” wilson told him .
down , down , faster and faster in a rush down the last , long steep slope .
it is a creole island view of the sort made familiar by the tropical watercolors of winslow homer , with
” “you hate them in that order ?
” “with water ?
the basque wagged a forefinger at him and handed the bottle back , slapping in the cork with the palm
he ' s a cold one , though .
the music stopped again .
get some sleep .
" " come on , let ' s go some place where we can get some real beer , "
” “there is a man here that we both knew in the old days .
” “well , i got twenty-four berths to make up .
you couldn’t believe she was real when you looked at her .
do eat those garlics .
hogan was out in the gym in the barn .
and them all getting off in a bunch and then commencing to string out .
the local news .
took it off and put it under two stones in the creek and said that he had lost it .
he enlisted in the marines in _num_ and did not return to the united states until the second division returned
in the evening there would be band concerts under the trees across from the café marinas .
' ' we were in the blind and they motioned me to keep my head down and then when i
” “he certainly can drink liquor .
his back was as blue as a sword fish ' s and his belly was silver and his hide was
' ' i could always make money , and besides i have been very lucky .
you , in the rear-guard , must be as firm as we will be at the front .
he lay there , face up , quiet , in his good clothes , with his feet in the cockpit
, and it certainly improved his nose .
” guy asked , “you or her ?
then the bull into a lunging charge at the cape manuel spread for him .
" " oh , how charmingly you get angry , " he said .
” he took a drink and showed his hand .
” zurito asked .
" " the steers took them in , in the end , " mike said .
' ' there is nothing broken in it and that sort of swelling always goes down .
“you fighting here ?
and m .
" jack asked me .
” “let’s get drunk , ” bill said .
sing was doing .
“you take her , ” my father said and i took the wheel and turned her out toward the point
“many people use it .
and a stable boy holding the bridle on each side and walking along , followed the old guy .
“i’ll lean on him , ” zurito said .
neither he nor romero seemed to have anything in common with the others .
did not want to leave the café .
worthless enough and to spare .
” nick , dripping , walked out on the springboard , remembering how to do the dive .
you’re going to take a beating , see ?
awful close that time .
" " i was going good , " manuel said .
” “you were a little slow .
you didn’t come down here to get in no trouble .
skilfully he slit open the stomach and turned it inside , tripe side , out , emptying the grass in
" " give it to me .
he sat there , with his newspaper , thinking of the things of that day .
“it’s nice that way .
' always .
' ' if we did that walk every night we could come back in three nights from now and never
“it tastes even better after the chocolate .
the smug one , complacently , ' look at them ' .
he looked all around the way i had done .
the wine is better but it would have been too hard to cool .
“never mind , old pal .
there again .
" " don ' t be nasty .
sun had not yet burned off the dew from the grass i suggested we drink a bottle of that silver-paper-necked
” he asked the porter who had suggested sportsman .
" " no , " brett said .
but when he comes to feed , truly hungry , purple stripes show on his sides as on a marlin
in back was a dressing room .
” “it’s not made up .
" edna said .
” nick asked , holding up the glass .
“he better watch out , ” he said gloomily .
" maybe you would rather go to foyot ' s .
then he heard his wife’s voice from the darkened room .
it is the one country that every one is sure of .
' ' may i feel it ?
“you pay me what you owe me or i will take it out of the cash box .
' ' that was a torcello boy .
' it ' s always too loose .
it doesn ' t do any good .
that doesn’t do any good .
' you ' re nice , ' he said .
a german machine-gun pistol started shooting from the right-hand slit .
the car across the grey dried mud of the lake bed , me soaked and my boots squashing water ,
when we leave town we ' ll drive north to st .
" there are a few who touch various instruments , " the big one said .
" " say , " said bill , " do you know that gang of pilgrim fathers have cornered the
i hated to leave france .
i was in the angle of shadow on the other , invisible to anyone on the hillside , and always
" " we ' d better keep away from each other .
“don’t kill me , ” the good lion said .
' i want to put them to the game book .
she smoothed her apron .
some people thought that it was ivy .
' the whole back of the car ' s full of them .
maera saw him and then i saw him .
“and keep that tyke out of trouble .
one in each hand .
just met .
french sporting life .
it felt good lying on the ground .
these wartime experiences , including the people he met , provided many details for his novel of world war i
" " thanks .
let ' s dance , " brett said .
i bringing him in ?
i stood up and motioned to the women that they could have the petrol tins and the cases .
" it is the tune of the real revolution .
he simply woke , looked out the open door at the moon and unrolled his trousers and put them on
i don’t want you useless .
" " as you see , " said mr .
you ' ll have to have some one to interpret .
" " as you wish .
' ' i daresay , ' ettore said .
off the first of the two reserve coils .
then , in the dark on the bed , holding himself carefully , his eyes closed , their lips against
“i know , ” he said .
ain’t that it ?
" " too damn long , " john said .
" " i guess so .
the major looked at his brown face , down and up him , and at his hands .
“don’t worry about me talking , ” he said .
" bring me a telegram form , please .
' ' do you know what an unsuccessful haberdasher is ?
' ' would you give any suggestions ?
red said he must remember the word .
" i am a humane man .
his blond hair was down over his forehead .
you don’t mind me talking when it doesn’t make completely good sense do you ?
" " why don ' t you try and go to sleep .
” “it’s funny all right , with a war right down the end of the street so you can walk
settling .
a quarter of the way around the ring to the left .
he was not in love yet but he realized that he was an attractive quantity to women , and that
manuel pulled the blade out by the red hilt and the scabbard fell limp .
“he’s writing for that meridian , mississippi , paper again .
how is it with you ?
nine thousand miles and three months away , and how was his dog and how was his job , and
but they are making it pretty personal now .
see the sergeant gets a room , ' he said to the porter .
it ' s easy if you ' re bad .
they wanted to go home .
” “don’t bother , ” nick said .
the jumps were necessary for him to take air .
i got them tied up like a couple of girl friends in the convent .
” “he comes from a long line of english earls , ” said the other prisoner .
in every time .
i just feel terribly .
jack was eating a grapefruit .
" then they did not say anything for a while .
i could taste the snow water we had been drinking melted off the tin roof of the hut .
' i have brought campari bitters and a bottle of gordon gin .
" " tell him i love him .
' who wouldn ' t .
frazer’s wheeled chair .
it was then he knew the depth of his tiredness .
the bull-fighters went over to the barrera and changed their heavy mantles for the light fighting capes .
jumps and that head out—but it was while they were neck and neck that they passed the winning post and
once our luck starts to run .
” “you have to learn to help it , ” mr .
' it ' s all yours , daughter .
i felt like a fool to be going back into it , but i stood in line with my passport
the editorials and the sport page and sends them to me .
knives pointing straight ahead , one on each side of his head .
now every second man in it was dead and the others nearly all were wounded .
over my neck , but i had seen what fountained up .
“but that just made him sort of simple .
' ' oui , ' il dit .
they were too complicated .
" certainly brighten up your flat .
everything is on such a clear financial basis in france .
” “plenty of indians’ll kill snakes tonight , i guess , ” joe garner said .
somehow i feel i have not shown robert cohn clearly .
the bull ' s so dumb he only goes after the cloth .
kidneys , with the dark lustreless smell of grilled mushrooms added .
' they are really interchangeable .
the passengers were standing up to see .
wrapped .
“yes , comrade .
“all nonsense .
" " he and mencken and i all went to holy cross together .
” “we’ll get some other shoes , ” he said .
" there was a patch of dried blood on the bridge of his nose .
the bulls are my best friends .
" doesn ' t this thing ever stop ?
you know , they came in , but it was a man’s place and they didn’t have any status .
” “i wish we had knockout drops , ” his sister said loyally .
don’t worry about it .
but men were not and when some of the filaments would catch on a line and rest there slimy and
droopy was a real savage with lids to his eyes that nearly covered them , handsome , with a great
“you partook ?
” “is a good drink all right .
not all the promises ?
she would like you better that way .
" you seen this , walcott ?
then you have to marry me under the unwritten law .
now i don’t have to think of her buried in one place and be sad .
mancelona they call it .
he walked upstream through the meadow .
he worked two towns though and he would start out of the flats along after it was good and dark
is this too technical and does it bore you ?
” i could see the curve in the line and the next time he jumped he was astern and headed
all i wanted was to live in it and have time to hunt .
” “i thought i might have to be identified to get the money .
” “i’m going to bring him in .
there were heavy growths of trees in the valleys and grassy slopes on the ridges between , and above there
" that ' s one thing , " jack says .
' want to go on a duck shoot down in the marshes at the mouth of the tagliamento ?
michael ' s the best dancer i know .
she liked it about how white his teeth were when he smiled .
it was the same confidence another girl her age had felt a little more than five hundred years before in
i can see the valhalla express .
' listen carefully , daughter .
for and i’m not worried .
was reading _spanish gold_ , by george a .
not any more .
“it’s heavy , ” he said .
just then another drunk started out from the fence with a blouse in his hands .
” “i’m going to try for five thousand .
still , if he wanted to do an absolutely damn fool thing like that it was his own business .
fertility , money , blood and iron .
it is now the day .
" i feel good and my left hand is better and i have food for a night and a day
“what should i bring ?
“get the hell out of here , ” said one of the niggers who was playing cards .
to their left were the staff cars , mud-daubed and branch-covered , and between the two a long line of
if i am too far to the eastward i will see the lights of one of the new beaches .
it was nice out there but jack didn ' t like it much .
guns on their backs , on one side , and on the other fat frenchmen in kepis and mustaches .
” guy asked me .
he poured water into his glass out of the pitcher .
boys were running toward him from all parts of the arena , making a little circle around him .
" " yes , " said the american lady .
“that isn’t it , ” mr .
jerry .
should you take your medicine ?
' you have only one more , ' pop whispered .
“go get some wine , fontan .
hemingway’s play the fifth column .
_ _num_ st roman soldier_--you see me slip the old spear into him ?
but there is a chance that he succeeds .
the town was in back of them .
the green plain stretched off .
” nick said .
” “he has too , pa , ” frank said .
“the ginger ale’s gone , ” one of the men said .
shiver and the noise of you clubbing him like chopping a tree down and the sweet blood smell all over
he was twice the size of the one i had killed .
" " .
this is the way forests were in the olden days .
m ' cola handed me the springfield he had been carrying .
" " come on and eat .
” the doctor’s assistant put the cone over manuel’s face and he inhaled deeply .
" we lunched up-stairs at botin ' s .
any good , there you can go as we have been .
' then he ' ll feel better .
" " no , " i said .
he dropped the grasshopper so the current took it under water , back in under the overhanging branch .
" " well , well , " bill said .
someone turned the handle inside the door to open it and then i heard something fall against it and hit
” “there’s that wise comrade , ” al nodded across at another table .
but when we started , he started to run after the car and i could hear him in the dark
trail a bull until we could see him .
some are too badly wounded to move .
“can i ride down to the store with you ?
below .
now we are joined together and have been since noon .
a dash across the road for the far houses .
“everything he says will be used against him .
" " he ' s very good , ledoux , " mike said .
” “adams .
that look like the picture of lindbergh crossing the atlantic when they sail off .
“why don’t you lay off ?
' awful .
” roger asked the girl .
” “how do i know ?
” “he’s just here for a rest , ” the secretary explained .
of his mouth .
he tried it once more and he felt himself going when he turned the fish .
dan said they heard one .
off on the right there was a dump heap .
all see them in the light of the fire .
" " i can taste that still , " nick remembered suddenly and completely .
let’s do it once more .
you know damn well i don ' t .
“the reel cost two hundred and fifty dollars .
and what of our daughters who must make their own soundings ?
the waiter uncorked the bottle and poured the glass full , slopping another drink into the saucer .
" robert cohn ' s going to buy a drink .
" " i wasn ' t cross , " i said .
” “them indians , ” said mrs .
' ' i ' d kill a big enough one .
to the main ridge , it dark and cold in the evening , the moon not yet up , we
one wonders what that persevering traveller , mungo park , would have seen on a battlefield in hot weather to
' ' more beer ?
i felt funny with so much new country .
again there was the shock and he felt himself being borne back in a rush , to strike hard on
" damn good drummer .
" " they would , " bill said .
there ' s no trick to a literary anecdote .
” “i can hit her again .
" one time i went out with papa and he shot a jack-rabbit just a little bit and i shot
" f---- yourself .
the battalion was along the bank to the left .
poor kzar !
wish he wouldn ' t keep going off like a cat , though .
” “there is one kind of discipline and another kind of discipline , ” the extremaduran said .
" he ' s got something , " the old man said aloud .
outside in the corridor the detective sergeant stood with the interpreter beside mr .
” “oh boy , ” he said .
“he took too many beatings , for one thing , ” the negro sipped the coffee .
him quite a time because he only worked one saloon at a time .
that ' s simple .
' we are having it again and without sorrow .
when the burlesque show caught up with him he was in bed .
” “i’m supposed to have my pockets full of cigarettes and postal cards and such things , ” nick said
i felt very badly to go off like this with no explanation to him .
don ' t be ostentatious .
some one at the counter , that i had never seen before , tried to pay for the wine ,
robert cohn was asleep , but bill looked and nodded his head .
' the one i love and must think about all week .
along without him and how terrible it was missing him at night .
wilson knew something about it and only expressed it by saying , “damned fine lion , ” but macomber did
' i don ' t mean likeness .
" " i have been in seven wars and four revolutions , " the count said .
" i say , you are slow on the up-take , " she said .
nick knew he could not shoot the bird without making his sister sad and he made a noise blowing out
especially , don’t get killed .
" how ' s that ?
bill was still playing .
' that ' s all .
blood sudden hot and frothy in his mouth , and he galloped toward the high grass where he could crouch
" what should we drink ?
the bed .
” the mess boy had started them already , lifting the bottles out of the canvas cooling bags that sweated
that white boy musta ruptured himself swinging at me .
“what the hell kind of place is this ?
existed were the bullfighters .
and you ' re so nice .
leg with his head shuddering and the trap was set again .
that ' s true .
were you scared ?
stood and talked before they went in .
" " how did she like it ?
off to the right onto an old elephant trail .
he sat on the logs , smoking , drying in the sun , the sun warm on his back ,
“really .
the marble-topped tables and the white wicker chairs were gone .
' how is your mother ?
but i think the great dimaggio would be proud of me today .
to .
kudu hunting was a touchy subject with him now and we let it alone .
they were leaving on the seven o ' clock train for barcelona .
i probably picked up that phrase in the philippines .
take the easiest shot there is .
chapter i everybody was drunk .
" before lunch , " jack says .
then he got into the boat too and they commenced their slow and laborious progress out through the ice to
come on back to the hotel .
and the day before i turned down three thousand dollars to land three aliens on the keys .
" asked the thin one .
three minutes again .
the critic explained that he liked it very much , but that so far it had been incomplete .
and drank his drink .
' my friend ?
" " he ' s here in town , now .
' ' ever heard of george moore ?
” “we found some more and some sausage .
" " i can ' t look at him .
out of the range of the fire he listened .
" tonani , " the major called .
" " where did you get that one ?
it was not unpleasant .
“i’ve been cleaning out the basement , dear , ” my mother said from the porch .
” “he said his daughter , ” said the young gentleman .
making it .
bill won the second .
that will get them done and i have to do them to make up for that whoring on the coast
” nick looked at the big man lying on the bed .
only always with a successful attack it rains or snows .
he had learned that in the army .
maybe it would and maybe it wouldn ' t .
" you ' ve got some fine ones yourself .
it would just stun it and nickie wanted to try it .
it is a thing you can see .
but they did not mean anything .
cohn , i believe , took every word of " the purple land " as literally as though it had
there’s a difference .
" we walked along and turned a corner .
" " it was bad .
then he had been sure of his work , only with these personal longings for adventure .
" " send them up when they come .
“you better have another piece” “no , i don’t want any .
as it passed close in front of his belly and as it went by it was , to him ,
but you are going to have to settle down to work , harold .
the limestone outcropping in the same way , the way the land lies , the trees along the watercourses and
the critic of el heraldo lit a cigarette and tossed the match at the bull , then wrote in his
there were a few deads missing from this briefing .
“they’re back in the corrals fighting about who gets the beautiful horses , ” hernandez grinned .
' the other tracker , the educated one , gave another demonstration of his education by scratching his name ,
well , i ' m glad you ' re not sore .
' wherever that is , ' said the colonel seriously .
" " he ' s behaved very badly .
then he put his knife down and gutted him with his right hand , scooping him clean and pulling the
" he rolled over , sat on the edge of the bed , and then stood up .
' ' agreed , ' the colonel said .
” “i’m all right .
the point of a ridge .
these last , the colonel thought , looked like boat-tailed bullets , dignified in death and with the huge eye
“i hope to god they don’t have fighters like that now .
we were in the harbor and they were all on the pier and at midnight they started screaming .
” john asks him .
" " why , we only paid that in pamplona .
keep out of sight .
we have had writers of rhetoric who had the good fortune to find a little , in a chronicle of
“listen , ” i said , talking to him in the dark .
' ' well , the pistol-slappers , in all the pride of their pistol-slappery , were awaiting the arrival of
jack poured one for me and another big one for himself .
now made a trail for all sharks as wide as a highway through the sea .
and we must go now .
she knows there ' s something wrong .
i put back the slab of wood , and hoped nobody would find the wine .
' i wouldn ' t call it , as knowledge , any pearl of great price .
they can rot .
i’ll see you when i’m dressed .
“mister adams is right hungry , ” the negro said .
“do you come here to the café often ?
we ought to try for that .
” he looked through his pockets desperately .
the night before they were to come back she didn’t sleep at all , that is she didn’t think she
a few weeks ago he had gone through fossalta and had gone out along the sunken road to find the
afterwards i saw him at the café .
a thing which appears of so small importance , look with unconcern upon the situation and suffering of creatures formed
what if brett did sleep with you ?
there it’s cheerful .
bulk almost on him and his rifle almost level with the on-coming head , nose out , and he could
we went around to the garden to weigh in after lunch .
when the shark livers had brought much money , spoke of her as el mar which is masculine .
you chaps are brown .
drink some for us when we’re gone .
he had cut his foot very badly with an ax three days before .
" " fifty grand is a lot of money , " i said .
yes , he said softly to the girl who looked at him clearly now in the first and best light
' a million men will spring to arms overnight .
this was the finest country i had seen but we went on , winding along through the big trees over
up the street was a little square with trees and grass where there were taxis parked .
north and south of the rue saint jacques and then walked south , past val de grâce , set back
his gondolieres were paid off and , now , inside the hotel , there was no wind .
after a while it got dark and the searchlights came out .
” it did not go away but moved a little closer .
" " hold him tight .
' ' everything , ' the colonel said .
in reality she was forty years old .
" " you know , " brett said , " it ' s quite true .
” suzy asked .
it has taken a dislike to me .
” when they were out of the town and had settled down to the long black highway north through the
" " i didn ' t .
' ' bring me one ration of the alleged canadian bacon , ' the colonel said .
" on peut looker .
“i returned in a staff car of the twelfth brigade .
suspicion that perhaps robert cohn had never been middleweight boxing champion , and that perhaps a horse had stepped on
the sexton stopped shovelling and straightened his back .
of course he has a morbid fear of electric shock that’s completely unjustified and that’s why i use the sodium
smoking and quiet , with their hats off , leaning back against the wall or forward on the table .
i grabbed mike .
" i would like a hat like that , " brett said .
i would certainly try to .
“you said you had fifty grand on walcott , ” i said .
the time , that he could not go to sleep without them .
” bill asked judicially .
but mr .
still i would rather be that beast down there in the darkness of the sea .
milan , with subsequent outpatient treatment .
but he felt very miserable .
“ask the little man there , ” said the first prisoner .
the sergeant did not answer .
' but what could i buy you on army pay that would be like your square emeralds ?
absolute determination that he should marry her .
i am glad we do not have to try to kill the stars .
in the middle .
masai , and they wanted to know what we were going to do .
because we had given them what they had to shoot with .
but you didn ' t say anything .
that was the way robert cohn was about all of paris .
“listen the whole thing is just as crazy as a bedbug .
' ' but isn ' t mr .
i guess they went on and picked up the echelon .
of other stories .
" " tight !
“why didn’t you let him stay and drink ?
or i make wonderful fine good resolutions .
on monday nights it was closed .
into the terrane of the bull-fighters .
he could be sure of that .
' give me a small _carpano punto e mezzo_ , ' the _gran maestro_ said to the bar-tender , who
so he knew the fish had turned east of north .
they don’t know a damn thing .
it is about time something was .
” “if we have any luck we won’t have to stay in these .
" " well , " i said , " we ' ve got it now .
would be to labrador in winter , tipped the doorman and got into the car and they drove along biscayne
make a move under the door .
you and bill go on ahead .
can go to hell , and i ' m damn glad he ' s staying here so we won '
all to please me .
, over two bridges where clear , fast-flowing streams ran , through more forest , thinning now to open glades
anything and i went on a long way .
' ' which ?
” “that’s where you read about the unwritten law .
" " i don ' t know where she is .
” “no tea .
“because he’s dead , ” i said .
steers run around like old maids trying to quiet them down .
' something happens to our good writers at a certain age .
guns against the trees and went in under the close shade and lay on the ground .
” “hitler’s a man of his word .
the bull tossed him and he was clear .
" he drank off the beer .
” “it’s a lie , ” peroxide said proudly .
” “that’s the way the sound throws here at night .
cordial .
and george gardner looked at me to see if i’d heard and i had all right and he said ,
" six .
' he brought the bottle , opened it , and i lifted it and drank half of it off to
” the waiter came over and leaned toward the table .
“good night , jim .
but it was visible .
when we were seated in the car ready to start , the girl came out and stood in the door
room where i always looked at the book and it being someone else’s house and before dinner and wet trees
i had stopped at the montoya for several years .
" " i may not be as strong as i think , " the old man said .
then lousy .
“watch yourself , jimmy , ” i heard solly freedman yell to him .
each day i sweated out whatever we drank sitting at the fire at night , and in the heat of
in front of him , where the lagoon lay glazed in the first light , was the black boat and
he wouldn ' t go to confession to father but he promised to say his prayers , and not a
” “no , ” said the big one .
he said two young fellows gave it to him about eleven o’clock .
" " you oughtn ' t to do it .
you ought to wake up with your mouth full of pity .
bill had gone up-stairs as we came in , and i found him washing and changing in his room .
" " i thought they were going to have chaves and hernandez , " the waiter said .
i loved it .
" i ' m through with it .
” “and when you come back tell me all about it .
that was done .
the chauffeur drove me around to my flat .
the stern , he drove the boat ahead to break the ice .
you ' ve got no bloody business to be off .
' he ' s only wing-tipped , ' he said .
“we’re going in the big town after the column overruns us .
unusual resistance to sodium pentothal .
the fifth column .
” “oh , he’d leave us if we blew out , ” i said .
today we work pretty good .
“before was different .
' ' he and i aren ' t dignified together .
all the papers in andalucia devoted special supplements to his death , which had been expected for some days .
it against the fish ' s agony and the fish came over onto his side and swam gently on his
that was settled , so there was no use to think how much i wanted to stay .
but still quite well .
” “they’re all too old for you but kidnapped .
of his flat-topped head as his nose came out of water and lay against the fish .
“what was the trouble about , dear ?
he had been hit in the spine .
sometime we film a successful attack .
that i can promise you .
too dark to shoot .
" " something .
” “and you will stay here now for a little while ?
” “south germans , ” i said .
" was it billy tabeshaw ?
' i understand .
” “i guess he’s nuts all right .
" you wish something ?
” “right .
“be soft , pinin , ” the adjutant said to him .
he was awake a long time before he remembered that his heart was broken .
she was afraid of the speed in the night .
he opened his leader box .
the rich were dull and they drank too much , or they played too much backgammon .
" " good , " walcott says .
each time he enters into the terrain of the bull he is in great danger .
" " don ' t i know it , darling ?
afterward , all that was faked turned bad and gave an unpleasant feeling .
' ' it is .
he was looking at me steady .
” he lay face down on the cot , his chin on his folded arms , and he was still
christ , what a lovely town .
eat for supper .
and a splash .
i have been a soldier .
there was a long tug .
except the portrait .
isn ' t it so , robert ?
m ' cola looked at me anxiously .
' ' i never thought you wanted presents of hard stones .
” “you never felt any better did you ?
we can grind it in guanabacoa .
the colonel offered the flask to the boatman who looked at him , at the flask , and said ,
i’ll just have to double up on the quantity of the sodium pentothal first .
” “what about the russians ?
i was thinking about brett and my mind stopped jumping around and started to go in sort of smooth waves
she raised her hand .
m ' cola ' s water bottle made a noise against the cartridges in his pocket and i stopped and
i tell you , he was pretty good in there to-day .
" " that ' s the sort of name you ' d have , " the cook said .
' ' i doubt if the religious authorities would permit it at this moment .
the reason is that until he fell in love with brett , i never heard him make one remark that
" after a while he said to me , " you don ' t have to stay in here with
we were going straight out from the dock and the dock became shorter and the shoreline opened out .
' i ' ve learned it .
' ' do i figure ?
” “yes , all right , ” madame fontan said from the next room .
i don ' t like to drive this coast at night .
” “no , i can’t .
and crossed the bear river and went through a cut and there were only the ties and the rails running
it was only the bark they wanted for the tannery at boyne city ; hauling it across the lake on
the big luger he had , holding it in both hands to keep it steady .
” “did he take all your groceries ?
if there was anyone here but a rummy they’d tell you how square i’m being with you .
writes .
" one ' s an ass to leave paris .
except that resin wine at lunch .
and down and the blood caked on her whiskers and he smelled her breath which was very bad because she
you ' re called ' sliding billy .
' ' n ' dio .
" she asked guy .
get them into the ditch .
” “christ , ” he said .
" you tried to buy it with eighty-four days at sea .
“what’s yours ?
mentioned .
' ' it ' s wonderful , ' p .
not one of them was dry .
“going to blow all night .
“ he brought me here , ” she said .
our tent .
the telegram came to me , anyway .
you ' ll get a real one there .
, and it was over .
” “oh , they’ll go with us .
" connais pas , " georgette answered .
" don ' t feel bad about the wine , " i said .
fellow quit playing and came over to the bar .
i ' d see the buffalo feeding where they lived , and when the elephants came through the hills we
place where he had been hit , out on the river bank .
please forgive me .
he got the first idea out of a book , and i suppose the second came out of a book
and i ' ve had them get them the first half day .
that was the saddest thing i ever saw with them , the old man thought .
but now i need the money .
” “feel of it , ” jack says .
' you are positive ?
it was very cold and firmed , only smoothed in .
” “and they don’t work the trees for turpentine with chain gangs either , ” roger said .
only in the papers .
it was built up and new , but no more ugly than a middle western town , and it was
four other men and he had been sent in to be under observation for a while and then sent to
“sure , ” said nick .
” “son a bitch , ” billy said .
_num_ st soldier—it was the least i could do for him .
" " you are sure of this ?
” he took an envelope out of his leather coat and laid it on the table .
" well , you ' re the champion now , " jack says to him .
“you really want to ?
enrique looked for it against the wall but did not find it .
' shining , bright and beautiful , because they had scraped the invasion paint by then , or maybe they
“damn funny things happen to people .
if it wasn’t for my husband i’d come with you .
” nick said , “it’s swell .
“not much , ” i said .
road .
i could see he was very sick .
and looking out through the slit , and we were no longer partners , no longer good friends , and
finally his left hand found the line and he leaned back against the line and now it burned his back
an old cockerel , newly promoted to the standing of the heroes’ favorite rooster .
but he ' s just so awful .
you get a big enough cut , don’t you ?
and he was the biggest dentuso that i have ever seen .
wilson’s is always red .
or their three days , or even their four , write books .
" " with water ?
” “uh huh , and covers , too .
” “should we get tight ?
" " that ' s the way to talk , " mrs .
my father came back down the car to our seat .
” i was watching the bridge and the african looking country of the ebro delta and wondering how long now
" " he couldn ' t hit you with a handful of bird-shot .
who is the woman with him ?
we done better to come in than to wait .
" " i do not follow you .
“how’s it go ?
' do you want to try an experiment ?
then he baited another line and left it coiled in the shade of the bow .
but once hemingway got underway on his novel—later published as for whom the bell tolls—all other writing projects were laid
” “what kind of origin are you ?
' ' does she love you very much ?
i could feel it warming in my stomach .
” “don’t .
” helen had taken compton aside and was speaking to him .
protruding from the boxes , the watercooling can empty and on its side , the breech block gone , the
" " ja .
tremendous energy of high explosive .
" they ' re going to cut a street through .
wine-seller—you were in bad shape , lootenant .
” “baldy , how many bailed out of the junker ?
t have him fishing with us .
” “i’ll see , ” said frankie .
” kate cuddled against him .
” “forty-five cents .
get in .
in all that remains of my life i must work .
” “nous avons pêché sérieusement .
is robert cohn going to follow brett around like a steer all the time ?
john asked the down-state man .
“you shoot , nickie .
” “just have one more , ” jack said .
we went out to the kitchen .
behind this mountain there was a gap and then another mountain and the far mountain was dark blue with forest
then i turned her and headed her out and let her lay there , just outside , with the engine
' m ' uzuri sana .
' we sat in the shade and droopy went up one side of the stream and the local guide the
the current had freshened up with the sun down and i noticed it running in .
“and i’m the cock that gets on it to crow .
there was a deep stone tub .
don ' t they know how you get to walk that way ?
the wind , i loved the country so that i was happy as you are after you have been with
" we left the hotel montana .
“enrique , ” she said , and he could not see the way her eyes were shining nor the look
" oh , he ' s very bad .
out of the ear and ran in two bright streams down the wrinkled gray hide .
” “if i get a shot , where should i hit him , ” macomber asked , “to stop him
i have wanted to come all day .
” “you know frank , ” he said .
no one was looking at anyone else .
he had not realized how tired he was until the cold had waked him .
' mama hit , ' m ' cola said .
' no bull .
” “that was a good sound thing to do .
manuel stepped to the side and raised his arms , tightening the cape ahead of the bull for the verónica
you been wounded a couple of times .
” “let’s see i got up and went down the stairs and spoke to the concierge and she asked me
neither can anybody else in this army .
" " she wishes to see me .
" walk up to the hotel with me , jake .
" good-night , " the woman said .
' ' i do not know .
after he was fifteen he had shared nothing with him .
" we have bananas .
that ' s why he ' s leaving me .
shoot , oh shoot !
then , as he leaned against the line and slapped his left hand hard and fast against his thigh he
they were out and compie turned his head and grinned and pointed and there , ahead , all he could
" you think so .
i must not deceive myself too much .
“you won’t have a chance .
” the two others had come over and they stood there looking sad .
they were all plenty scared .
once in the night i woke and heard the wind blowing .
when i came up i thought i wouldn’t make it to the top before i’d have to breathe .
' ' too early in the evening .
then he looked at the sergeant again .
” “where’s wemedge ?
" " yes , it is a rotten shame .
he lay awake with that knowledge for two hours .
of a boat , manuel noticed the points of the bull ' s horns .
he smiled as only the truly shy can smile .
" he looked out the door .
” “i just don’t want to be sent away .
“and that ain’t all , ” the tall waiter said .
pinin stood beside the bunk .
she brought the bill from the old woman and went back and sat at the table .
the coming things oppressed him , though .
when he’s got something supporting it his face doesn’t look so bad .
“frances what ?
the wind blew all the time and there were no flies and no mosquitoes .
he looked at the man twice ; once in daylight , once with a flashlight .
was sharp as a scythe and almost of that size and shape .
the individual members may increase in girth to an unbelievable extent and faces fill as taut and globular as balloons
behave yourself .
although i loved to walk through cow-dung when i was a kid and feel it between my toes .
“better get one , ” said a man in a derby hat .
and more money , with the best of the same places , and some new ones .
maybe i ' ll be able to later .
near cooke city , montana ; kansas city ; chicago ; toronto , and havana , cuba .
” “come on and get the bath , ” i said .
or maybe it just seems a long time , ' the surgeon told him .
the next morning at five o ' clock the race resumed with the last lap , san sebastian-bilbao .
jack’s sitting on the chair .
' ' why don ' t we do that ?
senta .
" aren ' t you running a lunch-counter ?
there was a great quantity of blood , black now on the grass , and the trail was easy to
, when someone inside threw a stick grenade that exploded just beyond the edge of the road .
i went there to the grappa to see where my brother was buried .
' i love you and my trade can gently leave .
then he looked at the girl , who was more beautiful than any girl that he had ever seen ,
it was right after the premio commercio that we pulled out and left italy .
you can’t have brought the originals and the typed originals and the carbons .
after a while i took them in .
the waitress was filling their glasses from the last wine of the opened bottle .
and a spear .
have you any whisky in that long flask ?
she don ' t work .
” he asked al .
they had made him feel weak as you are weak with a fever , and he had known the inability
“now he’ll make his run , ” i said .
the picador twisted the stirrups straight and pulled and hauled up into the saddle .
one very tall and handsome one kept asking me something that i did not understand and then five or six
but listen , billy , and i’ll tell you a secret .
in the dark in the storm they just missed it ; raining the way it was they couldn’t have seen
” “the hell with new orleans in the movies , ” roger said .
a man can’t get along that don’t sleep .
when i met her down here brett treated me as though i were a perfect stranger .
how many mornings have you sat in the row with all the others ?
they’re dug deep all through there and it’s well done .
" we watched the beginning of the evening of the last night of the fiesta .
peduzzi talked rapidly with much winking and knowingness .
how do they expect to find kudu along a road with nothing but cattle and huts and people ?
he put them forward on the table self-consciously .
an aficionado is one who is passionate about the bull-fights .
so did m ' cola .
" " we made a very fine attack .
they did not even remember that he was middleweight boxing champion .
as nick watched , a mink crossed the river on the logs and went into the swamp .
" he ruined cohn , " mike said .
the second boy when he came in .
" i ' m a little tight you know .
" " it wouldn ' t be any good .
she had no stockings on .
“how long have we been out ?
anyhow four came out .
“such people have their wounds dressed and are returned at once to the line , ” the extremaduran went on
i must cushion the pull of the line with my body and at all times be ready to give line
what you wanted was the minimum of government , always less government .
“i’m not going to carry you , ” i told him .
" his father looked and said , " suck it out clean and put some iodine on when you get
i was sorry for him and for what i knew i’d have to do .
though that is unjust .
' the _gran maestro_ held up two fingers as a man might do giving odds where he had credit ,
i ' ll have it in my hand when i read the dante and do the other things .
' ' goddamn it , i killed him .
" she said .
and suddenly he ceased being an old timer and we were hunting together ; he and i hunting together and
there isn’t anybody better-liked in this country .
” “the jews are a thing of the past , ” the man behind the counter told him .
" " we were sent here by the police , " the smallest one said .
” “you are not men , ” said johnny .
nick went back and lay down with his face in the blanket by the fire .
manuel ran over and picked it up .
it was pork that wasn’t cooked !
“it’s true , ” said alice in her nice voice .
hotel said that he was working .
” “will you go back to the states ?
i swam out , trying to swim through the rollers , but having to dive sometimes .
' good-bye , supreme commander , ' said the _gran maestro_ and the spell was existent again and almost complete
" they may not come here for three or four days now if they start on parties at san sebastian
" nick ' s father went ahead with the lamp .
" " oh , he ' d leave us if we blew out , " i said .
everything was being loaded into the car and they were all gathering up their meat from the sticks around the
then come back and we’ll finish the beer .
there’s too much timber and they’re too far away .
' ' it ' s okay , ' the colonel had said .
“i’ll call up and have them get a taxi .
“and i wash dishes .
" and leaning back , swung the cape forward .
he slipped back to the front of the house and , keeping out of sight , looked down the street
they don ' t know who you are any more .
the people in the house were suspicious and the waiter had remained with guy to see nothing was stolen .
, and she had never known italians before , and finally wrote to the states that theirs had been only
she just said she’d never noticed and when i said , ‘you might have noticed , ’ she said ,
she hadn’t written anything about it and when i met her at lausanne i didn’t know anything about it .
they seemed to pay no attention but fed away steadily .
" i just started to love this sheet .
he was standing up and looking at them .
, ” i said .
i couldn ' t swallow for a week .
” “it is very good .
“we’re going to do a little job , ” i said .
we had not yet shot anything that amounted to anything and he was not really my gun bearer .
" " he comes here to eat every night , don ' t he ?
” “they aren’t going to counterattack us tonight , ” al said .
inside the café was a restaurant .
light of morning ?
” i was thinking three weeks was a long time to let him go but if he was good for
' hunt to-night .
” “sleep well ?
manuel stood up and , the muleta in his left hand , the sword in his right , acknowledged the
' look what we have , ' i called to him .
nick .
the prospects were so good .
“yes , he was out here , ” jack says .
the adjutant looked up at him as he walked awkwardly across the room and out the door .
“they won’t look for us to have started with this blowing .
he had used three battalions and held one in reserve .
' late now .
he rolled his trousers up to make a pillow , putting the newspaper inside them .
" they want to see the bulls .
the load is worth as much as the boat .
" the wind blew the band music away .
black like the buff .
there were two letters and some papers .
” “i can’t talk the language well enough .
the bird made the stern of the boat and rested there .
” he stood behind his desk in the far end of the dim room .
you wouldn ' t read mine .
just then the car came up and stopped in front of the dining tent and the driver and the two
to kick us out of that creek .
i have no cramps and i feel strong .
" georgette asked .
he took two mannitol hexanitrate tablets ; since he had always been able to spit since _num_ , he could
this done , full of historical admiration for kibaya , we learned the road was possible ahead , left word
" then he will turn and swallow it , he thought .
all contours are for our five sons and for your head to rest on .
then they go somewhere else and say they got it here .
madame fontan looked sad .
" " you are beside yourself .
almost grecian nose , rather high cheekbones , and large , intelligent eyes .
the day before we had had good shooting , but that morning we had not seen a prairiechicken .
' ' i wish we had old leather pants , ' pop said .
i want a kudu , though .
i don ' t want to be reclassified .
" let ' s go down to the station .
what about the ranch and the silvered gray of the sage brush , the quick , clear water in the
even if i sleep twenty minutes or a half an hour it is good .
now i ' ll open it .
' ' i ' ve seen the patch .
“they will help me .
the sea .
just before leaving , i had marked the place in quite the oldest way there is of marking a place
there was a big channel blown right out through the middle of the beach .
' no end .
” but when i came downstairs he was dressed , sitting by the fire , looking a very sick and
now no good .
isn ' t the anecdote complete ?
were right in the months of sudden bad weather .
" good-by , " he said .
there were pools of water in the courtyard .
but droop had handsome ones beside his cheekbones and others , symmetrical and decorative , on his chest and belly
we had been looking for that plum pudding for two months .
they were both very hungry and the cakes were delicious with the butter melting on them and running down into
“if that flit king has any friends here this can be very bad .
he had cured him of that by having him always look back at his shoulder to be sure he had
" " i say , he did hurt pedro romero , " brett said .
the wanderobo-masai was useless as a blue-jay and i had m ' cola give him the big rifle to carry
, slightly distorted as he watched far down through the glassy convex surface of the pool , its surface pushing
after a while , the shooter , who was working hard and steadily and sweating in his heavy clothes ,
abdullah took an ash can to-day .
' ask him what the hell he ' s laughing about ?
she wouldn’t care for it either .
they will be , he said .
” “i’m sorry , ” she said , “if you don’t understand .
professional writers who had jobs that prevented them from fighting wrote of combat that they could not understand , as
” they went back to their corners .
" " i never felt that bad .
it was cool .
' ' i ' m quite lovely .
i wish we could have picked some berries .
we killed a number of typists and the screen the germans had left , as they always do , to
" " tell him brett is dying to know how he can get into those pants .
" " it ' s a lovely nose .
we only want twelve hides altogether .
and got up cursing and seeming barely able to lift the head as i shone the flash ahead of him
inside the keys were all the pelicans in the world and all kinds of birds flying .
there were no tricks and no mystifications .
from being ill in nairobi and we had gone on a foot safari to hunt rhino in the forest .
the coffee-glasses and our three empty cognac-glasses were on the table .
he washed the trout in the stream .
' ' i ' ll switch if you like .
" there were several waiters and a crowd of people standing around .
he was careful not to let the hook bite into his finger .
i’d planned to leave after dark , run out , just out of the glare , and coast along to
“two years ago this fall .
i have lost everything here but i have more than anyone has in europe .
' ' i beg to differ with the colonel , ' jackson said .
hail nothing full of nothing , nothing is with thee .
he remembered how it had been that summer .
the gong rang and jack turned quick and went out .
the gunner asked him outside and they fought in the street on the cobbles in the dark .
" " he ' d be good , you know , " brett said .
hang open .
“the porter” is a scene from the same unfinished and untitled novel as “a train trip .
then steeply uphill until we were well up on the slope that rose behind the edge of the field where
this was an old joke we had about an algerian who was about to be guillotined on the pavement outside
another trout broke water , feeding on the other side of the boat .
i ' m always in .
it ' s the way you are supposed to be and later on you will think you are very fortunate
andy burnett .
he turned on his side and shut his eyes .
it had modelled fast in the last three years .
but when they come there’s plenty of them .
he never dreamed about the front now any more but what frightened him so that he could not get rid
her mouth was open and when i came into the shed at night to cut up the big wood ,
command-giving , i brought the handle of the shovel , with manifest un-intention , up hard into his belly and
i had no confidence in anything but its noise any more .
” “i don’t care where we go , ” i said .
" " of course you ' ll be a saint , " mr .
out to sea .
makes a fool of himself and he sits there perfectly content drinking with a rummy .
in the morning i had breakfast in the dining-car and watched the rock and pine country between avila and escorial
" " would you do something for me now ?
" i laughed and said it to tommy .
running .
“our trout are all in the stream and we’ll take them when we need them .
there was no change in wilson .
why they keep up a traffic like that ?
“have you always made up the stories ?
nick saw him shine in the sun and then he found him where he was tumbling in the ferns .
i have not been driving long enough to settle into it yet .
they were as different from the chicote’s waiters as black from white .
already there was something mysterious and homelike .
but we returned by feltre .
' ' let ' s not talk about him .
” “there it goes again .
' by the way , ' the colonel said .
the gypsy was walking out toward the bull again , walking heel-and-toe , insultingly , like a ball-room dancer ,
there is no other way to describe it .
the snows of kilimanjaro “the marvellous thing is that it’s painless , ” he said .
“i know enough so i don’t mind looking at you at all .
" " why do we never go to pray at the tomb of my grandfather ?
” “it’s a long way back from reform school , too .
i’d never seen a natural death , so called , and so i blamed it on the war and like
she had about the prettiest face i ever saw .
a grand religion , and i only wished i felt religious and maybe i would the next time ; and
we have dreadful scenes , and he cries and begs me to be reasonable , but he says he just
“fontan had three bottles of wine .
' ' i do too , ' the colonel said .
" i like a cigar to really draw , " said the count " half the cigars you smoke don
' the colonel looked up at the play of the light on the ceiling .
religion is the opium of the people .
until you’re grown-up they send you to reform school .
“tomorrow night .
there were worms underneath .
i ' d like to be buried out there , he thought .
“i am so sorry .
sound like this “sifilus”—do you know what i mean—now tell me will it ever be safe for me to live
there had been this to do .
” “come on out to the kitchen .
' good , ' he said .
" i will shoot the poor fellow , " the artillery officer said .
” “what do you get a head ?
sticks , his legs tight together , his body curving to one side to let the bull pass .
out to see us .
they were angry because we had sent the bad wine back .
” “were you out on the coast with him ?
' ' like this one ?
they rise high out of the plateau .
here it was too overgrown and there were too many vines to follow them .
' ' good luck .
” macomber took the big gun and wilson said : “keep behind me and about five yards to the right
” “it had a funny name .
" " tell me what tackle to send for .
i listened and i thought i recognized a voice .
i never knew it till just now .
she kept even with him but said , “hi .
them .
but despair would kill you in just a little time .
he went over backwards and as i went up to him he jumped up and went off , staggering .
the hills .
" too many compatriots .
” but when mr .
he was alone steering on his watch in the smacks or in the turtle boats .
chapter _num_ in the morning i walked down the boulevard to the rue soufflot for coffee and brioche .
" so long , " jack said .
" " all right , you go .
against the thwart and leaning back against the pull .
" " you better not have anything to do with it at all , " sam , the cook ,
the next time he nosed at the steer and then the two of them trotted over to the other bull
the waiter came back into the room carrying a tray with a big coffee-glass and a liqueur-glass on it .
turned again .
you are either killed or wounded .
the natives and the language .
“i will get wine .
the cap , gave him a strange look .
he was born very old .
then i saw again his heavy , high-withered blackness and the high rise of his horns before they swept back
" i ' ve always done just what i wanted .
rifles and two dogs and went on a trip to the pine plains beyond vanderbilt deer hunting .
i really ought .
he looked as big around as a saw log .
wall .
“you can hear them chew .
they looked very small .
” “what range will it be ?
" no , " said the porter who had ordered sportsman .
” “i don’t know , fred , ” my father said .
” “no , we can’t .
didn ' t you think of that ?
ad kept on looking at nick .
others let them drift with the current and sometimes they were at sixty fathoms when the fishermen thought they were
her courage was so automatic and so much a simple state of being that she never thought of danger ;
he was not thinking about this , but about a horse .
same way .
nick watched his father’s hands scrubbing each other with the soap .
we don’t save anything .
with the cloth on the stick .
each time , as he swung , the crowd shouted .
they’re not the real fool hens .
the boat went on past , the two men who were fishing looking toward the booze boat and talking to
_num_ mannlicher as it seemed about to gore macomber and had hit her husband about two inches up and a
let ' s pay this good man off and go over and sit on the bench there under the tree
the horns curved back like scimitars , way back over their withers .
i’m going to town .
” “i’m awfully glad if it’s true because i want to be good for you .
” “they came down to the dock , ” nick said .
you could have kept me out of all the trouble i have been in but couldn’t you have a little
“take twenty , ” she told him .
" i feel all right .
and we will retake the other one , general fat ass franco on his shooting stick with the advice of
” “i’m ninety-six and he’s sixty-nine , ” tommy said .
" he kneeled against the bow and , for a moment , slipped the line over his back again .
we know his boat .
contains water .
like the way i ought to feel in church .
” the proprietor brought two bottles and we drank them while we read the letters .
water while i swam and i was plenty glad there weren’t sharks ; but i was tired .
' don ' t you think pop ' s handsome ?
please don’t try and keep anything from me .
” “the way i get .
' ' that ' s marvellous .
" " you seem in top-hole shape .
promoter claimed nigger promised let local boy stay .
' i bore myself , daughter .
the baggage was unstrapped from the roof from under the big tarpaulins and lifted down .
” “i’ll draw them and then pack them in the bag with some ferns .
" jake , " he said .
“you don’t want to take the ventral fin out , ” he said .
an engineer had planned it .
“he’s a lovely wolf .
" " we can only stay a minute , " i said .
” he was sitting on the bed now with a large water glass of champagne in his hand and his
his lips were trembling .
our faces , just having shot the guinea fowl , having , in the last five days , failed on
when you don’t want him the bugger is always there .
” “it’s all right about the stories .
he ' s been beat up so much he ' s slug-nutty .
, the point that guarded the bay , the clear hills of the farm and the white of their cottage
if the circumstances described occur , it is an order .
“i’m terribly sorry i brought you along , nickie , ” said his father , all his post-operative exhilaration gone
“one hundred and forty-six pounds and twelve ounces .
awful noble-looking nigger .
” “oh , ” said his wife .
“good .
” looking through the window i could see where the wine was stored .
this takes time .
, and looking down he saw a pink sifting cloud , moving over the ground , and in the air
much sense , but they were big , nearly as big as the biggest one .
_] [_outside in the street .
while we drive .
" " no , american .
he ate the sandwiches and dipped his hat full of water to drink , the water running out through his
we must leave this place now .
madame fontan was alone .
" pic him , manos , " he said .
this changed him so that he was not so pleasant to have around .
fuentes walked a little closer to the bull .
and she said , “packard , you don’t have to care about culture .
you have to have some damned fatherland , he thought .
" " here , give them to me .
” they sat on the blanket without touching each other and watched the moon rise .
harry , ” he said .
in the roaring of wilson’s gun , saw fragments like slate burst from the huge boss of the horns ,
he ' s one of us , though .
i usually twirl a stick , or something , or point things out with a pencil .
she said it was all right and we were all right again looking at the buff with m ' cola
perhaps that ' s bragging .
chapter five it was a hot place to camp , under trees that had been girdled to kill them so
red hit the slit twice .
the three waiters stood at the end of the room .
jim came over back of her chair and stood there and she could feel him breathing and then he put
“who is it ?
all the seats were full .
the village in single file .
" what you always said was : ' see america first !
" " i won ' t worry about that because it ' s perfectly simple .
they were both wonderful .
' i never go there when we are not together .
” “je veux aller tout seul , ” andré said shrilly .
so now they cannot write at all .
the veliki or san michele or some other bad place beyond the carso where everyone died , or was incapacitated
" " you ' re cock-eyed .
“i know , ” said enrique .
he asked to see our fishing permits and i got them out .
—john , patrick , and gregory hemingway _num_ publisher’s preface there has long been a need for a complete and
" " i am of those who like to stay late at the café , " the older waiter said
do you know , that , among other things , you smell good always ?
“i’ll go up there .
he leaned down and shoved it under .
the girls at the cova were very patriotic , and i found that the most patriotic people in italy were
the magic would come along the shore in a rowboat , spot the logs , drive an iron spike with
" but i felt sorry for him .
i had no idea who pioneered venice .
" it would be impossible for steve to have said that , " peroxide declared .
” “but we couldn’t be sure till we got way out .
you did not have to think about it .
positions and the road in the hot weather , had ordered the dead thrown into the canals .
' the drake had hit with his head down and his head was under the ice .
only don’t be so solemn and didactic .
” “maybe he’s back at camp now , ” his sister said .
' in the tent i found p .
the left horn , lance himself short and straight , lower the muleta so the bull would follow it ,
" i was getting brandy and soda and glasses .
the sea was a slate blue and he could see the sails of twelve sailing barges running with the wind
they were fresh and hard and he laid them side by side and dropped the guts and the gills over
isn’t it ?
kate had both her legs stretched out against his back as though she were resting them on a log in
there are many big ducks .
then , as i looked up , i saw eddy coming along the dock looking taller and sloppier than ever
we would get water in camp .
clean , beautiful lines of the boats .
he listened to her breathing and to the quiet of the night and then he was asleep again .
when he came home he wouldn ' t sleep in a bed .
“ain’t he a bright boy , max ?
“i don’t think so .
" " are his eyes that bad ?
" he tapped his head .
he cannot marry , " he said angrily .
slob ?
i knew that now , reading it in the oversensitized state of my mind after much too much brandy ,
but i ' m not lucky .
they’ve put it back to five-twenty .
he did not need to get his map out .
” red looked down at him .
the beach , and the geese were afraid of them and so were the women .
i do not think he ever missed a day , although i am sure he did not believe in the
" supper , " said the boy .
the second kudu and waited there until they came with the flashlight and then , remembering that i had skinned-out
by their rightful owner signed richard cantwell , col .
well naturally one never knows .
steve turned to smile at me and that black son of a bitch from hell jumped up and hit him
” “you gentlemen are friends of cayetano ?
we knew we had a good place to work and we felt cheerful .
" a telegram for you , sir .
" ' did you do that many times ?
fun to talk to .
' get my and your bag out and park her up there and check your oil , your water and
why the hell don’t you come out here when the reporters was out !
the count andrea is there and he is rather drunk , ettore says , but not too drunk for you
and go to school .
wonder who translated ?
“i think there’s another bottle open in the locker , ” bill said .
i thought that we would give him time to get sick , if he were only wounded , and then
bull that looked at him .
" " find any salt ?
" he turned to mike .
" fuentes came up with the muleta and the sword .
” we were standing up now and she was staring indignantly at where the flit king was lying .
so the bull-fighter chap sort of rather staggered over to him .
" " the chica will ask her .
i like living like a gentleman .
he was sucked under in the whirl by nick’s right leg and came to the surface a little way down
fire and then drop back behind the infantry and fire on the gun and knock it out and give the
he did not recognize the man in the launch that was first on call , but the boatman said ,
the water tasted of asphalt and pig bristles .
we will retake and they will all be hung upside down outside of filling stations .
“cost you much ?
don’t i , bright boy ?
but something’s made me nervous .
tide .
' i ' d like to be your honey dog if i knew how to do it .
” “it’s a little bit late now .
” “it is not worth it .
i mean good every day and dull good .
he wanted to see zurito .
" don ' t you trust me ?
“how long do you suppose he and his friend had been together ?
” “that’s all right , ” she told him .
i’ve never known an american who wasn’t rich .
” “i may .
" could you not send friends of cayetano to see him ?
that ' s a different thermometer .
awful .
" " we have to go into pamplona .
we stood in the edge of the timber on the face of this hill looking across the meadow valley which
you know , signor tenente , if i didn’t have the kids i wouldn’t be your orderly now .
" " what do you say ?
’ then when they filled the bases in the third game , you remember , it was too much for
” “that’s the dinner , ” george explained .
something or other needs but to be seen .
” “cheer up .
our stay on earth is not for long .
" " i mean what would you rather do .
i ' m in love with him , i think .
young i could never remember anything once i had written it down ; as each day you wiped your memory
" " that ' s all right , " i said .
could have stayed with that bull for ever ; then , looking at the heavy , woolly clouds that so
water .
inside the room was in great disorder .
" they look like white elephants , " she said .
you do not mind if i am camped near ?
i got on an s bus and rode down to the madeleine , standing on the back platform .
” “good night , my dear roger .
" " the hell you have .
glass .
" one never gets anywhere by discussing finances .
as soon as he saw it he knew where the story had come from .
didn ' t want to bury her .
' ' oh , i ' m sure i will .
it’s mostly been written already , ” mr .
meal and the evening was clear and warm .
he ain’t got no sense of humor at all .
i have to do some work first .
" it makes me nervous .
the country was barren and rocks stuck up through the clay .
" i told the boy i was a strange old man , " he said .
" it ' s funny a priest never speaks to you , " john said .
' ' yes , my colonel .
“do you remember when we barred those phrases ?
look at hardy .
" " he gives me the willys .
for another , some one else might run onto him .
and the head jerked , he shot again at the wide nostrils and saw the horns jolt again and fragments
but i think i ' ll go home .
' ' is it o .
he tried to force the fish out into the current .
“captain , ” he said to me after a while , “could you make me a highball ?
where the salt was and stand there , heavy-necked , grey , and handsome , the horns spiralled against the
the fat woman who ran the inn came out from the kitchen and shook hands with us .
” “let’s think something out good , ” she said .
swedes .
the coward had at one time , until he had received a peculiarly atrocious horn wound in the lower abdomen
' ' give me your hand first to hold .
' ' venice , ' she said .
he must work to get the bull ' s head down , so he could go in past the horns
" " i said we could have everything .
that wool jersey .
have done everything in my power to prevent you from being certified as one .
i could never feel anything about the russian , sister cecilia said .
“she’s crazy .
the noise came again , ending this time like a blood-choked sigh .
now , looking out the tunnel of trees over the ravine at the sky with white clouds moving across in
the very biggest ones would lie up close to the bank .
real memories except having your tubes out and when you started c .
or schlitz , he thought .
music to break loose and said , come on luis .
“you can talk just as bloody wet as you want .
" that we could start .
he was shy , too .
they were talking inside the room .
i can still row and rogelio will throw the net .
they had many a good cry together .
opinion the french military hold of themselves .
splendid nigger .
probably he never would .
" " why don ' t you learn ?
i said " who killed him ?
i wouldn’t take a nickel from you .
“i liked it when it started .
i was sure i’d killed the pilot .
every man ought to be married .
you still wish it ?
now beside the road , and then it commenced to climb and we came into some blue hills , old
” it was a bright april day and the wind was blowing wildly so that each mule that came up
hard in a long slant ahead in the tall grass .
you and me we’ve made a separate peace .
you could do it .
they were well dressed , he said .
now take it easy , the colonel said to himself .
it will all be in order when you get back .
he remembered the good times with them all , and the quarrels .
all the men had beards and there were three deer in the back of the wagon , their thin legs
he was still listening .
_ ' as we saw the camp fire in the dark ahead of us , coming in that night ,
good general .
, and david’s mother was so excited she could hardly speak .
” “good-by and thanks .
we were standing watching him skip rope .
does it hurt much ?
the electric light had been burning all night .
clock at night .
many .
” “to travel is necessary during the light of day .
the path crossed the stream on another foot-log below the ford , and joined the road , and we went
help me now , enrique .
we ' re short on whisky but there ' s a bottle .
guinea hen were all right , and i had one now in the lunch box in the back of the
“we’d get food from the rumrunners .
by god , you _can_ shoot that little pipsqueak .
there were two lonely looking ticket-houses standing in the square .
and as soon as you are standing still and being light artillery , you’ve lost your mobility and that’s your
somebody bound to get mauled .
" he twisted free .
" don ' t get sore .
so someone would know about such things .
couldn ' t we just live together ?
he was awake and looking out of the window .
” “can’t we send beaters ?
” i ran her over to the standard oil dock across the harbor and filled up both the tanks .
“i can’t understand a word he says .
liz was terribly frightened , no one had ever touched her , but she thought , “he’s come to me
he did not even realize they ended .
but it does seem to me to be a little late now , after we ' ve waited three years
” “he loves to fish , ” captain willie yelled , his voice almost breaking .
sore throat all winter .
many must be educated .
this hotel if we wanted a room for the afternoon only .
the worst , he said , were the women with dead babies .
i should be a better man with less wild boar blood in the small time which remains .
charo was deadly thirsty and truly devout and the sun set very slowly .
” “frank who ?
nick , who stood on the shore holding the rod and letting the line run out from the reel .
doumi !
" --he slurred that over-- " or me ?
" " she wouldn ' t like it .
" " i don ' t know , " said harris .
the men in the holes in the side of the bank were sleeping .
show off .
and with the last bump rose and he saw them all standing below , waving , and the camp beside
“it bothers my eyes a little , ” his father confided to him .
" who is it ?
are you awfully hungry ?
as soon as it ' s wet there ' s no salt .
trees that crossed the plain toward the north .
i must have been blind .
the dark , barefoot men were moving , carrying the masts of their boats .
' the _gran maestro_ said , ' thank you , my lady .
he worked accordingly .
i ' ve enjoyed it and i haven ' t worried up until to-day .
' he ' s hard to take with food .
in the cups by mistake .
the old man could hardly breathe now and he felt a strange taste in his mouth .
" we ' re all going to have a drink .
there was a safe , suburban feeling .
the points of his tusks had touched the ground beside it .
“you are a beautiful boy , ” i said .
i could not believe we had suddenly come to any such wonderful country .
many bugs .
so what would they do to some outsider ?
no credit kill so many lions .
i’ll get her to give me a small skillet and some salt and pepper and some bacon and some shortening
the train was starting to slow .
' we both drank and pop said , ' the hell with them .
“i’m staying here .
elliot’s name was cornelia .
" the train comes in forty minutes .
it swung as she turned her head .
’ je n’ai jamais compris ce que c’est qu’un polack .
in another and carbons in another .
and as i put together now what i had seen all day and what i had heard , i felt
they should not have gotten out , ever , of course .
dun report .
" " sam ' s gone out , " george said .
' ' ah , yes .
the other held five litres .
it made me tired , swimming in the trough , and i turned and swam out to the raft .
probably a lot of other people will say i shouldn’t too .
so that it was as he had found it .
" it isn ' t far from london .
” “i couldn’t get into it .
his hands .
' ' i wouldn ' t mind it if i was a colonel .
' m ' cola was crouched close talking , making an explanation .
" " all the time , " said para .
” “and you , comrade ?
" " i thought it was rather odd myself .
their orders in another boat which caught three good fish the first week .
his mouth was clamped shut .
one was a bare-assed piece of hill that you had to cross to get into grosshau .
“i’m an optimist .
hotel florida .
" the old man said .
then the door revolved and in came the flit gun man .
_num_ d roman soldier—it take some of them pretty bad .
" " him ?
the captain couldn ' t have known it was quicksand when she struck unless he knew these waters .
" he ' ll probably be dead later on .
' ' i don ' t think so .
” the crowd were yelling so you couldn’t hear anything .
can it be as painful as the spur of a fighting cock in one ' s heel ?
of his brain disturbed by a piece of broken steel in it , lay a day , a night ,
” “he probably does .
" won ' t you have a drink ?
” “they were ojibways , ” nick said .
' m ' uzuri !
part ii mr .
if it pleases him .
we were lying on blankets spread over straw and when he moved the straw was noisy , but the silk-worms
“consider the razor , ” george said .
” “i’m praying that it will , ” sister cecilia said .
' ' good night , ' i said .
" " i believe it is .
were coming , they would be on it .
' ' you ' re in good shape , colonel , ' the surgeon said .
i had been wrong before , i remembered .
better watch it .
restaurant , and i cleaned off the wind-shield , the lights and the license plates with a rag .
” it was going just the way he thought it would .
you most certainly could not tell a damned thing about an american .
glances and by queries , there was black hair that seemed to have no connection with the human race .
“that’s so .
" " they only want to kill when they ' re alone .
" i wonder what he did ?
" " i never played with him , " said the fat one .
he did not know how his wife felt except that she was through with him .
them two at a time outside to show them nothing would happen , he wearing his own chin strap tight
the gap raised a cloud of dust , and the two men at the ends of a stretcher each raised
everyone wore them in the old days in this city and the faces were those of their confidential servants .
three shots , heap s--t , ' and i got out the dictionary to translate it for m ' cola
” “with the very brown face ; the cap over one eye .
” “yes , sir ?
” “you , ” he said .
a man sat at a table in the corner asleep .
” “well , ” i said , “we’ve got it now .
they ' ve been on a pilgrimage to rome , and now they ' re going down to biarritz and
wakened by the sun that , rising above the slope of open land behind the house , shone full on
i was going to see somebody and see what i could do about making him pay me .
” “i wish he could have them all summer .
” “fear for his soul .
tipped back .
pop was studying him with his binoculars .
" they sleep just like pigs , " he said .
they were walking on the brown forest floor now and it was springy and cool under their feet .
he had no feeling of his left hand but he braked all he could with his right and the line
where everyone was under a strain , and that he was one of only four men in civilian clothes in
faithful to the girls they left behind them , many of them never had crabs , wonderful chaps .
” the door to the kitchen opened and the nigger came in .
" i said to hogan .
" galanos , " he said aloud .
now definitely and finally salao , which is the worst form of unlucky , and the boy had gone at
over the old man ' s shoulders .
” the man answered .
' ' we owe nothing , ' the colonel said .
but there’s an awful big country between here and sheboygan and he knows that country , too .
their immortality , to have their shucked carcasses float out easily on an ebb tide on the grand canal .
then i would not have pulled down and shot under her the second shot .
would you like me to read to you ?
john ?
enrique shouting .
' ' six .
i didn ' t get that from any kraut either .
” so , robert wilson thought to himself , she is giving him a ride , isn’t she ?
' we ' ll take the two savages as one lot and these two oxonians as the other , '
" so you think that ' s right ?
sod .
these men might just as well be fighting and get killed too .
and the wind was blowing their hair as they climbed with their long , easy striding venetian legs and the
" you are too young .
, down to the other restaurant a block beyond the green lantern .
that was what he needed but it frightened him especially when the boat lay there quietly in the willows on
' ' it ' s as good a chance as any for rhino , too , ' pop said .
” “they are all very much the same , sir .
let them turn once more , the colonel said to himself .
' ' but what about the great leaders we heard about like the generals montgomery and patton ?
blindy was down at the far end of the machines .
machine-gun fire from the sunken road and from the group of farm houses , encountered no resistance in the town
now muck off .
they must each have hated themselves for not having sent him back when there was time .
hunter and he had hunted with some rare ones in his time .
” “no , he hasn’t got any con .
” “well , you only got another week .
“i’ve got to make some money .
now what in hell were you going to do about a man who talked like that , wilson wondered .
that and football .
, flickering like an old cinema film , but pink instead of grey .
but i’ve let them run a month and got the money .
look at president coolidge .
they all looked the same colour in the shadow .
" " i said it wouldn ' t be fair to my creditors , " mike said .
“there’s two of them .
" she looked at me again very brightly .
“i’m going to see plenty moors tomorrow without having to fool with them tonight .
now , without thinking further , he would go home to his room .
you can’t expect to find the people still there .
he had such beautiful hands and such a fine face and he never complains .
he lit a cigarette and went inside the tent .
“look , ” i said .
i ' ll be damned if i ' ll turn that in .
it was very hot and we stopped under some trees beside a dam that crossed the river .
“but i ain’t never been shot .
you ' re thirty-four .
i ' ve always wanted to see bill knocked down .
' the hell with it .
' ' we ' ve never had a fair chance .
the blind had been built at close arrow-shot of the lick , and sitting , leaning back , knees high
“you get tired of pike right away .
' ' his idea of being appreciated is for us to carry him on our shoulders , ' pop said
he lifted him clear of the water , a heavy half circle in the net , the net dripping ,
they must be circularizing the town .
" " no , but i hope to be .
lightning must still strike the house many times each summer , and when we were children there no one would
his return from retirement had been spoiled by romero .
where the hand-forged hook projected from the head of the small tuna .
charge of my secretary when bill gorton and i should shove off to spain the end of june .
" you ' re going good , " zurito said .
the water was white where his tail beat it and three-quarters of his body was clear above the water when
has for meat .
" they trotted down the long hill , the wagon jolting .
” “oh god , ” the nigger said .
he kissed her but she did not wake and he put on his old mackinaw coat and felt in the
” “it was not a joke in such bad taste , you see ?
you wake me when you get sleepy .
after about four rounds jack has him bleeding bad and his face all cut up , but every time walcott’s
most of chicote’s old customers are on franco’s side ; but some of them are on the government side .
” “i don’t want to push you out of the widow woman’s chair .
the shade felt solid and cool as running water .
under his shirt he wore a string of blue voodoo beads .
” “thank you very much , ” i said .
" " we ' ll see it a long time yet .
” “are you too cold ?
' ' yes , daughter .
i was in school in paris , then .
marcial had a big day .
but she always fills before she wanes .
' ' concussions .
i was not groggy now .
“is it a system always to respond in a different language in switzerland ?
” “what are rats d’eau ?
you lose the taste .
that juma gave him the .
in the park it was dark under the trees .
it’s bad for me .
“i must tire you .
certainly not sinclair lewis .
then they had retired .
from the sunken road and from the group of farm houses , encountered no resistance in the town , and
' and since i had been an un-killed character for around twenty-eight years i could understand their attitude .
it jumped again and again in the acrobatics of its fear and he worked his way back to the stern
” manuel said .
“all i wanted was to show the danger .
“look what he’s done for marcial lalanda .
" absolutely , " said johnson .
he had continued to come to the fiesta each year after he was married .
' ' do you think it could be the timer ?
“you see that one ?
he had on a white polo shirt , the kind he ' d worn at princeton .
couldn ' t you have gotten into some other jam ?
” “ayee !
s .
beyond the old hospital were the new brick pavilions , and there we met every afternoon and were all very
maybe it was all goofy , ' i thought , letting the unbelief come in as a comfort .
retana shrugged his shoulders .
how did you sleep , nickie ?
” “please tell me .
” “i can pitch better than lots of the boys .
’” “no , ” said my wife , “i suppose not .
i ' ve never been in a professional ---- but i imagine they run it much the same .
" " many thanks , " said the big one .
“he’s a little confusing , ” helena whispered .
' ' you must have missed him , ' the girl said .
" here ' s my street , " i said .
max watched the mirror and the clock .
it’s a sin against our lord and saviour .
' may i help you ?
” “why don’t you pay me some on account ?
we could get up a pretty good game .
were revolving a searchlight in the dark .
you don ' t like to wear your dress uniform , do you ?
shot ?
as we came in nobody was talking and the ticket window was down .
” “i’ll add up my stuff , mr .
though the fiesta were being staged in her honor , and she found it pleasant and amusing .
" that was all right .
his back arched , feet straight and trailing .
' i won ' t .
” “he shot a tri-moter junker down today over the jarama and his wingmen mucked off on him and he
she looked like mrs .
bell , " nick said .
“she’s gone away somewhere .
" but he belongs to this parish .
pectoral fins set wide as wings and the great erect tail slicing through the dark .
" tell him i think writing is lousy , " bill said .
_gran maestro_ , when will next saturday come ?
“they were enjoying the morning just like we were .
' the other lick , the one i was at last night , is fool-proof except for being near that
" " i don ' t believe schmidt is catholique , " madame fontan said .
cleaned them and then washed them in the stream .
" hello , you chaps !
” “but i was going great when i got hurt .
romero waved his picadors to their places , then stood , his cape against his chest , looking across the
' ' not a damned thing , really .
" " i always like a good meal , " said the count .
but what was possible now ?
” “he must have made a lot of money .
where it lay .
nick leaned back against the current and took a hopper from the bottle .
" and so , god knows , am i .
" he was out here all right .
“how are you , john ?
the gut is flat , he said without uttering it .
nobody shoots better than you here except alvarito and he ' s a kid and shoots faster .
she did not sob nor turn her head away .
" " that ' s a flemish name .
" ils sont des sauvages , " fontan explained .
i’m crazy .
" up in his room , lying down .
now she is all about me in the air , like the birds and the flowers .
" " i haven ' t time to argue , " mr .
you ' re a hell of a good guy , and i ' m fonder of you than anybody on
i could just drift , he thought , and sleep and put a bight of line around my toe to
” “are you very brown ?
" that ' s right , " jack said .
all one name .
" you think we make a baby ?
do you know about them aching ?
do you remember that time we touched hands behind the tree ?
” “he certainly is a great drinker .
but it wasn ' t clear .
much of what i say is unjust .
all right , spell breaker , retract .
he took a paper-covered book out of the pocket of his coat and opened it ; then laid it down
” she said nothing and he could see her face in the light from the street lamp looking straight ahead
” “i have a kind heart , ” i said .
bald head , and a pink , angry face .
“let’s take the guns and go down to the point and look for your dad , ” nick said .
and on the other side there is always kraut- _num_ .
he could remember the weight of the heavy gold-brocaded fighting jacket on his shoulders on that hot afternoon in may
ask george there .
until the dead are buried they change somewhat in appearance each day .
we all felt good and we felt healthy , and i felt quite friendly to cohn .
by the way , i got the bus tickets .
don’t bother .
she was cold and miserable and everything felt gone .
we could not see them because the crowd was too great .
this indian is very intelligent , however .
that was the way salvador got killed .
i could see their hands and newly washed , wavy hair in the light from the door .
" " you know , a funny thing .
he hasn’t revolted against anything mr .
“foute moi le camp .
now all the dignity and majesty and all the beauty were gone from the elephant and he was a huge
of a stick in blue jay corn plaster advertisements when we were children .
" " listen , jerry , " jack put down the glass .
water , but always bringing him in .
we threw all these germans into the river seine .
do shove it along , michael , " brett said .
” he was embarrassed .
he sat down , backwards .
" " we can have everything .
roger , will it be wonderful out west ?
jack started training out at danny hogan ' s health-farm over in jersey .
, his eyes very laughing , his teeth bad when he smiled .
and wondering where the kidneys were .
white-hot , clanging roar we have lived with .
“i’ll cut your coleta myself .
” “well , ” said macomber , and he smiled for the first time all day .
” “you’re being wonderful .
oh , give them irony .
the house was disappearing in the sudden fountainings of dust clouds from the shells that were registering on it .
or a gang of black and tans , guns ready and cocked , not knowing whether he was stunned or
" " and the leg ?
present .
if i could only be a saint !
everybody must have been below .
he was certain he could catch small trout in the shallows , but he did not want them .
some were naked except for a greasy cloth knotted over one shoulder , and carried bows and sealed quivers of
range of them without being seen .
whatever that means .
" they climbed out through the ropes and hogan came over to me .
” “close to two hundred .
i think he did right though shooting those chaps .
that son of a crutting brakeman .
the dust had been bad , but in spain the roads were better than in france .
m ' cola would kill anyone who said you didn ' t .
back under arrest .
“i haven’t that sort of money , ” he said .
' ' what about time ?
but after that each time after you shoot you turn and look out into the sun on the water and
“did you have enough ?
but he’s still in the area .
he did not want kate with odgar around .
sister cecilia came into the room about ten o’clock in the morning on that day and brought the mail .
” “what ?
it ' s terrible .
he lives on the live fish as you do .
“why don’t people be honest and decent and make a decent honest living ?
then sole for you and for my lady a mixed grill .
to our table and he’d have his first whisky and then he’d be fine .
you , an intelligent man , a poet , to shoot kudu .
he urinated outside the shack and then went up the road to wake the boy .
i stopped and yelled at pop , ' hear him ?
” i don’t know , roger thought to himself .
i was over him .
there was a place in lyons and another near the parc monceau that always were merged in his dreams .
” “i’ll have one with you , ” i said .
' portrait , as was her fashion , was silent .
" " because you leave the line , " said the doctor .
' ' hell , no , ' said pop .
but i want to see him have a good time .
banal story so he ate an orange , slowly spitting out the seeds .
smith would catch her cooking .
" " you didn ' t want to mix in it ?
” “dead at teruel .
” macomber asked in the darkness .
le toril was the better paper , so i started to read it .
" he tipped the table so that all the beers and the dish of shrimps went over in a crash
what should i say ?
thank you , ” he said and looked me over very carefully .
by where we lived there was a big brewery right near us .
the brush and saplings on the bottom were packed hard and firm and i was sure we could cross if
" " you might as well bunk with me , jerry , " jack says .
_mangin_ , _maginot_ and _gamelin_ .
" " yes , " said the detective .
“with your permission , ” said the smallest one .
' i ' ll bet he ' ll get the biggest one ever known , now , ' i said
then he began to cry .
" " how can you say that ?
" i can ' t stand him .
s new boots always hurt for weeks before they became comfortable .
same as any other shot , i saw the bead centred exactly where it should be just below the top
curtain .
cut him .
more control .
romero wiped his lips .
“yeah .
" " i ' ll take you in the car , " i said .
“there isn’t any comparison , ” said nick .
' i ' ll be the best god-damned boy you ever witnessed to-day .
' the colonel held her close , with her head thrown back and kissed her until there was nothing left
" looking through the window i could see where the wine was stored .
you could tell by the degree of intensity in the shout how bad a thing it was that was happening
“have a bottle of beer ?
" " was anybody killed in the ring ?
" there was an upright piano in the far corner of the room beyond the wooden tables and bill went
” “i believe that’s true , nickie .
he only dreamed of places now and of the lions on the beach .
nick walked up the dark street to the corner under the arc-light , and then along the car-tracks to henry
big track , anyway .
" i will ride on the outside .
puddles of water in the road were freezing at the edges .
let me get the camera and take some pictures of him .
' tell him to go , ' said pop .
' thus , violating orders and the principle of precept and example in command , the colonel and the _gran
if they wrote , sometimes it would be good and sometimes not so good and sometimes it would be quite
” “he must have jumped up on him from behind , ” my father said .
i put out the glasses .
' ' good white wine is good with a mixed grill , at your age , ' the colonel told
' ' no , let ' s get him .
was stopped just inside the door because she had no hat , so we went out again and along the
and the birds going on ahead of me and behind me .
it was a freak head , heavy and ugly .
" the cook felt the corners of his mouth with his thumbs .
” francis macomber had , half an hour before , been carried to his tent from the edge of the
mother , and he ' s written a book , and nobody will publish my stuff ; nobody at all
” the nigger was still taking her out and i looked and saw he had seen a patch of flying
" " do you remember the panorama of the sahara desert ?
because they opened the dresses there in the post-office to appraise them and they were always very simple-looking and with
” “you mean will i tell it at the mathaiga club ?
got off a good morning ' s work .
poor man all his life .
“if it isn’t comfortable , littless , we can feather in some more balsam on that hemlock .
' ' hey , m ' cola , ' i said .
then our true work begins .
not taking advantage of it ?
" " who was it with her ?
" " we have to go , " i said .
then , too , he ' s dead now .
his ears were back and his only movement was a slight twitching up and down of his long , black-tufted
there were lighted bars and late open shops on each side of the street .
this stuff don’t get you anywhere .
frazer’s mind , grew so steadily and increasingly obscene that there being no one to appreciate it , he finally
” “i’d better make the call .
but you can cut out everything phoney about the illusion as though you would cut it with a straight-edge razor
” “wouldn’t that be awful ?
as soon as the music stopped another one of them asked her to dance .
he was so sure that brett loved him .
tall waiter said .
' ' andrea is so nice .
m ' cola came carrying his knife and pop ' s big glasses .
' the boatman asked in italian .
“the express is an hour late , sir .
" then thanks , " the young man said , not " thank you , " or " thank you
these were just ordinary hoppers , but all a sooty black in color .
wonderful command of the idiom .
i’m even sleepy myself .
" " oh , some will come through .
“good night , men , ” nick said .
“i don’t know where she go .
" " yes , i ' ll send him away .
" " wait .
” “that’s better , ” wilson said .
he wanted to do capework with the bulls .
over his shoulder and then went back to the stream and dropped the entrails in and tossed some bright pieces
" from then he started to take a beating .
he looked to his right and saw the first duck a black patch on the same ice .
" you must teach me spanish .
being pulled .
the stream was clear and shallow but it did not look trouty .
' ' you weren ' t , ' the colonel said .
bumped them ?
in black smocks .
bill and i rolled for the next two rounds .
" " where did you learn your english ?
he leaned back against a post .
and the lake , the wooded point across the bay and the open lake beyond where there were white caps
i told him i couldn ' t do it .
“you don’t know who i am .
” “that awful lust .
i am very dull and i am sorry .
i was just on the edge of it .
' ' even if you don ' t get an oryx .
there are always plenty of houses in this town .
well i will try to be a good boy to-morrow all day ; starting at first light .
“i met him in jail , ” the negro said .
then he dove suddenly and the old man saw flying fish spurt out of the water and sail desperately over
there was that noise three times and then i saw something come out from under the door .
“what is it , harry ?
' yes , ' said the colonel .
the bull ' s legs tightened .
” “of course , ” wilson said .
“what’s this for ?
” “roger , do you still love me ?
nobody spoke or gave any sign to them except the town beggar , lean and old , with a spittle-thickened
' ' daughter , ' the colonel said .
nor did he ever have any feel of salt lake city or los angeles from what he heard from those
' ' i had hoped they did .
do you mind the onion ?
” bill selected a sandwich from the lunch basket and walked over to have a look at the rods .
” “do you still have them whipped ?
” she is a little obtuse , he thought .
i knew i could outshoot him and i could always outwalk him and , steadily , he got trophies that
how are you , jake , anyway ?
" " what do you want me to do ?
george came back and sat down beside me .
and i’m not even grown-up .
ahead , then left the motor car standing there , and , karl taking charo and i , m '
“it was the only thing to do .
” “no , ” krebs said .
” “very good .
i ' m mad about the romero boy .
then they were into the canal , slipping breakingly in from the last ice ; then , suddenly , light-borne
the head down against the stick and mud cabin .
” one of the whores laughed out loud .
' ' she is thirteen now .
' it ' s hell for him to shoot in front of everybody .
we went after him , keeping him on the quarter once i’d made the turn .
" we finished the meal and the wine .
sacked liquor can’t talk .
' ' go ahead , ' karl said .
in cipriani’s nothing was changed .
drink up .
” “that was his wife .
he was still sleepy .
find courage to tell wilson to go on and finish off the lion without him .
help me .
don’t make fun .
' ' absolutely , and i get it all the time .
oh , lord , may he drive it clean over the fence !
” “get a good sleep , ” he said and closed the suitcase and put it back under the berth
“you know where , ” said tom .
it was good to be in bed , sheets , stretching out full length , dipping his head in the
it ' s just like the old man tells them .
why should i perpetuate ignominy just with my mouth ?
' ' why you ' re a literary bastard , ' i said .
" here he comes .
felt somebody touch me on the arm and garrick , who had crawled up , whispered throatily , ' piga
when i came back to the bal there was a crowd on the floor and georgette was dancing with the
" the only thing is , " he said , talking toward the wall , " i just can '
” they all laughed .
it seemed like a nice cathedral , nice and dim , like spanish churches .
' ' that ' s easy .
with the big-headed german bazooka .
" " i have to go , " mr .
' ' he is no good at all .
' piga , ' whispered m ' cola .
' i ' ve hunted a country just like this for deer .
frazer ' s mind , grew so steadily and increasingly obscene that there being no one to appreciate it ,
he probably would .
the window was open onto the balcony and the sunlight was bright in the room .
" i have my duty here .
him a lot around the dock and around the café .
over as a porpoise does in the sea .
' i ' ll take it , ' the colonel said and heard ettore ' s voice say , '
yesterday he’s scared sick and today he’s a ruddy fire eater .
there was a sheen of blood all down his flank .
jack was watching us and shaking his head .
there were two beds , a washstand , a clothes-chest , and a big , framed steel-engraving of nuestra señora
and just then it occurred to him that he was going to die .
and i came up and my old man acted just as though the two of them weren’t standing there and
what are these outbursts of affection , michael ?
except one hundred dollars he gave me to pay the consul and clear and get some grub and put gas
all that winter , with a bad sore throat , he had killed men who came , wearing the stick
can you remember ?
how did you think ?
to have my picture taken .
inside the _lit salon_ compartment the porter had pulled down the three beds from inside the wall and prepared them
into it , or you were unsuccessful as a commander .
you know how they can be .
he had married on the rebound from the rotten time he had in college , and frances took him on
he was a very big mako shark built to swim as fast as the fastest fish in the sea and
water stood in pools on the gravel paths .
between two jack pines , the ground was quite level .
i went down the valley and saw the house where he was supposed to be born .
“mademoiselle !
' who would have imagined it ?
after robert had gone , watching it get dark and the electric signs come on , and the red and
“it sounds more determined .
it was coppery and sweet and he was afraid of it for a moment .
i gave the woman fifty centimes to make a tip , and she gave me back the copper piece ,
he had a telegram in his hand .
' ' back there , ' waving his arm .
i didn’t see the start of it .
farm , of how , through turgenev , i knew that i had lived there , as i had been
” a train trip my father touched me and i was awake .
from wiping and on some there were red and white striped table cloths ; and there were blue and white
you talked plenty of the other five subjects though and in the evening the best looking girls in the town
walcott put his hand on jack’s shoulder and they stood there just for a second .
it had gotten so you could not see a foot ahead and it was all turns and twists .
the great gaby , and my name ' s harry pilcer , too , we used to step out of
" can ' t you sleep , signor tenente ?
" it ' s good .
when it had turned from the grand canal , the wind had swung it so the gondoliere had to shift
firmly planted , the bull came by his chest under the raised muleta .
they still had indian quinine water .
” “no , daughter .
“they think you told the police you were meeting those boys here that morning .
slide down a mile deep .
” “i wonder if the cards will ever win a pennant ?
” “i do not understand .
' i have a disappointment about everything .
many others into the station .
manuel laughed .
” “do you really think so ?
" why the hell can ' t he stick around ?
ever since i was a little girl i’ve wanted to be a saint .
' ' i ' m damned if i do sometimes myself .
into the water left in the kettle he put several things he unwrapped from a handkerchief .
the d .
” the second one always tastes better than the first because certain taste buds are numbed against the bitterness of
i made a rule not to .
he was standing almost broadside , his great head up and turned toward them .
the same as ever and at noon they took only the usual five-minute rest and he had seen that juma
nick moved downstream .
“i mean it true .
i went back to the small room .
” “just the size they want for the dinners .
once he had reached over and taken his wife’s hand without looking at her and she had removed her hand
and he never told anybody .
beyond was a green field and a stream .
the dred scott case was framed by the anti-saloon league .
these scenes represent preliminary material for an early version of islands in the stream , which was published posthumously in
up to the curb under the arc-light .
” “speak up , ” she said .
" " i thanked him already , " the boy said .
called .
” “all , ” said enrique .
" " what does that do to your values ?
_forum_ writers talk to the point , are possessed of humor and wit .
she ' s a nice girl , " i said .
" the doctor ' s assistant put the cone over manuel ' s face and he inhaled deeply .
into the grass and he would be pop ' s from then on unless i could keep the rifle when
” “that’s three and nine gallons makes five-fifty with the state tax .
wish i could tell him that .
" guy asked .
was a wonderful view .
' after he was gone , pop said : ' i wouldn ' t believe all that about the aga
the dog was ahead of him now and he stopped where david had left the two hunting spears by the
” “i saw him get hit three times in the face .
” “you seem in top-hole shape .
they were really good .
" fuentes , " the gypsy said .
cure the skins anyway .
can he be a compatriot ?
" i can ' t do it .
under the wine i lost the disgusted feeling and was happy .
“it wasn’t my idea .
nice-looking horse , all right , but nothing like kzar .
" " i suppose we could have gone .
” “i’m crazy .
a civilian in a brown suit , a white shirt , black tie , his hair brushed straight back from
' we went on into another bed of reeds that were high over our heads , putting each foot down
picador was already half-way out of the saddle , lifting his right leg clear as he missed with the lance
it is right up against the mountains , almost like schio .
he could not stop looking at brett .
it was a damned sight easier not to hunt in that sun in that shadeless pocket and in the sun
of sable and we were going to locate the other .
my jaw was sore on both sides .
you do it , as ordered , with a big butcher bill and you ' re a hero .
you let her sleep , his conscience said .
” every day i’d have to tell him the same thing but i didn’t mind that .
' ' please , ' she said .
the place was really packed and everybody was very jolly ; maybe getting just a little bit too jolly from
the approaching overloaded vehicle was of the type where the driver looks out through slits and its heavy machine guns
' ' no , ' said karl .
“too much fun fourth of july , ” the indian woman laughed .
that was all he took from the elephant except the beginning of the knowledge of loneliness .
now here is the situation—i married a man in u .
and emphasizing her straight nose and her close-set ears .
' ' let ' s not talk about that .
he had crashed through the heavy cover where he had been feeding and crossed a path of open forest and
one the second and two the third .
he does not look well .
he came out of the hotel again .
pop and chink were much alike .
del campo .
they looked a dark chestnut and the one i had shot was almost black .
when things are all right and it is you that is feeling low a drink can make you feel better
" " he said it would make me more womanly .
, the morning breeze chilled me and i had to put on my raincoat while we glassed the country .
they were on some errand .
a market is the closest thing to a good museum like the prado or as the accademia is now ,
" i hope not .
“only six hundred , ” i told him .
of the island .
this confused garrick who began an oration .
brett had not been in the bar either , and so i looked for her up-stairs on my way out
once he turned and spoke to me .
had in there was pop to blast him over with the four-fifty number two after i ' d maybe miss
the colonel , who was a general then and an assistant divisional commander , knew the individual print of each
she was quite dead and absolutely rigid .
elliot and the girl friend now slept together in the big mediæval bed .
, when the nigger took the shotgun that was lying against the wheel of the car by the chauffeur and
the old man was dreaming about the lions .
the head go down and the charge , the hoofs thudding and the hot bull pass him as he swung
saw a couple of cows .
he could see him with his long nose , picking up the cards and then opening , “sans voir .
my old man wasn’t tight like most of these jockeys that have got the first dollar they made riding at
” “you were saying about sliding .
” “i make my living with the boat .
the two sable had stopped looking and were feeding .
i sent these back wondering what kati had imagined the mincemeat to be .
he seemed very glad to see me .
wait while i ring for some beer .
at the end of the street i saw the cathedral and walked up toward it .
right and left the wart-hog , who had never moved , nor showed any fright at seeing us .
monsieur has worked here for three years .
sea they had been in all night in the gulf .
hurry him or rattle him .
the ones that we are going to stay at ?
” “what do you think of it all now ?
he spoke in spanish , making many mistakes in the language .
” “daughter , don’t make up a lot of things .
crest .
to lead the trout toward the net , but he was gone , out of sight , the line pumping
" it ' s a dirty habit .
however it leaves a core of certain un-killed characters who know what the score is and no one of these
“sorry , chief .
they were stiff in the thighs , but he could feel the muscles fluttering .
" do you know frederick j .
she lay there , the blankets pulled over her head .
from his heart , or whatever is the centre of the body , and comes frankly and beautifully to the
it does seem like he didn ' t have to have got it .
i always joke people and i haven ' t a friend in the world .
it was funny going along that road .
and he ' s beautiful .
' s like to someone who knows nothing about it .
" i was going great .
you better get some shut-eye .
then there was nothing .
” after about thirty minutes or so hogan and i went upstairs .
he looked up from his book .
they’re done for .
" will you take a glass of wine with us , sir ?
montoya walked in .
i guess i know skunks .
' he ' s a fine one .
" so they don ' t kill me .
then nick heard the clink of ice against a bucket .
reveal , please , my colonel .
" he wanted you to drink his wine , " madame fontan said .
then he said , “if we should try it ?
" we packed the lunch and two bottles of wine in the rucksack , and bill put it on .
and turning saw the lion , horrible-looking now , with half his head seeming to be gone , crawling toward
” “go on .
" " it ' s no life being a steer , " robert cohn said .
” “at this range—” “it’s not very sporting .
yellow tusks that they had killed him for .
i went to the ayuntamiento and found the old gentleman who subscribes for the bull-fight tickets for me every year
who could say he was a real bull ?
" " i ' m a goner .
il n’a jamais fait de mal à personne .
" don ' t feel bad , " i said .
' pop arranged two grass stems in his fist .
it’s his own fault .
“maybe we’ll never go skiing again , nick , ” george said .
, low roofs , and all white-plastered .
” “he couldn’t have kept that up , could he ?
all over as his nostrils widened searching for the scent .
he had to say them and then perhaps he could feel them and then perhaps he could believe them .
i have not meant to be intrusive .
“we will now .
those bastards can’t be as stupid as they act .
you know how i get when i worry .
of the herd .
" as i went down-stairs i heard bill singing , " irony and pity .
we aren’t either .
, never been blown up , never had their heads caved in , never been scared , don’t drink ,
it kept up day and night for seven days .
' twice as big as b ' wana kabor .
it was just light enough to see the far hills beyond the swamp when he woke .
' ' well , we made him feel good anyway .
you could see the buckshot marks all over the sidewalk like silver splatters .
” “yes , ” i said .
pleased with the ducks , the first we ' d had since the serengetti , we all remembering how marvellous
” “you must get sleep .
each night i am reluctant to close up because there may be some one who needs the café .
" the fish hit the wire several times more and each time he shook his head the old man gave
” “we spoke with him , ” the extremaduran said .
you put me to the test and see what a good man i am .
" yes , what ?
for better or for much worse .
then he could not see well , although now he saw as well as ever .
at the end of the pass they were facing each other again .
hazel and ethel smiled .
me in all right .
i was just sore for a minute .
inside the port hole that was closest i could see something but i couldn’t make it out through the water
long for the broken-down lorry to come that we all drank much too much and were unspeakably hungry , p
” “you mean pretend to ourselves he hasn’t been hit ?
wilson stood up and saw the buffalo on his side , his legs out , his thinly-haired belly crawling with
doesn’t it make you feel good ?
" no , " said montoya , " i have to go .
the third porter seemed a little deaf .
she can stop praying .
they must have come only to seize the stuff .
i got his arm around behind him and came up on it but i brought it too far because i
this time you wear canvas ankle-high shoes , light to pull out when you sink , you work out from
" " yes , " john says .
“you write the books yourself ?
' i knew he must be serious on something besides kudu .
but he made the back seat all right and he shut the door .
the skiff was sailing well considering the handicaps and he steered with the tiller under his arm .
i wish you’d write something sometime for our lady .
“let me cover you up .
the second was at seventy-five and the third and fourth were down in the blue water at one hundred and
“i won’t forget what you did for me though .
imagine buying a copy of bouvard et pécuchet when you could get this free with your breakfast .
thought that probably ruined me morally .
' ' we should have some celery .
” “i suppose you were in a convent ?
" after a while he heard his father blow out the lamp and go into his own room .
now i don ' t have to think of her buried in one place and be sad .
' after that he can roast in hell and we will revere his memory .
and all this time he had been watching the bow of the beat-up beautifully varnished , delicately brass-striped boat ,
anyway , the thing to do is live and not to die .
the bull’s eyes watched it and turned with the swing , but he would not charge .
“i am a potential ace of the people’s army .
' ' walked along a goddamned road .
brett did not say anything .
' we made a very wide circle and i sent the brother and the husband out in another circle .
hesitated , then went down on his knees , and romero ' s older brother leaned forward behind him and
there were not so many carts now and very few people on foot , but the old man was still
cows .
” “can i feel ?
shouldn ' t i have stayed and cared for them ?
braddocks , several people i did not know .
side of the small of his back through to the other .
the forests on the flats that stretched out to the edge of the open plain .
" " you talk sort of bitter .
' ' he coughed once and went away , ' i said .
too damned much of it .
' the portrait was as silent as she had been since the concierge had brought her into the room ,
“what’s mr .
the baby wants to be born and she wants it to be born .
“as long as mcgraw can buy every good ball player in the league there’s nothing to it .
we haven’t got enough artillery to give any kind of real covering fire to keep them down and we haven’t
' make it a very dry martini , ' the colonel said .
please tell me about combat without being too brutal .
" he ' s pretty tired .
if you looked away from the forest and the mountain side you could follow the watercourses and the hilly slope
“gee , mike , don’t you wish we could just bum together ?
they were coming both ways up the street .
hell , ” i said , “you don’t have to worry about mr .
i should have asked you but i knew it was something we had to do so i did it for
” “it’s funny , ” i said .
' ' i ' m waiting .
molo !
napkin and with head following the movement , swung his arms in the motion of a slow sweeping verónica .
out through everything to the track .
the brass grows higher than osage-orange trees along your own road .
the waiter turned , holding his tray .
nose-clogged and heavy-loaded , down out of the battle to the long ridge above the river where the spanish troops
let me take a shower .
" of course they ' ll come .
all week long is my time to make decisions .
into the water that was thundering down .
' ' how do you feel about the russians , if it is not indiscreet to ask , my colonel
” “nobody’d ever have known it if i hadn’t been slow .
i pray all night about it .
in some ways it is an improvement .
don’t sweat .
" " you and your quiet , " said brett .
most of the time it costs you money .
he ' s got children , and he ' s got money , and he ' s got a rich
but once the deadly following started he was useless to them and a danger to their success just as kibo
' ' all members are well .
" we stood against the tall zinc bar and did not talk and looked at each other .
everybody had gotten out of the train and looked down the tracks and in the edge of the woods .
" the girl looked across at the hills .
" besides , what happened to me is supposed to be funny .
his shoulders .
legs under the tables , shaking the water from their belled caps , and spreading their red and purple jackets
” “with a homburg hat , ” said nick .
i shook my head and charo grinned again .
” “so have i , ” said the girl .
it was built to provide a head of water for driving logs .
, doing things that had to be done before we could go .
not really care to know whether these two were married , or what they saw in each other , or
but they ' re not real catholiques .
” chapter xii if it happened right down close in front of you , you could see villalta snarl at
” “f— you , ” said the lieutenant of artillery .
the head .
' please kiss me good night , kindly .
there ' s any amount of it .
" but tell him that i feel very sick and would prefer not to talk so much .
didn’t you just hear edwin henry say so ?
" " way off there where the mountain starts .
” “who gave it to you ?
“we are advancing .
their shoulders as they ran .
” “i have nominated a scientist from vevey and a colleague of mine from lausanne and they were both elected
casablanca when he had played the hand game with the great negro from cienfuegos who was the strongest man on
it was raining hard outside .
there was no one else in the dining-room .
call him off , jake .
above the walls there were heads in the windows of the houses .
it seemed better than it was .
it is the third or fourth man to cross an open space who draws the fire , you learn after
” “you know the name of that creek .
and then , even if you know it , it’s bad .
you beat-up , miserable .
and we don’t want to kill anybody .
i ' ve been lost in this place , the colonel thought , and i was never lost in my
” “the second .
in the first row of seats , slightly bored , leaning forward to write on the cement wall in front
now they passed coral gables to their left with the buildings that looked out of the basso veneto rising from
he fixed it up for stable space with charles drake and cut out coming in to paris , and started
he’d been on plenty of operating-tables before .
” “two years after they dropped tom .
he mounted on the edge of the lower bunk with the lamp in one hand and looked in .
' ' how do we get in ?
it was only five blocks more , but when i saw chicote’s doorway i thought i would get a quick
remembered wishing that he had never seen him .
that was true .
" oh , yes , i speak german and french and the dialects .
” “i’ll take them to her .
i hadn ' t heard him come up , because of the noise from the dam .
" " robert cohn .
” “pretty good , ” jack said .
“now you’ve seen one .
” at that time he was spending all kinds of money around women trying to make himself seem a man
there was the track .
make it fifty in the part you keep .
' ' that ' s the way things go , ' the colonel said .
any one of them was a good prospect to grow up , put on weight and trim dempsey .
" you know , " brett said , " i ' m not worried about him at all .
forgiven papa and how a squadron of guardia civil had to be called out to disperse the eight hundred young
i put my head in the room .
once we saw three lesser kudu cows in an open place of broken bush .
bill poured it out .
a fish like that could get all your line and it not be your fault .
“i don’t think so , ” he said .
coming without being married and she’s touchy .
then i was out in the hot sun on the steps of the cathedral , and the forefingers and the
you can see to cut it with a comb .
he looked at the empty bottle and the empty glasses .
he’d bled a little on the stern from his nose and his mouth , and i dipped a bucket of
slop .
“that happy steinfelt’s a big operator .
he had poured the brandy the waiter had slopped over in the saucer into his glass and drank it while
he came up in a rush to the surface , feeling water in his eyes and ears .
the way a cat is when it sleeps within itself .
face , she read enormously , liked to ride and shoot and , certainly , she drank too much .
“it’s good it blows us away from the sea , ” guy said .
“that’s a fine town , ” the negro said .
to him .
that ' s what the birds were after .
he had not listened to anything that brett had said .
they would shoot one another .
" " so do i , " the boy said .
it was a good fight .
but i never sent in for them .
we’ll take the new one .
when the song ended with the sharp riau-riau !
” the waiter wiped the edge of the table with a towel and shook his head .
a boatman he knew .
“i laugh every time i think of that .
” liz asked .
' what towns would you take ?
” the posthumously published “summer people” and the fragment called “the last good country” stem from this period .
' ' where is everyone ?
you ' ll see .
steinfelt opened it .
think i ' d make a writer ?
” “he’s on a drunk , ” i told him .
in the night he was cold and he spread his mackinaw coat over his sister and rolled his back over
margot said nothing but sat back in the corner of the seat .
" " well , " i said , " we don ' t have to do it .
" i ' m all busted inside , " jack says .
" can ' t we maybe stop talking ?
hudson river at albany it was raining hard .
then i will stay down with him forever .
” “what should we drink ?
he swallowed a little , rinsed his mouth , spat the water , took his cape , and went back
the man sat there looking into the fire .
she had made by rolling her blue jeans around her moccasins .
until two-thirty .
” roger came back with the morning papers and a carton of cigarettes .
” “why , signor maggiore ?
" she turned to frances , sitting smiling , her hands folded , her head poised on her long neck
the young indian shoved the camp boat off and got in to row uncle george .
but you know your own mother was a bitch .
lips and handsome jaw .
wrote you a post-card .
“i didn’t know butterflies ate blood , ” red said .
some lived in it and never felt it but he knew it all was nada y pues nada y nada
lunch on the wine of the country , and then take a swell bus ride .
couldn ' t you write it out , and i ' ll send it in a letter to her .
" you hear ?
” after a while he said to me , “you don’t have to stay in here with me , papa
' ' it must have been four hundred yards .
nor even on the radio .
when it was cooked nick regreased the skillet .
close below us we saw romero ' s lips were puffed , both eyes were discolored .
it was always a good place for working .
' ' not too unknown , ' the colonel said .
it had seemed so absolute .
” “this is not a good place to stop , ” i said .
he was also modest , simple and friendly .
i did not feel sleepy .
you know we got to .
' ' i was not here in the old days so i cannot tell you about them , but now
what about them , professional soldier ?
good cattle now too .
" is it still raining ?
do you know the clearance you have on your differential and your body frame on this ?
scalps , petrified fish , pipes of peace , photographs of liver eating johnston , and the skin of some
” it sounded silly when he said it .
“i know , ” nick said .
it ' s no good to change the religion .
i looked around at the back of the car .
" " where did you hear that ?
“that does it , ” said wilson .
' campi , ' m ' cola said firmly and they all nodded .
standing at the edge of the smooth rolled sand you could look up in the empty stands and see old
and when she had walked down barehanded .
the car always stood outside the first national bank building where his father had an office on the second floor
aboard of her when i found her .
in the black forest , after the war , we rented a trout stream and there were two ways to
“what do we do ?
' the colonel asked the _gran maestro_ .
we’ll have long baths and some drinks and a meal twice as expensive as we can afford and we’ll go
my whisky was a clean joke .
_ _num_ d soldier_--all right , george , we ' ll have a round of the red .
i had always sworn to pop that i could out-track m ' cola but i realized now that in the
chinamen good business , eh ?
that’s in principle .
' ' very many .
that would have pleased them .
” “no , ” she said .
" i ' ll tell you , " max said .
i think the decision was sound .
" " all right , " retana agreed .
" " good-night , nick , " joe garner called .
“you see it ?
' ' you know .
' ' i ' ll think up some more .
he never did , of course .
length of her and then i went over and anchored and i had the skiff on the deck forward and
" " there ' s no hurry .
not when we rode from mestre to portogrande that night and i wanted to go to sleep and used the
there is going to be plenty of it for us all the rest of our lives .
he was lying on the side where the bullet had gone in and there was not a mark on him
" brett ' s rather cut up .
it was all new now looking out from the platform and the woods had that new look of woods you
language .
he saw the phosphorescence of the gulf weed in the water as he rowed over the part of the ocean
it was one of the major subjects and certainly one of the hardest to write truly of , and those
' do i have to tell ?
a little man sat behind a desk at the far side of the room .
“he claims he’s never taken a drink in his life , ” nick said , as though announcing a scientific
' this very young lady wants a breakfast to end breakfasts .
but i do not want him to rest .
the ones i make up are wonderful .
“nobody going to come out with this breeze , ” he thought .
eyes , leaning forward , the long pole sticking out before and behind in a sharp angle under his right
in general we regarded the germans as perverted boy scouts .
the street was dark and wet , and we walked along it to the fortifications at the edge of town
“you and your people get them off the road , please .
she was sorry , and she knew he would probably not be able to understand , but might some day
do you think they ' ll go over ?
also , you have to think hard , stay awake late and get up early .
" " where are you going yourself ?
he comported himself as a man three times on his fiftieth birthday .
down and woke with juma holding his moccasins and feeling his bare feet for blisters .
“let me take your knife , nick , ” he said .
had just brought fresh bottles of valdepeñas to the tables of the auctioneer , then to the picador and ,
people the last good country an african story part iii previously unpublished fiction a train trip the porter black ass
the negro who wore the narrow-brimmed flat-topped straw hat was gone .
and joking .
what the hell is eating him ?
' richard .
" al ' s voice came from the kitchen .
we sat in the shadow against some rocks , out of any breeze , watching with the glasses as the
sorrow ?
” the other guy said , “i don’t give a good goddam if he did , the crook .
“for old comrade claus .
and the old man drove the knife on the oar into the juncture , withdrew it , and drove it
i moved him , he thought .
” “you talk like a book , ” she told him .
" " too many .
romero listened very seriously .
you don’t have to act like a moving picture .
nick rinsed the bucket and carried it full up to the camp .
those are men as we are .
nothing very fine could happen with a bull that could not see the lures , but the president would not
" " i ' ve got a headache .
” “from my savior .
" watch the faena , " zurito said .
of the sun that was drying my wet shirt and along the top of a series of grassy valleys ,
” “you know that anyway .
i ' ll leave my bags here .
the _gran maestro_ was admiring fully .
“i’ll go in a little while .
doctor , ” doc fischer said .
asked .
let’s have a spot of the giant killer , ” said wilson .
you could see them jumping ; just little ones weighing a couple of pounds apiece .
" " but you ' ve never been to south america .
“it’s funny a priest never speaks to you , ” john said .
” “she throws a little high at this range , ” red said .
she ' s tired of there not being trees in venice .
" said the doctor , who was busy .
” “well , ” said george , “you better not think about it .
and we walked down to the car .
i could just reach it with the grains pole and i tried to break it with that but i couldn’t
Ça , c’est le meilleur .
' they are expecting him at any moment and i am keeping the line open in case he arrives .
but they all read a paper called " the stars and stripes " and you had to get your unit
manuel felt tired .
“how is your dad ?
the coffin was loaded into the baggage-car of the train , and the widow and the two children rode ,
we fell back to here ; to this ridge .
' i understand the necessity of the big executive being removed from contact with his working people .
plodded along , all tired .
wind .
you got right to the edge of something .
a hollowness of loving , now no longer hollow , and the two sets of lips in the dark ,
the gravel slid under his shoes .
the old man said the rain had come that day .
“i don’t want to make any difficulties , ” johnson said finally .
“not really .
” “maybe i am .
“get out of here !
he was being confidential now and it was giving him pleasure to be able to talk with the understanding that
they can bury them any time as far as i’m concerned and it would be much better for you .
" " there ' s a species of woman here who ' s waked the whole street up .
brennan , ” bruce said at the train , “i sure hope you knock his can off .
” “if you run into any money bring it up here to the game .
every man in the room except the german , who lay behind a table , and the public-school-looking boy who
who got it up ?
” “don’t talk .
” “you aren’t going to die .
“no , probably i won’t be .
now go and bring her back .
now if he could still feel all of that trail with bare feet .
the houses in the villages had red tiled roofs , and then the road turned off and commenced to climb
” “night , wemedge , ” odgar said from the porch .
out after dolphin .
' giorgio , ' he said to the barman , who had a face as white as a leper ,
” bugs offered from the skillet .
they got a pool-room .
keep away from women and horses and , and—” he stopped “—eagles , billy .
i ' m sick of them .
' ' i thought you had made up your mind .
nick sat up and lit a match .
' please .
" no , " i said , " that ' s all i want .
it was getting late in the afternoon and he saw nothing but the sea and the sky .
” “about how long will it be before i die ?
i felt certain i was going to have a shot at kudu and i wanted to take the edge off
at school in france the boys told me you can ' t live with forty-four degrees .
poor horse-cavalryman , he thought .
' leather breeches was the lad .
have to tell pop , i thought .
" drunk all day and spend all their time beating their poor old mothers .
” “what did she say about the boy ?
he has to watch it now to catch it just right , ” she smiled .
lightning joe that you never would have heard of .
knowing that only the car was different , that only who was with him was different , roger felt the
then i had m ' cola open the two cans of mincemeat and the plum pudding and i cut these
tell me , please .
i say , you weren ' t asleep , were you ?
he felt , vaguely , a little sick , as though it would be better to sit down .
she never ate much .
" there isn ' t too much rum in that .
watch on him .
“it’s in the cash box now and you can pay me .
the whore laughed again and shook all over .
several times and picked up the pistol in his rubber gloves .
i come to you--and only because i need not see you , can i confide in you even .
" " i don ' t want you to do anything that you don ' t want to do---- "
now , facing the bull , he was conscious of many things at the same time .
that ' s just a noise heard off stage in my heart .
the mango crop was gone along with all the other things that went that year .
“perforated as it is .
" i was being amused .
this is the supreme secret .
george watched them eat .
" i ' m sorry .
” “you will be , honey , ” the waitress said .
damned if i’d ever run liquor from cuba .
the other things his world dealt in , and about his wife not leaving him .
' ' your hurt hand ?
où sont les neiges d ' autrefois ?
“i’m taking this big alphabet man fishing until dark , ” captain willie shouted .
the bull around to charge again .
“and that’s an attack ?
he was standing , straight and handsome and altogether by himself , alone in the room with the hangers-on as
i scrubbed the brush over the side .
" " helps what ?
he thinks you should be allowed to drive the car .
" we ate dinner at madame lecomte ' s restaurant on the far side of the island .
" i ' ve always loved birds , " the american lady said .
farmyards .
” “roger , do you think i’m bad for you ?
it was a good trick and i thought how i would show it to john staib in wyoming some time
' that is only one of a thousand , ' he said .
" " i remember , " the old man said .
we finally were out and on the main road back to town .
you want jerry and me to talk to them ?
surely not .
so i sculled back to the boat and got a wrench and lashed it to the end of the grains
" he looks like villalta , " romero said , looking at bill .
usually it’s lonesome .
" she wanted us to go down in the ring , too , " bill said .
we started inside and there was a smell of incense and people filing back into the church , but brett
cheap at the price .
' nothing tendacious , you understand .
“i’m all right now for quite a while .
nor did he notice his basically kind mouth which could be truly ruthless .
" " you believe it is .
" he ' ll take it , " the old man said aloud .
then they were off like marsh-birds , walking with the long strides of herons too , the colonel thought ,
jewfish .
i told a medical chap about it and he told me it was impossible .
” “goot fun ?
“i don’t know , ” manuel said , “retana didn’t say .
” later when he started to operate uncle george and three indian men held the woman still .
] _num_ d soldier—i don’t want any more .
you know , perfume , a couple of fans and two of those high combs .
i heard the train and then saw it coming , first in a long curve looking very small and hurried
they don ' t know a damn thing .
the woman came out through the curtains with two glasses of beer and put them down on the damp felt
" his father picked up the knife to cut the pie .
not the humiliation of a steady using .
“who’s there ?
' that is the logical supposition .
my old man i guess looking at it , now , my old man was cut out for a fat
the crowd waved .
” “that’s the dinner .
his wings .
but want to believe my husband most—please , please tell me what to do—i have a daughter born while her
if i were towing him behind there would be no question .
oh , damned fine .
why didn ' t you let me look after it ?
” “so i tightened it .
she went by once more and i caught her eye , and she came over and sat down at the
the bat .
the mediums came over and bombed who was left .
' ' colonel cantwell .
” “you mean carry ?
now that i was alone and there was no excitement , i knew we had been too far away and
' many have attempted it but very few have succeeded .
it’s a popular win for walcott .
behind the shoulders high up in the back and i saw it was cutting the leg from under him that
" " they come from biarritz , " mike said , " they come to see the last day of
you use it so loosely you should be able to define it .
please eat them .
it was warm and pleasant .
i try always to be just , but i am brusque and i am brutal and it is not that
" if anybody comes in you tell them the cook is off , and if they keep after it ,
” “how old will i be when i get a shotgun and can hunt by myself ?
” which was true .
in the leaves .
but there was no choice .
' yes , ' said the wanderobo-masai excitedly .
a chance of them being true .
after they make their run they’ll sound and you can tighten up the drag and get it back .
she walked over to the edge of the dock and looked down to the water .
" watch him now .
when andré came home from the show we were still sitting in the kitchen and were talking about hunting .
he leaned up against the barrera and gave the ear to brett .
masai behind now in a mad sprint .
the street was torn up and men were working on the car-tracks by the light of acetylene flares .
' ' bloody anecdotes , ' pop said .
knowing they could not hold it when they took it .
but i never knew anyone else that could shoot better at ten than this boy could ; not just show-off
the rains were moving up on us .
“laquelle est le best ?
' or through the bois with the top down .
“come on , ” he said .
it ' s tearing me all up inside .
car through , we were on the bank of a stream , where there was a sort of brushy bridging
“juma hit him in the head .
we haven’t any problems .
later , at the fire , he asked me where we had gone and i said we had hunted around
" he ' s a taxidermist .
the men had taken hunting with them .
certainly his back cannot feel as badly as mine does .
stop him .
pop , he ' s got the best buff , the best rhino , the best water-buck .
" sure , " she said .
' please don ' t be rude , ' the girl said .
" give me another shot of that , " he said to the waiter .
described , when i asked him what the country was like to the south , as a million miles of
" the adjutant called .
they looked up at him .
don’t miss it .
and he would have all his distant friends .
he curled up under the blanket and went to sleep .
he knew that , since he could no longer really hear as he had in the afternoon , because a
the boots , each one leg-down , on a stick and back far enough from the blaze where the fire
than m ' cola or i .
he sat there on the porch reading a book on the war .
” the wind blew cool on them and the noise the palm leaves made was almost like rain and after
, in a house that is watched .
or , rather , not absolute perfection , but perfection for my money .
i won ' t stand it .
we would have got one to-night if it hadn ' t been for your lorry .
“try one of these .
there were a lot of sawdust piles along the lake shore .
he was very bashful about his english , but he was really very pleased with it , and as we
in my pocket .
francis , ” margot said quite pleasantly .
“who are you ?
the last new .
" i asked harris .
he walked in the heat out the gate and along the path into the hemlock woods .
" mike turned to bill ' s friend .
krebs put his arm on her shoulder .
" oh , well .
i heard the _whonk_ of the bullet and , from his trot , he seemed to explode forward .
" james , " one of the clients addressed the barman , " you ' re looking very well .
in combat than probably any weapon in the world .
“this isn’t chicago .
there is dr .
“there’s going to be a moon tonight , ” said nick .
but i love this kind of hunting .
” fontan said to her .
he shoved in his starboard clutch and the engines roared as he pushed up the throttle .
she did not hear them .
two big ones .
" " there ' s a certain quality about her , a certain fineness .
put your fingers there .
and the oranges .
probably it doesn ' t mean a thing .
i wonder why i never thought about it .
i must have read it somewhere .
, who stood , dropping his head , pawing , unable to make up his mind to charge .
there was a ring at the bell-pull .
" " jake ' s rather the same way .
did i know him ?
" " hot , my god !
packard .
in the back room .
“wait for us .
it was only twenty dollars for perpetual .
that boy could lick you , too .
at the same time i have my life which i enjoy and which is a damned good life .
' ' i don ' t know , ' the colonel said .
in the morning , though , it was gone .
he realized that the fire must have come the year before , but the grasshoppers were all black now .
never was he under arrest .
' ' you ' re a good man .
along the stream through very thick bush , but we did not find him .
bill rattled them and rolled , and there were three kings , an ace , and a queen .
“we’ll both go .
argument past , she wanting not to suffer , but to keep up and please mr .
” “he looks easy to hit , ” i said .
i ordered you to turn left .
” “tell me .
oh , i ' m getting all mixed up .
come on in back and have a drink .
the bull could fight , even though he was faithful .
he touched the bump over his eye with his fingers .
but the evans boy did not care about fishing .
will you drink a glass of marc with me ?
go to sleep in the tub if you want .
” “i remember about it .
pin curls .
it was almost impossible to fish then , the surface of the water was blinding as a mirror in the
your compatriot is over there in hearing distance .
stopping to search each one thoroughly with the field glasses .
john had his head forward on the table .
he did not understand english but he had sweat all the time the row was going on .
it’s a good thing she likes trout .
you can see even better from here .
“how did you get so important ?
“there he is .
" " not so bad .
the sword-handler brought it and romero poured water over the percale of his fighting-cape , and then scuffed the lower
you do kill anything , don’t you ?
first there was the pine needle loam through the hemlock woods behind the cottage where the fallen logs crumbled into
down in agreement .
" what ' s the matter , frances ?
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--i got a gut-ache .
' but everyone must comply with his duty and here the rules are reasonable and we all should comply with
it was not necessary to read any more .
" " it ' s hardly fair to romero .
i would like to have it illuminated to hang in the office .
' she waits at my house , the house of the manager , with my daughter .
it was softening him up .
“you lay off that bottle .
" it ' s true , " alice said in her nice voice .
what it really was that you saw that stayed with you .
” “do you have any real absinthe ?
but we could be careful couldn’t we ?
it don’t make any difference to me .
" i rather think they ' re not coming , " robert cohn said .
i ' d say you were the loveliest and most beautiful girl that ever lived .
read it in some book with stiff covers .
this is a good hotel , you know .
" now i ' ll let him eat it well .
“it breaks your heart the way he loves you and the boys .
” “c’est vrai .
very attractively depicted and had nothing in common with actual rape in which the woman’s skirts are pulled over her
“what’s the matter with him ?
the weed pollen was dusty in his face and as he wriggled steadily along , the sand-burrs stabbing his hands
don’t talk so much and you won’t get into trouble .
manuel saw no one he knew in all the people he passed .
spagnolini made it but it ' s not quite correct .
however , there were many ducks and geese in the canals , and men were fishing in them all along
' the bar-tender asked .
he called it to himself living straight .
' it ' s such a sad sound .
" " nix , " i said .
and the crashing of another rhino that had gone out of the lower end of the reeds and on under
they must have thought there was no one in the house .
to nobody .
' but he would .
" " we left our bags here at the dingo when we got in , and they asked us at
" " or crazy like gallo .
" " he has too , pa , " frank said .
“that’s pretty good , mr .
i knew that with mountain sheep the rams all kept together in bunches until late in the winter when they
the bull ' s eyes watched it .
neglectful is when you do not brush one hundred strokes at night .
" i suppose not .
others , of the older fishermen , looked at him and were sad .
i was glad there were other things beside skiing , and i was glad to be down , away from
" " ask him about vienna .
only knowing that it was beautiful .
” suzy walked around the long frame building and climbed the front steps again .
please , please don’t be that way !
here !
it is another game and i’ll have to relearn it .
" besides , he thought , everything kills everything else in some way .
” “not a thing , ” said the little man .
and its beauty .
" " oh , to hell with him .
there ought to be something you could do for the princeton , yale and harvard virgins , though .
you can pay me when you get it .
sitting up , then huddled over , then slumped on the floor , until it was over , feeling his
' ' waiter , ' the colonel called ; then asked , ' do you want a dry martini ,
after a while i ' ll make up my mind to go out .
in the night the american lady lay without sleeping because the train was a _rapide_ and went very fast and
no riding in cars , the country broken up instead of the plains , and i was completely happy .
and even that ' s not true .
and , strangely enough , she was .
and measured the spread with his arms and kept crooning , ' oo-oo-eee-eee ' , making small high noises of
i should have brought them to it .
“i got them from the queen of the whores , ” she said .
“you don’t have to talk silly , ” marjorie said .
he never thought at all .
campbell ' s getting difficult .
nor the sick sweet smell they get to have .
i drank it up last night .
then several women had put themselves out to be nice to him , and his horizons had all shifted .
they were both males ; long gray-white strips of milt , smooth and clean .
but you can explain them when you care to .
it made no sound against the piles of the bridge .
“not too early .
“go to the house and tell them to beat toward us through the weeds in extended order .
' ' yes , ' pop said .
" hello , you chaps , " brett said .
" " does he think you ' re coming alone ?
hand in the head or belly of that half-breed bastard eddie gilby .
of the bed and started to read .
i’m shot .
piled on a hull-deep load of lumber .
i need it for my education .
" we went into the next bar and i sent a waiter for a taxi .
by , looking ahead a little all the time .
' ' get that stuff up to the garage and have somebody look after it until you get the car
he loaded both his guns and checked the position of the boat that was putting out decoys .
how fond he is of you .
' ' where would you like to be buried ?
inside i could hear them talking but not what they were saying .
they came back and said the bull had gone on down .
" " were your books all right ?
come on , little bull !
the spaniards , they said , did not know how to pedal .
" " we live in a different part of the country .
” “fine , ” i said .
” “you can interfere with this one , ” he looked at the cook .
you usually pay the broker in advance and he enters you and clears you .
" " je veux aller tout seul , " andré said shrilly .
did you see how friendly he was coming back from the widow woman’s ?
the icy road .
' ' insert some , please .
then he could read a book with his meals and he’d still be drinking their whisky .
" it ' s sloppy .
you see , when a guy ain’t been riding for a long time , you can’t make yourself really believe
he pointed and around a curve in the bank i saw the head of a rhino with a long ,
i told him but he knows what it’s all about .
they were all going fishing again next summer .
" it was not nice to watch if you cared anything about the person who was doing it .
he was unwrapping a package by the fire .
sometimes his girl was there and sometimes she was with some one else and he could not understand that ,
“what are you going to kill him for , then ?
“i’ll put some peroxide on that , george , ” the doctor said .
“he’s an awfully nice man .
with interest , like the one about the moon .
is better not to think about it .
) then i’ll be straight with myself and if that six-ply bastard nicholson can sell two out of the four
the referee grabbed walcott .
liz liked jim very much .
that is an easy way out .
“but it gives you the idea .
” tommy said .
he had dropped dung wherever he climbed and all of it was blood-spotted .
the two men who sat on the aisle were talking .
' you may talk over there , my colonel , ' he said .
they came in .
we’ve got good infantry tomorrow .
when your teeth close on the small slice of meat it is an almost unbelievable delight .
it sounds like a valentine slogan .
looking down on the other side was the woodshed roof , the fence and the hills .
" peroxide asked , complacently .
had a good stake now for the summertime .
he kneeled down in the corner in front of the locker and brought out a square-faced bottle .
" " there is an accordion player who is worth something , " the thin man said .
in the middle of the cockpit , but then he was watching the seas and the compass and looking for
" while i dressed i heard brett put down glasses and then a siphon , and then heard them talking
moi , j’aime les pommes de terre , le saucisson , et la bière .
he looked back .
” “you don’t need to be , ” nick told her .
' ' they are worthless , ' the colonel said .
the feeling is that of being clubbed across the chest and he only felt the first one .
please skip the man .
" well , bright boy , " max said , looking into the mirror , " why don ' t
, the tracks running into the bush .
the railway from the pine plains .
it is like a second wife .
if he comes he ' s got to give me a shot .
nick finished the second plateful with the bread , mopping the plate shiny .
" i should think it would have been grand for the tailor .
" no , don ' t come up , " she said at the hotel .
i was remembering that i had read you must never camp in abandoned native quarters because of ticks and other
first , economically .
they ' ll be shooting with him all right .
' ' do we go all the way in this car ?
of them ; the times so long back when he had done the one thing , the only thing for
he hit only meat and the hide was set hard and he barely got the knife in .
as he could reach on the heavy bark of the tree .
" imagine being buried on a day like this , " i said to john .
' so you do it again .
" but it ' s dangerous when it ' s rough .
, listening when kandisky came back and talked .
she smelt wonderful when she kissed him .
he don’t look good at all but he never does much work in the ring .
do i make you drink or make love more than you should ?
" steinfelt said to change the subject .
could be sure of getting him , getting the horns into him .
and crouching and holding the big line with his right hand and arm , he pulled the dolphin in with
he had the widest shoulders and back you ever saw .
he had made a lot of money on his last book , and was going to make a lot more
from the apartment you could only see the wood and coal man’s place .
" oh , darling , " brett said , " i ' m so miserable .
’ it was true too .
she did not knock .
englishman) " have given more than your life .
' ' kiss me again , please .
haircut and a shampoo , and something put on his hair afterward to make it stay down .
harry wills , hell .
jerk and then he had another good holt and they were down on the ice now and willie sawyer was
“i’ll be back for the mem .
on anything she knew about , or had read , or that she had ever heard .
where did you get that hat ?
if you were a horse i would buy you if i had to borrow the money at twenty per cent
” “i think it’s the best thing to do .
they wouldn ' t do it .
“they’re dope heads , ” he said to my father .
bad luck to your mother .
damned good letters , too .
i must say i wouldn ' t mind inheriting something these days .
in this you drown in mucus , choking , and how you know the patient’s dead is : at the
barman again .
but he said no , he would look after it .
doctor wilcox was sensitive about this book but could not get along without it .
oh , it was swell advice .
i’m sorry , littless .
they see that tin hat and those glasses and they think we’re running the battle .
i ' ve not had much fun since the war .
the men shoved and lifted it with crowbars into position against the gate .
” “i don’t know , ” said al .
there was a log house , chinked white with mortar , on a hill above the lake .
i can ' t even marry mike .
the café girls--and i believe they are still patriotic .
but i don ' t want to own you .
he took hold of me by the arm .
” harris called the waitress .
” “just like i am , ” he said .
nor did anyone in the car think of it .
at least i hope so .
the boys are all settling down ; they’re all determined to get somewhere ; you can see that boys like
" " i ' m a little tight , you know .
he handed the dice-cup to bill .
well , good-bye , mister adams .
they were walking with their arms around each other .
his wife knelt over him with wilson beside her .
" trust me .
' ' the last was one of the first words i learned from my governess .
" " oh , brett !
” “but you won’t talk ?
they stood together sadly on the porch .
when he saw me studying his face he smiled pleasantly and scratched his chest .
“i can’t win .
you don ' t have to put any name to it .
“i don’t know .
day .
" " you might go good .
the enemy has a main line of resistance , but he cannot bring up his divisions to counter-attack because the
" " i can ' t stop it happening , " the boy said .
“they take the liquor and the boat and you go to jail .
' ' i forgot , ' the colonel said .
had better go to harry ' s .
almost the same place we had seen the rhino the night before .
' ' bad luck .
“i brought you the fish for a present .
the detective watching the door and the prisoner shifted the revolver so he held it by the muzzle and hit
” “i saw a picture of a girl who caught one .
brought him down .
” “we’ll take a look , ” the sergeant said .
the leader had broken where the hook was tied to it .
difficult .
' but it isn ' t chambertin .
bill looked at it .
i must surely remember to eat the tuna after it gets light .
helena was still sleeping when roger woke and he watched her sleeping , her hair spread over the pillow ,
” “we ought to write to tom .
” “did they leave any message ?
on the section of the creek where they would hit if they cut across his pasture on the other side
" i found some ash-trays and spread them around .
" come on , pull into it .
“you’re a hot sketch .
they had women at it though in wonderful uniforms .
“i have nothing against him , ” the waiter said .
you can put it on the table .
” “they are dirty .
he could see it was more than a fad , though .
purple with regular whirlpools .
" i thought they might , " i said .
i love you more since i saw that thing .
and dive as he had learned from watching a sea otter .
why can ' t he marry ?
aren ' t the bulls lovely ?
" " you ' re nice , " edna said to mike .
” “long time ago , ” mrs .
, to end winding the bull around him in his great media-verónica , and walk swingingly away , with bull
' ' i try to .
” “i don’t want no coffee .
the shark still hung there .
he said something again , and then one after another six chinks came over the stern .
you can drive and we can spell each other .
” “yes , ” he said very truthfully .
" " you can ' t read anything .
" as an aid to memory , " he said .
” “did you get the insurance ?
“poor old schatz .
it was all gone .
” asked the thin one .
' except heavies being used tactically .
' you want to see the old man tight , i suppose ?
you know the way a bunch of skins gets off .
as he stood , looking out at the tree where the man with the straw hat sat now , on
the branches of the mango trees shook and snapped in the wind and its heat burned the mango flowers until
we walked up the rue delambre .
san fermin was translated from one church to another .
” a man dropped down the railroad embankment and came across the clearing to the fire .
him , the crowd demanded that he should be more than very good .
“you don’t need to worry , ” nick said .
hump of shoulder muscle as he tore loose to find hernandez ' s cape before his muzzle .
liberté , venalité , et stupidité_ .
” “it’s twenty-eight cents a gallon .
' i went back to the dining tent where pop and p .
and the funny thing is i think i was tight .
they had her daughter’s measurements now too .
before he had become ill he had been a very promising , even a sensational , fighter and , while
' ' people objected , finally .
" but nearly always there was the actual touching .
' i can ' t shoot it .
“sure , ” said the detective .
' it ' s a cow .
the path crossed a stream on a foot-log .
" " i was sorry as soon as i opened my mouth .
” the waiter asked .
outside , in the street , it was turning cold and in the moonlight the clouds were passing very big
" you ' re the only friend i got , " jack says , " the only friend i got
" frances what ?
“it’s really an awfully simple operation , jig , ” the man said .
' let me have another , ' i said .
' ' hell , no .
” he patted himself .
the nurse brought some glasses .
_ _num_ st soldier_--oh , they faded out .
help me , help me , enrique !
underfoot the ground was good walking .
him who spoke any english , and they had only seen two cows and jumped a bull out of range
but he didn’t in any way .
" " swiss money ?
“the dirty little bugger , ” nick said and smacked the squirrel’s head against the tree .
" " you can take the gun .
' there are quite a few things i should get .
the cab passed the new york herald bureau with the window full of clocks .
" say , freedman , " jack asks , " what nationality is this walcott ?
' ' well , the last night we were in paris i ' d been out shooting at ben gallagher
it’s better at the finish of the meal .
did fossalta never get over the first war ?
” zurito said nothing .
it was delicate , eye-straining work and when i asked , “do you think you’ll get her ?
" all right .
" " petoskey .
” “make me happy , ” said frankie .
he had terrible dreams .
he jumped from the car sideways onto the hard wind-board , made a jump turn and crouching and trailing his
' please don ' t think that i am conceited , daughter , he said , without speaking .
the difference would be that when his speed of foot would be gone he would always be frightened where now
they began to bubble , making little bubbles that rose with difficulty to the surface .
" " i ' m so sorry , " mike said .
" john asked when jack was dressed .
“wollen sie trinken ?
i ' ll do it , he said to himself .
“we’ll get some piombo and fish tomorrow .
so he took two of the pills and washed them down with a drink of gordon ' s gin from
“we don’t have to go to the movies do we ?
“let a little mount to your head .
” “you might .
there was a field of buckwheat on the hill .
' ' give him full marks , ' the colonel said .
it embarrassed him , sister cecilia said .
the bar-tender shook hands with him .
is it un-maidenly ?
killed and were not ; and this had given me confidence .
you have the dripping saucers ?
and don ' t you use the term .
i took a drink of the whisky and it had no taste and i felt no kick from it .
” “who did you get them from ?
should we rejoin the ladles ?
come on and eat with us , and we ' ll all go to meet him .
" " nor to tell you how it is ?
i won ' t try to explain what that means , daughter .
” “seven francs .
" don ' t you know them two ?
" what will it be ?
he was a nice guy .
” nick cocked the gun and hardly taking aim pulled the trigger , blowing a hole as big as your
" you go around on the other side of the counter with your boy friend .
we ' ve got ten days .
then there was a big dispute among them all .
it ' s very sad .
“it is from red lodge , ” he explained .
didn’t want to bury her .
clear of the trees and then had the sight on him , swung with him and missed .
" quite .
' ' mama _piga_ , ' m ' cola said .
line , moved as far into the bow as he could get and reached the water bottle with one hand
he was sick as hell .
just insulted him .
" i wouldn ' t hurt his career , " the peroxide blonde said .
the sunken valleys where droop had seen the buffalo before the sun was up .
a replacement .
ever happen to you than the encountering of it .
” “what do you want ?
note-book , " large and with enough horns to satisfy the cash customers , campagnero showed a tendency to cut
you ' d make some girl a nice wife , bright boy .
' poor old poppa .
i am so sorry to be late .
but he said he didn’t like a hotel without a bar and so he almost never went near it .
' have them look at the lorry to-morrow .
" " you got some beer ?
“i don’t want you to lose me so early in the trip .
" al asked george .
chapter xxxvii there was no one in harry ' s except some early morning drinkers that the colonel did not
below the barn there was fresh warm manure and the other older manure that was caked dry on top .
” “i’ve told you who he is , ” the secretary said .
" " how ?
but they drew on all the people from the towns and the farms behind when the visigoths overran them .
“it’s a bore , ” he said out loud .
haven ' t you seen them ?
the group of ladies that comes in each afternoon are there and there is a greek princess , that you
' counting polo .
' i couldn ' t spit that night nor afterwards for a long time , ' he said .
” al asked him .
they flew when they hopped .
ettore came over , unable to avoid conspiracy and , having gathered his intelligence rapidly and as a venetian should
you can write it all afterwards .
" " oh , went out , of course .
“no , american .
away somewhere and had missed getting it .
inside , the electric stove seemed to give no heat and rising from his writing-table , he sat down upon
i hunted around in the shed behind the inn and found a sort of mattock , and went down toward
you know people never used to carry me on their shoulders much at home .
, of his majesty ' s fifth fusiliers .
“you can’t take dictation , can you ?
' ' five , i think , ' said dan .
he had evidently been in the timber when we had seen the first bull , had run with him ,
that’s because i never could slide at all .
it locked on opening and , twirling it , he dug a neat hole in the moist earth .
' ' you must go .
have happened in this town , my colonel ?
" you know they ' re absolutely no damned good , " nick said .
” “i’ll go up with you .
nobody had been fishing the stream .
" in abyssinia .
al came out of the bathroom .
” the man in command handed me the cup of wine again without saying anything .
” “who cut him down ?
they ' re not as smart as we think .
little hunt now ?
it had taken a strange chance of hunting , a sudden precipitation into action without opportunity for worrying beforehand ,
horns , it was a cow from the dark chestnut colour .
his contingent hemingway was assigned to gather up the remains of the dead .
masai , ' he said , very proudly , claiming kin .
“i’ve got plenty .
and then she would slide down on the far side or he would lower himself down and take the rifle
" " where did you go ?
she seemed to understand , to realize , to be hurt for him and for herself and to know how
that was in the earliest days , the colonel thought .
it would be a sincere liking because it would have a sound basis .
" said brett , " the things a woman goes through .
” “i don’t know , ” she said .
i made as though to take a swing at him and said , ' shenzi !
we will say good-bye and i will get into the _motoscafo_ with jackson and make some cheerful crack to the
" don ' t let ' s ever talk about it .
george leaned back against the wall and shut his eyes .
now he dropped over the hen mallard with her string and anchor and the calling duck bobbed her head under
“oh , wemedge .
hottest days and they three lay against the trunk of a hemlock wider than two beds are long , with
' ' i ' ll try .
” “do you think we’ll find buffalo tomorrow ?
” the two of them went out the door .
where the show started on sunday .
his father ' s underwear that had gotten too small for his father it made him feel sick and he
' ' it is very difficult .
as the shadow of the kingfisher moved up the stream , a big trout shot upstream in a long angle
” “the strange country” comprises four chapters of an uncompleted novel that hemingway worked on at intervals in _num_ -
it ' s no good .
as he listened he heard the wind in the laurels close beside the porch , the horn of a taxi
“yes , father , ” said the good lion and he flew down lightly and walked to harry’s bar on
we went back into the diner and had breakfast .
we’ll know in a little while .
never , never tell them .
thin , only to be observed by the initiate , lines of the excellent plastic operations after head wounds .
” the one asked me .
it was very strong raw spirits and all it had was fire .
" they ask me .
the lumber schooners came into the bay and were loaded with the cut of the mill that stood stacked in
“why what , dear ?
behave myself .
” “we’re on the road .
so very long .
i saw one of the three men start for him and i saw this man’s face .
borderers are not trusters and the colonel knew about this and expected nothing from anyone that they did not have
he seemed to be looking at all the men in the smoker .
we had a bet , more than i could afford to bet , and i believed a good deal more
" you got a week to get around into form .
names , characters , places , and incidents either are products of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously .
the grinding stopped , and in the new quiet there was a great churning bubbling in the radiator .
our nada who art in nada , nada be thy name thy kingdom nada thy will be nada in nada
do you get that , bright boy ?
' ' how do you say sable ?
those weren’t especially good .
the same time for the fish might have swum up or down .
the bar didn ' t move .
“this is true , true , true , and you know it .
" all you punks stink .
he wouldn’t be bad-looking without his face all busted .
david had stood still and listened to the elephant feeding .
he set down two side-dishes of fried potatoes and closed the wicket into the kitchen .
looked a moderately prosperous business man .
but when i felt the arm go i dropped it .
m ' cola offered me the water bottle solemnly .
we’d sit at the café de la paix , my old man and me , and we had a big
" " it tastes like licorice , " the girl said and put the glass down .
to be high in the mountain that early in the morning .
of trouble and not to tell anybody and that you’d take good care of me .
all you had to do was not go on the second day .
all work is honorable as he says .
fought .
i mean who really ?
he took it and thanked me .
” “good luck , ” helena said .
“the car knows about us already , ” she said as they came in the cabin .
" how about a hot rum punch ?
when we had killed anything particularly good .
it was brown and soft underfoot as nick walked on it .
” “lean on him , manos , ” manuel said .
of course the great thing in this sort of an af air is not to be shot oneself !
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--you ' ll get into trouble doing that some day .
” when mr .
" maybe it works for some people , though .
" " no , " said william campbell .
haven ' t we ?
“they’d shut up as soon as they knew it was us .
it is he that has the hook in his mouth .
“i bought him in palermo , ” the american lady said .
“if you’re not a medical doctor i wouldn’t go over there .
seemed frightfully pleased we were going to stay all night .
“that’s trie new development , ” william campbell said .
" i love you , count .
the republic people had been cutting each other with large knives called navajas in andalucia , and that if i
” “i’ll say you were , ” the guard said .
you won’t catch a cold in the wind ?
, and we wore the _fiamme nere_ on the grey , open jackets with the grey sweaters ?
“he just wanted everyone to have a good time .
that’s really funny .
you like ringelnatz .
” nick said when the fish had gone under the bank again further upstream .
' let ' s just ride through the park , ' the colonel said .
off his tunic and shirt and we sifted the wounds with sulfa and claude put a field dressing on him
he was double the size a lobster should be , and his unfriendliness had gone with the boiling , so
the great american boy-men .
m ' cola answered and we shouted back and forth and i could hear them talking and crashing in the
the waiter who served us was soaked through .
we passed montoya on the stairs .
harris had tied them himself .
the three-day blow the rain stopped as nick turned into the road that went up through the orchard .
it was too hot to pour and he used his hat to hold the handle of the coffee pot .
brett wrinkled up the corners of her eyes at him .
outside of houses , ever hear .
“and here is a little champagne wine .
young regoli standing up to the outdoors bar , cool and kid-looking , and i said , “what’s the matter
he knew he had shot carefully on the first duck , far to the right of where the boat was
well i was very methodical in those days and i kept original manuscripts in one cardboard folder and typed originals
did i tell you , daughter , that i love you ?
“although i don’t know how , me not being a plumber , they expected me to steal anything , ”
if you want the portrait to-night , i must speak to the butler to have it wrapped and sent .
ring to where the bull would come out .
it is not much more than noon , he thought .
italy to a man when he handed you a time-table or explained about a direction .
others , yes .
so i would make it an interview and finish it .
at this announcement i saw six men form up just like the line-up of a football team coming out of
s on the boy he couldn’t believe it .
the wicked .
get it for .
" " yes , mike .
but it is not pleasant to have a time limit by which you must get your kudu or perhaps never
the shot was possible but it was too long to be certain and as i lay , watching , i
” “we need it , ” roger said .
" no , " the boy said .
she was tall and had a smile .
i was nearly always tired and often very sleepy .
” “sorry , ” said wilson .
" " tell him all about your bull-fighter , " mike said .
john , ” said mr .
he searched , a little awkwardly , then found it .
it’s the way you are supposed to be and later on you will think you are very fortunate .
hand , sitting laughing between me and a woman with bare shoulders , at a table full of drunks .
things he doesn ' t know .
beyond on the opposite bank were the heavy trees and above them the steep bank of the canyon .
political general .
” “do you think we can go to europe some time and see cathedrals ?
what’s in her heart god knows , wilson thought .
neither of planes nor of nothing , ” the extremaduran said .
life .
we circled him , looking at him and then the wanderobo-masai , reaching underneath while i held the shoulder up
“he’s hooked good .
' well try and think .
it just takes a while .
the masai shook my hand .
” his mother did not say this in a mean way .
" " he ' ll behave .
been a bad show there just now .
” “tell him to tell the truth , that he is going to die , ” the detective said .
" " we ' re seventeen and nineteen , " i said .
four chutes just as beautiful as anything you could see just pulling slow against the sky and then one started
“and if i don’t ?
it sputtered in the pan .
my father came back in the car from helping them with the sergeant .
blue eyes and the long , loose-coupled body of a buffalo wolf said , ' my ancient and depraved colonel
” to a man who’d come in .
bill was gone .
that would show that he was tiring .
it’s wicked the way no one has come to see him .
she was very excited .
" they must have taken a quarter of him and of the best meat , " he said aloud .
' we landed without much opposition .
he had resisted writing of the scent of the mango blooms when they had walked together on the night before
' ' come on , let ' s pull ourselves together and try to act like white people with him
huh !
as he looked , the bull gathered himself together and charged , his eyes on the horse ' s chest
it is a big school of dolphin , he thought .
a white hunter worked three months out of the year and drank for twelve and the government was ruining the
' ' you don ' t mean that , do you , colonel ?
see that quick rise of the unbelievable cloud and then the slow settling .
" his voice was not the same , and his mouth was very dry .
' ' i ' m not lonely when i ' m working .
the mist that was just thinning with the first sun , the cypresses showing black in the silver mist and
the maid stayed outside to close the umbrella .
nick slipped off his pack and lay down in the shade .
was afraid of so many things .
mummy knew him .
” the big one asked .
" we better go .
' ' have you got soap ?
safe for me to live with him again--i did not come in close contact with him at any time since
the wind blew it out of his head .
i had heard and read that the masai subsisted only on the blood of their cattle mixed with milk ,
" is he , al ?
” “i regret it , ” i said .
” “all night’s three dollars .
as big as the whole world .
showing a soldier in austrian uniform bending a woman backward over a bed ; the figures were impressionistically drawn ;
a drink because the waiters were all pleasant .
they lay alone or in clumps in the high grass of the field and along the road , their pockets
" " couldn ' t you fix it up some way ?
" hello , you bums , " he said .
' ' we knew each other as children , ' the girl said .
" " sometime we ' ll go .
the men who had carried the tusks were heroes , already slightly drunk heroes and to be drunker , his
" " you both going to biarritz ?
" " and have you had a lovely evening ?
' they hit them one , two , three , four , five .
“put the beer on the table , ” madame fontan said .
“we’re all gentlemen here .
slid it sputtering across the hot skillet .
there was nobody inside .
it was not very long before they came on the secret .
' get me a reading on who ' s there so we don ' t waste time .
i ' ve been through hell , jake .
" what ' s the matter , yes , all right .
have you ?
he only noticed how lightly and how well the skiff sailed now there was no great weight beside her .
it ' s her , you know , that i ' m taking the canary to .
i am just laughing about the leche .
“he had eau de cologne .
he already owned the hotel .
and “the faithful bull , ” which were published by holiday in _num_ and are reprinted here .
" you do not love one another .
“a cat ?
i never liked it .
' a very old , worn , and faded black man , with a stubble of white beard , a
“listen , boy , ” doc fischer said .
david looked down at the big flattened circle of the print of the elephant’s foot and saw where the bracken
” the strange country miami was hot and muggy and the land wind that blew from the everglades brought mosquitoes
be cool enough to drink .
breaking point since he had hooked the fish and he felt the harshness as he leaned back to pull and
the bull passed him and the sword shot up in the air , twinkling under the arc-lights , to fall
“come on , you bastard , ” the detective said .
" one hundred and forty-six pounds and twelve ounces .
and the fish had taken .
" laquelle est le best ?
" do what ?
a beating every day , you know , one way or another .
" i asked the barman .
' ' pea-less , ' i said , ' at the last .
” in the meantime , upstairs , the sister of paco had gotten out of the embrace of the matador
the trail went up into the hills and the cattle in the summer were shy as deer .
walcott was just getting into the ring .
” his mother shook her head .
” “something wrong with the food ?
of the narrow brown bottle .
and this was friendly joking to what went on later .
students went by going up to the law school , or down to the sorbonne .
“i want to telephone .
and a bath-robe .
" " how should i know .
' pop never drank before lunch except as a mistake and i knew he was trying to help me out
' ' how long have you ever had them hunt them in a good country ?
the cockpit came open and it was just like looking into a blast furnace , and then they started to
' ' proceed to reveal , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
“no , nickie .
let us just lie quietly and look out of the window , and watch and see what happens on our
newspaper .
" " oh , sure , " i said .
he pointed , crouched down , and as we crawled up to him he handed me the glasses .
they say she was just outside of havana harbor when the hurricane hit and she couldn’t get in or the
with her looked as though he ought to be wearing an old school tie .
cut a slice of ham .
when i came out the bus was crowded .
armpit .
that’s the trouble .
finally the afternoon comes and you start .
” william campbell looked at him .
he was dressed in the same sort of safari clothes that wilson wore except that his were new , he
' though you better get on your belly damn fast if you want to stay alive in plenty places .
o ' clock in the morning , and being so sleepy that i went to bed around four o '
romero had the old thing , the holding of his purity of line through the maximum of exposure , while
” “and why does one do it ?
“but we can’t .
“i’ll cut your heart out .
” “i love it .
” “they want to get sick , so they’ll know they’re drunk .
” “that wasn’t in the lines .
couldn ' t recognize the shore .
” “but billy—” “i no mind billy .
“i can’t make a bend in the elbow , ” the man said .
one of the beds in cohn ' s room .
” “they’re coming in now .
" a man must not marry .
" le meillieur ?
they had plenty of money .
what difference does it make if anybody sees them ?
jerry ?
" the proprietor asked .
” “my savior .
, the shelves of canned goods , seeing nothing nor anyone until she came to the post office with its
that pop said was like the northern frontier province of kenya .
nick loved his father but hated the smell of him and once when he had to wear a suit of
they had put him in a motor truck that was at the station and were going to drive him to
" you ' re my manager .
' your pitted compatriot eats in bed at his hotel , my colleague tells me , ' he confided to
i can .
them go .
the dark plaza .
he side-stepped , swung the cape in back of him , and pivoted , so the bull followed a swirl
” “not so good .
give me the whole quarter .
" the big whore shook with laughing .
forgive her , and be grateful to her , and she expected , absolutely unexpectedly , to be married in
” “and yesterday afternoon he just went out on the town to cheer things up , ” i suggested .
sometimes the stream ran through an open meadow , and in the dry grass i would catch grasshoppers and use
he was watching manuel out in the centre of the arena .
” “and when the chasse is gone ?
" " how did you like it ?
cornelia had said , “you dear sweet boy , ” and held him closer than ever when he had told
” “you are .
he was putting himself in my place , i guess .
steinfelt , " john said .
hudson .
the shark let go and rolled away .
" " no , " he said .
' why haven ' t i heard anything about the war to-night ?
i am only the unknown country .
" asked the count after dinner .
and what beat you , he thought .
" you ' re wonderfully sober , " i said .
" " he ' s through now , " harvey went on .
when they fly they make a noise like a rushing river .
' they turned into the side street and walked towards its blind end .
he was afraid to work closer with the dog and he took him back with the wind and pushed him
' ' did you go to all our places in the market ?
" " just a suggestion , " said bill .
he grinned .
" i think you ' ll find that ' s very good wine , " he said .
” “not than anything .
she seemed now to have a strange confidence .
we ' ll have a look .
walcott came toward him and they touched gloves and as soon as walcott dropped his hands jack jumped his left
brett wasn ' t having any shaking hands , and cohn was crying and telling her how much he loved
he was going back to america and he was very certain about marriage and knew it would fix up everything
" " damned noble of you .
, for the good of the order .
every time you shoot now can be the last shoot and no stupid son of a bitch should be allowed
" he looked in the glass .
" a bunch of bloody globos illuminados .
now , get out of here .
" hello , solly , " jack says .
” “do you want—” “no please .
at the table .
' it was a miserable view of venice now and he always disliked this causeway except that you made such
the porters came into camp with the loads and we could see them all , and all of our outfit
” “i love you .
the color change in caucasian races is from white to yellow , to yellow-green , to black .
suppose he shoots a woman or a child .
" " don ' t be sentimental .
' chapter xiv ' please don ' t be bad , ' she said , pulling the blanket over them
it ' s just come to me .
' ' everything is known in venice anyway .
mayn’t i , francis ?
he had not gone a yard from the trap .
good pieces and some old maps and prints , a second-rate restaurant disguised expensively as one of the first class
there was no more in the bottle .
the boat moved ahead slowly and he watched the airplane until he could no longer see it .
they passed him and i shot and was behind him .
he liked to look at them all , though .
his horns were as solid as wood and they were as sharply pointed as the quill of a porcupine .
" " well , " i said , " to-morrow night it ' ll all be over .
the medical kit is in my pack .
" " bad thing to do , " mike said .
i was reading a book by turgenieff .
" i ' m going to go and eat now .
" you think too much , old man , " he said aloud .
he was a smooth- looking chink all right .
" you like to eat , don ' t you ?
" jesus christ , " i said to him , " you said you ' d pay that and you
on the table before nick .
then he reached for the handle of the door .
groups of three and four people standing in front of the shops stared at the three .
the spanish republic .
anyway , they sleep like pigs .
" we must go and say good-by to the fontans , " i said .
but i could find no more blood and they were all hunting half-heartedly now .
he was there , in the good place .
one came over and took my order .
i gutted them and they’re wrapped in cheesecloth and they’ll be cool and fresh .
' ' thank you for the you .
none of the bulls came near him , and he did not attempt to join the herd .
the wind is our friend , anyway , he thought .
the square was as quiet in the hot sun as on any other day .
a tackle store and finally bought a rod for bill up-stairs over a drygoods store .
" " they are married .
i have n ' t got ten to sleep yet .
you think the sister would allow it ?
it was still blowing hard .
wilson , who was ahead , was kneeling shooting , and macomber , as he fired , unhearing his shot
four holes close together in the bone around the earhole .
and we saw nothing .
he was only just as wrong as hell .
he had had a very good vacation , he said , one of the best and he was glad he
luz went back to pordenone to open a hospital .
” “oh boy , ” the man said .
he didn ' t say anything .
" " his mother dead , " trudy said .
there were baskets with pretzels in glazed paper sacks on the tables and cardboard pads for beer glasses in order
americans always say it to you before they go away .
' ' but how did you ever marry one ?
“we drink that other people think we fascists , eh ?
you ' re a colonel of infantry , boy .
of me is his .
green , the stream as clear and fast flowing , and the camp as fine as when we had first
” “like a wild boy of borneo .
“there are the birds .
" " about how long will it be before i die ?
then he said to me , “well , are we going out ?
" " yesterday .
condensed milk in it , and tidied up the camp .
that’s all very simple , he thought .
i thought i had paid for everything .
so that when you go in a place where indians have lived you smell them gone and all the empty
, squeezing the leather bag with his hand so the stream of wine hissed into his mouth .
nothing could touch him .
" come in , " i called .
' let ' s all have a gimlet , ' i said .
“it is just such foolishness that makes all the trouble .
" what do you think it ' s all about ?
t he n i c k a d a ms s t o r i e s , t h
” “we’ll get another new one .
' ' not ivory , i hope .
out past the shade onto the glare of the plain there were three of the big birds squatted obscenely ,
“want to take my glasses ?
“sergeant , ” said the little man .
' ' thank you , ' the colonel said .
, shall there be any reward within himself .
there ' re a lot of people in walcott ' s corner .
by raising your right heel .
" " you are joking , sir ?
" " they ' re awful , " bill said .
" zurito leaned forward , his hands on the table .
laundry’s the biggest item .
make it back to-morrow night if you can .
" he ' s a great little confider .
i wish he would turn with the current .
but i have killed this fish which is my brother and now i must do the slave work .
“please , i cannot stand it .
i could only see four .
bring as many of your own pics as you want .
' ' it ' s bad , ' the girl said .
he watched and did not move .
but first i have to get out of this trouble and learn how to make some money .
, very desirable , cool , and neat-looking in her khaki and her boots , her stetson on one side
“poor daughter , ” he said .
and i know gambling’s bohemianism too .
' she had more ambition than napoleon and about the talent of the average high school valedictorian .
“if you work all day in a book-factory you get hungry .
" what ' s the round ?
” “fourteen dollars and sixty-five cents .
everyone on board .
now , going forward , sure he was in here , i felt the elation , the best elation of
don ' t ever let anyone give you one unless you want to hit people on the head with it
” “i don’t quarrel .
" " she says that italy is her country .
" i asked the waiter .
if you want to , " said the boy .
i say , brett , do get a new hat .
ears , whirring into a size you have never seen them in the air as they pass , the only
” “i don’t really care about it , you know .
somebody kicked me under the table .
” “you say that once more i go crazy .
” asked captain willie .
' ' titian came from up there , ' the colonel said .
” “you won’t take it , ” i said .
big two-hearted river part ii in the morning the sun was up and the tent was starting to get hot
" the fiesta was really started .
i ' ll give you three hundred francs .
" " after you , brother .
one was orange .
have a drink .
the ring , gesturing with his hat in a salute toward a box he could not see high up in
maples were turned and there were lots of scrub oaks that had fine colored leaves too and when there was
' ' whisky ?
nobody could tell him what to do .
“some of us have seen him in the hospital .
“you see it is very rare .
perhaps all the hills in michigan look the same but up in the car i looked out of the window
“of course not .
” “perhaps that was because i wore braces , ” i said .
we were ready to go but they called it off .
” they were eating now .
shift more of the strain to it and he shrugged the muscles of his back to shift the hurt of
“no one is to leave until the police come , ” someone shouted from the door .
he drank his tea straight and ate three dried apricots and he tried to read in lorna doone .
that would be the toughest fight .
' why aren ' t you president ?
“i hated to think of staying the first night in that hotel .
they were not dead and he could bring the pain of life by simply opening and closing them .
cohn said he wanted to buy a paper and would walk to the corner with me .
conscience , it has been a long time since we were frightened by the thunder .
“ahead and to the right .
but go .
it might have been that of a boy of nineteen .
if i were him i would put in everything now and go until something broke .
“it’s not going to be a damned bit like the lion , ” wilson told her .
they passed the long line of boats in the slow canal that carried water from the brenta , and he
shower .
" they picked up the gear from the boat .
” “nickie , where we’re going to live isn’t as solemn as this , is it ?
retana was still considering him , leaning back in his chair , considering him from a long way away .
” that was the day he’d won the premio commercio with lantorna shooting her out of the field the last
the young man saw himself in the mirror behind the bar .
" " i ' m not sorry for him .
” “and the number containing the panorama of the volcanoes of alaska ?
” “we are all brothers .
” he broke two eggs on the side of a frying pan .
" you ' re tired , old man , " he said .
much food .
there had been seven .
it’s your risk .
” “anis del toro .
" oh , " he said , " i told you all that once .
_num_ d soldier—listen , i seen a lot of them—here and plenty of other places .
it boils down , or distils , to the fact you stay in until you are hit badly or killed
maybe not a right to .
" " i damned well was , too .
the two policemen tore out , collared him , one hit him with a club , and they dragged him
“what about it ?
back .
" " maybe the nerve will regenerate .
” “i’m sorry , daughter .
perhaps something can be done with them .
and could never get the blood of hindu traders off her whiskers even when she rubbed her face in the
old hollowness coming inside of him and knew he must stop it .
" or with a very furry fedora .
' from corps , ' he translated , unlovingly , _cuerpo d ' armata_ , ' they tell you what
if he works only until five he is drunk every night and one has no money .
" just the same , so far , " he said .
“you know , ” he said , “i like liquor pretty well .
there was a large house with a red tile roof and there was a gray stone mill , and from
when he quits using beasts and uses machines the earth defeats him quickly .
" she is a fine woman of great intelligence and sympathy .
" eat , " he said .
two , missed five , and started back pleased to have found a covey close to the house and happy
" pa , can i go to the show ?
after a while bill went to write some letters and cohn went over to the barber-shop .
" " i shouldn ' t wonder .
i ' m not drunk .
he was desperate .
“what he said sounded pretty sensible , ” al went on .
he had a chance to behave so well .
" " he shouldn ' t be living with any one .
m ' cola shook his head , his face grave and sweating .
there were guys selling matrimonial papers and girls selling rubber eggs that when you squeezed them a rooster came out
” the local warden asked .
" he didn ' t knock me out , " mike said .
out in the ring , he tossed his head to rid himself of the canvas .
he also had figured where they had to fight before they reached the siegfried .
' karl asked .
she did not think about the money any more .
” in _num_ hemingway was already considering a new collection of stories that would take its place beside the earlier
it has every right to and the rest of it .
we passed close to georgette dancing with another one of them .
“if you catch a sailfish what do you do with it ?
i got to thinking about this thing and i forgot .
' ' you know how fond i am of him .
the houses were white , and in the streets the men , in their sunday clothes , were playing bowls
way off we saw the steep bluffs , dark with trees and jutting with gray stone , that marked the
question .
knowing it was all a bloody balls—if he can’t stop crying , break his nose to give him something else
to keep regularly employed for a long time .
then sentence them to chain gangs and contract them out to the turpentine and lumber outfits .
occupying trieste .
all the people riding the trains looking for work .
“we ought to have gone .
manuel and hernandez standing ready with their capes .
no !
" " we like to have you .
' ' take turns driving .
” “he’ll turn up all right .
he looked at him and took it back .
' can you manoeuvre ?
” “tell her it looks like her country , ” guy said .
he would say , ' by godd , urnust , dot ' s smardt ' .
' ' my colonel , i have so little political development that i believe all honourable men are honourable .
" " nothing .
” they had pulled down the shutters in chicote’s and now they were locking the door .
sure , if garrick didn ' t take his b ' wana simba car in there and shoot the country
“he must be about the best guy there is .
” “have you got the rest of the money ?
i don’t want any one else .
through and that now i must go through again .
he was damned snotty when i was getting mike up-stairs .
been calcimined over in a new building .
' droopy ' s handsome .
when he went away only little girls wore their hair like that or girls that were fast .
“hang onto your knife , mister adams .
but how do i get that condemned jeep engine to that old man ?
' ' probably they do .
we had another round .
“maybe we’ll have something good tomorrow .
” “but now ?
they finally went as far forward as rheims which was _num_ kilometres from the fighting .
' hapana , ' he said , and waved his hand in front of his face .
] _num_ d soldier—that false alarm !
and then glided down and levelled off and landed smoothly and , coming walking toward him , was old compton
" i ' m offering to put you on to-morrow night , " retana said .
” his sister asked .
” “mrs .
washed , took off my wet clothes and feeling in the dark in my rucksack found a pair of pyjamas
the horse facing the bull , its ears forward , its lips nervous , zurito , his hat over his
wilson looked at him quickly .
“i just asked you , ” manuel said .
" god help him to take it .
that’s a last bottle .
that was really much better .
but we will fish together now for i still have much to learn .
" there is no wine .
there were some funny things , though .
now a greater than these two .
" nada , " some one said .
bumby got so bloodthirsty about mr .
” he said to my father .
the concierge was talking down-stairs .
other pine .
they were putting up the shutters .
he passed it right and left , left and right before the bull ' s muzzle .
” “i’m hungry too .
his father said , " you better go to bed , nick .
' ' nothing better than drinking .
where’s that girl anyway , he thought .
been badly , sickeningly frightened all the time .
" we came out of the tuileries into the light and crossed the seine and then turned up the rue
sealing wax and put it in the pocket of his shirt .
“you don’t think once you moved it it wouldn’t hurt so bad ?
there were wide fire-gaps cut through the pines , and you could look up them like avenues and see wooded
bed is my friend .
' should she go with me ?
' ' we ' ll get him off the road .
i don ' t know what to do .
we must think of what there is to do .
” “would you care to charter it to me ?
heavy on the shoulder , and where they ran that great run down the glacier above the madlener-haus , the
” “and you say such things are justified ?
are you , robert ?
how pleasant he was and how he made it seem a great privilege to pay .
' ' that ' s a filling station .
” the next day they started early in the morning before sunrise and by breakfast they had done a hundred
i have coveted this for a long time , but i wanted you to give it to me .
“so long , bright boy , ” he said to george .
the position actually was only somewhat less intolerable ; but he thought of it as almost comfortable .
do we want big men—or do we want them cultured ?
" i stood by the door .
no one would be allowed in now .
' daughter , ' he added .
face and got up to hear m ' cola chuckling and choking and the old man giggling .
everybody cheered kzar when he went by and he sure was one swell-looking horse .
i was broke .
fish if you are to learn about them , and now , at thirty-eight , he loved to fish and
and i want a kitty and i want some new clothes .
it is my city , though , because i fought for it when i was a boy , and now
' i didn ' t know you were a writer , mr .
he had come close to lying twice himself and had held it up and merely exaggerated .
liz looked down at her book .
her how he had kept himself clean for her .
one of the wrecked houses and since then there had been no shelling .
' ' i don ' t think i will drink anything .
" he ' s written about all the things he knows , and now he ' s on all the
“and they were very nice .
who gives a damn about the war anyway ?
they were headed straight for the skiff swimming side by side .
" " oh , cut out the prep-school stuff .
" " thaats good .
" " you make me ill .
in the evenings we played three-handed bridge with an englishman named harris , who had walked over from saint jean
he looked very grave and did not like it at all .
he climbed over the fence and walked around to the front porch .
in the last five of the seven years between the summer of the prize-winning story and the day his father
" " we know damn well where we are , " the man called max said .
she keeps no check on my things .
what about tomorrow ?
” “i’m going to , ” he told her and drank half the drink .
" " i ' ll see you to-morrow ?
over his eyes , leaning forward , the long pole sticking out before and behind in a sharp angle under
he sat down in the sand and puked and they held a cape over him while the crowd hollered and
took an awful dislike to him , though .
“where’s jack ?
it ' s an insult to all of us .
muzzle and the cartilage of the ears , and afterwards flesh all of the head skins so they would not
she learned how to do it from my stuff and used it in that book .
zurito pulled his hat down low and looked out across the arena at manuel .
" i want an absinthe .
i had made too many stalks on big horn sheep only to find them fed away and out of sight
" " very good , " i said .
cipriani .
“if i give them a quarter they keep it all but if i give them only fifteen cents they let
” “we can go everywhere .
with my luck , if i carried a gun i would be hanged ten times a year .
" " no , but i ' ve seen him .
” “i read about it in the papers , ” retana said .
we did not have anything to do with it .
you couldn’t get the women to give up their dead babies .
when anything came up he went into this blankness .
two meat courses , vegetables , salad , and dessert and fruit .
we had the papers and i read the account of the shanghai fighting aloud to guy .
but we had to go to the hotel to get our bags packed and pay the bill .
the two of them had been listening since daylight for a shot .
i watched him crossing the street through the taxis , small , heavy , slowly sure of himself in the
he went away .
“i’ll wait till i bathe …” while it grew dark they drank and just before it was dark and there
soft , powdery to the just moist and yielding to the firm cool sand of the line of the receding
i love you with two moderately swollen hands and all my heart .
" " if i did i wouldn ' t tell you .
” said krebs , who was not fully awake .
" they expected their money the next day .
“how is the offensive , comrades ?
of game makes .
you can count the losses out there if you like .
he said to himself .
' and you , my colonel ?
all i can tell you is that mr .
” “eat an apple , ” he said .
how are you , old lad ?
that has been made quite clear .
the professionals are very intelligent and these krauts were all professionals ; not the fanatics .
the foundations of the mansion house hotel stuck up above the ground .
' her head was on his chest now , and the colonel said , ' why did you not want
roasting up piles of meat by a log fire beside the trail that came up from the river through the
were loaded onto the boats in the fall , past the white-painted bean house where they danced by lantern light
they sat at the next table and ate .
" i ' m all through .
” “i’m not white man , ” she said .
every one took a drink very politely , and then they made us cork it up and put it away
he was walking along the top of the cars slapping his arms and singing .
you don ' t know what it ' s meant to me to have you chaps up here .
“don’t he ever sweat at all any more ?
an armoured vehicle under such circumstances .
" " i ' ll love it .
they came to paris and most of their friends from the boat came back too .
“there’s a boy waits at table that understands a little english .
” the cook turned away .
he won’t float till the gas brings him up and all the time he’s going with the current and baiting
he started to walk off down the dock looking longer than a day without breakfast .
i ' ve not much more time to fish .
the tent hung on the rope like a canvas blanket on a clothesline .
the mexicans were having a good time .
then , having scalped that halfbreed renegade and standing , watching the dogs tear him , his face unchanging ,
” “i wish we could put knockout drops in it .
" ' you ' d better find out , ' the priest said , and put the blanket back .
i ' ve want ed a lit tle sleep for a long time .
" you weren ' t bored , were you ?
' ' please keep on trying .
you know each other ?
“there’s nothing to worry about .
“he looks as though he’d been hit plenty of times .
he was a good , solid jumper , a bay , with plenty of speed on the flat , if
" well , you had plenty of girls in your time .
but when we do understand each other there’s no use to pretend we don’t .
i shot in anger .
' the calf , ' pop said .
whence they had been pushed to rid the road of their encumbrance .
" " it ' s all right for you to say that , but i do know it .
" " i got to kill him .
“if you aren’t in with him , you might just as well go out and shoot yourself .
” “the other day , ” madame fontan said , “there was a little french girl here with her mother
the café did not make this same noise at any other time , no matter how crowded it was .
we met cohn as we came out of church , and although it was obvious he had followed us ,
" we got into pamplona late in the afternoon and the bus stopped in front of the hotel montoya .
i could only get as far as " on earth as it is in heaven " and then have to
he blew it up , his cheeks puffing ahead of the wine-skin , and stood on the bota holding on
" george looked at the clock on the wall behind the counter .
” “look at the cowpunchers , ” she said .
' it ' s your show , really .
' ' the tide is quite high with this wind , ' the girl said .
and he couldn’t hold it .
“boy that’s wine , ” al said .
part iii the son of a fellow member at territet in the station café at territet it was a little
' ' i ' m not tired of you , ' the colonel told him .
" she could not believe him , but her voice was happy .
an unbroken series of events to have any meaning .
" when do i work ?
belmonte ate very little .
married until he was definitely invalided out of the war , had died of pneumonia .
“you have to reel that line in first , ” i told him .
but we can fix it up really good tomorrow .
" " how do you like america ?
but he knew he could not refuse .
for we have been there in the books and out of the books--and where we go , if we are
the bull’s eyes watched it .
" " you won ' t , michael .
with all his unbelievable talent the boy had not become the shooter he was on live birds by himself nor
but when he was touching the breaking point he held steady and settled back against the strain of the line
he laid the log down and picked up the pan .
“do you want a frappe or drip ?
" they were going to kill ole andreson , " george said .
and i want it to be spring and i want to brush my hair out in front of a mirror
man thought .
more pleasant to have than to hear about .
the flit gun man , delighted with his success , and not seeming to give any importance to the fact
" i ' m going to clean them out .
“i have to eat .
villalta became one with the bull and then it was over .
at his table .
colonel tasted it there was the half smoky , black pepper-corned , true flavour of the meat from the hogs
my head felt cracked open and i lay in the skiff and rested and then i sculled back .
that was one of the things he had saved to write , with , in the morning at breakfast ,
“give him fifty pesos from the cash box , ” he told me .
" " i ' ll come back .
to breathe .
' then you know when the cardinals would come to bat it was simply dreadful .
nick went on up .
” “you want to talk a while ?
" " what are rats d ' eau ?
” “are they good ones ?
there’s really nothing for them to see unless they are a bit too nice .
the graveyards of automobiles ; those mechanical elephant cemeteries that are the one certain thing you may find in our
again and was at home .
“if they gave me another shot at him , i’d kill him , ” zurito said .
" you can have ham and eggs , bacon and eggs , liver and bacon , or a steak .
” “that poor boob , ” the brakeman said .
” “i don’t want to make you trouble .
every one thought it was very funny .
crab , and the bull coming , nose out , mouth tight closed , blood dripping , massive head straight
he ' s really very generous .
the distant river and then struck down the hillside away from the road .
then in a week he got the second notice .
“monsieur a soif—moi aussi .
" " you ' re awfully funny , harvey , " cohn said .
" that kid won ' t stay in this night stuff long , " retana ' s man said to
“they can’t understand the english language , anyway .
” “i want to stay , ” she said .
splayzey .
” “that ought to cinch it for them .
' ' oh , go to hell .
eyes open .
“they don’t divorce much here .
” al asked max .
" where will we have lunch ?
" sister cecilia was observing them happily .
how could he write like hardy and hamsun when he only knew ten years of life .
keep from thinking .
" i would like to be convinced .
” “thank you , ” said the gentleman .
' garrick walked off , his plumes waving .
and bought another drink .
_ _num_ d soldier_--show me a guy that doesn ' t want to come down off the cross .
here he comes .
but he had never been sad in the morning .
all the rest is cabbage , as my old friend dr .
” “what did the cards do ?
" he ' s a good fellow , soldier .
a mile along the road was the car .
" " you bet .
_ _num_ st soldier_--just one more .
” asked the woman .
very slowly , resting on one elbow , then dropped the cup down under the bar on to the ground
are you here ?
what kind do you think they’ll have ?
“you order , ” i said .
we made a long circle through there but found nothing but a fresh hyena track and a cow kudu track
the man was short and dark with glossy black hair that did not seem to go with his strange face
the wet iron of the bridge and the rain coming down into the river and the train with water dripping
sometimes i think about fights .
" " that ' s the only thing that bothers us .
what .
' ' when you are working around to get up on the high ground and all you would have to
only the hyenas were funnier .
now , after the war , it was still the same car .
" come on , " said nick .
for a minute i began to doubt whether there ever was a bull .
then the bull was gone .
many of the calfskin-covered haversacks , stick bombs , helmets , rifles , sometimes one butt-up , the bayonet stuck
” “you walk so that it breaks my heart .
up and out of sight under the bridge .
below us were the dark pits of the fortifications .
escaping fish .
his hand still up , he spoke to the bull .
” he was talking to a man who was no longer listening .
you hang around all the time .
he felt topping about it .
the car slowed suddenly pressing brett against me .
” “oh , to hell with the clock , ” the first man said .
' and you sleep better than anyone ever slept .
” “can i come in with you ?
' ' yes , daughter , ' the colonel said .
” “do you now ?
but it can be written , without tricks and without cheating .
to frighten a fish by walking on the bank .
they’d have babies dead for six days .
“which way are you boys going ?
very much , " or " thank you a thousand times , " all of which you formerly said in
“it’s captain willie , ” the nigger said .
frank asked the young fellow , who was wearing heavy oregon cities and a black hat and was shaved clean
“they’re all right .
he had never felt it .
i always like the bad ones .
no , he would not be afraid .
je le ferais , i said .
' ' have you any concrete plans for the order during the winter ?
she said she had looked in the room and that mike was asleep .
the mist was not foggy .
the only thing is that it is tanned , and that takes some of the curse off of it .
you were sleeping when i left .
" " you go away ?
the dog found three cripples shot by other people .
he certainly was a socking-machine .
" can you see him doing it ?
first there was the pine-needle loam through the hemlock woods behind the cottage where the fallen logs crumbled into wood
” “i had a wonderful time .
there isn’t any line will hold them .
the wind made it roar .
i want to do whatever is right .
she turned from pouring kerosene on the wood .
" there are only two places , and they are occupied , " i said .
the bull was on him as he jumped back and as he tripped on a cushion he felt the horn
" " i ' d rather you didn ' t .
the bus went quite fast and made a good breeze , and as we went out along the road with
let us kneel and say : ' don ' t eat that , lady--that ' s mencken .
he wanted to make it sure i could never go away from him .
" get him out of there , " manuel shouted to the gypsy .
rest of it was quite clear , including the responsibilities .
” “oh , you are going to attack again ?
he heard it unlock the door , heard the door pulled against the bolt , and then the lock being
' ' all right , ' the colonel said .
say it was as freely discussed and clearly understood as though we were a cavalry patrol all speaking the same
" he says it was an accident .
it was fun to have people yell at you like that .
he looked across the sand at zurito a little way out from the barrera , his horse rigid , waiting
i’ve got my sweater .
" ay , " he said aloud .
the lorries down to tanga and around .
, or the morning we had come in the gates of paris and seen salcède torn apart by the horses
" but i will say ten our fathers and ten hail marys that i should catch this fish , and
' elephants , ' i said .
the prisoner’s right hand toward them .
walked back to the san francisco docks , stopping in at three or four places for a beer on the
if he will jump i can kill him .
the shadow while you read so that any part of you was out of the shadow , the sun was
“i didn’t have any luck .
_num_ smith and wesson revolver in a shoulder holster under his left armpit .
" that ' s happy steinfelt and lew morgan .
chicote had it and it was not faked or put on .
' ' who does he mean , you or himself ?
” “the clock says twenty minutes past five , ” the second man said .
” “please , darling , let’s not talk .
holding him near the tail , hard to hold , alive , in his hand , he whacked him against
” “i know , ” said nick .
" get up .
' ' in the neck , ' i lied .
knowing him , and knowing the place in the old days , it would be perfectly understandable .
or the stories are anyway .
he ' s not old but it ' s a fine head .
there was a close , crowded hum that came every day before the bull-fight .
down-stairs we came out through the first-floor dining-room to the street .
” “it’s the best time of year , ” nick said .
then he cursed the bull , flopped the muleta at him , and swung back from the charge his feet
“about what time do you think i’m going to die ?
“no , ” said nick .
“no , ” said zurito .
” “i don’t have it my own way .
' ' don ' t be surly , richard .
they don ' t steal here .
“we better go .
" " you don ' t think things we ' ve had and done should make any difference in understanding
" he just wants us all to be friends , " the man who talked said .
her own true love had just kicked off with the dysentery .
" we ' re killing him for a friend .
he must have been drinking all the time , but he seemed to be under control .
" " well , " i said , " it ' s been damned hard on mike , having cohn
' ' i ' d like to know about them .
the two waiters inside the café knew that the old man was a little drunk , and while he was
a ring on it into the end of each one and then tow them out into the lake to make
“that makes nothing .
i don’t care who you steal from .
directly below us was the callejon , the passageway between the stands and the red fence of the barrera .
that was why he hated kid lewis so .
he had forgotten how when he started to miss live birds his father would take his shirt off him and
then , once they have betrayed themselves , they justify it and you get more slop .
that it was impossible to hunt and return , all this with gestures , ' hunt to-morrow ' .
" bring up half a dozen bottles of beer and a bottle of fundador , " mike told her .
afraid i had hit him on the horns but when i reached him he was dead from the first shot
take the two of them out and hang them , i believe they understood .
” “i don’t mean anything violent .
he did not know , among other things , that the girl loved him because he had never been sad
try and take it sometime .
john , and he knows too much about nickie and where he would go .
macomber , wilson and the gun-bearer got down .
it isn ' t crazy or morbid .
” “it was bad .
now , she said , go out and get yourself drunk and , since marcelle is not coming to do
“you are a womans .
” “i don’t know , mr .
" he went out .
” “yup .
take joyce .
“approaching from the west .
' ' all except our local ducks that breed here .
there is going to be plenty of time .
" " fifty grand , " jack says , " at two to one .
, and the second was said to be too headstrong and quarrelsome to stay with any matador more than a
nick was happy with his sister and he thought , no matter how this thing comes out we might as
“you better stay way out of it .
" " all right , " nickie said .
” so this was how you died , in whispers that you did not hear .
“the memsahib can stay here in the car .
campbell is an undischarged bankrupt .
" i pressed up the wire fastener and poured it for him .
“fruit , ” she said .
his right hand .
” “do you have any idea where he’d head for ?
" " go to hell , mike .
" you see the magazine , of course ?
” and the young indian who had rowed uncle george over laughed at him .
” “sounds like anybody , ” the girl said .
if you stay long enough in a room the view , whatever it is , acquires a great value and
then he had gone to the indian camp , walking there in the dark , to get rid of the
“they’re pretty funny , ” zurito said .
the beach was smooth and firm , and the sand yellow .
but that was the thing that i was born for .
“we’ll have a game some night soon .
” “roger , will you mind terribly if i go to sleep for a little while after lunch ?
“sportsman is the best .
“he didn’t want to drink with me , after he knew about his wife , ” said the innkeeper .
' doumi kubwa sana !
" " oh , nothing , " she said , " except that he wants to leave me .
osage oranges , ' he added .
clouds and the wanderobo-masai and i looked at this kudu , measured his horns , smelled the fine smell of
she walked a little way along the station platform , but she stayed near the steps of the car because
you ' re hunting it .
in to weigh , i felt as proud of him as though it was the first race he’d ever placed
' ' you explained that to me , ' the girl said .
defensive and never apparent , there was this same embarrassed putting the hand on the shoulder , or a "
from there the road dropped steeply along the face of the wall , down into the forest , on to
" " yes , we were up early .
the paper means nothing unless you say them in your heart .
they were at the base of the grass stems .
every one took a drink , tipping the wine-skin at arm ' s length .
you don ' t think we could skip it ?
i looked at his bald black skull and he turned his face a little so that i saw the thin
seemed as if all the bare trees , the bushes , the cut brush and all the grass and the
look at anatole france .
" " should we talk about africa or about baseball ?
just because i felt like it .
he ' d do it himself when he got around to it .
' the _gran maestro_ came then with the steak and the scaloppine and the vegetables .
" nick went into his room , undressed , and got into bed .
or peas in them , how the thickets and the cut-over land lay , where the cabins and houses were
" " oh , frightful , " mike said .
i’m trying to help you , you son of a bitch , his conscience said .
“and how do you like that ?
” “you feel quieter now ?
he took hold of it .
" " by the way , where is bill ?
he looked a great deal as his compatriot must have looked when he saw the promised land .
” “yes sir , lieutenant , ” the negro said .
" " no money .
“you can’t get peat into liquor , ” nick said .
only it ain’t really like the galleria because there everybody is going by all the time and there’s everybody around
that’s what i’ve come here to see and write about .
“spezia is my home and italy is my country .
“finished , ” he said , speaking with that omission of syntax stupid people employ when talking to drunken people
the nose as he slid down from the fish .
their rope-soled shoes tapped and spatted on the pavement .
the muleta held low down in his left hand , leaning toward the left , he called to the bull
“hold it , then .
” “take it easy .
' the colonel said , ' _gran maestro_ .
“you sure you want to go ?
he looked toward the clock .
" " what ' s the matter with you ?
there was a roof and a cement floor and the poles that held the roof up , and the wind
" four reales .
of the gunwale and passed her astern .
" holding the cape in both hands so it would catch his eye .
trim again carefully .
” and looking where he pointed , while the car jumped forward and wilson spoke in rapid swahili to the
he didn’t know what to do either .
“you better not , ” i said .
you know a funny thing ; she never could write dialogue .
i’ll get it changed on the way .
slower , with a steady beat , and multiplied a thousand times .
“yes , while you’re in there , ” retana said .
it ' s a sunday morning , you know .
especially at san siro with that big green infield and the mountains way off and the fat wop starter with
nick kicked a loose spike and it dropped into the water .
' all that will be attended to , ' the colonel said .
but i have hurt them both badly and neither one can feel very good .
hadn ' t eaten for three days .
, empty gas-mask cans , a squat , tripodded machine gun in a nest of empty shells , full belts
the prisoner suddenly at the side of the head .
” “oh , shut up , ” macomber almost shouted .
” “i don’t , ” he said .
elliot tried very hard to have a baby .
i knew plenty more had to come through and i paced the distances back from the road to the two
” from the top of the fence he saw the roll of the country and the dark timber by their
“i love you very much and i’m going to try to be very good to you .
he’d start the rope whirring till they’d stop dead still and watch him , then give the steers a cluck
' ' you don ' t have to buy me .
bank before we stuck .
jack ?
we found nothing .
don’t you ?
i always thought i ' d have them and then like them .
he’s shooting awfully accurately , he thought .
“sorry , ” he said , outside her window with the blinds drawn .
on her beam ends .
you want a drink of it ?
on this evening every one had left the dining room except the hawk-faced picador who drank too much , the
“should we have another bottle ?
' ' the next morning , we were informed that the germans had strong points at various places , and
this bar-tender was an anarchist but he did not mind the colonel being a colonel at all .
colonel ' s sight and will have some fun .
” “tell him to come in .
" if you want something extra , " retana said , " go and get it .
” we saw them get on the train two at a time and we got on too and went to
trees into the small hills of orchard bush .
hull and the sudden displacement that you made and then the trimming in the dark privacy and then the second
' ' we ' ll keep up above where we can see if he makes a break , ' pop
i don ' t know these ones you mentioned just now , so i don ' t include them in
i complied with this request and entered as slowly as i could .
there are three things that are brothers : the fish and my two hands .
“do you remember when they got going that once before they had the train wreck ?
" " we ' re old friends , " said harris .
as he walked he saw all the pairs of shoes , small shoes and big shoes , outside the doors
zurito leaned forward on the barrera , leaning the weight of his body on his arms .
' ' good .
" the dirty little bugger , " nick said and smacked the squirrel ' s head against the tree .
' let us ask ettore .
quit .
we found a stream with a pool deep enough to swim in .
” “you think so ?
banal story now i lay me after the storm a clean , well-lighted place the light of the world god
i ' ve lost my self-respect .
" " i don ' t know , " said al .
" " they ' re not all the same , " bill said .
what about staying there to-night !
now it is necessary to get to the grindstone again .
inside the café he had thought that talking about it would blunt it ; but it had not blunted it
" pinin looked at the floor .
" i have enough line to handle him .
she kept up easily .
the train left the station in marseilles and there was not only the switch-yards and the factory smoke but ,
he felt awful about trying to crease it in the first place .
“will you have lime juice or lemon squash ?
just listen .
for a moment in action in the ardennes and they were pursuing .
juma pointed out where the great elephant they were trailing had stood while he looked down at the skull and
now we knew what we had to do .
in it and a hole in front you couldn ' t put your little finger in and a hole in
and i would see woods and swamps and we would cross a stream and it was very interesting and then
stop talking nonsense and lock up .
riding in the open car , we were very hot and we stopped to eat our lunch out of the
" " we ' re going trout-fishing .
them ; me especially , as a matter of precept .
” it felt very cold in the big high-ceilinged , pleasant , dark-wood panelled bar room and helena , sitting
' i pointed to the canvas where the rain was making the finest sound that we , who live much
” “thanks brother , ” came the voice of harry .
” “you called him harry .
maybe cats do not die then , they say they have nine lives , i do not know , but
these men were aficionados .
but you must not make it too easy and you must not count .
" goddamned mossbacks , " she said .
” on the far bank of the stream macomber could see , above the trees , vultures circling and plummeting
as he could .
but i knew something big was up because george is kzar’s jockey .
you could tell a thousand and they would not prevent war .
clean cabins .
he was bleeding badly .
and who can ' t win with fifteen to one ?
i am not lucky .
but down below he began to feel dizzy so he came out on deck again .
you violated your luck when you went too far outside .
came down--we always came down .
every day is a new day .
didn ' t you see frances ?
” “how long you know him ?
combat dreams , always , for a while after combat .
' but i was bitter and i was bitter all night long .
he ' s all square .
' ' you ' re crying now , ' the colonel said .
indian camp at the lake shore there was an other rowboat drawn up .
i really minded and he knew it .
' ' maybe a little .
" can ' t we speak decently ?
" " clearly .
they said they oughtn ' t to let him fight .
dry .
” he took a drink .
too much .
' ' throw a drink into the brute and see if he ' ll quiet down .
" no , he ' s not , " said zurito .
jack was sitting at the breakfast table .
men who answered the advertisement .
the rest of the times we walked .
citizens .
my dear wolf .
the ducks are coming in heavily from the north .
the energy or the courage to break into it .
“just because you’ve chased some helpless animals in a motor car you talk like heroes .
" did i want to stay myself in person in the hotel montana ?
” in a few minutes sister cecilia came into the room .
the stem .
she thought he did exactly what he wanted to .
” “then he would know frederick j .
why can’t you let me sleep ?
were in .
you really said something then .
” “ten thousand francs .
walcott comes out smiling .
it’s the only thing that’s made us unhappy .
she’s used to lots of milk , too , and sweet things .
front of the fire .
“good-bye , ” i said .
she was a thin juke-joint looking blonde .
' he took a long drink of it ; the type of drink peasants take from a flask .
any one could be upset by his first lion .
" frances asked him .
good-night , george .
it wasn’t very funny and it wasn’t very good , and it began to get to jack .
he did not like them when he saw them in the greek’s ice cream parlor .
" " but you speak german ?
she told a lot of people you were engaged .
soon all the friends had gone off with a rich young and unmarried poet to a seaside resort near trouville
and always the pain that any movement produced grew stronger and stronger , until finally his yellow face was parchment
” “the town’s full of bright boys , ” max said .
' i saw them , ' he said .
” manuel had taken the wrapper off the lumps of sugar and dropped them into his coffee .
all i must do is keep the head clear .
” “don’t you want to get a paper ?
_num_ d soldier—you’ve been drinking water .
the dancers were all quite drunk .
' we ' ve got to put a stop to him , ' pop said to p .
we ' ll have breakfast there .
“they are up the extremadura road , ” the old waiter said .
' some people probably like them .
“hell , ” john said .
she came in with the boat and ran the second line out the same way .
silliness of it .
” “i know where there’s black squirrels , daddy , ” nick said .
he was a good bull .
the boulevard was busy with trams and people going to work .
walking .
then he turned away and walked up the hill to the cottage .
bad swamp that you can’t get through .
know and two men that were doing business at the back of the bar .
only i believed it took time when i found it did not happen suddenly .
“we’ll meet another time .
he was letting the current do a third of the work and as it started to be light he saw
the fact that i took it as a matter of course did not alter that any .
it was a great mistake .
i wish it had really been a dream , he thought .
' ' absolutely .
' ' and take me in gondolas and to lovely places in the country .
“what the hell do you argue with this kid for ?
the shell fragment went in one side and out the other .
" " are you blind ?
i tried to get up and felt i did not have any legs .
for a pillow and got in between the blankets .
“go over and say you’re sorry , ” john says into his ear .
and brown freckled skin light rose under the brown , her chopped-off hair showing the beautiful line of her head
the doctor ' s eyes were red and the lids swollen , almost shut from tear gas .
we were going along the river and the country was very beautiful and i had never seen anything like it
men were standing on the wall ready to pull up the gate of the corral and then the gate of
so i ' m a sucker for cripes , he thought , drinking the unwanted drink .
' by god , ' pop said .
we had another round and mike lost again .
, being very shy and a thoroughly nice boy , he never fought except in the gym .
they can follow us if they get in to-morrow night .
on the metal cuts and scratches and sifted sulfa on onie and claude and me and then claude took care
” “i’m the sister or the brother of a morbid writer and i’m delicately brought up .
“listen to this .
if you’re close enough to cut them they’re bound to cut you .
i ' m not lonely .
" remarkable thing , " he said .
“it’s not really an operation at all .
” “hell no , ” i said .
“this is for you , mister adams .
“how do you feel , kid ?
lodge .
he always bets when he is angered , and so he usually bets foolishly .
we knocked on jack ' s door .
' i saw that pop was worried too , and a little nervous .
' ' you might as well pull out of it .
adams , she’s just broke down .
pop said .
in the belly , the head , the feet or the hands , the neck , the back , the
' the colonel whispered ; holding her tight , and with his heart broken , honestly and fairly , in
” “well , watch out he doesn’t shoot you , then .
" would you mind opening it ?
beyond the sile there was nothing but bare-assed plain and a good road network into the veneto plain and the
“when i make a sum of money i gamble and when i gamble i lose .
“you amuse me , comrade , ” he said .
“they’re a damned nuisance wet or dry .
mud and thatched village in the open clearing on a little low plateau beyond the two mountains .
" hogan was counting for them .
i spread the lunch on a newspaper , and uncorked one of the bottles and leaned the other against a
" " you do the sport ?
i always wanted one .
i went to church a couple of times , once with brett .
i should have some luck .
god , what a bull .
' let ' s roll .
' ' he is splendid .
they came in like undulations in the water , gathered weight of water , and then broke smoothly on the
took the fezzes away .
" i ' ll lash the two oars together across the stern and that will slow him in the night
” “i’ve been away a long time , ” harris said .
campbell the room on the plaza ?
he rolled himself in the blanket and slept on the other old newspapers that covered the springs of the bed
' they believe you might find her at harry ' s .
” “the tessera tells you .
" the owner of the bottle shouted .
that ' s all i have now .
he was impressed by your name , madam , which i gave to impress him .
' please , please , don ' t .
” “why they’ll probably come through it all right .
it is dirty .
” i asked the spanish boy .
" " i think i can last , " jack says .
' ' it ' s no attack , ' the colonel said .
fast toward shore .
" " and do you know george shiras two ?
his voice sounded strange in the darkening woods .
but you will never see trees , daughter , until we go to america .
“we’re both tired .
' i know now .
" the train had come in .
we drove through saint jean de luz and passed through villages farther down the coast .
they’d stop the trains right outside of tallahassee and round up the men and march them off to jail and
" " i won ' t stand it , " bill said .
' ' it is , ' i said .
i’d love to just stay and read .
” “i wish he’d killed juma , ” david said .
“i’m sorry .
“he’s a good bull , ” manuel said .
he was no longer interested .
" the girl looked at the bead curtain , put her hand out and took hold of two of the
he let that go by and said to the girl , “you won’t come ?
" " well , it was you .
" " i didn ' t know whether i could make him go , and i didn ' t have
but listen to what i tell you .
he had hunted for a certain clientele , the international , fast , sporting set , where the women did
" anywhere you ' d like to go , mike ?
" i don ' t care .
, never been blown up , never had their heads caved in , never been scared , don ' t
he would let this one cool while he read the paper .
" the signor takes a cold bath every morning .
" " we ' ll see how he is in the ring , " montoya said .
his vileness came on from a sickness .
memphis is only tough if you are a negro .
beyond , above the grassy ridges and slopes , were heavily forested hills .
there is a fourth and fifth dimension that can be gotten .
" much better than that of big timber .
” “you are beside yourself .
wheels of an old ford .
i had to go up and bring robert cohn down .
" finally we went up to montmartre .
” they were driving slowly along the high bank of the stream which here cut deeply to its boulderfilled bed
" everybody ' s seen them .
a good client they knew that if he became too drunk he would leave without paying , so they kept
i told him only three .
on a camera .
the old man pinched their heads off with his thumb and forefinger and ate them chewing up the shells and
i ' ll wake you up for the medicine .
in the car we ' ll drive to where they had the wagon-box fight and i ' ll tell you
coats .
' ' i ' ve hunted them hard , pop .
(there were still storks in the trees and we saw some grant ' s gazelles feeding off to the right
but who has not been ?
but just before he gets going he ' s frightful .
" i ' ll see you to-morrow night , " manuel said .
he cannot marry , ” he said angrily .
' ' i ' ll keep on trying .
he looked very small and pitiful lying there on the floor .
wine and watching the grebes out on the lake .
" veuve cliquot ?
' how is emily and are the children ?
" lucky beggars , " said krum .
we are good friends .
yes , and music is the opium of the people .
but i guess it is logical and as good as any other , given the difficulties of transport .
' we fought from bas meudon , and then the porte de saint cloud , through streets i knew and
that is for gentlemen of the artillery .
' montgomerys .
they aren ' t made , nor grown , as fast as a crop of potatoes is either .
" " they should be rescued from ignorance .
about all things that he was not a part of .
the matador who was ill was careful never to show it and was meticulous about eating a little of all
” “so what happened ?
the fiesta was over .
she smiled at him .
when i started to use the big wood she was stiff and i put her up against the wall .
the younger waiter went over to him .
with good dice .
' ' i know .
drink to your mouth .
cards said medals will be worn .
there were the noises of night seven kilometres behind the lines outside but they were different from the small noises
' where do we go ?
then she picked it up .
“would you like a cup of this coffee , mister adams ?
what kind of soldier was my brother ?
” “i hoped to christ it would not trickle out .
' ' the taking of paris was nothing , ' the colonel said .
little birds .
in a little while he came back .
” “i don’t know whether they use dope or not , ” my father said .
” “gee , ” she said .
the brigade staff was working , and their signaling wires ran out of the top of the cave and curved
abdullah insisted upon going along .
" where ' s jack ?
” i did not say anything and the bell buzzed .
" " my god !
they were waiting for the wickets to open in the morning to buy tickets for the bull-fight .
it gives the farm a black eye .
” i sat down and opened the pirate book and commenced to read , but i could see he was
” “what’s on your mind ?
* * * * * about the time when it became necessary to turn off the radio sister cecilia came
one of the cleanest cities in all europe .
” “i don’t care about me .
studying music .
in the big square that was the centre of the town there was no change yet .
decision to make and don’t know just whom to trust most i dare not ask my parents—and so i come
" we went back and jack got dressed .
against the wall of the chicken coop hut .
" he did not want to think of the mutilated under-side of the fish .
“and afterward they were all so happy .
where it joined the belly and well back over the withers , i did not watch him because i wanted
i don’t know .
” “a man ought to be married .
but he had finished it anyway and before anyone had to go to work .
he smiled .
” “au show .
don’t you worry .
“guard the razor , ” he said and went out .
his magazine and put the remaining shells in his pocket .
" that ' s where he ' s going damn quick , " retana ' s man said .
" well , you ' re not , " said the other little man .
that was the buoyancy .
you could get a diving suit and come and visit us , odgar .
“where did you eat ?
english professor .
" i never liked to hunt , you know .
sure there is .
“i don’t feel bad any more .
i think it ' s a better café than this one .
he had been on twice before in nocturnals and was beginning to get a following in madrid .
" " we ' ll be back , " tommy said .
yes , he must .
” “like what , brother ?
" " come on , play some cribbage , " jack says .
it is a fine place .
' ' some people don ' t understand the torcello part .
odgar would kill himself , nick thought , if he knew it .
here ?
into his face twice .
' ' you know many , many things .
' they didn ' t leave anything there , ' the colonel had said .
there were two hooks attached to a leader on each rod .
chapter iii that was the day before yesterday .
it ' s all wrong .
that’s how i lost .
" we said good-by to the man at the desk at the hotel , and to larry and our other
last name , unless , maybe , it was schultz .
every summer he was worse about it .
i told him what had happened .
regular races with the jocks riding hell out of the horses .
" " let ' s go and eat .
“ ‘how did her face get that way ?
one from down state .
” “don’t you try it , ” said captain willie .
i love what we did he meant .
" you ' re really about the best friend i have , jake .
the ferry is the easiest place to pick him up .
” “good , ” said hogan .
” “you can call me alice , ” the big whore said and then she began to shake again .
" " is he a count ?
then i went on , and my feet seemed to be a long way off , and everything seemed to
' ' don ' t we have fun with food ?
more economical , more mileage .
" " you mean all wrong .
” “well , get along then .
he was an elderly man with his face tanned to the line of the sweatband of his hat and freckled
he came out and said , " i ' m coming with you and i ' m going to pay
the most gentlemanly way .
“the only thing is , ” he said , talking toward the wall , “i just can’t make up my
” “what’s the matter with you ?
“and then we ought to be there .
the undertaker had only made certain dashingly executed repairs of doubtful artistic merit .
“it was always yours as much as mine .
other , the gun-bearer shouted wildly and they saw him coming out of the bush sideways , fast as a
blindy had run him out but he had no way of noticing it because the fellow didn’t say anything ,
it is the simplest country to live in .
” i opened the bottle and was reaching it toward him when i saw this big brown bugger with a
even shaef , because they read the name of the town in a newspaper , possibly sent in from spa
” “i will wait a while , ” he said , “and then i will go .
' ' will you have a drink ?
they were going to cut off his coleta .
anchor .
romero was wearing a black suit .
” “do we go through it very long ?
' in a way i am glad .
of that as yet i was undecided , but it would give me pleasure if my bags were brought up
go into him , into his side .
cold water and looked at the coals and thought .
" " the café suizo .
then fire twice over the parapet to alibi the shot .
but the worst thing , the way he felt at the moment , was the smell of booze .
i remembered the old saying of the indian in camp , ' one shot , meat .
tell him that , ” he said to the interpreter .
he felt the throbbing , jerking pull that did not yield as he pulled .
' ' do i have to take it like a corn cob ?
' ' i tell you now .
both of you , ' p .
zurito stood beside the table , bending over where the doctor was working .
he ' d hit jack .
the colonel heard the hen speak to him .
“i’ll go with you and i’ll stay with you all the time .
il faut le souvienne rappeler .
hand .
' ' do you love me ?
the other said in french , “i don’t know them personally but i’ve often heard speak of sportsman .
and you are not a predator .
, knowing it was the same road with the ditches on either side and the forest and the swamps ,
you don ' t have to tell me and i know now it is not good for you .
she was a canadian and had all their easy social graces .
he had gone out to the front from the military academy and been wounded within an hour after he had
his first " quite " was directly below us .
are you a girl of eighteen ?
" wasn ' t i going good , manos ?
could not see it looking into the water , though .
" " when do we eat ?
“come on in , wemedge .
not like those yellow bastids we had the first day .
“tu ne peux pas , ” fontan said .
oh , i wish to christ he wouldn’t have got it .
manuel passed the muleta in front of the bull’s black muzzle .
but he ' ll beat you on anything where there ' s luck .
the cafés were just opening and the waiters were carrying out the comfortable white wicker chairs and arranging them around
the six chinks , mr .
droopy and i started to run and as we were running i heard a low bellow .
but you understand about how i feel about him , don ' t you ?
their fist and held it and shook it and pulled it and held it again , while they looked you
he had the lunch wrapped up in a newspaper and crossed the wet grass , climbed the fence and went
games , about dogs , not much about horses , about hanging on to his money , about most of
“i didn’t either .
" you ' re terribly right .
nickie knows a lot of country .
' ' will our cars climb them properly ?
“george thought i better come and tell you about it .
the attack is wrong and it’s wasteful .
” “let’s have a drink .
we stopped in the road and watched the sexton shovelling in the new earth .
“where does he live ?
it’s not all right with you .
shaking and crying .
reflections like these would not allow me to despair ; i started up and , disregarding both hunger and fatigue
“you won’t mind the keeley .
“turn like a bull .
" no bulls to-day .
and had looked back to see why the big bull did not follow .
so his tongue rattled and lips shook like a grouse bursting from cover and the bird looked at him fascinated
" the major is sleeping .
when he had the ground smooth , he spread his three blankets .
he leaned back and cut the line against the wood of the gunwale .
" " why , " i said .
” “anything , ” he said .
you’ve less chance of being killed .
' ' you know , i feel as though i did shoot it , ' p .
now he would not care for death .
is pass one group of three and i say to company , ‘see ?
" it ' s high , " i said .
” “we ought to get some berries and i ought to get a partridge or some partridges .
now , at the edge of the timber , there was wintergreen growing and some partridgeberries and the forest floor
" " but you like the beer ?
' now let ' s not be morbid and look for all the places where my friends live .
“i got something for you .
book ii chapter _num_ i did not see brett again until she came back from san sebastian .
” “you’re a good girl , daughter , ” i said .
they looked like no negroes i had ever seen .
i ' m a nature-writer .
jack poured out a couple of drinks .
' ' no , ' the barone alvarito said .
" " and you really want to ?
michael ' s people have loads of money .
" i swung at him and he ducked .
after noting this , the colonel turned to the right and walked along the square to the paved street which
at different times .
their way to the westward .
” “you fix it up so we keep track of them .
each bull was worth over one thousand dollars and after they had fought the great bull they were worth less
for venice .
" " with me now , " jack said , " it don ' t make any difference where i
" the little greek portrait-painter , who called himself a duke , and whom everybody called zizi , pushed up
reel commenced to screech and out he came , boom , in a long straight jump , shining silver in
this climate ruins the primers .
" " i suppose they get it at the source , " said bill .
paulino beat him .
now everything is gone and it is much simpler .
” “we’ll read it out loud , ” nick said .
he did not say , but thought , she is over eighty , and she is as gay as a
' m ' uzuri sana , ' he said to me .
his hair was down in his eyes , there was blood on his face , his necktie was pulled to
he ' s terrible when he ' s tight .
“did they catch the murderer ?
' the current is not stable .
' ' i ' m so kind i stink .
let’s run side by side .
but i feel a lot better .
" just two .
through the window he saw his father sitting by the table , reading in the light from the big lamp
so the man sent him away with five other bulls to be killed in the ring , and at least
up the track nick saw a fire .
be opened and her remains dumped on the common boneheap .
" perforated as it is .
' ' i ' m sorry .
i took up the brandy bottle and poured brett a drink and one for myself .
' ' who said that ?
” blindy went down the line of machines feeling in all of them to see if anything had been left
“i knew you’d carry me , harry , ” he said .
“not you with me chained to you .
' ' did you have no great impressions of it ?
" ah , yes , " said mike .
and what would i do to jack johnson with a razor .
i gut-shot him , i thought .
i promise to make a pilgrimage to the virgen de cobre if i catch him .
" " you wouldn ' t believe it .
pole and i couldn ' t break it .
forward .
should we talk about something else ?
bit _pédéraste_ once and other _pédérastes_ attacked him one night on the lido when there was a full moon .
cuts out the editorials and the sport page and sends them to me .
he had put the two in the back seat out of his mind now and was thinking about buffalo .
of strings of bamboo beads , hung across the open door into the bar , to keep out flies .
“how is the tide now ?
, and i ' ve just gotten my divorce .
" they all looked dangerous to me .
might be shot through the lungs .
" here come the gentry , " bill said .
we all lay there on the hillside and watched the country carefully for rhino .
while we were waiting i saw a cockroach on the parquet floor that must have been at least three inches
i pray for you all day long , harold .
also i wanted not to catch a cold .
“thank you for your hospitality .
“i’m going to give you the same four dollars a day just as if johnson had paid .
" george looked up at the clock .
each bait hung head down with the shank of the hook inside the bait fish , tied and sewed solid
his father was with him , suddenly , in deserted orchards and in new-plowed fields , in thickets , on
they made a great row .
he opened it and smelled it and it smelled very good .
' ' he ' s a wonder , ' i said .
except , with the amount of security they maintained for their proper persons , they would probably have their anti-aircraft
” “good , ” walcott says .
a bunch of mallards , that had been coming in low , were flaring up into the sky , seeming
' dead .
each battalion is composed of five companies .
glass from two shiny , spouted pots with long handles .
” “i’m sure he would have liked to meet you but he died last year .
“you’d double-cross your own mother .
" " prosit , " she said and went out , taking the empty bottles .
he had to leave it ; knowing there was no other thing to do .
macleish contents after the storm a clean , well-lighted place the light of the world god rest you merry ,
before the waiter brought the sherry the rocket that announced the fiesta went up in the square .
i was plenty sore .
very good .
did you see my nose ?
" i got a thick tongue but i ain ' t got a head .
“i wouldn’t have believed it .
a little late .
' ' i would accept a horse from you , if i was poor and young and riding very well
" where are the pics ?
he knew he would need his hands before this was over and he did not like to be cut before
one day i had said that italian seemed such an easy language to me that i could not take a
' ' they ball it all up , ' i agreed .
' pop asked .
' ' what is that ?
” the beach was white sand , almost as fine as flour , and it ran for miles .
“not for us , wemedge , ” bill said .
' ' why do you look sad now ?
but don ' t be angry about it .
” “bad black lonesome .
then he pounced .
" she was gone out of the room .
' i ' ve started already .
were right dead neck and neck for a second but kzar seemed going about twice as fast with those great
" " i haven ' t any credit along the coast .
all three had those changeable silk dresses .
just right to eat .
i’ll go to the spring and wash and come and help .
we walked through the garden .
' ' there , ' she said .
my father took out a package of cigarettes .
“it belongs to white and mcnally , ” he said , standing up and brushing off his trousers knees .
" " i don ' t know , " nick said .
do you like the vegetables ?
” i didn’t pay any attention to the rummy .
it’s awful cold water , littless .
inside the kitchen he saw al , his derby hat tipped back , sitting on a stool beside the wicket
once george had gone out to the kitchen and made a ham-and-egg sandwich “to go” that a man wanted to
” “he’s a lawbreaker .
_can_ .
” “it wasn’t pushed home .
” “i guess they will .
without dew in the grass it would take him all day to catch a bottle full of good grasshoppers and
“i cannot stand it , ” said maria .
he must have gone down from there .
" " i ' d rather not hear .
" " you haven ' t got it yet , " bill said .
once the horn went all the way through him and he felt it go into the sand .
it drifted .
but they were so high they could see the barrel with him in it and the frozen-in decoys with the
water flows in and they drink .
" " he must be a very interesting young man .
didn’t you order some white rock and ice ?
“there will be a certain amount of unpleasantness but i will have some photographs taken that will be very useful
" i asked bill and robert .
but i suppose i shall say barbarous things the way you do sometimes in italian .
' ' what about lunch ?
" come on up to the house .
i mean any good ; in the daylight ?
” zurito set down his glass .
and most of all you ought to have surprise .
carries ten guineas , i believe .
you certainly were worthless with them .
“no difficulty , ” wilson said .
schweppes indian tonic water .
" he adores you , " i said .
well , the greeks got it all .
but they always had him under wraps in france and , besides , we had destroyed his communications .
“an italian , ” the guard repeated to my father .
” “here’s how , d .
” “you got to be tough , ” nick said .
he touched one of her small breasts with his lips gently .
now we better start the bad part .
" iss madam eating here ?
' the bastard never cleaned it last night after that rain , ' i thought , and , very angry
to cock rather than keeping it on the safety .
romero looked at me inquiringly .
then he put the right way into the body , coming up .
our chance was at the start when he was down and we missed him .
he was middle-aged and she was young and wore black .
belmonte ' s great attraction is working close to the bull .
” “oh , go and—” doctor wilcox said .
" " there are no good guitar players left ?
" " did they search for me ?
“hello , george , ” he said .
” “assez de sous , ” onèsime said .
stop over another day .
porch in rocking chairs .
felt his anger rise , and then held it , and said , ' can i help you in the
" " right , " said mike .
i had very nearly shot .
they caught the news broadcast on the radio , switching it off through the soap operas of the forenoon and
" yes , sir .
just ticking .
" pretty sheet .
" " wonderful nigger .
“a bugger is a man who has intercourse with animals .
” “aren’t there any shore birds ?
except that the two priests had finished their devotions and were preparing for sleep , and the gray-haired picador had
nick ' s imagination pictured the great tenor doing something strange , bizarre , and heinous with a potato masher
" he must be the village idiot , " bill said .
” “listen , ” doc fischer said .
' then he turned his back on them , without waiting to see the effect of his remark , and
the extremaduran looked at me sullenly and said nothing .
' ' wherever that is , ' the girl said happily and unillusioned .
we waited till everybody had gone through and out of the station and gotten into buses , or taken cabs
done with the number .
“it was thus , ” said one .
that night at the shamba .
hard hit and the other would keep .
at first krebs , who had been at belleau wood , soissons , the champagne , st .
he also drank a cup of shark liver oil each day from the big drum in the shack where many
" " drink your wine , " said brett .
" --the aged manolo rated no applause for a vulgar series of lances with the cape and we entered the
" they certainly tried a nice double-cross , " john said .
this bathroom had been cut , arbitrarily , from a corner of the room and it was a defensive ,
a man in a rubber cape was crossing the empty square to the café .
“hello , bugs !
it is not the hand ' s fault and you have been many hours with the fish .
" i know you ' re not , " brett said .
" " you ought to get married , signor tenente .
he was jovial to excess and laughed constantly with and without provocation .
“that’s just the way they talk in the emporium , ” littless said .
he pulled the socks on and slumped back in the chair , putting his feet up on the screen in
” she bit her lip and then said , “i suppose i wanted to be partners even though i said
" i ' m going away in the morning .
“my heart’s broken , ” he thought .
heart turn over inside him , as though some sleeping animal had rolled over in its burrow and frightened ,
' ' because there are too many factors .
actually , you rise from the sea with the hair very flat and coming to points at the end .
" good-bye , " i said .
” the doctor said .
' what ' s yours ?
" " oh , brett .
i can do that a little later and lash the oars to make a drag at the same time .
” “why not , ” i said , watching the far bank where now there were no carts .
' ' we ' ll see them by the thousands .
he’d stop by the side of the road when he heard a car coming and their lights would pick him
he was a magyar , a very nice boy and very shy .
i’m not charging you for the line .
' ' burn them , ' the colonel said .
he had only seen the light from it .
and in that poverty , and in that quarter across the street from a boucherie chevaline and a wine cooperative
see .
" " and the best fisherman is you .
no , of course not .
but they were sailing together lashed side by side and the old man thought , let him bring me in
” george shifted his position in the bed .
i had no bone spurs .
then one year there were no more logs to make lumber .
" " i ' ll pic him , kid , " zurito spat on the sand .
“i got confidence , ” the nigger said .
" " outside of your personal appearance .
” “i wouldn’t know , true .
that ' s our monument .
frederick the great .
“they had rummies in napoleon’s time too .
" " may i get the sardines ?
we’re here .
and the jock staggered over to one side of the track against the fence .
“no sir .
then too , remember he hasn ' t eaten since he took the bait and he is huge and needs
, flocks of sheep and goats and patches of corn and i said to p .
chance that you are seeking .
i ' m sick of seeing it unoccupied .
he had a very gay , brown face , and shooter’s eyes , and i wondered what he was passing
william campbell’s interview with mr .
please don ' t make me feel any worse than i do .
” “new orleans is wonderful .
don’t you love me ?
threw things down into the bull ring .
“i can’t do it , ” i told him .
i’ve just got a good edge on .
david remembered how the elephant lost all dignity as soon as his eye had ceased to be alive and how
me .
' you are still _gran maestro_ and ---- the condottieri .
” “something might happen with the alarm , ” he said .
" at the hotel i paid the driver and gave him a tip .
all through the day i had never thought once of the kudu .
” “then why do we have to talk about me going away ?
“i don’t want to go either , ” he said .
you can do better than that .
come between them and their swamp with the car , macomber would have a good chance at them in the
she had a pale , almost olive-coloured skin , a profile that could break your , or anyone else '
the sea had risen considerably .
to keep them out of india because they feared another mutiny .
” “we can have everything .
inside the port hole that was closest i could see something but i couldn ' t make it out through
but you have to think out something , mr .
by the right-hand side of the road where the indian poled his dugout .
" she was a v .
then i hit him again and he was trailing slowly and i knew i had him .
we never saw it in such numbers .
you won ' t mind , will you ?
a very ragged shirt , managed always to give an impression of great elegance .
feels good .
” “you know i like you to drink .
“i’ll be back in the morning , ” the doctor said , standing up .
give us another anecdote .
but don ' t be superior and be careful some one else doesn ' t come along and take you
“i’m all through .
i certainly looked for plenty of ditches .
but what he said was , “i don’t know , daughter .
into the pine-studded slope of the hill that rose behind the old royal hunting lodge that was called the caso
" i asked brett .
“he killed this italian with his bow and arrow .
” he shut his eyes .
it is a rank very close to that of captain , the colonel thought .
angry .
we all had breakfast in a café .
something was strange if his father was there and there was no drumming .
in the firelight nick saw that his face was misshapen .
then you wouldn’t worry .
” “you’re quite right , ” said harris .
i read quite a bit .
he had very nice manners .
' ' it ' s an oil town .
" " did i not , " said brett .
i knew him before that .
they all liked luz .
“come on , wemedge , ” the ghee said .
“what does that mean , evans ?
it was a good party .
" " but you don ' t pedal it .
" let ' s translate brett to the hotel .
jig .
“much better than that of big timber .
" thank you .
when he says no that lets us out .
this is all very dull , i would not state it except that you ask for it .
cole porter wrote the words and the music .
it did not mean so much now because there was so much else going on and i had seen a
it was clear enough so they could see the dark point , and beyond were the high hills of the
books in our time , men without women , and winner take nothing .
" and as for this robert cohn , " bill said , " he makes me sick , and he
it was a different kind of looking country than michigan .
it would begin at seven in the morning .
” “what do i owe you ?
' ' then you think of other people ?
he took a step forward .
" i never see you around .
' ' not too .
he , gabriele , flew , but he was not a flier .
the spaniards shouted when he came in .
" " she ' s a drunk , " i said .
but it went off all right , and pedro romero shook hands with every one and he and the critic
the old man’s table .
" here she goes , " manuel said to hernandez .
it ' s about five miles down the road before you start to walk .
“is your dad in ?
i say , barnes !
stanley .
' maybe she can get out for a walk and shoot some guineas ?
it looked like a photograph when i unwrapped it and i unrolled it thinking it was maybe a picture someone
' what did you tell him ?
' that ' s why he had the gun cocked .
“i guess that’s enough for today , ” i said .
" " what became of the nigger ?
cohn had been rather nervous ever since we had met at bayonne .
just so long as it was a real tumbril .
it sounds to be something very bad .
so tly he felt the lovely curve from her hip bone up under her ribs and the apple slope of
“it’s good for me .
wanderobo-masai dropped out and sat in the shade of the scattered trees .
“there are russians here today .
“that’s part of the plan .
the old man went over and sat down beside george gardner that was getting into his pants and said ,
' be comfortable , honey dog , please .
“is it very dangerous there ?
” they all shook hands and they were gone .
' ' whatever they call it .
the fish was silvery and still and floated with the waves .
“one hundred and forty-three pounds , ” the fat man who was weighing said .
do you think that ' s why they treat you well , he asked himself .
got to send some mexicans up to see poor cayetano .
afternoon in our time a farewell to arms men without women the sun also rises the torrents of spring the
they ' re trying to make friends .
“he’s always in bed when his wife gets back from the show .
" you want to see him ?
small country , a country being an area , a valley or range of hills , a man can hunt
what we have to do is use the boat to chase them so they don’t take it all when they
across the square in the doorway of the café a waiter stood looking out at the empty square .
now there is no longer one hundred and eighty dollars in the world .
i tell them all you taught me .
' they teach them how to count and keep their legs together and how to put their hair up in
" he ' s drunk now , " he said .
the old man motioned with his finger .
it was .
" " what was it about being in trouble ?
i truly was not nervous when i first saw the sable , but garrick was making me nervous .
it sings well , he thought .
there was no one in sight .
that the fire which broke out just before we arrived had been brought under control as rapidly as it had
, you didn’t have to drink because you were lonesome did you ?
just mud .
” he spoke very angrily and bitterly , and looked straight ahead while he talked .
out through the front of the tent he watched the glow of the fire , when the night wind blew
' i will take a quarter of a kilo .
” “bed bugs ?
men and women were sitting on all the baggage and boxes on top , and the women all had their
when i came up i thought i wouldn ' t make it to the top before i ' d have
i put it under her door .
" " i just talk around it .
hollow and the old log farmhouse on the other high land that overlooked the lake .
i can do nothing with him and he can do nothing with me , he thought .
that made a difference .
” one of the men asked at the screen door .
" where ' s cohn ?
the man who sat in front of him spoke without turning around .
" we went in through the heavy leather door that moved very lightly .
" " ham and eggs .
” “soldier bahtlett was out here wukking with you for a while , wasn’t he ?
how is he ?
or just a man who backs his play .
from the dew , and the sun was quite high .
back and the woods off on the other side of the house and down again at the woodshed roof and
“that makes it worse , of course .
after he judged that his right hand had been in the water long enough he took it out and looked
anyway if we were just here for fun we wouldn’t be here .
" how many were they ?
do .
manuel went up to him .
" it was very hot in the train and it was very hot in the _lit salon_ compartment .
“we have a little place , ” the big one said .
” “i think we have a right to for a little while .
it was up to him .
” “i would be glad to buy some beer if there is good beer .
“everything’s got its place .
i’ll get them to count this time now .
nick stood up , then kneeled down and kissed kate .
' the short one is the two nudist sportsmen .
“i want to go to cadillac , ” the cook said .
" " it isn ' t the same as fishing , though , is it ?
the shark lay quietly for a little while on the surface and the old man watched him .
hudson , the reverend gilbert white has written most interestingly of the hoopoe on its occasional and not at all
" i say .
” “they’d have broke me anyway , ” he said .
i could learn it really well , he thought , and then i ' d have that .
“he doesn’t understand much english .
he cleaned it on the wood and put it in his pocket .
and then each of us write down what we saw .
” asked the little man looking at the sergeant and opening his eyes wide .
became rather the same and i gave up thinking about them almost altogether .
” “so do i , suzy .
" my knee did not bend and the leg dropped straight from the knee to the ankle without a calf
we had one of those quiet meals .
" this one , " said the smallest mexican , " is very strong against religion .
' that ' s beech , isn ' t it ?
” because , just then , death had come and rested its head on the foot of the cot and
” “his doctor , ” the wife said , “has he got to show us his doctor ?
" there are thousands of bulls , " brett said .
“he is stand up taller than i am and he is look me right in the eye .
' but i think it is a good idea .
then the concierge was back with the glass of water , and he took four tablets of the type that
the line was going out fast but steadily and the fish was not panicked .
of them drank the whisky and it was what they needed and made them feel much better .
” “it will just give the milk a little taste .
the girl brought in a big bowl of hot vegetable soup and the wine .
what time do you think i should wake your opposite number , you girl ?
i’ve never given it its proper importance .
in a few minutes the steer picked the new bull up , quieted him down , and made him one
he washed off the wound , it was between the collarbone and the neck , and sent me to get
" in the crowd crossing the square i said : " how is it ?
he inhaled deeply .
" when did you come here ?
“oh , you’re a great man , all right , ” he said .
" when they come again i locked the door .
“did you ever see this nacional ii ?
heavily loaded black , diesel boat full of cut timber , cut to chunks , to burn for firewood in
ayee !
' to-morrow , ' garrick answered without bothering to question the roman .
, nor even chirping , because a young man of about twenty-eight , thin , dark , with bluish circles
olz didn ' t say anything .
if i ' d gone to bed last night i would not have done that .
i felt a son of a bitch to have hit him and not killed him .
there are boxes of ammunition .
' ' no , ' she said , not understanding the colloquialism , but understanding exactly what was meant ,
it was very cold in kansas city and he was in no hurry to go out .
the young indian pulled the boat way up on the beach .
firing and in the smoke that blew from the house one of the men who was on the gorund stood
little air-o-plane no longer had any tail .
the water from the spring was cold and fresh in the tin pail and the chocolate was not quite bitter
” “we’ll be out of it tonight .
“i suppose i could , ” she said , “since you put it so prettily .
he couldn’t think of odgar dead .
' where ' s the bull ?
many different shades by the sun .
send him a tender message ?
' ' i am interested in other things .
scotch whisky and real gordon ' s gin , the cutlery store , an antique dealer ' s with some
for other people , people waiting to go to dinner , people just waiting , and roger said , “walk
" i put my head in the door .
that’s a new word and we’ll bar it soon .
once george had gone out to the kitchen and made a ham-and-egg sandwich " to go " that a man
never mind the boat .
_ _num_ d soldier_--he was all right .
” said baldy .
looked out on the grand canal .
then we were stopped and out from pop ' s tent i saw him coming , thick and heavy in
rumored but never occurs , and as the society columnist put it , they were adding more than a spice
bill and the wine-bottle basque were having a conversation .
i understood finally : he was asking if we had one of those , and i pressed the button of
now the driver would see them and stop or he would go on and hit them .
i wish that son of a bitch that is lousing up the duck shooting had a rifle and i had
" " we are of two different kinds , " the older waiter said .
but i’d like things to be efficient and used as intelligently as possible .
face in the glass of the long mirror as he put on his cap .
i saw her this morning .
the shutters were up and it was so cold you could see your breath .
i’ll go back whenever you tell me to .
" " how do you know it was nothing ?
“you whore .
bad and remembering .
" the police tell us we have to come--so we come .
gave him every chance .
' the wind had blown her hair up and around his neck and he kissed her once more with it
“wine is better , ” the soldier said .
avenue .
his face was small and white and he had tight lips .
she liked what he wrote and she had always envied the life he led .
claude had ordered him to halt and when he had kept on running across the field red shot him .
' don ' t shoot towards the boat .
” “don’t you think we’ll wake them up , talking ?
en france il y a seulement les catholiques et les protestants—et très peu de protestants .
i could get a good hotel room and read and swim .
that was the big kill day of all kill days , when there was a certain amount of opposition by
after a while i went down into the cockpit again and there was eddy !
" " say , give me another shot of that , " manuel said .
, cap , ” the man said .
they have all been captured by treachery , the colonel thought , and their claws are pegged .
” “said what ?
manuel swung the muleta before him .
“tell her we are very ill , and have no money .
he would go into town on saturday .
of the mountain and stood , looking down at the bank of clouds quilting over the entire valley below us
" oh , my god !
his face has still got that awful drawn look .
you ' ll probably get an oryx to-morrow anyway when you ' re hunting meat .
where you die does not matter , if you die for liberty .
' you jumped two yards .
after about forty pistols they seemed to get bored with this and anyway all you could smell was wet leather
death is a lot of ---- , he thought .
give me ten francs and i’ll bring you the change .
" it ' s pretty hard on youngsters travelling .
now as he looked down the river , the insects must be settling on the surface , for the trout
he ' s on a wild-goose chase after them in some country over beyond the hills .
he had them packed so badly that four of them were ruined by sea water on the trip back and
“he went on the plane , ” he said .
” “he had a wife once too .
” “copy me .
i felt his drag .
“it’s true , ” alice said .
' ' you ' re a torcello boy .
please believe me , richard .
i’ll be really happy to .
look !
there must have been fifteen fiats and i wanted to get completely clear .
the american lady was a little deaf and she was afraid that perhaps signals of departure were given and that
she only missed going through by about a hundred yards .
while for the other , that his father was not sound about , all the equipment you will ever have
the elevator , of course , no longer ran .
she didn’t mimic .
“if i run they will shoot .
' ' what did you find out ?
” he’d put the leather helmet on now with the raised padded ridge and his face looked dark and i
” i got out with a rag .
last night he brought a little bit home with him , what you drank , and a little bit of
“you motherless bitch , ” i said to him and told him what he could do with the money .
the girl friend was several years older than cornelia and called her honey .
” “half-pound one ounce .
then i write and it’s just dull .
' then let us have another martini , ' the girl said .
“how do i know this ?
’” she was sitting stiff and straight beside him now and she had no tone in her voice at all
' ' where are the sable ?
" she ' s gone away somewhere .
you tell him , ” he said to mr .
” “i like to sit here with you .
" that ' s a hell of a hike .
and there was a lady here to see you .
" you take the bull and give him a little run when he comes out , " manuel said .
do you sit down ?
shut at the base .
he climbed up with his bag .
" a man is never lost at sea and it is a long island .
the biggest part of her ' s under the sand now but they live inside of her ; the biggest
you know , that must get to you pretty bad .
" no , " i said .
” “you , ” i said , “with your mouth .
i ought to know better .
but i know i’d be afraid alone .
high , heavy , timbered hills that were big enough to be mountains .
it was forwarded from pamplona .
“just because you say i wouldn’t have doesn’t prove anything .
" what do you suppose that dance is ?
advertisement in the new york herald .
[short stories] the complete short stories of ernest hemingway / ernest hemingway .
the captain paravicini , acting major , thinner and more english looking than ever , rose when nick saluted from
” “no gambler has luck with women .
then we went up past the old fort and out to the local syndicat d ' initiative office , where
stepping back cautiously , they saw his face was white and sweating .
the surface of the water , as though it were starting to rain .
” “i think i’m going all right .
“and hand me your pieces .
' ' their housekeepers talk among themselves .
i ' d rather see him shoot than any man i ever knew .
carabineer said yes , but not many .
' once we thought we heard you shoot .
but the effort of talking american seemed to have tired him .
he never moved .
the boy carried the hot can of coffee up to the old man ' s shack and sat by him
' am i really a member of the order ?
my old man was drinking more than i’d ever seen him , but he wasn’t riding at all now and
where i live in the north they don’t drink any wine .
be good now .
' they hear him , ' pop said .
” “that it passes quickly .
a waiter i had known in the old days came over to the table and said something to me .
” “oh , take it easy .
” “no , ” my father said .
" should i bring the wine in , sir ?
but they ran quickly with it .
the first thing she had to do was show her carte d’identité and try to prove she was not an
' he ' s in there , ' pop whispered .
' please put this nonsense on my bill .
i know the way .
but you do not say that you buy sausages for a dog in italy where the worst crime is to
' ' what the hell !
it was very cold .
" " there ' s a fight to-night , " bill said .
pulled up over her in the night .
it is true they only saw my back and ass and legs and boots .
nevertheless i would welcome the upbringal of my bags .
" oh , it ' s been gone a long time now .
_ ' the rolling-eyed skinner picked p .
we got to bayonne just before the train left .
” “let’s get a table , ” he said .
he wrote a great deal of poetry during the night and in the morning looked very exhausted .
let ' s drink to it once .
" " i have , " the old man said getting up and taking the newspaper and folding it .
" " is cohn gone ?
nick took the cork out of the grasshopper bottle and a hopper clung to it .
” “then let him not talk against our war , ” said the extremaduran .
i’m perfectly willing to go through with it if it means anything to you .
i turned on the taps and the water would not run .
" cohn started to consider .
but it was no worse than getting up at the hours that they rose and it was very good against
" come on , " mike said .
the knuckles .
“well , so long .
in the south of france without any purses , or betting or crowd or anything just to keep the breed
" " no taxis .
they were losing belief in the bull .
i never joke people .
in france we ' d go .
there were negro girls who ran the elevators and they were pretty .
” pinin went out , leaving the door open .
' you wanted combat for what ?
we just call them jews .
charge as many times as you want .
" they talked , sitting their gaunt horses in the dark .
don ' t tell her anything more about him .
“i will bind these to the legs of a chair .
brett moved close to me .
” “what do you get now ?
but that was not humorous to julian .
” “they may send them again if there’s enough people left to lead them .
we met a truck at this place and slowed up , and he had the usual grey face and he
then it started out and the old man knelt down and let it go grudgingly back into the dark water
“no , ” said max .
" " maybe , " jack says .
' ' repeat it .
” “pues , me voy , ” said the tall waiter .
they were replaced by cast-iron tables and severe folding chairs .
' ' you ' ll probably get a hell of a one , ' pop said .
, ” i told him .
" asked the lady .
” “it seemed very unfair to me , ” margot said , “chasing those big helpless things in a motor
his mouth was open , his head was tipped back and his hands were together in his lap .
bring him in now and make him fast and get the noose around his tail and another around his middle
johnson bought them .
" asked the porter .
she held nearly two hundred gallons when i had her full .
chapter ix the first matador got the horn through his sword hand and the crowd hooted him .
also they know it is you and it is i .
" you were happy a minute ago .
" god help me to have the cramp go , " he said .
there is no reason why because it is dark you should look at things differently from when it is light
i sent them looking down three possible ways and got out on the rim to try to sight him .
just then the woman cried out .
how it’s run .
' ' you must get warm , ' the head keeper said .
this is the most favorable sign i’ve seen .
leave me the key .
the sight of the warden lying on the floor of the screen porch and the nearly empty bottle of whiskey
he was assured and calm in the ring and out of it .
we were still great friends but now we were alone again and there was no track , only the general
and everything rained down as from a fountain .
he says there’s only been one greater elephant and he came from near here too .
the old man says the other two are good .
, chopped onions and vinegar .
or maybe that is not true .
that is , so he would have the plot permanently .
the open razor lay , edge up , in the blankets .
all we old clients of chicote’s had a sort of feeling about the place .
and liking , and making liking and happiness , and joking and making people not afraid .
turner , ” campbell said .
” “i believe .
what would become of fellows like odgar and harvey and mike and all the rest ?
it was quite dark now and still raining in the palm trees .
it was lousy to enjoy it , but i felt lousy .
he looked up and down the road and up at the sky where the big high afternoon clouds were riding
don ' t you know we ' ve revived them ?
we knew she had heart trouble here .
the doctor went to his office in a back room and brought a photograph which showed a hand that had
were making together and i took a sip of the gin and tonic water and looked out the sandbagged window
" " how are you ?
there was no carbon to record what the customer ' s ticket said .
it is very important to discover graceful exits like that in the newspaper business , where it is such an
” “what’s he talk about ?
while he watched the coffee on the fire , he drank the juice syrup of the apricots , carefully at
little pool of blood on a rock where he had stood , behind some bushes , and i cursed the
' ' just something picturesque .
“well , ” said my father .
" he is making the far part of his circle now , " he said .
you’d like to talk to him ?
have let it go .
" give him fifty pesos from the cash box , " he told me .
' ' quite rare , please .
why are the lions the main thing that is left ?
she put her arms around him and he felt her standing , fresh and cool from the shower , not
discharged from the service some few months ago--and went to his mother ' s home in helena , arkansas .
they didn ' t know we didn ' t want them , but we didn ' t have nothing to
elliot had nearly enough poems for a book now .
" funny , isn ' t it ?
reader the old man and the sea across the river and into the trees for whom the bell tolls the
] that’s a nice little wine .
they were all cows ; evidently the bunch whose bull i had wounded and lost , and they had come
muerto .
“they’ve got skins on .
like to trade him out of some of them .
manuel straightened it on his knee and ran toward the bull , standing now beside one of the dead horses
” “what would you like to do ?
then the hand that felt so big in her lap went away and was on her leg and started to
" i don ' t know where she go .
baboons ten miles away from his shamba up into the kudu hills to have a shot at them , and
had him pass it to the wanderobo-masai .
“no !
i ' m going to chuck the army and live in this town , very simply , on my retirement
nor was it intelligent to think old infantrymen would not fight this early in the morning against the simple odds
but nick buried the bottle of whiskey up behind the spring .
” his father looked and said , “suck it out clean and put some iodine on when you get home
the light of the world when he saw us come in the door the bartender looked up and then reached
someone grabbed him and held him .
" i ' ll fight them until i die .
then the writer must be intelligent and disinterested and above all he must survive .
those who did not lie had permitted themselves a certain amount of exaggeration and the liars had never been in
he was the archivist , and all the archives of the town were in his office .
it ' s like a wonderful nightmare .
he knew the beans and spaghetti were still too hot .
the orders were that we would attack with the big red one , the first infantry division of the army
that would be a hell of an idea after we ' d just talked it out .
" " i stand it now .
then where did he go each night and what was the peril , and why would he wake , soaking
' so do i , ' said pop .
but he knew he would shiver himself warm and that soon he would be rowing .
“not as much as i love you though .
i want a kudu .
" " don ' t you think we might all be buried at a convenient place ?
, ” he said to his sister .
“hola , ” he called to the negro under the tree .
" " oh , no , " she said .
tito has plenty problems .
snakes and specimens were exposed and had turned white—if you thought back that far , you remembered a great many
' ' mark twain is a humorist .
“that’s dirty .
in the middle of the road up ahead and every time any vehicle goes through they have to run over
” “you will be , soon enough .
" " the hell you were .
aren ' t you ?
against a handkerchief .
the fields were rolling and grassy and the grass was short from the sheep grazing .
“you have confidence ?
the calling hen looked at him as he lay and shifted her feet .
“what’s it going to be , harry ?
" they seemed to quiet down awfully fast .
” “no , sir , ” i said .
“all right , ” said mr .
behind him .
i made him go .
i wonder what started him so suddenly ?
_num_ caliber colt automatic pistol to nick .
it’s too early for snow .
" how is he ?
come on , boy , he said to himself .
' everything .
“i won’t do it .
“shut to hell up the both of you , ” said the sergeant .
" " it won ' t do any good .
at the accademia and to the sculoa san rocco and eat in good cheap joints behind the market or ,
“let’s have another drink , ” nick said .
well , he had it .
he don ' t like many people .
" he ducked down to the bowl , rinsed his face with cold water , put on some alcohol ,
' you ought to relax too .
he liked the best .
" yeah , " said george .
he unstepped the mast and furled the sail and tied it .
“are you sure ?
came to light after he came to live at the finca vigía .
chapter xviii the hall porter pushed the _gazzettina_ under the door and the colonel had it , noiselessly , almost
just before we came into the town he pulled out twenty pesos .
littless was not back yet and nick sat down on the log of the fallen tree they were using for
" he said , " isn ' t it an awful face ?
" i poured the water directly into it and stirred it instead of letting it drip .
' fisi , ' m ' cola laughed , ashamed of him , shaking his bald black head .
when it was possible .
” juma had come to him grinning , bringing the tail of the elephant that had no hairs on it
does damage to others .
“he placed the pistol right against the man’s chest when he fired .
on the third cup pop , watching , smoking his pipe , said , ' too early for me to
it was only driven under cover .
” “i think so .
” “no , french money .
” “it’s red today , ” macomber tried a joke .
what ' s it to you ?
“no .
when you love someone and he is your hero , you like to hear about the places and the things
that he who dies on thursday does not have to die on friday and how one soldier would wrap another
' s face .
while in the sky a dozen more sailed , making quick-moving shadows as they passed .
" " don ' t you like her ?
things truly to take with me .
and i put her in the shed across the top of the big wood .
“as an aid to memory , ” he said .
" i ' d believe anything .
edna started to laugh and could not stop .
finally the of icer told the soldiers it was no good trying to make him stand up .
” “various animals , ” he said , and shook his head .
some weigh three to four hundred pounds .
his heaviness was gone .
going up the stairs took a long time , and i had the feeling that i was carrying my suitcase
“you be in town before the fight ?
dinner was served , toward the city hospital which was on a high hill that overlooked the smoke , the
“no , thank you very much .
it was probably the best hotel , if you did not wish to be fawned on , or fussed over
in the spring and there are little plumes of sand that rise on the bottom where it’s bubbling .
johnson , ” eddy said .
he looked across the bay to the hills that were beginning to sharpen against the sky .
" yes , " and shipped his oars without bumping the boat .
the cuadrilla had stepped away from the bull and waited with their capes .
three of them were barreras , the first row at the ring-side , and three were sobrepuertos , seats with
" i tapped with my finger-tips on the table .
and sucked toward us by the propeller and then we were past the point and when i looked back the
“i was very proud of you .
that’s the way to talk , ” al said .
so he wouldn’t have to pay .
” the hemlock planks of the dock were hard and splintery and cold and jim was heavy on her and
“she knows all right .
" " only perch .
trail again , chopping our way through with the long brush knives that are called pangas .
" it ' s all right , " jack says .
" or do my eyes deceive me ?
once .
" are you all right , jake ?
the match was made at a hundred fortyseven pounds at three o’clock .
war was over .
but i would cry now .
” “i go all right .
now i have done what i can , he thought .
fillets and one of the flying fish , gutted and with its head cut off .
“nothing’s ever going to be like it was in the old days .
but she can ' t make it out .
" we all shook hands .
in the street and the dye ran over the paving where the autobus started and the old men and the
i don ' t think they ' ll be back to-night .
i ought to live here .
he was settled .
it was getting along in the afternoon .
“no hay derecho , ” he said .
" " they ' re not the real south americans .
the silver star is free .
" i ' m like that all through .
" he writes her every day .
“i was jealous of david’s and tom’s mother .
" " in principle , " para said and smiled , for the first time , showing yellowed teeth .
it builds me up too much .
that ' s the way you ' re supposed to be .
" his father sat watching nick eat the pie .
fontan tried to take them by the arm and show them where they could be sick all right in the
difference .
' and he better damn well be tender .
to hell .
he held the bag out there , the wine making a flat , hard trajectory into his mouth , and
if the boy were here .
" prudence mitchell ' s his girl .
” “the hell you were .
the bartender didn ' t answer him .
the marc was good .
” nick went back into the timber and buried the carton of .
” “there’s another bottle of beer for you .
they can’t know that much at the age they marry , he thought .
he ' s all right , i guess , but where does he get this inside stuff ?
” “yes , sir , ” blindy said .
they were as old as erosions in a fishless desert .
" " we are catholique , " i said .
out above the rolling high ground he was crossing .
" you can start , " he said .
in the bright may morning the grave-filling looked unreal .
" i been in chicago , st .
” “i love that girl , ” said george .
everyone .
" " that ' s the dinner .
corners of his eyes , nor that his broken nose was like a gladiator ' s in the oldest statues
yonder .
" " that ' s what makes it bad .
" why not try some , " mr .
she said good night and took my arm .
“hell of a good bull , ” his brain registered automatically .
“you can’t come in , ” he said .
" you will be able to play football again better than ever .
' ' what was general eisenhower like ?
juma had looked at david’s father and grinned showing his filed teeth and his father had nodded his head .
" he must drink a lot of wine .
" he liked to think of the fish and what he could do to a shark if he were swimming
explode inside his head and that was all he ever felt .
it was a hungry cat , quite nice looking , basically .
' i never would have thought it .
' ' that would be incest .
' god ' s truth , ' i said .
_num_ : _num_ - _num_ - _num_ - _num_ visit us on the world wide web : http : //www
, that did not know a god-damned thing , and the artillery had fired into the troops and the british
if he went down there went fifty thousand bucks .
through a divide in the hills like a dry irrigation ditch and climbed , sweating , the small , steep
“when will you be back ?
i haven’t been able to stand it all afternoon .
socks .
it was the first meal of the prices being doubled for the fiesta , and there were several new courses
, brother .
" asked the innkeeper .
didn ' t like him .
“not with you .
' hell of a man with simba .
john was hanging onto the ropes .
a great part of it was close-packed and crowded into several side streets and it was so concentrated that it
i looked back from the door .
to the customer , and the other side filled in and kept as a stub .
let me see if there is anything new .
" " you look very fit , mike .
” looking ahead at the road he had driven so many times in his life , seeing it stretch ahead
” “let’s go to the car , ” said macomber .
if you go away i can ' t talk to you .
don ' t just sit there .
i can’t remember him except that he gave me an air rifle and an american flag when i came over
” “in the morning if you like , ” wilson told him .
it ' s all right to tell who shot you .
you come yourself and you bring the money .
from out where they’re burning garbage .
' ' it ' s gone the way the mist is burned off the hollows in broken ground when the
" john turned the handle and we all went in .
but tell him he ' s not running the show and to keep his bloody mouth shut .
she thinks you are a much better guy than you are and maybe that will make you a better guy
” roger asked the bar waiter .
the other baits were still in the water but there was nothing to be done .
didn ' t you hear him bellow ?
“two hundred and fifty pesetas , ” retana said .
they all came up and charo stuck him to make him legal meat .
well , he had been a good kid .
you ' ll all get bloody sick .
' ' very good idea .
' how much are these drinks ?
" i can see you have been wounded , " he said to nick .
, the pain had stopped .
jack started to pour me another .
they bring it all from mariel now !
he let it go over the side and then made it fast to a ring bolt in the stern .
don’t worry .
' the colonel asked , looking at the mis-shapen hand with distaste and remembering the two times that had made
turned in the high grass and crossed here as we were running down .
' ' he ' ll keep , ' pop said .
someone was coming from towards the tents .
' as i can do without everything else .
shoot .
and took them out and sat in an easy chair in the sun to read about and catch up on
he had waved the waiter away and sat reading the paper and occasionally looking down at manuel , asleep ,
_num_ for _num_ , cefisidote is next at _num_ to _num_ and fifth down the list this kircubbin at _num_
" " where ' s hogan ?
ahead now he could see the white of the la concha hotel , the wireless masts , and the houses
" ' ' i ' ll remember it and i ' ll practise it at home .
life go out of him as dirty water empties from a bathtub when the plug is drawn .
there would be more lions and he was happy .
' ' it was like ski-ing in the dark .
i ' m like a cat .
" " i don ' t know anything about it .
“and now i think i shall kill you and eat you , wings and all .
nick stood up on the log , holding his rod , the landing net hanging heavy , then stepped into
" right you are , sir .
he was furious .
' ' thanks , ' the colonel said .
" ils veulent shooter les uns les autres .
sure .
each day i hoped he would get one and that the atmosphere would clear but each day his feelings about
“put out any time you want , ” i told johnson .
" frank washburn .
we often talked about bulls and bull-fighters .
but you won’t be bored ?
course of parties by the musical selections they phoned for .
i had time .
i look up and i point out to company what happens .
turf like a deer park and we drove on through shade and patches of sunlight following a faint trail the
” “she gave them lunch already .
' ' too much the old timer about him .
“i would like to kill you .
and pop were sitting in their chairs by the fire and p .
road , turning up the side road and leaving the car beside the fence .
internationals came up and took the line ahead of us .
' we went on through the woods toward camp .
a regular nigger weapon .
don ' t you like them , bill ?
he was asleep .
both legs stuck out awkwardly .
“go on out there , ” manuel said .
“no sir , ” said captain willie .
he took a deep breath , drew his knees up , clasped tight and sank , this time with his
“jamais .
have you seen the hundred and forty-fifth ?
it was a greased bullet and dirty and the wound infected , but he made so much noise and then
“that’s fine , ” he said .
but it will be better than that coffee pot you have in there now .
the stream .
the sky , flying white and slow , their long legs stretched behind them .
the fiesta was solid and unbroken , but the motor-cars and tourist-cars made little islands of onlookers .
" " have another drink .
" " they ' re all nice bars .
there was some confusion about buffalo because the roman kept saying ' nyati ' , but he meant they were
do you agree ?
shouldered through the grass and i went ahead fast without trailing by the blood , to m ' cola '
it was not his face but it didn’t make any difference .
hill .
” “how far are we behind him ?
nobody seemed to know what to do or whether to look after the sergeant or try and find the little
; waiting for the order to go up that slope no man could go up and live .
” “aren’t we fast ?
' ' what about the moglie and the bambini ?
it ' s my own fault and it ' s not , too .
“just a minute , ” she said .
' could you get me some from trieste ?
i’m cheered up .
let ' s get our coats and go .
then he knew he had the safety on and as he lowered the rifle to move the safety over he
" that ' s a lot of money .
” madame fontan came up the stairs with the beer bottles in her hands , “il est catholique , ”
“i had a swell time .
you couldn ' t stand it .
dust and long splintered pieces of wood hung like javelins in the tree that had been struck by lightning .
then dive in the weeds and crawl .
' ' i wish that that was now .
the town to the ospedale maggiore , the nails in my boots on the cobbles , and in the spring
“try and hit me .
” “not out of this , ” manuel said .
” “i like it , ” nick said .
' spread those out properly , ' the head-keeper told the boatman who was a game-keeper too .
he said he felt terrible .
top of a hay mow .
man-of-war floating close beside the boat .
i must not keep you .
it is a sin , a constant sin against purity .
some dice ?
the last night joyce and his wife came to dinner and we had a pheasant and a quarter of the
” “she’ll say anything that comes into her mind as long as it’s polite .
the gare de lyon .
i was walking from the woolf brothers ' saloon where , on christmas and thanksgiving day , a free turkey
" " pretty nice stuffed dogs , " bill said .
stick to sheets , billy .
certainly not .
' no , ' as he started to make delivery of one of the petrol tins , ' in the
“sit down .
” “what are your politics ?
on the other side of the town , game was to leave from the gritti and make the rialto by
heavy built and with a fine curving pair of horns .
but that had all started a year or more after that last summer .
i handed bags through the windows , and we were out on the dim longness of the platform , and
' but if you tease me about them , i will give them back , and on the linen tablecloth
' i am very deeply moved by the portrait and i am not entirely responsible for what i say .
" you ' re pretty near as old as i am , " zurito said .
i’ve thought it out lots of times .
if we found good rhino we would send for him .
” “castrate me .
dying , he dropped flat and started to crawl .
he ' d been knocked down about fifteen times , and he wanted to fight some more .
” “pull one out .
and there was only one beggar awake in the square and he was getting a drink out of the fountain
odgar and kate were down there .
" you poor schatz , " i said .
" he ' s very young , " said one .
to the road , and along the road between the houses of the town , their windows lighted , to
“i know it , nickie .
' be careful , ' the poler in the stern said .
her , and she was telling him not to be a ruddy ass .
" they don ' t really look like white elephants .
it ' s important because it got into the newspapers .
“you carry anything ?
” “no , that’s not true .
she tells me all about everything .
with all my worldly goods i thee endow , he thought .
there was no time to write renata a note .
indians fish it .
" who are you ?
his lies were quite unimportant lies and consisted in attributing to himself things other men had seen , done or
' ' english grappa .
and hammer it into shape and put a whetstone to it , and know that i had something to write
danced .
" " not in public .
' they are hang-around colonels , which are given to a division commander to replace one that he may have
at a certain age the men writers change into old mother hubbard .
that other one had a hell of a horn .
' ' we would sack them if they defended them , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" how do you feel , schatz ?
“get ready to turn it loose to him the minute he grabs it .
" i think i ' ll stay rather drunk .
” “go on up .
“thank you , ” said paco .
he had his own standards about the killing and they could live up to them or get some one else
“give me the sword , ” he shouted .
tired holding it in position all the time .
the moon was just rising now behind the far hills and enough moonlight came through the trees for nick to
the doorway as the shooting down the street strengthened into a roll of firing , then dropped off .
an airplane passed over head on its course to miami and he watched its shadow scaring up the schools of
odgar and kate talked but he did not hear them .
i’m hopped to the eyes .
never come back .
" tell me where she is .
the count ?
' there we camp , ' garrick announced pompously .
" won ' t you have a drink with us ?
the ground was too hard to leave a track and we never found blood again .
" " i saw them go through from the balcony .
nor , he thought , you son of a bitch , did you ever oppose it .
' the fewer people when you ' re after kudu the better .
except that he would rather be in better company .
maybe the same fellow that shot him .
or seen skinned-out every animal that i had ever shot , yet remembered every one exactly as he was at
it , and all that land we came through just now got flooded and started to breed mosquitoes and malaria
' ' you ' re getting to be a hell of a fellow , ' pop said .
have been insulted by an ignorant tank man who has called me a rummy fake santa claus .
” “huh , ” said george .
riff-raff from the american consulate who have stayed on since noon .
a clean , welllighted café was a very different thing .
' the wind made it very tangled , ' she said .
” “no kill him .
the ducks and geese flew up out of range and after the first flock had swung across toward where the
“did you make some good pictures ?
that means getting up early all right and going to bed early , too .
" all right , if you want to go , " jack says .
do you know a place called botin ' s ?
" " can ' t do it .
i’ve made them up about you for twelve years .
commenced to tighten the mines moved out of their semi-circle and across the road looking , i thought , like
" you stay out of it .
at harry ' s are as the greenwich meridian , or the standard metre in paris , or the good
" it wasn ' t a bicycle , " i said .
' ' tell him i ' ll be in the bar .
looking back we saw burguete , white houses and red roofs , and the white road with a truck going
horned beasts .
i’ll go back now .
' where were kudu ?
” “you’ll see it as soon as the column gets up and we fit in and go down that road
nick went up the steps and opened the kitchen door .
" " you _are_ drunk .
“geez , papa , i’m sorry , ” the boy said .
legs to try and catch him .
" " how did your friends like them ?
the little village of kibaya where there was a white rest house and a general store and much farming land
that old willie , he thought .
“well , jimmy , ” he said , after a while .
" it wasn ' t my idea .
he believed me .
jim and charley were still in the front room .
“ils sont des sauvages , les boys , vous savez .
young dick atkinson shot a rabbit with it one day and we put it under a tree and were all
' ' he wass standing in some bush .
” “yes , the wife was here with the police this morning .
during world war ii hemingway served as a war correspondent covering the normandy invasions and the liberation of paris .
the wagon and the mules were covered with dust .
the crowd came over the barrera and around the torero and two men grabbed him and held him and some
could you come hotel montana madrid am rather in trouble brett .
“it’s all i’ve got , ” retana said .
from where nick stood he could see deep channels , like ruts , cut in the shallow bed of the
the street to the concha .
he’d gone into the first bodega he’d seen and bought it and come aboard .
there had been no water going over the brushy dam when they had passed that morning .
' oh , oh , hello , ' she said .
" i am not religious , " he said .
and the flotsam of palm fronds , corks , bottles , and used electric light globes , seasoned with an
he tried a pass with the muleta and the bull did not move .
while they looked out over the lake .
his mind was starting to work .
” “of course i will .
i have been around very much .
not a military operation .
" i was pretty well through with the subject .
and the gold of his sides before he swung him over the side and into the boat .
" the undefeated manuel garcia climbed the stairs to don miguel retana ' s office .
he ' s able .
he could not see the situation in the south except that the revolters would have to come up the valley
do you think i look fourteen years old ?
listen , you ever been crazy ?
it ' s a face any woman would be safe with .
think how i would make it , and thinking of making money reminded me of the count , and i
they know about the trout for trout dinners , too , mr .
“i feel wonderful .
and then perhaps they would be true .
hammond , indiana .
his novel , for whom the bell tolls , and his play .
tell me , how was this city before the war ?
the doctor stepped back , angry .
” into a skillet he was laying slices of ham .
” “do you want it with water ?
” wilson looked at him now coldly .
hadn’t had time to be afraid with the buff .
" betty co-ed " was a good tune too , but the parody of the words which came unavoidably into
the rest , then i prayed for myself again , and while i was praying for myself i found i
” “what were they doing ?
if it wasn ' t for that lorry last night .
it was dark and all around the square were the lights from the cafés under the arcades .
of the body without breaking bone , and he had become quite confident of his personal immortality since he knew
i didn’t sleep all day did i ?
" " somebody named frances .
' ' i don ' t have that .
his face looked strange .
then we went into a left echelon of echelons and dove onto them with all four guns until you could
” the negro picked up a slice of ham and laid it on one of the pieces of bread ,
maybe they’d lost the rudder though .
but how many of them have we killed in my time ?
just read about him in the papers .
they saw him each time they made a trip and even when they did not look at him they heard
" andré held tight on to the gun .
“please stop it .
" well , " said bill .
' he was quiet then and stood by the road .
some of his french friends told him .
brett laughed .
" met my former partner the other day .
” “i had a good sleep .
" we walked back down the road from roncesvalles with harris between us .
“put some water in it , ” i said .
' ' was it not a great thing ?
i walked down the hall to cohn ' s room .
got the books out of one of the musettes and she and pop read while i followed the ravine down
who’s going to trust your mouth when you’re hot ?
you make rough jokes sometimes too , you know .
” “just those i said .
" the bull turned , seemed to brace against the fence as he charged in a scramble , driving into
he should have paid every week anyway .
, and the crash came again to go past him ripping the air apart .
we were all at the hospital every afternoon , and there were different ways of walking across the town through
' ' should we ?
it had turned out a good trip all right , finally , even though it had looked plenty bad plenty
" oh !
alvarito , the barone , was standing by the open fire in the middle of the room .
received who caught them , and he thought , now i must see the stream and canal fishes and get
" he took another full piece and chewed it .
“you were going great .
" thank you , sir , " said the waitress .
leaving at that hour , we will have time to see the ducks in the evening .
i would come back to africa but not to make a living from it .
“i’m very hungry .
" " the lying bastard !
he turned in the hotel .
he fell with his mouth there .
that was when we’d have the most fun .
mike was on his feet proposing a toast .
then the sleep was gone and i moved out of bed .
' ' do i bore you ?
seats , came walking back and stood in a group talking , under the electric light in the patio .
the hell with it .
” up at the hotel jack took off his shoes and his coat and lay down for a while .
pesos with him all the time , and he said he would look after it .
but i would come back to where it pleased me to live ; to really live .
i repacked them in ferns .
the young man uttered the lowest form of the word " thanks " and looked after us suspiciously as guy
we tried the key and it did not work .
” “how well do you know the boy ?
the one looks , says nothing , too angry now to shoot .
” “well , good-night , mrs .
" i don ' t want this bohunk to stop me .
“it’s his sense of self-preservation .
the breeze had risen steadily and was blowing strongly now .
swim and picnic from havana .
' after you ' ve waited so long , when you get a shot take it easy .
a bottle of wine was good company .
” we sat there awhile and i didn’t feel like talking to him any more .
" " i can ' t do it .
" " let ' s not talk .
boys will skin him out .
” “you’ve never seen a cathedral , have you ?
from their roots .
one to her and i couldn ' t get into her .
' up above , it had plenty of water then , before all these hydro-electric projects .
made mine dwarfs in comparison .
wounded buffalo to deal with , and when we came out on the edge of the burned country again ,
" his father was not looking at him .
' ' that will be wonderful .
sound which at the moment i cannot recall .
demand , pressed the klaxon again and again , i watched the look of utter rapture and ecstasy on the
" " i ' ve heard his name , " i said .
the line of cabs and hotel buses .
” “what did you do ?
" " have another absinthe .
” they turned sharp down the bank and peduzzi stood , his coat blowing in the wind , gesturing at
my mouth was so dry that it was hard to talk .
” “all the time she reads .
i went alone with abdullah and left the others behind and we went quietly .
why shouldn ' t i make money on it ?
in a war we must all be careful not to hurt each other’s feelings .
but they had not seen the birds .
” “you will not , ” nick said .
was from the centre near saint-etienne .
screwed the drag down when i wasn’t looking .
" that was nice , bright boy , " max said .
“we must go and say good-by to the fontans , ” i said .
" " let me get four fresh ones .
thank you for the fine times .
always quietly and calmly let the horns pass him close each time .
“hello , ” he said and shut the door and bolted it .
won ' t it be lovely ?
' now i must go and see how the steak marches .
hortons bay , the town , was only five houses on the main road between boyne city and charlevoix .
” “splayzey , you’re not going to do any shooting at that boy .
” “so everything is understood ?
bratchen daughter , what about writing , my dear beauty ?
but that was the way they were .
the rain had moistened it but it was not soaked and we saw several kudu tracks , probably made early
take that drink and remember .
your right , the entrance to the bar , the doorway on to the grand canal , and the entrance
" did you take many ?
everyone could see the second barrel hit him in the air before he hit the ground .
in the afternoon_ , which sold , or rather was offered for sale , at $ _num_ .
when he dreamed with sacré coeur , blown white , like a soap bubble .
i ' m a goner now , anyway .
' i love you , portrait , very much .
i won ' t describe it since you can always read about it in a book by somebody who was
elliot and the girl friend made conversation and they were all quite happy .
then you ' d know these things .
supper and they drink one two bottles of wine , and their girls come too , and then they go
' ' you lousy ostrich-plumed punk , ' i told him in english .
” that afternoon about five o’clock three mexicans came into the room .
” we had gotten the elevator stopped at my floor and were walking down the hall .
” there was a sign with a picture of an s-turn and svolta pericolosa .
' b ' wana kibor !
" you know when i get going i ' m good , " manuel said .
they ' re not like a kudu .
and made a cut below his eye .
“there’s nothing wrong with you .
budapest was wonderful .
' ' it is saturday , ' she said .
" " only feebly , " said johnson .
" brett started toward the table .
outside the tent , and when francis macomber woke in the night to hear it he was afraid .
, split down one side , out of the tobacco pouch and bent them on the line about a foot
sword handler , who knew everything , said .
big trout , i tell you .
attic being thrown in the fire , and how they popped in the heat and the fire flamed up from
' ' plenty of time for him later .
she was very good to him .
” “he is fascist ?
medals ?
" they ' ve got seven cars of them from dayton , ohio .
, who leaned over and placed it in the bottom of the big barrel .
” “sure , ” says hogan .
' ' i took a chance .
" " after i scalped him i ' d throw him to the dogs .
” nick could not see the flag or the flag pole .
“i never worried about it at all , ” the girl said .
i never saw a city boy yet that was worth a damn .
the rod under his right arm , nick stooped , dipping his right hand into the current .
' ' they ' re in the safe , ' the colonel said .
i don ' t know why he had to get a malady .
we are coming into my town , he thought .
" " an hour is the same .
" " they ' d come to see me get it , " manuel said , hopefully .
what you win in milano you lose in torino .
the market fishermen can’t hold them tight when they do that even with a harpoon line .
but do not even think rough , he told himself .
" i promise you .
a smack when someone hit the flit gun man on the mouth .
the count stood up .
' hunt to-morrow , ' garrick put in .
it’s a thing i haven’t taken any interest in .
the driver stayed for lunch , too , and afterward we paid him and he started back to bayonne .
” they talked again and then the innkeeper came over to our table .
marjorie unpacked the basket of supper .
you go with him , bright boy .
” “but he drove us back from getting the berries without him even being here .
he was looking at nothing .
“on peut les fusiller ?
oh very gently here very gently please carefully please please very carefully thank you carefully oh in the lovely dark
he had gotten a very complicated personal feeling about kudu and , as always when he was confused , it
" " god , what a rotten dream !
“what had i ought to give them ?
sick as hell and i was scared and felt sick inside because i knew something had happened and i didn’t
a woman who does not , etc .
lavigne ' s was closed tight , and they were stacking the tables outside the closerie des lilas .
that was only a small sector .
you love me and you know it and we know things nobody else knows .
” “the hell with trudy .
so i had m ' cola make the cuts for taking off the head skin and we would leave the
probably will only have a few birds , so don ' t let him spoil it for you .
nickie , is it always this nice when you run away from home ?
the absinthe made everything seem better .
we have to get the packs before it’s dark .
then he stopped moving and you saw that he was lying flat on his face .
go with it and in the dark they were running with it trying to go through the gulf between rebecca
nick adams .
" " yes , " said " sliding billy " turner .
i ' ve just twenty francs .
" there ' s been a wreck .
“i’ll just drink a little wine and then i’ll tell you .
” “don’t listen to him .
he came back much too late .
under the strain of insufficient municipal water supplies , perceived outrages to national honor like the luridly reported urination on
' domenico , ' he said .
it was a racket .
do you mind if i speak italian ?
the road was gravelled now and we left the plain and started up between two foot-hills ; the road in
the eyes closed .
” “what did you say ?
the data on my compatriot .
" " thank you .
long slope toward the road and the village , the two mountains in sight now , and it almost dark
tied the bundle and put it in the landing net .
relaxed in his sorrow for him .
' ' there ' s no more roederer cold , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" " and the spear ?
" he remembers everything that ' s happened .
all i want is you happy .
" " i saw him in the moving pictures of the fight , " tom said .
he felt sleepy himself .
he saw no sign of anyone and he went down to the stream and then downstream and back up to
it is strange .
“but , yes , ” said the porter .
nice and sweet and easy and taking the fence smooth in a bunch , and moving away from us all
“burning .
and i would see m ' cola watching him and pretending not to see .
” “i can’t do it .
d ' you know many more literary anecdotes ?
he is wonderful and strange and who knows how old he is , he thought .
he don’t care about a left hand in his face .
he was about the same size as al .
“oh , i worry , ” jack says .
" ever interfere with a cook ?
he would not let go and spill .
proved to be living creatures who seemed to be dead through their quality of complete repose .
” “where do you think he is ?
my brother is dead in a failure .
a hill when he was ready to fight .
” “it’s hard to say , ” nick adams said .
ahead were the lights of the shanties where the indian bark-peelers lived .
i had gotten excited and shot at the whole animal instead of the right place and i was ashamed ;
bank , or when we ground in low gear up a steep place , the light slanting up ahead .
sometimes bill went along .
“it isn’t fun any more .
” “haven’t i done my work ?
' ' please never cut me .
i went back in the room and got into bed .
made him into a man .
" you bum !
hard , sun-baked fields behind the bull-ring .
after supper they went into the front room again and liz cleaned off with mrs .
the wind blew the dust clear after each shell so that the house kept showing plainly through the dust as
the slashings had run up to the top of a ridge and over and then the forest began .
” “i hadn’t , ” john said .
, hit at ten yards , who raced his tail in three narrowing , scampering circles until he died .
" there ' s roncevaux , " i said .
i love you , really .
" " it has the look of a pub , " bill said .
nick drank the coffee , the coffee according to hopkins .
told him he was my pal and gave him my best four-bladed pocket knife .
" because you come running here with your tear gas to be evacuated .
then wilson shot , the roar deafening him , and he could see the bull stagger .
' ' how the hell do you see them ?
” “no we haven’t , jim .
” “got any more ?
he stopped the car and studied the opening with his field glasses .
a fourth planed down , to run quick-legged and then waddle slowly toward the others .
' who ' s joyce ?
the dolphin looks green of course because he is really golden .
was no longer enough light to shoot , a hyena crossed the open on his way around the hill .
there were fine prawns that could make a scampi brochetto spitted and broiled on a rapier-like instrument that could be
he might know .
“it is a very rare thing , ” another waiter said .
two in plain clothes went inside .
' very , ' said the colonel .
out of the fight will be being bored .
' he ' s truly not tough .
“no need swim ?
jim held her tight against the chair and kissed her .
i ' m all right again .
” “how do you mean , signor maggiore ?
it was all right to pose as though you had to have a girl .
" i can ' t do it , " para said .
" " the more of a fool you are , " he said .
but i do know when i ' m not wanted .
” this fellow johnson that had her chartered asked me .
south .
when the masai saw us they started running and we stopped , surrounded by them , just below the stockade
” and he had no fear , only hatred of wilson , while the brakes clamped on and the car
” “we made quite good time didn’t we ?
“he’s a hell of a fine lion , ” wilson said cheerfully .
' ' good night .
' ---- forbidden , ' said the colonel .
are you tired of it ?
" you fighting here ?
in , years before i could sell anything in america .
stream is well in and there were birds ahead working over a school of little tuna .
" brett laughed .
beside the road .
” “no i don’t .
that was the local name for them .
thank you , ” said peduzzi , in the tone of one member of the carleton club accepting the morning
there was a faded purple wreath leaning against the base .
eat .
“it’s a wonder retana wouldn’t give us enough light to see the horses by , ” one picador said .
" " pretty quiet , ain ' t it ?
” the adjutant made a motion with his hand to the second runner who went out .
” “i don’t know , john , ” i said .
the room was on the north side of the inn .
" " i get more than that for pic-ing .
it was not really hurtgen forest .
“you’re doing fine .
” “i think we had better go , ” i said .
we didn ' t do any work .
" they had backed up another cage into the entrance .
then you get there in the evening and there are the tracks .
“it is just .
” the innkeeper spoke to the sexton .
' ' but he iss a very fine one , mr .
much fun shooting here as i ever had in my life .
brett had sipped from the martini as it stood , on the wood .
those were just exercises .
” “no , ” said enrique .
“he’s very young , ” said one .
his will , in uniform , who had elected to remain in the army for his own ends .
" doctor wilcox asked him .
brennan , " bruce said at the train , " i sure hope you knock his can off .
the boy lay face downward on the raft and talked to her .
” after a little while jack gets up and says , “you buy the meal , john , ” and
that’s what they always tell me .
“take her in slow .
" georgette turned to me .
” “so does he .
a grenade and let the lever snap loose and held the grenade smoking grey and then lobbed it underhand up
“what has happened has happened .
and , looking back , saw the girl’s face , shining proudly , and her head held high .
“i don’t want this bohunk to stop me .
" though the whole plant , " says he , " was no larger than one of my fingers ,
" they haven ' t got a cure for anything .
" " were you in the war , mike ?
" go sit at it , " bill said .
" asked the waiter , corking up the bottle .
the big leagues when he was my age .
the lobster was imposing .
you ' re not right .
' ' ask him how long the horn was .
" what will we say ?
' isn ' t he a beautiful bull ?
” i said .
" come on hand .
she took the unopened bottle back to the bar .
” “none of you gentlemen is divorced ?
“everybody in the town saw us going through with these rods .
three twenty-five this afternoon .
nor in the fields .
he reeled in the slack line so the line ran taut out to where the bait rested on the sandy
" we went into the dining-room .
" bigger than a cat .
we ' ve had a jolly time here at burguete .
the girl .
' he said putting his hand to his head .
” “i’m putting it on .
she fell alongside the drake .
all his supplies were in the pack .
' not a damn bit .
“look down on us and i say , ‘ah ha .
the car toward camp .
but he was very fond of the sahara panorama .
everybody liked him and whenever i’d come into the café in the forenoon i’d find somebody drinking with him because
” “are you an officer ?
' ' poor old mama ?
it is not the way hunting should be .
“are you hungry , littless ?
hemingway’s aim was to convey vividly and exactly moments of exquisite importance and poignancy , experiences that might appropriately be
he found nick sitting with his back against a tree , reading .
' ' they both lived to be old men but they did not get any wiser as they got older
he ' s all lead , manuel thought .
" il y a des gens très gentils , très sensibles , qui viennent aussi , " he said .
” this frightened the good lion very much because he could see her yellow eyes and her tail going up
, the envelope addressed to himself , into the inside left pocket of his tunic .
“he said that .
the fire glinted on the reels .
" a votre santé , monsieur , " said the porter .
window of the gondola and was lost and gone , neither of them said anything .
his ease , nor his pleasure , nor any notions of glory ; nor , if he win far enough
side of the house and into the street .
dick was a big man .
eating the portuguese men-of-war with their eyes shut .
down onto it in the early dark and then the other lions came and he rested his chin on the
” “shut up , ” nick said .
she just wanted to put it on the line .
he was very fond of william campbell ; he did not wish to leave him .
part ii pursuit remembered chapter one it dated back to the time of droopy , after i had come back
” “i’ve got a lot of stuff , ” manuel said .
“what were they doing ?
get tight .
' ' i will be nineteen .
of the window and he tried not to feel her head and her lovely face the way a blind man
“he says to tell who shot you .
we ' d been out quite a way and now we were coming back .
” “wonder where it went to , ” he said , resting his eyes from reading .
he must have known what it was about when she settled .
hills , until we saw the firelight in the trees .
everything was fresh and cool and damp in the early morning .
then she held herself straight and hard not to cry .
” “you will be when you see the knives come .
" rotten luck for the tailor , " he said .
' there ' s no comparison , of course , ' he said .
but i ' d rather have shot him in there than any damned thing in the world .
i couldn ' t tell you that in new york .
beyond that point he knew there were two other shooting posts and far beyond it there was more marsh and
he was a good , solid horse , solid on his legs .
” “what did he put you afoot for ?
it’s not worth moving .
head to the tail .
but i have chewed it all well and i am not nauseated .
you , mon vieux .
“it won’t be all right .
and i know i cannot keep it if i eat it since my face was in it .
“what’s the matter with her , harry ?
it is trying to die because it dislikes me .
then he rested against the bow .
but he looked pretty good to me in there today .
“and we did wonderful things in the daytime too .
” roger reached up to the light bulb and turned the switch .
one was large and one was small and they certainly both looked strong and active .
you don’t have to worry about that .
there was only the night porter .
the nigger with the tommy gun got his face almost into the street and gave the back of the wagon
” “well you going to take her ?
' ' i have one already iced .
" you didn ' t steal them ?
everything looked sharp and clear , and the town smelt of the early morning .
did you get my line , jake ?
" he looked at his face carefully in the glass , put a big dab of lather on each cheek-bone
belts protruding from the boxes , the water-cooling can empty and on its side , the breech block gone ,
a horse-cab passed us .
" going on a party ?
shoulder muscle as he tore loose to find hernandez’s cape before his muzzle .
“i haven’t any .
we don’t have to talk about london do we ?
gesture that means to go to sleep .
i’ll read wuthering heights .
retana ' s man handed him the heavy porous jug .
they were good-looking young fellows , wore good clothes ; none of them wore hats , and they looked like
“you came out of it damned well , ” bill said .
and pulled down again .
” “hi papa , ” stephen said in a hoarse voice .
“what do you mean ?
jump out while i settle with this sportsman .
" manuel sat down ; his cap off , his face was changed .
a bed with a girl who has put her hair up in pin curls to be beautiful to-morrow .
' ' would you try to sleep , please , to please me ?
they were just built to tempt us and we had no word on them at all .
" brett ' s not a sadist .
“you’re talking to the united states postmaster , ” mr .
i met the friend , a madrid bull-fight critic , a little man with a drawn face .
' ' that ' s all right .
her hair was gray and stiffly oiled in scallops around her face .
” “you pick out what you need and make a list and i’ll check it over with you .
' ' i ' m just a lousy belly-aching bastard but i swear they haven ' t gotten on my
their ultimate position , before there is any question of burial , depends on the location of the pockets in
scare him .
why no spotlight or a searchlight on this field ?
for belmonte .
” “this is a hot town , ” said the other .
packard can eat half a dozen and i know other people that can .
, with a mrs .
krebs acquired the nausea in regard to experience that is the result of untruth or exaggeration , and when he
” upstairs in the room above mine , manolita and the englishman were making quite a lot of noise .
“he is a good lion , isn’t he ?
' ' there aren ' t any such times any more , ' the colonel said and the spell was
“and i hate every foreigner alive .
there ' s plenty that do out where i come from , though .
hell , no .
finally , when we were moving , they started to run beside the car smiling and laughing and showing how
now the two came up .
“now for that great requisite skill in the use of .
i headed her up against the current until i was past bacuranao and nearly to cojimar .
' ' don ' t use it , ' the colonel said .
he looked to the right , the starboard , he thought .
english ?
how it is there early in the morning in havana with the bums still asleep against the walls of the
you feeling bad ?
our guest hung out on the turns and nearly pulled the top-heavy car over .
there was quite a little swell that close in .
“i’m going to sleep here all night .
“many letters , ” she said .
they’ve picked walcott up and they’re working on him .
that was the other year before the turkey .
the definition of a whore .
“what about the chinks ?
” “i cannot read it .
what a lot of bilge i could think up at night .
of town .
” he started up the bank .
‘by my troth , i care not ; a man can die but once ; we owe god a death
” “i don’t want any order .
it was now about three o’clock in the morning and francis macomber , who had been asleep a little while
” “yes , ” said george , “that’s the way it is .
that is a promise .
” “i don’t think so , ” johnson said .
anyway there wasn ' t another thing for them to hit till they ' d get to mexico once they
that ' s my town .
” “what do you think the little one made that trouble for ?
” “oh , no , sir .
let us all walk together .
you can see them .
i wonder if she ' d like that ?
and it was sad to know that shooting did not mean a thing .
then nick cut across the bay .
' bobby !
' ' your stones .
chapter xxv at the gritti , the _gran maestro_ seated them at the table which was beside the window that
can i be like you a little while to-night ?
they drank cold regal beer and ate a steak each with mashed potatoes .
” “dropped a double header to the giants .
after i left they must have found all the boats were there and that would make them think you were
it trolled pretty heavy but it made a big splash in the wake .
moved softly along the tiling of the porch until he could look down at the back door .
maybe i never did know .
but i am sure he would have confidence .
’ i said , ‘couldn’t you just have said something or couldn’t somebody just have said something ?
_ _num_ st soldier_--i was surprised how he acted .
” “i’m quite sure of it , ” i said , “but you’d best go on board ship and not
you can ' t blame them hardly .
' ' is she really dead ?
” the bad part and the part that was worse were behind them now .
by the time the second rocket had burst there were so many people in the arcade , that had been
she smiled and showed all her bad teeth , and we touched glasses .
i brought my wet things and my boots to the fire and kamau spread them on sticks , and put
“you understand ?
that typical french ivresse that you were propaganded to believe did not exist , would open their windows and then
, lovely writer of _notturno_ whom we respect , and jerk .
that always fascinated the old man .
i had thought of the rain only as something that made tracking easy .
" " i better go .
' ' were they not good ?
" when do you go back ?
at a dance he fell into the easy pose of the old soldier among other soldiers : that he had
" " anything more ?
along , we had hunted all through the timbered flat and come out to the edge of the plain where
ole andreson was lying on the bed with all his clothes on .
“i’m just the guy that loves you .
' ' i ' ll tell her that you shot very well and that the portrait was in good condition
my old man started out through the crowd and i followed him over to the jock’s dressing room back in
flocks and the geese all went toward the open water .
" it took about an hour .
“i’d scalp him , ” he said happily .
then turned to his sticks .
also he wished to show he could hold his liquor and be practical .
the crowd were all about him .
blindy probably preferred the pilot because the machines were right along the left-hand wall as you came in and faced
the referee looks at john and then he shakes his head .
" they sat down at the table and the girl looked across at the hills on the dry side of
“that’s all right , ” zurito said .
blind .
i walked as far as there with frankie , and i went in and he went on .
" " three of your countrymen were here .
we could send the lorries around to meet us at what ' s the name of the place ?
god , what a beautiful rhino .
suddenly , four feet in the air .
’ ” “yeah , ” he said .
maybe if you found out how to live in it you learned from that what it was all about .
, from his dead-man’s face in which his eyes were alive as a hawk’s .
i was dead thirsty and drained the canteen .
' ' let ' s have a fine time , ' the colonel said .
them for bait and sometimes i would catch grasshoppers and toss them into the stream and watch them float along
" " yes , we ought to have .
we ' re meeting people there .
it was something we had to do .
he felt awful about it .
i don’t know why he had to get a malady .
she was a very tall girl who walked with a great deal of movement .
" you know english well .
it ' s no fun to hunt if we get that way about it .
“come here , kid , i got something for you .
it was not fear or dread .
i have never married .
' the company makes locomotives in milan , ' the colonel said .
i never think about it .
and really friendly .
it was too steep above for him to have gone over the top of the hill .
, being behind rock , shielding the glasses with my hat so they would not reflect the sun , m
stream coming into the lake and the bank high with hemlock trees and then the wooded shoreline of the point
that’s the way the money was bet in the garden .
i ' ve learned it .
he thought about alone in constantinople that time , having quarrelled in paris before he had gone out .
" " nicolo , " para said .
some of it is lovely .
damned silly idea .
” “well let’s not worry about it now .
three loads , and then , one at a time , sprinted across the fire-swept corner of the paseo rosales
georgette smiled that wonderful smile , and we shook hands all round .
the captain of a liner isn’t used to scudding that way .
he’d do it himself when he got around to it .
but i try not to borrow .
“i will respond for your work .
” “almost any time .
the doctor smiled at him .
it’s an easy language .
language that i could not understand .
but the gondoliers , while they are the most co-operative and , for me , the finest people that we
" " i guess so , " said nick .
” “and walpole , ” nick interposed .
" fräulein , " he called .
' i said .
this goes up way beyond where i ever took you hunting .
“you’d think they’d like to say ‘grüss gott .
" " i told you .
but she was perfectly clean .
' ' did you know him ?
the earth felt good against his back .
jack was sitting on the bed .
i loved them all very much , the woodshed and the fence and the hills and the woods and i
" " you ' re looking very well yourself , " the barman said .
my forehead lay against the persian shawl that covered the bed , which was only a mattress and springs set
you .
this is all awfully amusing , but it ' s not too pleasant .
” “the long-distant future , ” he said .
had watched the people , but he had seen the subtler change and he could remember how the people were
stendhal had seen a war and napoleon taught him to write .
' m ' cola had the horns down by now and he and kamau were holding them so they could
said he’d been most frightfully and repeatedly insulting ; talking to me through an interpreter .
this is the second day now that i do not know the result of the juegos , he thought .
“another quarter litre ?
” “with that collection of yellow boys .
” “he couldn’t bring her out at all ?
beautiful and slimmer and better muscled and shinier and more lovely than all the others .
“that your great desire isn’t really—” pinin looked at the floor .
he ' d stay on longer next time .
that way i can start it all new , he thought , and still be straight .
” “but whose is the whisky ?
' ' make a decision , daughter .
forward on his knees .
down the corridor mr .
“may i offer you a slice of bread dipped right in the hot ham fat ?
soldiers care for mr .
he was shivering with the morning cold .
" get it yourself .
” “he don’t sleep .
nor if the fish were in the skiff , with all dignity gone , there would be no question either
“i want you rum-brave .
he liked to work in the sun on the farm because he did not have to and he loved manual
“you’re used to it .
" i say , i wish one would go up , " brett said .
he was terrible .
the hospital were happy to see him , and as i say , it was the hour of the evening
“only sparrows .
we were discussing your gait .
she was crying .
" " he may die , " doctor wilcox said .
' ' nothing , i guess .
“let’s drive tomorrow .
from the town .
” “that peasant , ” the innkeeper said , “today he brought his wife in to be buried .
" why don ' t they change him ?
and went into the next room , which was the bedroom , and lay down on the bed and put
you couldn ' t hear on account of the crowd .
about me going to hell .
i walked over holding the early morning cup of hot tea and milk in my hand waiting for it to
and i know it’s perfectly simple .
the man wants me to go to dumpin’ liquor when i’m shot .
i motioned to kamau to stop and we sat looking at him and he at us .
" " he is a fellow townsman , " he said , " and he is in distress .
i ' ll send you better from our own estates .
' hunt now , ' i told m ' cola .
for civilization , and perhaps would have been better avoided .
big bridges .
” “twenty-five lire .
” “aren’t you a wonderful guesser ?
“well , that’s one thing you never had to worry about , ” john said .
' love is love and fun is fun .
as he walked back along the halls he thought of luz in his bed .
just then the fish jumped making a great bursting of the ocean and then a heavy fall .
how long did it take you to write that story ?
her head was down .
he himself would like to be a good catholic , a revolutionary , and have a steady job like this
it’s that i paid the accounts out of my own money while you were away and now i need the
" you ought to see him .
' ' you ' d have to take two more .
“wouldn’t you write something with it ?
” “no , ” nick answered .
" " did you see the one hit that steer ?
seems like when they get started they don’t leave a guy nothing .
now he lit a cigar and tilting his hat at an angle in the hallway went out to the café
” fontan had come in .
everything else you just read in the papers .
nobody knows how big this creek is , he thought .
the water was a dark blue now , so dark that it was almost purple .
we saw his blank pockmarked face as he went by , piping , the children close behind him shouting and
" how do you think he likes it out there ?
, the blood drying , the meat dusting over , the road of red sand now , the plain gone
“all of a sudden it was over , ” nick said .
” “no i haven’t , ” i said .
a derby nodded to my old man and we got in and everybody was sitting around and getting dressed and
“he hasn’t got it , ” johnson said .
, and looking back , the plume of dust of the lorry coming with the skinners and the men to
“no sir , ” the little man said .
they stacked the skis against the side of the inn and slapped the snow off each other’s trousers , stamped
she swung stern in .
” “all right , ” jack said .
the poor kitty out trying to keep dry under a table .
seeing , quickly , the people that he passed .
i saw him lower his head and jump like a bucking horse as he comes out of the chutes and
sometimes those who love her say bad things of her but they are always said as though she were a
that afternoon we had left the car up the road and approached the salt-lick very carefully .
but i ' ll do something .
” the nigger asked .
” “i mean it .
he believed that , that dyspeptic little joint-keeper .
he did not care that they saw him crying .
it was wonderful .
i do not know whom you are fighting , nor what forces are at your disposal .
it was his first transatlantic journey and he was eighteen at the time .
" he ' s off .
so naturally i had no medals , and i stopped at my tailor ' s and he was impressed by
you are no longer of any real use to the army of the united states .
” he had decided now that to break would be much easier .
german prisoners who had been taken by irregulars were often as cooperative as head waiters or minor diplomats .
" " they are dirty .
he is one of the officers of the society .
" " good old wilson-harris , " bill said .
he sat without speaking , his fingers holding the beads .
as soon as we can get the divorce .
" " what do you do for amusement ?
“al , ” said the voice again .
“you ought to have seen me , manos , ” manuel said , reproachfully .
” “you’re good .
but it is very egotistical and an ugly process .
“there he goes in , ” he said .
were following him shouting , and pulling at his clothes .
swooping around and it was cold as a bastard and then i was fast to three fish the second the
there ' s one shell .
we ' re all going , " frances said from the end of the table .
of good blood and were not afraid .
past stores , filling stations and markets with cars with people going home from the city passing them steadily .
it’s a shame you’re not still in the church because you could make such a good confession .
” “they’re good , ” roger said .
” “try it , ” said al .
bertrand gave me an iron cross , first class , and i put it in the pocket of my shirt
this gave him better control over them than he would have had at the index where they were scattered on
" now is when i must prove it .
; solid , sound , respectful and trustworthy ; they walked into the piazzetta and then across the great ,
” he lay then and was quiet for a while and looked across the heat shimmer of the plain to
" " well , i don ' t feel good never to have even visited the tomb of my grandfather
' go hang yourself .
“one at a time , ” i said .
“we can’t serve anything now .
you keep her going out no matter what happens .
“missing is bad .
" " i distrust all priests , monks , and sisters , " said the thin one .
he stopped and lifted the lid of the ice-box .
“i just heard it somewhere .
' jackson , ' the colonel said .
' _bathi_ , b ' wana .
" how about you , jerry ?
he started to give cries when they shoot him and he is giving cries ever since .
now the boat was lying quietly against the mangroves but he could not stop feeling the motion of the big
they ' re scotsmen , i believe .
“courtesy of the young gentleman’s father .
dijon is only four and a half hours from paris and there is a diner on the train .
go on back .
“you know with the eight arms .
covered him .
” “you’re a big-gun man , eh ?
” “good , ” said johnny , smiling happily .
she was absorbed in the professional details .
“can’t we maybe stop talking ?
“is that your name ?
' shut up , you , ' m ' cola told him .
i ' ll see you when i ' m dressed .
pop was older and more tolerant for his years and the same sort of company .
the man next to bill was talking to him in spanish and bill was not getting it , so he
“got no use for it , ” al said .
still i love the country very much .
she is sound and not harmed in any way except for the tiller .
” “you’re a rummy , ” i said .
the café tables were all full now .
little and letting them run a little going up .
as the bus ground slowly up the road we could see other mountains coming up in the south .
, and as i stopped she came out .
mademoiselle hobin , i ' ve known her for a very long time .
“go on and get on with whatever you were doing .
“that always helps a lot , don’t it ?
nothing to it anyway .
“there’s no necessity to use a word like that .
" " don ' t do it .
ahead , at the end of the slough of reeds the banks narrowed and the branches of the big trees
and then , by removing the socks entirely , the boots made possible .
" " yes , " said para gently .
" " he must be eighty years old .
and we’ll do it .
there are plenty of things i can do .
' that ' s the first thing people notice about me .
' ' me too , to tell the truth , ' the colonel said .
at one table four men played cards .
we were walking across the square to the suizo .
" " we wouldn ' t mind that , captain doctor .
' on the last day if we don ' t get anything , i ' m going to shoot garrick
that is that .
" the bus started .
" " maybe three .
' very fast and he and m ' cola were frantic that i should not shoot .
" don ' t jump , fish , " he said .
' this is good for you , daughter .
“he’s just gone down , ” john said .
but at the roar i knew it was bad .
he loves you and he likes me .
' chapter xiii they went out the side door of the hotel to the _imbarcadero_ and the wind hit them
you move a little to the left , max .
when he looked up there was the bull up and looking at him .
the sun was taking the frost out of the grass .
" if she goes out with one of those gentlemen , will you save this for me ?
his personal boy was sitting by the bed .
i have seen enough fighting for one night .
account it was a bigger place with more room .
“we must get back inside .
“please , i will stay here to shoot and they will think you’re inside .
" i don ' t think so , " said the american lady .
wet in the wind that blew through the trees that shaded the tents .
he was awfully nice about it .
” “and are the most beautiful girl i’ve ever seen and wonderful and strange as hell in bed and always
' ' inches don ' t mean anything , ' pop said .
but as the old man watched , a small tuna rose in the air , turned and dropped head first
into babati and then down to kondoa and strike across country toward handeni and the coast .
" " you asked me that once , " brett said .
' ' how would i know ?
, there came the siren cutting , suddenly , to rise like all the pain in the world .
” “would you do something for me now ?
" " what brought it on ?
" you know how the ladies are .
it was a good dinner .
” “all i do is keep my shoulders back and my head straight up and walk .
" " it ' s hot .
she turned quickly and went into the hotel .
by surprise .
they took off over the big hedge of the water-jump in a pack and then there was a crash ,
in this manner they would detect one which had been fired recently .
she was in too deep water and i didn’t get anything off of her .
' ' can i come duck shooting ?
“you make me sick , ” said enrique .
" not so bad .
you don’t know how i look forward to tomorrow .
his first bull did not see well .
t o f o r na c i .
" " where did you leave your bicycle ?
“certainly .
the city rather .
he had another drink .
“but we don’t have to track .
“don’t , jim , ” liz said .
“are there any russians in extremadura ?
” claude asked .
" " should we have another drink ?
he was very , very tired .
” “this is fresh .
” “it will not last , certainly .
think of what you are doing .
don ' t lie to me .
he did not seem to be a hunter either .
madrid .
” frazer asked .
now they would have the run home together .
he saw the trout in the water jerking with his head and body against the shifting tangent of the line
“two hundred francs .
” “where do you think you are ?
ignace .
there were many cars standing on tracks--brown wooden restaurant-cars and brown wooden sleeping-cars that would go to italy at five
robert doesn ' t think he ' s any good , though .
“you can do that to me too , ” she said .
i was damned if i could not have anything to do with them if i would let garrick make any
“they are decent clients .
white with the sun on her in that cold air that it looked like tall buildings rising out of the
" " there she is .
that’s a good one .
“if it was a man—” “don’t say that .
field for the observations of the naturalist .
“reel on him , ” i said .
we smoothed the dust of the lick carefully with our feet so that any new tracks would show when we
to hit him at all i had to use him all as a target .
" give me a response .
they can go faster from fair beauty to the knocker ' s shop than any other animal , he thought
" i ' ll kill you !
the lips there , still there ; then overwhelmed , and the pain gone as he sat , alone ,
" one of the whores laughed out loud .
but what else can you do ?
” the young gentleman looked through his pocketbook and took out a two-lira note and two ones .
" " i have to work in the morning , " i said .
“simplicity of action , ” george said .
very delicately between his fingers .
, and never frightening , and assuming about the other person , and always taking never asking , and gentleness
clock i went out for a while .
nickie .
smaller .
then he went down very slowly .
after all i abused it much in the night when it was necessary to free and unite the various lines
' ' please let ' s skip it .
“i said we were going out , ” i said .
' ' i ' ve got enough .
" why , that one ' s a great bull-fighter , " retana ' s man said .
the next day they called on his mother and the next day they sailed for europe .
“i’m not a doctor , ” my father said .
a wife , and two children .
we will lunch at harry ' s , or we ' ll come back here and i will be packed
' probably .
then he stepped out and made her fast to a rock .
current .
' ' like that , ' the colonel said .
truly , finally and for good .
for just a moment the fish turned a little on his side .
willingness to oblige and his lack of respect for federal statutes , made him his trouble .
you were ever there in the old days when it was shining , white and beautiful .
saw the swishing rush in the grass .
three hundred francs for a thing that is nothing to do .
it was easter sunday and the fascists were advancing toward the ebro .
” “i’ll go in .
” “i won’t let you file .
' just be careful around the centre , ' the colonel said .
the people were very happy .
plateau and out into the fields of grain that blew in the wind on the plain on the way to
“doesn’t it taste wonderfully ?
” madame fontan asked .
it is a street i do not mind walking down at all .
c ' est normale .
the cage .
' i was tired of the conversation which was becoming an interview .
“have you a gun aboard ?
" " i don ' t believe she would marry anybody she didn ' t love .
“watch he doesn’t get up , ” wilson said .
finally when the county had gone local option he had bought this store .
" " you bring us .
end of the log .
“it seems so awfully simple and as though there were no problems at all , ” the girl said .
" we count on you , " fontan said .
" the waitress said .
an animal ; just as the way to paint is as long as there is you and colours and canvas
they dove into the surf that was sandy where it broke and swam out to the clean green water .
things which were his own fault .
” “just get out early and wait , ” he said .
“take your time .
" i ' d forgotten what beer tasted like .
a goat hopped up on one of the carts and then to the roof of the diligence .
naturally i do not agree with everything .
" yes , " said johnson , " just for a little walk .
" " you don ' t work .
said .
they like wine all right .
' ' it was the old battle-jacket .
the two matadors stood together in front of their three peones , their capes furled over their left arms in
come here , you bloody humpty dumpty .
” “everything should be moved tonight .
' ' we are , ' said the _gran maestro_ .
" why do you want it now ?
“we’ll go down now and have lunch in our old fine place by the fire and i’ll tell you what
” “takes ten to be an ace .
” “you’re an old joker , harry , ” he said .
” the swiss got up and paid and went out .
it mixed slowly with the whisky .
there’s a berry patch down below .
" carl ain ' t no good with girls , " frank said .
are you my superior officer ?
upstairs the matador who was ill was lying face down on his bed alone .
live in and where you could fish and eat your lunch and watch the train go by .
the two sailors whistled again .
abraham lincoln was a faggot .
” “right , ” i said .
but they were up to the bow now and driving in one after the other and together , tearing off
love to all the chaps , michael .
“he just threw it .
he laid his rod down now and went back to where the trunk of a small birch tree , dead
there were pigeons out in the square , and the houses were a yellow , sun-baked color , and i
all these peasants are beasts .
they _have_ been on the lousy salt .
on the boulevard raspail , with the lights of montparnasse in sight , brett said : " would you mind
with m ' cola coming on our tracks .
there can be an omelet with truffles dug by pigs of distinction .
' whose your old man ?
so it’s yellow stuff .
” the three of them walked over to where the second buffalo bulked blackly in the open , head forward
it was still strange and no one spoke at all but it was their country now , not his nor
from the bar you could watch your luggage , just as well as the two _pescecani_ were watching theirs .
the old man found it for us below the boulders and to the right half a mile away .
when the sun had risen further the old man realized that the fish was not tiring .
” “i got to kill him .
she screamed just as nick and the two indians followed his father and uncle george into the shanty .
they’re getting much better .
' i got the bloody tragedian .
" asked the detective sergeant , looking across the bed at the interpreter .
” she went on over the crest of the hill .
his size .
" " talk quiet , " i said .
supplies .
all the shutters were closed and there was a lamp on the table .
around his neck and on his chest was a big wreath of twisted garlics .
" " we ' re going to the fiesta at pamplona .
and the clouds looked heavy and threatening .
" nick opened the door and went into the room .
' hemingway is a name i have heard .
" aren ' t they lovely ?
shoot him again , ” trudy said .
” “salud .
” “you should not say such things , sir .
he wore a silk muffler and gloves .
you will like him .
' he went off , delicate as always , so we could talk about it if we wanted to .
she’s right at the end of the quicksand right at the edge of the gulf .
he certainly looked bad .
' i wonder what cheeses he has ?
through the snow , mr .
we were poorer than you can know , my colonel .
' ' i love you , ' he said .
but it was a cold proposition .
“i stop here , so you won’t get into trouble carrying passengers , ” he said .
' should we get up here on to the bank and skirt this bit ?
“well , they smell about the same .
jack put the left in his face .
up , checking that i had a pair of handkerchiefs in my shirt pockets .
the boy who brought us up pulled up the curtains and brought in our bags .
you see packard if things get bad .
you’re brave enough now .
" i banged on the glass .
' yes , sir , ' the surgeon said .
hogan was inside at the office .
i ' ll get the car .
billy tabeshaw carried two big canthooks .
inn and talking it over .
showing only their flanks through the trunks of the trees and said they were kudu bulls .
he was plenty nervous .
you have a dry heart and i hate you .
that something i cannot yet define completely but the feeling comes when you write well and truly of something and
the mayonnaise rather stiff .
an eccentric , perhaps , but quelqu ' une , quelqu ' une !
having discovered my vulnerable point , my achilles tendon so to speak , the doctor pursues his advantage .
in it and a hole in front you couldn’t put your little finger in and a hole in back you
" what did you do today ?
chapter xiv maera lay still his head on his arms , his face in the sand .
' do you know anything particular we should be cheerful about ?
" " what do you mean the nigger ?
bill poured the glass half full of whisky .
he did not know .
you can remember that there was such a smell , but nothing ever happens to you to bring it back
' ' good old mama , ' i said .
ain’t got any beer .
a huddle and head out through the door .
" " what is the oldest brandy you have ?
“hello , zurito , ” he said .
holes and driving around the mud castles ants had built .
i won’t tell you too much .
he would not argue with a guest at table .
” “what were you going to drive them in with ?
“then i’ll fix you up again .
him when swimming and paralyzed the lower leg and made the unbearable pain .
" pedro romero leaned forward .
flares .
take me , nickie .
stop me if i talk too much .
' ' without his wife .
” “that’s the only thing that bothers us .
there were no tracks .
" you would be much more distinguished in civilian clothes .
with radio itself) he rode in every night out to the roadhouse on the canadian side where he followed the
' ' i will , ' she said .
rommel might .
mothers should tell their daughters about this face .
looking across the plain through the mist we could see some other masai coming along the road ; earth-brown skins
' ' come on , ' pop said .
there was no one dancing in the square .
' wouldn ' t you like to sit down , my colonel ?
i had forgotten all about him .
a taxi to the gare st .
” “while you are sending for them , make me a very dry martini .
i will take good care of him .
" will you shut your mouth and get us out of here ?
that is sheer nonsense and a useless waste of time .
' ' oh , yes .
“oh , yes , i speak german and french and the dialects .
going down the streets in the morning on the way to mass in the cathedral , i heard them singing
quite a little had gone through , always on the road to the right .
shifting in the wind .
the boy refusing and the old man saying he would beat him again .
truly .
to support his children and their mothers and he would have to do some decent writing to make that money
' ' that ' s the first mean thing i ever heard you say .
" " i think so .
" " well , good-night , mrs .
at the roar he jumped and was going into the brush , but i knew i had hit him .
” “where are we going ?
then we got in the car .
it is one of the best restaurants in the world .
” “you go to sleep , my baby .
' won ' t it be fun , robert ?
“so long as it’s over that’s all that matters , ” bill said .
” he smiled , reluctant to press the subject but needing to bring the young gentleman into action .
than karl , but the kudu had become an obsession to him and he was not himself , nor anything
” “it’s different .
” we shook hands with fred and got on the train .
" " the first time , " he said .
the bathroom was the only disappointing part of the room .
would you like me to have to operate without morphine ?
do you hear me ?
“he’s some sort of a dane .
” nick cleaned up the skillet and put the pack in at the head of the leanto .
why don’t you drink yours ?
her looks were going , and her attitude toward robert changed from one of careless possession and exploitation to the
" now they have beaten me , he thought .
for the first three hours he was fresher than they were and he asked juma for the .
" " this is where it ' s good , " the innkeeper said .
in the world .
" " we oughtn ' t to talk out loud , " i said .
driving at speed , when the fish dropped .
thinking was no good .
the wife liked him .
he heard his father moving around in the living-room .
any resemblance to actual events or locales or persons , living or dead , is entirely coincidental .
' and what the hell difference does it make ?
there was the great miracle and he had never consciously implemented it .
please be a good boy and we just lie together and love each other .
" how much do i owe you ?
nickie , you’re a good boy no matter what anybody says .
i have done all that can be done .
” “i hated it , ” she said bitterly .
they don ' t have to work this afternoon and there is no reason why they should not get drunk
my wife knows now all i think , all i say , all i believe , all i can do
i did not know whether they were there in migration or were following the locusts but , in the twilight
" it ' s a wonder retana wouldn ' t give us enough light to see the horses by ,
break that other silly bugger’s nose and kick his silly ass out of here .
" " we ' ll come before we go .
i would like to be beautiful for you if i could and if i could be beautiful .
we’ll have a hot grog .
or the first time a girl is unwell , but i have been upset .
“kind of funny .
the world was not wheeling any more .
“you’re just a goddamned fool , ” doctor wilcox said to the boy .
" every one was very respectful to the peroxide blonde , who said all this in a high stagey way
now , knowing how it had all been , even remembering the earliest times before things had gone badly was
he shut his eyes in the sun .
they’re fine kids but i want a boy .
but with them making their own breeze driving at a steady seventy on the straight long stretches and feeling the
" " you can ' t ever tell .
we all have malice , you know , of some kind or another in this town .
the best time he had ever hit it was with andy one time in the winter and another time driving
too expensive .
' ' ' cola , ' i said .
at a little before eleven i saw the two lights show on the point .
we planned this all out , pop consulting with droopy , and then sent the lorries off with dan to
but in war these animals succumb in much the same manner as the more common and less hardy horse .
he went out with the money and so of course i thought he had attended to it .
quite sharply and the wind was on his right cheek and he said , with his old eyes catching the
” we said good-by to the man at the desk at the hotel , and to larry and our other
some people would disagree with this setup .
” “i had lew fighting in philadelphia , ” john said .
” “i thought marijuana was the opium of the poor , ” frazer said .
” there was a half a pound of butter and she brought it wrapped in the oiled paper in the
' ' but what is it that happens to american writers ?
one of the short stories hemingway suggested be included in a new collection he proposed in a letter to editor
my own wine that i made .
' i ' d rather have him beat me .
he had never quarrelled much with this woman , while with the women that he loved he had quarrelled so
' ' you shoot them .
if they could hit them .
the military band was playing and the crowd was massed on the far side of the square where the fireworks
” “certainly not the individual bull and the individual priest , ” said the second waiter .
" you ever seen these fellows ?
and thought of the wife kneeling there and saying , “pedro .
' ' that ' s what makes it fun , ' i said .
i was thinking to myself that this johnson had fished fifteen days , finally he hooks into a fish a
you all through ?
' ' i do not understand .
the head of the valley was in heavy shadow .
' ' eat .
” “i’m awfully glad you did .
the dying is an accident .
" there ' re the regular pics , " he offered .
had opened the wrong door in a hotel and seen something shameful .
besides i’ve got a family .
he lifted it as lightly as he could because his hands rebelled at the pain .
i could feel her crying .
plenty of luck , all right .
drink .
it is our dead that will help me !
” he asked the girl .
if you ' ve got one down be careful how you walk up to him .
but i’ve hurt him and i have to kill him .
' everybody ought to do it before breakfast .
' you can ' t beat it .
i’d tell you if i was .
” “it’s good , ” i said .
' did you get in trouble with him ?
" but maybe not to-night .
" two hundred francs .
may i make you a campari with gin and soda ?
that ' s not his play .
“he says he never saw the fellow at all , ” the interpreter said .
i could not contemplate the delicate conformation of its roots , leaves and capsules without admiration .
' that ' s not the road for trieste , sir , ' jackson said .
" you ' ve got to realize , " he said , " that i don ' t want you
" " come on , " said brett .
' he ' s shootable .
" " i didn ' t feel badly at all .
but he did not write execrably .
" " why me ?
" nickie can have prudence , " joe garner said .
it was not quite dark .
in the first place , you had to be in love with a woman to have a basis of friendship
" she went out to put the birds away where it was cooler .
the appeal that manuel had made to him for a moment when he thought of the old days was gone
there was an englishman up there .
he bent over the indian woman .
” “you better not have anything to do with it at all , ” sam , the cook , said
i don ' t believe it was a bull , ' he said .
' ' but you are not working now .
cohn ' s face was sallow .
“let’s get drunk .
” “they’re going to starve you out , ” his sister said .
the old men and women , soaked through , walked along keeping the cattle moving .
' they can hear the tick birds .
' and i will have a detail guarding the gates of hell so that no such characters enter .
“your goddam pig’s feet stink , ” tom said , and spit what he had in his mouth on the
" i owe money to everybody .
' ' i am , ' i said .
open and lay back , edge out across his knuckles .
' i think he ' s a damned liar , ' pop said .
“just that one ?
“it’s the biggest small stream i’ve ever known , ” nick told her .
to get much smaller .
' ' after cherbourg we had everything .
he was in the infantry but he was not an infantryman and it was always the same appearances .
” he circled them once more to make them roar more loudly .
" that afternoon they had been playing about five minutes when a probationer came into the room and said ,
the road was white and dusty , and the dust rose under the wheels and hung in the air behind
but when the leaves fall from the rain they are dead and wet and flat to the ground and the
' putting on lipstick and moving your lips over each other to get it spread properly and combing your too
a long sweep of country , was the brown rift valley and the shine of lake manyara .
i don ' t care about seeing them again .
then he finished the cup , dipped up some cold water and drank it and went to bed .
nothing at all .
her , crossing the line and circling with her on the surface .
there was a canvas water bag and a ground cloth to use as a tent .
” “why haven’t you got the hatch up ?
making things clear is my main trade .
his head went under but he came up and his chin was out of water .
of our tents .
“you’ve seen the last of them .
“did you get the cat ?
and we may have to be away for years .
the kid came out and had to kill five bulls because you can’t have more than three matadors , and
you don’t have to talk to them .
let him keep her where she belongs .
from the still existent portions of which we picked many of these detached bits which illustrated only too well the
pop was her ideal of how a man should be , brave , gentle , comic , never losing his
why don ' t you keep the cab and go on ?
it isn’t so far to the berries now .
wrinkled pile .
macomber stayed in the camp .
' the colonel said .
” “i want to go home and into bed .
that willie sawyer he don’t know how to have any fun at all .
“it is better so , ” she thought .
” in the vacant lot the boys were still playing baseball and it was quite cool now .
” “sure .
' will you check me on the fork ?
the colonel proceeded to his room accompanied by the boy who carried his bag .
they would come onto the camp now from above .
that is all i’ve ever wanted .
they were all talking french and the two of them was after my old man about something .
he is no pistol-slapper , but a big business man ; an excellent politician , the executive type .
breathe long and deep , “it ain’t like when you’re a kid .
you get syphed up from women or if you’re married your wife’ll run around .
] _num_ d roman soldier—george is a kike just like all the rest of them .
the man , whose name was harry , said nothing then because he liked the nigger and there was nothing
when he was on the right-hand side of the road , facing south towards the road junction that would put
it carried me right down and past the port hole and i grabbed and couldn’t hold anything and went on
i was eating a piece of hot broiled liver i had lifted from one of the sticks of the wanderobo-masai
but for paco , the youngest of the three waiters who served at table , the only ones who really
* * * * * back in the hotel , the night watchman was sitting on a bench inside the
' where did you bring them from .
some writers are only born to help another writer to write one sentence .
“¿qué tal enrique ?
“john packard .
indecorous , and it occurred to me that perhaps that is what these people are , or were : the
into some shade and visited the military cemetery .
” then i saw him coming from behind under water .
we unpacked our leather coats and our raincoats and spread them on the grass at the foot of the trees
nor the trick ones .
” “a twelve-gauge pump .
the phone rings and somebody calls from corps who has his orders from army or maybe army group or maybe
” “two hundred francs is a great deal of money .
odgar and kate watched him , black in the dark , standing at the end of the board , poise
' m ' cola shouted .
she slept in a different way than his career girl had slept .
he had no money , and they fed him behind the counter in railway eating houses .
” said enrique .
' ' continue , ' said the colonel .
" " don ' t bring anything .
metal-sheathed roof of the monastery of roncesvalles .
was a service in the chapel of san fermin , and the coffin was carried to the railway-station by members
” his father sat watching nick eat the pie .
i could shut my eyes without getting the wheeling sensation .
' ' and what do i do ?
” “stay here , margot , ” macomber said to his wife .
as we came to camp , and the shade of the heavy trees , cool as a pool , i
“fräulein , ” he called .
his head swinging , watching it all .
they only opened one bag and took the passports in and looked at them .
cold wind by lounging in the lee of the gritti , than to use the last remaining heat of the
' i proceed to reveal , ' the colonel said .
pinned in my shirt .
i hope you ' re not english ?
” “if we keep on driving long enough we’ll get to it .
' ' please explain , ' he said .
but it makes me feel wonderful .
can ' t you see jake and i want to talk ?
her father was in china-- thanking you and trusting wholly in your advice i am and signed her name .
he just hasn ' t got anything inside any more .
they can ' t do a thing like that .
" i haven ' t changed any money here yet .
you could see it spread out below you and over the hills , could smell it , could taste the
' he turned to the boatman and said , ' that was thirty-five hundred , wasn ' t it ?
he did not know the name of rigel but he saw it and knew soon they would all be out
droopy and the local guide , the one who had been chased by the rhino , were whispering together .
” “not unless you want to very much .
the man he was handcuffed to wore a cap also but his neck was thick , he was dressed in
the referee looked at john and waved walcott on .
’ ‘oui , ’ il dit .
" i let you carry things when you were five years old .
very , very nice .
" not me , " said the thin one .
well anyway this regiment was rebuilt as american regiments always are by the replacement system .
toward the train .
a black sauce with wine and butter and mushrooms and onion and everything in it , for the jack .
not all .
it was a lovely double , shot exactly as he should have shot , with complete consideration and respect for
it looks good .
" how do you feel , hand ?
' they ' re marvellous .
and what isn ' t nowadays ?
if it isn’t enjoyable , why do it ?
the woman who had been serving drinks came out wiping her hands on her apron and talked to somebody inside
my life .
' i can bust him right in the sticking place , ' i whispered .
, a strange , heavy-shouldered , foot-swinging , cat run .
of soldiers , the giants , with the men who danced in them standing beside their resting frames , and
that did not necessarily mean that he would jump .
“she wouldn’t eat anything and she wouldn’t sleep at all .
of his right arm in his left hand and placed it between his knees and then pulled himself up by
it was only really difficult in normandy , due to the terrain , and when we made the break for
” “i imagine they will be glad to have it , ” i said .
“how does it get you ?
they were circling it and driving it .
water that nearly pulled me overboard the way we were going , and cleaned her off good with a scrub
' p .
' ' yes , sir , ' said jackson , ' i ' m glad to know about him .
" how ?
what the hell was it anyway ?
i don ' t know , he said frankly .
walking forward , watching the bull’s feet , he saw successively his eyes , his wet muzzle , and the
one was standing .
” “two grapefruits .
' ' you ' re a very good boy , ' the colonel told him .
into bed .
” “that sister .
and to be able to size up and work intelligently you have to have a talent .
” “wonderful , ” i said .
" it doesn ' t do any good to say i ' m sorry ?
” “you talk like a book again , ” she said angrily .
" bill sat down , opened up his bag , laid a big trout on the grass .
we walked on and circled the island .
it’s supposed to be wide open .
you’re a detective .
spagnolini made it but it’s not quite correct .
' ' i must tell her , ' the girl said .
" you want to do anything now ?
ahead the river narrowed and went into a swamp .
" listen , jake , " he leaned forward on the bar .
got up to make me a whisky and soda .
" " i ' ll give him the belly meat of a big fish , " the old man said
and there in the café as he passed was that american poet with a pile of saucers in front of
es muy flamenco .
but i noticed him drinking lots of ice water .
naturally ask , and found he is being treated for i don ' t know how to spell the word
” “i think they’ve been killed off a long time , ” he said .
i was only pointing out to the colonel---- ' ' don ' t you point me out a god-damn thing
perhaps it was a sin to kill the fish .
i gave him twenty francs and he touched his cap and said : " good night , sir , "
he would lie in the bed and finally , with daylight , he would go to sleep .
you’ve got to get back to the house .
large trees .
they’re usually the worst sufferers in these little affairs , ” the doctor said .
a thing plugged in his ears , i heard a shot up the track that meant they’d killed gilford .
” “that only leaves time for one meal .
" " i ' m all right , " i said .
then ahead and to the right we saw the high stockade of a masai village .
" be careful about those bull-fights .
it wasn ' t very funny and it wasn ' t very good , and it began to get to
scar from the wound the surgeon had pushed his rubber-gloved fist through in cleaning , which had run from one
i hope they split a good concussion between them .
then as the stream made a bend and we came out of the high grass to the bank i smelled
" an excellent diagnosis , doctor .
he , nicholas adams , could have what he wanted because of something in him .
the road turned off from the main highway and went up into the hills .
he looked at the sky and saw the white cumulus built like friendly piles of ice cream and high above
you have no pity .
they came in a pack and he could only see the lines in the water that their fins made and
“are you ready to start ?
" i know , " manuel said .
them as clearly as he understood the proper serving of a small dining-room ; or a large dining-room .
he was delighted by it and proud and loving about it as though the anarchists had a colonel , too
joe dragged him into bushes and got back up on the wagon-box .
“don’t you remember ?
i must hold him all i can and give him line when he must have it .
trees are changed and wet and unfriendly .
there were a couple of broads sitting at the next table to us .
“we have some apple strudel if you want it .
' ' the reason everyone now tries to avoid it , to deny that it is important , to make
let’s not quarrel any more .
” “no , ” said the man .
” “just a bright boy , ” max said .
" " i have nominated a scientist from vevey and a colleague of mine from lauzanne and they were both
' piga .
" " when i go to the show i crouch down like this and try to look small .
the president of the council was in lyons making a speech , or , rather he was on his way
and about the other .
” “you’re drunk and you’ve had d .
we were sitting in the café .
' good-bye , my colonel , ' he said .
i shoved it down into the water and sculled over with the birds all around me .
' i think i could safely say , yes .
you talk like one .
they were all connected .
" go on in there and dance with mike .
wing , folding the wing carefully over it , and sat there stroking and smoothing his breast feathers while he
' shenzi , ' m ' cola said and imitated a man pulling a bow .
" " it was excellent .
, who was a great writer .
' ' let ' s get ettore and have him call up your house .
" how much do i get ?
he charged fuentes ' s cape , with the canvas hanging from his splintered horn , and the crowd laughed
’ i said to her , ‘what you going to be ?
' first i can tell you that i love you , period .
behind a horse one time watching the horror of the flies scuttling around his crupper .
“in my father’s city men go on foot or in boats and no real horse would enter the city for
i liked the roman very much and had a high regard for him .
have tramps codes of conduct ?
" " i don ' t know , " cohn said .
“what does she say ?
” “you , ” said baldy , “you unfortunate little fellow .
we’ll be jolly enough .
” “that was bright .
do you remember now ?
we were going through farming country with rocky hills that sloped down into the fields .
don’t just encourage me .
“eleven stories , a novel , and poems .
" the tall dark one , called lett , said : " don ' t you be rash .
each one was trying to force the other ' s hand down onto the table .
” “it is nothing , ” said the doctor .
i suppose you know why they call him turd-face .
just as you said it .
” “i didn’t want her to send it to you , papa .
fake european standards have ruined you .
then it crashed again and he felt the blow as it hit his lower ribs and ripped on through ,
up the road a ways was the methodist church and down the road the other direction was the township school
" i got to do it .
it is really best to be in bed if you are in a hospital ; since two views , with
" good , " i said .
her eyes crinkled up as we came up to the table .
roger , please do that again .
all right , you surly jerk , the shooter thought to himself .
bayonne is a nice town .
' no , my colonel , ' the boy said .
below us a battle was being fought .
i mean no one will hear about it , will they ?
' we ' re pretty far up for people of our exalted rank , george , ' he said to
undoubtedly it was very fine .
his mind was on horses as well as baseball .
“oh , he’s very bad .
the first of them .
" " don ' t , " she said .
“i’ve always loved birds , ” the american lady said .
i could sit in the marinas and listen .
" between fishermen .
' ' that isn ' t literary .
” “were you expecting them ?
and when i asked her that she said , ‘oh how can you say that ?
so blindy just checked the machines again with his hand and stood there waiting for someone else to come in
each other , the happiness there with no pain , the being home suddenly there with no pain , the
robert hutchins _num_ surfside drive miami beach and handed the book back .
or a good german dog eat a good german soldier ' s ass which had been roasted by white phosphorus
the bull would come to him in the next third in good shape .
' ' he looks like something we could do without .
he just looked over our heads and said , " what ' s yours ?
“a fire shows a long way at night .
if there had been no law i would have shot garrick and they would all have hunted or cleared out
but it was quicksand she’d hit and when they opened the tank she went in stern first and then over
' ' correct .
a while they went away .
the hide was an inch thick where it hung in a cape behind the head and was as white where
we came up to the fire and i could see the old man ' s face bleeding as he put
we did not want to fire any shots where we were going except at rhino in order not to scare
he came back and reported there were no tracks leading down the valley below us and to the westward ,
i dare say jake here has seen as much as you have .
" " do you think it will be all right ?
” “really kill you ?
you could recognize if it was much darker than it was at this hour .
you could almost walk to burano .
_gran maestro_ and wave to any other members of the order and ten to one , the way i feel
and what has that to do with soldiering as a trade ?
i can’t say i like one better than another .
' anyway , not after he fought all those rear-guard actions coming back from that big russian town .
so nickie wouldn’t kill him .
” “i think that if i had a good look both ways down the beach and there was no one
a low fence while they ' re out feeding , and shot rabbits in the morning and in the afternoon
tell him that , " he said to the interpreter .
the new highway was wide now and ran far and clear ahead through the forest of pines that were tapped
i ' d like to get somebody else to tell it to her though and build me solid .
sing’s ankles .
there was dew on the oilcloth cover , the engine , and the seats were wet with dew .
" it was the last day of the fiesta .
" andré put the twenty-two-calibre rifle back in the cupboard .
he took it out in boxing , and he came out of princeton with painful self-consciousness and the flattened nose
the snake because he had a fine hide and twelve rattles and roger remembered how heavy and thick he was
i look at plane come over , bank , turn like this” (he turned and banked with his hands) ,
it’s a long way from here .
he drinks without spilling .
his jacket hung over the back of a chair .
him breathing .
" about twenty-six arrobas .
the concierge commenced to dial numbers .
' ' not too cold .
" " you know him ?
” “there are such wonderful places for us to go , ” she said .
he just kept slapping me on the back and shaking his head .
” “i’d say you had a good chance .
“it seems i have the face of a russian and it’s getting me into trouble .
“talk to me , bright boy , ” max said .
now he would have liked a girl if she had come to him and not wanted to talk .
don ' t be rough .
" i can ' t slide , billy .
it’s trying to kill to keep yourself alive , i imagine .
” they had lunch at a seafood restaurant owned by greeks .
as he came toward him , blinded , the lieutenant fumbled for his pistol .
_hebrew wine-seller_--gentlemen , you know i got to close .
the quaint little spanish fiesta .
mike had a bottle of fundador .
" i worked on my book .
" " but you don ' t mind , do you ?
“get them off the road quick , ” i said .
” asked the one who did not drink .
i try and play it along and just not make trouble for people .
the octoe-pus is more afraid of you than you afraid of oc-toe-pus .
” she did not care to discuss the subject .
station and brought up here to be let out of their cages into the corrals .
“i’m glad .
he knew he hadn’t been to this place with andy though .
she couldn’t sleep well from thinking about him but she discovered it was fun to think about him too .
on this circle the old man could see the fish ' s eye and the two gray sucking fish that
when they had to say good-bye , in the station at milan , they kissed good-bye , but were not
” “no dammit .
“this is a ridiculous hour .
“i’ll tell you what they were like .
” “it’s none of my business , yes , but it was your business .
he was a fine fellow , karl , and it was good he got these extra fine heads .
you going to be a writer you ought to get in on it early .
" i ' m limp as a rag .
i ' m not as sharp now as i was ; whenever .
ever see him again .
and then he’d get started talking about things .
this was different , this was no rapid fire , no pouring it on him as he comes groggy into
we stopped with a skid , all got out , and walked back .
but i dream lately about this hand .
but i have never been in any tumbril , and i would like to hear about paris .
who you going to cut in bed ?
' ' guess now , ' she said .
" " and you ' re all right ?
“un’ mezz’ora .
" i hope they have a lot of good luck .
but he swears this is good .
there will be others .
in _num_ he signed up for ambulance duty in italy as a member of an american field service unit .
it was getting dark .
drained of blood and awash he looked the colour of the silver backing of a mirror and his stripes still
the road dipped sharply to a stream and then ran straight up-hill .
" " huh !
“good night , ” i said .
play tennis , there was plenty of work to do , i went often to the races , dined with
attack .
” “what did you get ?
“i don’t think schmidt is catholique .
, too .
you can ' t fool those that were in hurtgen and if you lied they would know it the minute
no house .
what ' s cheerful , portrait ?
“henry , ” his wife called .
you could not see the tops of the mountains .
" " he stays with the wine .
then others write to profit quickly from the war they never fought in .
it is as i said .
' ' all cows , ' i said to m ' cola when they were past , running in a
" " the gambler , the nun , and the radio " was first published under the title , "
so they took the stones of all their houses in barges , like that one we just saw , and
suppose you don’t tell who he is and he shoots somebody else .
“you lay quiet now .
we might as well sit down .
or out into the country .
a little later he rang the bell for the nurse who was on floor duty .
writes homage to switzerland a day’s wait a natural history of the dead wine of wyoming the gambler , the
“and here’s the stones where i camped before .
gone and i paid over six hundred pesos in my own money and now i need it and you can
“when you want to see me i’m down in the office .
we had worked hard , and i thought well .
” “what do you suppose he’s doing now ?
had been jack-snipe on the prairie , or when he saw shocks of corn , or when he saw a
he had thought of five hundred , but when he opened his mouth it said two hundred and fifty .
“i wish it hadn’t happened .
should i talk american ?
turner have a drink .
" when i make a sum of money i gamble and when i gamble i lose .
how do you know this ?
" " i ' ll send a runner with you .
brett ' s gone off with men .
they are fifteen feet away and you are a young lieutenant on a patrol , ' i love you only
" woolsey asked .
the skiff .
“what the hell’s that to me ?
the steps by which she had acquired him and the way in which she had finally fallen in love with
“that is my certificate of membership , ” he said .
but it is truer than the things that you will read in generals ' memoirs .
making the grits dearer and the grunts cheapter .
and he was damned beautiful .
it was the part of any town he always went to first .
” asked my wife .
stopped , swung forward , rose on his toes , arms straight out , and sunk the banderillas straight down
" " i said all i had to say the other night , mike .
houses , the long docks going out into the water and close by the station the gravelled patch around the
raise .
or whatever that language should be called we all speak , the colonel thought .
' what about a fiasco of valpolicella ?
“do you know how good it is ?
how far to water ?
common visits to selborne , and bishop stanley has given us a valuable , although popular , _familiar history of
so we drove on , and finally were on the road coming down-hill toward the outlying houses of the town
but each time i was very tired .
i did not see brett and bill , and some one said they were in the back room .
he now spoke his idea of french about half the time and if given an order perhaps half the time
" what are you drinking ?
do not pretend to be stupid .
” “i’d scalp him and send it to his mother .
now if this was how it ended , and he knew it was , he must not turn like some
it was a splendid booklet .
the memsahib can sit back here with me .
” “no , i want to go .
“you shut up too , ” i said .
' i whispered to pop .
' then garrick came up .
” “how did you know it was them ?
drevitts and boyle drove up from the fifteenth street police station in a ford .
it was very hot and the express from barcelona would come in forty minutes .
i heard the brigade was here so i thought i would see you or some one else i knew .
" stay at my house if you like , bird , " he said .
we passed stands of rockets with long bamboo stems .
i ' d be lucky if i _got_ to buffalo .
i think that boy’s beginning to get a grasp of reality .
” “you can save that sarcasm .
” till some one threw a bucket of water from a window and the moaning stopped .
you know you still move like a colt ?
did you see their horns ?
" i ' ll look after her .
' b ' wana kabor shoot him ?
” “say , give me another shot of that , ” manuel said .
“that’s the way everything is .
” compton said .
c rations were bad .
nobody gets in where we’re going .
” “why don’t you care for him then ?
' ' i ' ll try to be in at a sound hour , ' the colonel said .
shall this be done by war or can it be done by peaceful methods ?
by the hills .
” “what about the money ?
he wished they would get started .
“that’s what i’m hired for , you know .
' in swahili .
" " i wish we ' d gone .
what a lousy kid thing to have done .
toward whatever he had chosen .
” “i’d like to meet him , ” nick said .
don’t kill me , ” and he stopped and kissed her .
we had a cognac .
that the tsetse fly would leave , and there was hard hunting in the hills , which were steep ,
he had been in that station before and he knew there was no upstairs to go to .
" " she gave me robert cohn ' s letters .
we might even draw a good one .
" he lit the cigar , puffed at it , looking across the table at brett .
it’s bound to come .
“son of a bitch , ” the little man said .
he could only use it effectively with one hand because of the grip of the handle and he took good
but there ' s a lot of difference between a jeep , and a car as low hung as this
the fascists hold very strong positions .
where is the drunken comrade ?
' whichever one we decide to use we will park in the garage alongside the muehlebach .
” “brother , ” i told him , and i was sorry for him , “you’re in plenty of trouble
he looked at the fire , then at the tent , he was not going to spoil it all by
sound-looking door open and step across the door sill into space : that floor and the next three floors below
on the occasion of his unfortunate death .
" " don ' t get sore , " the sergeant said .
manuel liked the smell of the stables about the patio de caballos .
everyone knows you don’t care anything about it yourself and i had every right to think you knew the facts
grass , said , “who are you that you think you are so much better than we are ?
then he went on , not smiling , “and you don’t really want—” the major paused .
he sank gently , first going off to one side , then sinking head first .
i waited a little while and then i took her in slow .
things must be done legally and in order .
“the sahara desert ?
curls ; tight and subjected by metallic instruments .
” “did your wingmen muck off ?
” “where did you read that ?
somebody was teaching bill a song .
there is a slow train at eleven , and the sud express at ten to-night .
' ' i ' m sorry that i shot .
” “he had better get off the street now .
“but you’re alive and you’re going to do things .
' ' there is one very good steak , ' the _gran maestro_ said , reappearing .
” they sat down at the table and the girl looked across at the hills on the dry side of
” “where did you get that one ?
" " they can ' t say things like that about mike , " bill said .
“tonight , ” george answered .
nick sat down against the charred stump and smoked a cigarette .
but he felt the rigidity of bone too and he struck the shark once more hard across the point of
” “thank you for putting the mackinaw on me .
” “no , there wasn’t any scene .
' shut up , you bastard , ' i said , and put my hand to my mouth .
” “i’d like to meet that fellow .
work .
page .
there are two dining-rooms in the montoya .
nicholas adams drove on through the town along the empty , brick-paved street , stopped by traffic lights that flashed
” “i would take a nap , nicolo , ” paravicini said .
' the boatman said nothing but commenced to smash at the jagged perimeter of ice with his oar .
he felt there was something between them .
in back was the garage , the chicken coop and the second-growth timber like a hedge against the woods behind
" " no , " said bill .
don’t you kill him for me .
want to choke me for ?
but they were the falsest thing in the sea and the old man loved to see the big sea turtles
” no , he thought .
" the old man wiped the blade of his knife and laid down the oar .
” says soldier .
antiseptics ran out that paralyzed the minute blood vessels and started the gangrene .
” “oh , for chrisake , ” the sergeant said .
all the insides clean and compact , coming out all together .
had such good reading too and he thanked his father for not pushing him too hard on the writing because
“and i’ll tell you the rest if it doesn’t bore you .
his loneliness , but only made it worse , he had written her , the first one , the one
" huh !
i thought we were asking permission to go through the corn .
his hands smelled good from the sweet fern .
of eating , something that i understood and m ' cola did not understand , nor care about , and
“there’s the whole river between them and you .
the sword-handler took the cape , looked up at brett , and came over to us and handed up the
' it is the one altogether pleasant thing about it .
" " truly .
what would you rather do if you could do anything you wanted ?
" my learned counsel was blind , too .
he couldn’t have held on if he wanted to .
but we have no hurricane coming now .
he had said nothing since the negro had spoken about the knife .
” “maybe too .
surely he did , " insisted mrs .
we went on slowly .
in principle , i would have brought you a bottle of brandy .
dock and the boat house were out of sight and there was only the point with three crows walking on
' masai many cattle .
the wire was a cable from bill gorton , saying he was arriving on the france .
" doctor wilcox had said nothing but he had bought the leather-bound guide that same day .
of the trail where the buff had gone through the grass .
" " at one time i was under the age limit , " nick said .
she went on up the stairs .
she was a journalist .
the butt is awfully slow , and it misses and if it lands you get blood on your hands when
" i was reading a week-old spanish paper .
" " hello , frances , " said cohn .
” “oh let’s not talk about him .
“you’re a very courteous fellow , ” george said .
ce n ' est pas bon de changer sa religion .
away off across the sun-hardened country .
another rider who maintains his pace will make up the space that separated them equally at the start .
“we just came to say good-by .
if you ' re feeling frightfully fit , you climb for them and up in the crags you knock them
the sunlight came in through the window and shone on a map on the pineboard wall of the hut .
i were checked .
he took the ax out of the pack and chopped out two projecting roots .
don ' t you think he ' s wonderful ?
' ' everybody but kamau .
corto y derecho he launched himself on the bull .
“you don’t have to laugh , ” max said to him .
of his belly .
” “don’t think , ” i said .
” “she’s indian all right .
a good two hundred yards and sent the herd off bounding wildly and leaping over one another’s backs in long
" " never ?
" " it ' s swell dancing .
they last the best in the water and fish prefer them .
" " it would be like betting on the war , " i said .
he put his hand out to me .
" " lying down ?
the youths of the cuadrillas were behind , their heavy capes furled over their arms .
there were good ones that i don ' t remember .
” “say , jerry , ” john said to me .
they had been drinking .
was so bloody marvellous i knew i would wonder , sooner or later , if it was not really a
“and it doesn’t make any difference to me whether you believe it or not .
" " anything you want me to do ?
“listen , ” red said and handed the bottle to me .
stay around .
“i’m through after this fight , ” jack says .
the birds no longer waited on the ground .
' ' i can rest on my feet , or against a god-damned tree .
all the same it’s not cheap .
" " eighteen eleven , sir .
oh , jim .
' ' only if alvarito asks you .
wonderful though he is .
a side street .
' m sure of him .
" on the forearm , from just above the wrist to the elbow , were small blue circles around tiny
' ' we can decide that any time .
they say they’re going to wait till you come back .
” max turned to al .
" but when mr .
the gunner hit him in the body , then beside his eye .
not a g-man .
" i disjointed my rod and bill ' s and packed them in the rod-case .
hell , no girls get married around here till they’re knocked up .
' ' we ' re sitting on the wrong sides for that .
don ' t think .
“it is a beautiful guet-apens , ” claude said and red asked me what was that .
" the dancers did not want me to go out .
there isn’t any home .
' they ' re beauties .
and quite tired .
they’re really dreadful .
he felt it coming on again .
foxes in the fall after they bring the cattle down .
i watched it turn off to take the road to spain .
looked at them and his heart was happy because of the brown nets and the wicker fish traps and the
" the second waiter asked manuel .
" hello , jake , " he said .
“wonderful .
' what are we going to do with this goofy ?
and i ' m not thinking of the theatre , he thought .
” “you must have some lead .
if i could have used a bat with two hands i could have killed the first one surely .
whoever that is .
“to shoot birds that bother the baits or to shoot sharks cruising along the keys .
not , but it is appropriate and enjoyable to read them as separate stories , as they first appeared .
" i wouldn ' t marry him if he doesn ' t want to .
so that was that .
“pa , can i go to the show ?
all the port holes were shut that you could see going along over her but way down below near the
farmer , dressed in a dirty once-white cloth gathered at the shoulder in the manner of a roman toga ,
“let me tell you something else , ” the man leaned forward .
" " you ' re a pretty bright boy , aren ' t you ?
” “there is no thirst like the thirst of battle .
" thank you , " the old man said .
" " it was further on .
all right , he said .
upstairs was open under the roof and was where bill and his father and he , nick , sometimes slept
” “you’re a funny girl .
your father doesn’t care what you start in at .
] you couldn’t let me have a little something on account , lootenant ?
we got into the big car .
you haven’t slept nights ever since i been with you .
but they were not there .
" " do you want to come up and hear the game this afternoon ?
” “tea ?
” “yes , signor maggiore .
you loved him when he was alive and you loved him after .
“you do not love one another .
harry greb is dead you know .
that’s what the birds were after .
' karl drew the short one .
make another turn in the dark and come back and eat them .
she was a three-masted schooner and i could just see the stumps of her spars out of water .
through the open doors of the shops .
that ate acorns in the mountains .
people would say we are not fighting the krauts and besides the cat did not eat me nor my brother
he felt like reading .
" " you ' d better come up and hear the game .
and aided and abetted by the second waiter , had shown her to the colonel and to the girl .
i ' d like to be buried way out at the edge of the grounds , but in sight of
you know you didn ' t have a good time at san sebastian because none of our friends would invite
“there’s our old ruin , nick , ” marjorie said .
“no monkey business .
i ' ve got a hundred and two .
they preferred belmonte ' s imitation of himself or marcial ' s imitation of belmonte .
” krebs felt embarrassed and resentful as always .
then he just watched the road .
but the shark came up fast with his head out and the old man hit him squarely in the center
" " il faut revenir tout de suite après le show , " madame fontan said .
he pushed the magazine full of the heavy yellow shells and pumped them out again .
" but i must think , he thought .
it was about three inches long and was quite lovely to look at if you liked that sort of thing
“sure , ” said al .
an awful beast .
" he ' s all bone , " the boy said encouragingly .
“oh !
“won’t you have another coffee or a liqueur ?
' ' by god if you ' re not , ' pop said .
roger made a drink and settled down to read .
perhaps not , he thought .
one , and i tried to remember having read something about them , but all i could remember was a
came back again and walked the two miles to the road .
" the proprietor brought two bottles and we drank them while we read the letters .
all the bags were opened and clothing was strewn around .
“hadn’t you ought to put your hat on even under the canvas at noon ?
" he ' s a fine boy , don ' t you think so ?
“no , ” i said .
i did not care what it was all about .
across the bridge we turned up a road to the corrals .
bill shut the door .
“i’m not drunk now , see ?
i sleep light .
" come on , " the old man said aloud .
the big , dark-haired picador was playing billiards , the short , serious matador was sitting at a crowded table
first i thought : if it had only rained , so that the ground would hold a track , we
” “he seems like a good guy , ” al said .
“i have to and you know it .
town walking along with big white steers hauling the cart .
this was the overlapping of the pine needle floor , extending out beyond the width of the high branches .
knew he could put no more strain on it .
” “you buy them , sell at the hotel , ” mrs .
come on , bill .
” “they were excellent .
” “this wind only rose during the night , ” a soldier said .
you might as well look , too , ” nick said to the signallers .
, and was married by the first girl who was nice to him .
roger drove faster now and the movement of the car through the heavy air made the air cool as it
" " i must bathe , " said brett .
he stood by the bed in the dark .
para , ” he said .
” “i’m not really .
" and where are you going to be , robert ?
“i know no one in that direction , ” he said , “but thank you very much .
i just feel happy about him .
to the scrubby dry plain that spread out below the two great blue hills .
that ' s one good thing about being an infantryman .
you leave behind ?
” and he had put a newspaper on her lap and she had tucked the bird’s bloodied head under his
but tonight the smell of the land breeze came very early and he knew it was too early in his
i never knew about driving across the country and having our drinks on the way .
" said brett .
and then ran toward the barrera for a new sword .
i ' ve told you that before .
the prisoner leaned toward the window side of the seat and the detective toward the aisle .
' he lives next door but he goes to the gritti sometimes to eat .
i went out of the room and turned the door to quietly .
you ' re a darling .
” “speak up , boy , ” the big prisoner stared at me .
" " well , they thought it was better to have it absorb , and that ' s what i
was too fantastic to deal with .
the newspaper lay across his knees and the weight of his arm held it there in the evening breeze .
bull-fighters were very relieved he was dead , because he did always in the bull-ring the things they could only
we kept some for a while and then we gave them all away .
and we had seen a lot of country .
pulled up into it and sat there waiting for my head to stop aching and looking down into the water
“why don’t you gentlemen just put your lines out and enjoy yourselves ?
“come on , al , ” max said .
it is always cool in the down-stairs dining-room and we had a very good lunch .
“such a beautiful expression .
' i would sure as hell like to trade it in on a new one , the colonel thought .
” “equally to you , ” i said .
that , or this new dive , the select .
' ' i always use the wrong words , ' the girl said .
" alles , " he said .
“did you want another drink , macomber ?
” “they didn’t have a muffled hammer in the bible .
i opened the letter .
i shared a taxi back from the quai d ' orsay with woolsey and krum .
set himself and tapped him across the base of the skull .
, and reached the bank of the river .
“you’re awfully sweet to me , ” he said to the guard .
he had the gun over his shoulder and he held a black squirrel by the front paws .
pads .
” “it would be too much for me .
it seem vain to try to do it , is because it is so difficult .
” “got clean sheets ?
and they conceded .
it was well over fifty inches .
he was getting his front legs out of the bottle to jump .
i was blind myself .
his sister was watching and she had her hands folded across her knees and he watched her unclasp her hands
can leave .
he also told him not to count on it , but that there was a good chance that he could
then you must get a hair-cut .
" " you ' ll write about her sometime , " sister said .
kamau , sitting in the car , had seen a kudu bull pass a hundred yards away .
* * * * * we had breakfast before daylight and were started before sunrise , climbing the hill beyond
let me go in alone .
he perspired heavily while doing this and it made his hair very curly and his face red .
do you think you talk spanish better than i do ?
he did not yet understand politics but it always gave him a thrill to hear the tall waiter speak of
stock of decoys out , cold weather , and the certainty of a flight on .
she was a raging inferno .
swing with their bills .
he was holding his glass and thinking of many years ago .
dan can move on down to m ' uto umbu and he can get his oryx .
say , it was a treat to see my old man skip rope , too .
” “enrique , ” she said , sitting tight against him .
' like that one ahead at ceggia .
the trigger ' s like the last turn of the key opening a sardine can .
everybody was very busy .
” the two health-farm patients ate at the same table with us .
hunting kudu and many other things .
he was sitting at the wheel now , and i had reached up and had both the cases open and
" one of the stretcher-bearers came in .
“you don’t know them ?
" but it ' s better than to run around at night with the other boys and steal things .
romero smiled .
they did not try very often on the boat because mrs .
the steel column it slid up and down on was bent and there were several marble stairs in the six
sometimes someone would speak in a boat .
' chai , ' he said , pulling on my blanket .
are there any questions ?
“this is my pal bugs , ” ad said .
“that’s not very polite .
" " perhaps i am drunk .
what should i bring ?
“i’ll be in for breakfast , ” george said .
with all those who need a light for the night .
” “many times i do not follow myself with pleasure .
and sat with about a dozen correspondents , while the foreign-office mouthpiece , a young nouvelle revue française diplomat in
it was a château margaux .
below the water was smooth and black .
“the light is very bright and pleasant but the bar is unpolished , ” the waiter said .
we took the house but it took some time .
“good-by , mrs .
this was reached by a trail which ran from the cottage through the woods to the farm and then by
you told me .
and hung it so the trout were deep in the water .
their priests , commenced filing down the corridor .
in it are permanent and of value because that stream , will flow , as it has flowed , after
it ' s just like the fratellinis used to be .
only he did not know enough things .
the sun was down to the top of the treetops now .
avoid it , horace .
' drink to him , daughter .
' there is grappa there on the table .
we liked them all right then .
' ' sure , ' the second waiter said .
" he went away and came back with the long-handled coffee and milk pots .
jack got up .
' ' i ' ve had some damn good times in my life without sheets .
he used this instead of a ticket .
" " well , " i said , " so long .
lewis but this man araquistain who invented him ?
“i don’t want to see you , ” zurito said .
it had been heavily cloudy all day although the sun had come through the clouds in the forenoon for a
, and the next time you passed it riding in a truck , and the next time you were coming
the english spoken language--the upper classes , anyway--must have fewer words than the eskimo .
” the nigger blubbered with his face against a sack .
" " isn ' t he ?
' ' mashed potatoes and a plain salad .
“i hope we’re not disturbing you .
never have i had such a strong fish nor one who acted so strangely .
” “i wish you could stick over and we could do the dent du lys tomorrow .
ils sont des sauvages .
it was necessary for the austrians to try to break through at the angle where the sile river and the
i’m sorry , mister adams .
them toward the opposite bank , but could not see what was making the movement .
" " the man she ' s going to marry .
he was a trout so big that it hardly seemed he could turn in the stream .
go out to the reef , captain willie adams was thinking .
' ' they all look like bulls to me .
" out in the centre of the ring , all alone , romero was going on with the same thing
i wouldn ' t like to hunt in that .
all the time we were walking soldier was kidding him .
when they first start nailing him , there isn’t none of them wouldn’t stop it if they could .
" little white lies .
it was difficult in the dark and once the fish made a surge that pulled him down on his face
' ' i told you i made mistakes , ' the colonel said .
” “you and kibo hunted and traveled all last night .
you don ' t look very religious , jake .
” he’d ask me questions about things and some of the things i’d say he’d laugh .
i went down once more and i cracked the glass , only cracked it , and when i came up
he kissed her then and he searched for the island , finding it and losing it and then finding it
jack wasn ' t sore ; that is , he wasn ' t any sorer than he always was .
so long .
could we have another beer ?
" " hello , brett , " i said .
“all right , ” jack says , “i’ll play you once more to see who pays for the meal .
it was there he filled the flit gun .
behind him was the chauffeur carrying a basket of champagne .
bill put the pack against one of the trees and we jointed up the rods , put on the reels
” “pine country can be so friendly too .
the stairs to the back door .
finally i went to sleep in the chair with my feet on a chop-box and when i woke there was
' ve had .
" " did you see anybody ?
eats himself .
up that creek without a paddle .
the whole thing was different now , ’cause down in milan , even big races never seemed to make any
' what did you get ?
" " you do not understand .
" you ought to quit it , manolo .
' ' plus the fact that they were restricted to religious subjects .
the light came through the doorway , and through the window where vegetables , fruit , steaks , and chops
that ' s the best and lightest small marine engine i know .
' the concierge was gone and he leaned on the desk resting .
" go to hell !
in the sun against a stone wall by the sea of galilee eating some lunch and drinking a bottle of
' and what about robert ?
dammit i forgot to look at the cap .
“then it’s going to be just like the lion , ” said margot , rull of anticipation .
“he’s never right .
but i don’t want you to do it if you don’t really want to .
it’s a nigger weapon .
" " i stayed here all the time you were in spain and you authorized me to pay these things
" " it ' s a splendid idea , " said harris .
island .
you’d like it .
his head on the table .
but none came in and he had to think .
in may of _num_ .
the train stayed twenty-five minutes in the station at marseilles and the american lady bought a copy of _the daily
the mosquitoes will get to us here .
could see snow on their tops , but they made no shadow , and in the valley the grain-fields were
” “i have just been called up for this war .
” “what makes you think it will come tomorrow ?
he held his trousers and his shoes in his hands .
the shooter , wearing his hip boots and an old combat jacket , with a patch on the left shoulder
applause from the dark plaza .
all my life , he thought .
the trumpet had blown to change the act to the planting of the banderillos while manuel had been working with
" " the town ' s full of bright boys , " max said .
the logs had been lost from the big log booms that were towed down the lake to the mill by
the detective looked up .
but i wish i could talk over certain things with him .
hook out .
sick .
i drew david garrick and abdullah .
pinin walked across the main room of the hut toward the major’s door .
" i did not say anything .
the first one that hit that blood spoor would stay with it until he found him .
“can’t do that , ” said wilson .
all for pleasure .
“mademoiselle , ” he called again .
“come on and have a drink at the café des amateurs now , i said .
where will you hang it ?
odgar thought just love would do it .
bull , in fast strong-legged climb .
he pulled down the sheet and looked at mr .
not hurt her .
' you could be an excellent president .
" " he was a much better shot and his father was a great wing shot too .
" " he ' s a pretty cold one , " hogan said .
” george said , coming down to the table from the wall .
it was now ten o ' clock in the morning .
" it ' s full of them .
no help was needed , his old felt hat held out as he bowed after the unneeded act .
" " heard from mike ?
it might be much better .
how good it felt !
signora , come up here .
" the train stopped for half an hour at bordeaux and we went out through the station for a little
" " we could walk up to the pantheon and get one .
what did it look like ?
most of them were frenchmen .
” “that’s your share , ” i told him .
the fellow with her was not very forceful looking but she was forceful enough for both of them .
" i don ' t know what happened , but some one had the police called to keep mike out
“it’s terrible , ” said claude .
” “sure , ” says jack , “maybe i will .
it ' s better to be catholique if you ' re catholique .
' in his tent , i think .
and he went away and did not even say good-bye .
' ' i thought you thought about my hand .
“yes , with water .
“that man will see you .
then he was not at home and their contact was strained and he wished the colonel would return to things
” he gave the negro a cup of water out of a demijohn .
my god , yes , that’s true .
' ' here are the drinks , ' the colonel said .
straighten the wrinkled sheet in a bed , while kamau brought tins from the provisions to see what i would
there ain ' t anything to do .
” “is the owner a fisherman ?
he wanted to get out of town and get in a good walk .
that’s a laugh .
” “out to get a breath of air .
the trout jumped out of water to take them .
anything we can do ?
“she picks up on my errors in spanish .
bill was very happy .
oh , it’s so big and it hurts so .
' after all , sheets are sheets and someone has to change them and someone has to wash them .
if you could forget the morning .
” “no , you go , ” she said .
the trouble is you ' re working on them where they are smart .
“where’s sam ?
rest of it went away .
" i ' m going up to paris and sail from havre for the states .
he was through with the hotel garden , breaking up frozen manure with a dung fork .
von lettöw was a hell of a man .
" " do you know what you are ?
“what i just told you , and if you ever open your mouth about last night i’ll hear of it
some of the stories had been about boxing , and some about baseball and others about horse racing .
” he went out .
they sat at a small table in the corner of the room and on their right there were four women
and would do exactly what he wished .
“you certainly looked sore when i bumped you .
truly sorry .
nobody speaks to jack .
bill had eaten at the restaurant in _num_ , and right after the armistice , and madame lecomte made a
then the tracks had all split up as they had gone , fan-wise , up the valley and the hills
well why shouldn’t it be ?
“if you want , though , i can set you some simple problems about things we both know .
until the time comes when you have to fight to keep the world so it will be o .
let’s see .
brett was looking at him quite coolly , but the corners of her eyes were smiling .
as i dove through the door something with a steel hat on passed me going for the stairs .
go on up and see him .
’ “i’m brown under the water .
you can’t see him until you’re right on him .
you didn’t have to listen to that firing .
wilson could tell that the boys all knew about it now and when he saw macomber’s personal boy looking curiously
know and several people that you do not know .
' now we will cut out all references to glamour and to high brass , even from kansas , where
help me , felipe .
a shotgun in the piazzo san marco .
“how do you feel , littless ?
“come on , al , ” said max .
he did not want to leave the half asleep half awake state he was in .
the colonel told her all about it ; but he did not utter it .
” krebs looked at the bacon fat hardening on his plate .
" you pay villalta seven thousand , " manuel said .
i wanted a kitty .
" don ' t know why i get so nervy in church , " brett said .
then they would seize it .
who the hell are you to criticize career girls ?
“i am , however , wearing the uniform .
one of them , a gypsy , serious , aloof , and dark-faced , he liked the look of .
you see i hadn’t believed they could be gone .
' droopy insisted it was a bull .
come over here and tell you every year ?
get a load of this , conscience old friend , i know how useful and important you are and how
characters liked the look of these woods much .
he himself did not track .
_ _num_ d soldier_--what about some more wine ?
' and please attack gently and with the same attack as before .
“but it is the causa .
fairly fast when the thing starts to move sort of like a forest fire .
' i could tell you how long two minutes and a half can be .
he was sleepy and the old man put his arm across his shoulders and said , " i am sorry
” “yes , ” frazer said .
" " kansas city , " i said .
“listen , bright boy , ” he said from the kitchen to george .
his mouth dry , his heart down , nick reeled in .
" keep the blanket around you , " the boy said .
, put in lumps of ice from the thermos jug and poured soda into them .
he smiled at the face in the mirror and it grinned back at him .
" " my god , yes .
' the rhino was in high grass , somewhere in there behind some bushes .
" " you started it , " the girl said .
” he repeated his refrain .
then he picked up the heavy fish and started up the stream .
' ' no , ' he said .
” “i’d rather not hear .
the other five stood very quietly against the wall .
arms through the shoulder straps .
" the porter smiled at him .
you ' ll have to pull harder than this to-morrow .
” “is she beautiful ?
get your t .
yes , maera said , and who will kill his bulls after he gets a cogida ?
” the wave rolled them over and over holding tight onto each other his legs tight around hers .
“the fools , ” he thought .
” “look at yourself once more in the mirror .
" " you are superior .
” we heard her walking on the stairs to the cellar .
in the far corner the man was still asleep , snoring slightly on the intaking breath , his head back
there was no light in the room .
skinner to handle them properly .
“badajoz , ” he said .
' ' how much is it to the gritti ?
i don ' t think i can get anything but a dolphin here .
i hope you are correct .
over and started to play .
“besides you made another mistake , ” captain willie went on .
” john asked him .
" " i say , " mike said , " that romero what ' shisname is somebody .
behind them was a little bare space , and then the bulls galloping , tossing their heads up and down
' ' it is charming , ' the girl said .
' ' that ' s awfully complicated .
have you seen such a comrade going in the direction away from the front ?
i’ll tell you he looked pretty good to me in there today .
it was just starting to get fall weather and it ' s nice country there in jersey , up in
he was a small man and he sat straight up in his chair with his right hand thrust into the
people say you are talking against me .
eat them good now and then there is the tuna .
brett came out with bill and joined us .
that she was sleepy .
he wore stagged trousers and lumbermen ' s rubbers and a mackinaw shirt like the others , but he had
" " get me a berth on the sud express .
“i suppose that i rate that for the rest of my life now .
” “but why can’t people go down the creek ?
“i cut it off , ” she said .
of nothing .
there were a dozen different dishes of hors d ' oeuvres .
' ' oh , i want to give them all a great deal of money , ' p .
put on my soldier-suit and go and walk around this town even though it is too early .
' ' so that ' s what you do .
] when the weight starts to pull on ’em .
” “you got to get all right .
” “what does she do ?
” “i hope you’ll never change it the way lady caroline did .
harvey added my saucer to his own pile .
” “i never played with him , ” said the fat one .
” “absolutely .
an alpine idyll it was hot coming down into the val ley even in the early morning .
" he ' s good for the night and so am i .
” “will you tell me about it ?
sing wouldn’t make any complaints .
” the other soldiers were all listening now .
but it seemed to fit cohn .
“by god , that , was a chase , ” he said .
at a newspaper kiosque i bought a copy of the new york herald and sat in a café to read
out of the entirety of his experiences in spain during the war he produced seven short stories in addition to
even though it meant no more bumming in the woods , ’cause then we’d ride to enghien or tremblay or
leg was stuck straight out to one side of the seat where compton sat .
“my enrique .
" but you have the same name , " mrs .
' ' i know , ' she said .
' ' the hell with them , ' the colonel said .
“take off your cap .
the canyon ran down to the rift valley , seeming to narrow at the far end where it cut through
' ' it is indeed , ' the colonel said .
there was the meadow , the river and the swamp .
or in the winter in the mountains you had to put them in the snow and when the snow melted
sculptured into peaks and hollows until they crossed , and hills sloped down and then another plain , hot now
twenty only to be beaten by the luck that separated perfect shooters in the end .
until now the only such volume was the omnibus collection of the first forty-nine stories published in _num_ together with
“you have everything here .
” “i’m afraid of them .
j .
” “then what ?
” there was one in the room i knew besides manolita .
i tried to get them over it , ” he said .
” “oh no , ” jack says .
' the colonel said , and the cruelty and resolution showed in his strange eyes as clearly as when the
' karl agreed to the plan for us to move ahead into the new country , and for him to
" " he stays up because he likes it .
' ' that ' s all , i guess .
” six more assorted chinks came on board over the stern .
brightly .
ted lewis could lick you too .
" now , " he said .
' the boys came dancing , crowing , and beating time and chanting something from down in their chests that
' ' i ' d like to have seen one , ' i said .
haven ' t i a right to speak italian ?
" " f---- yourself , " said the artillery officer .
they had whistled at her and , the colonel thought , that was a harmless enough thing and he should
“il y a trop de churches .
we have some credit to exhaust .
” “what does he do ?
they were dull and they were repetitious .
colonel thought : checked out , eh ?
” “i’ll scream , ” the girl said .
over that , and get me to run with him in the forenoon in the hot sun .
in the dark he kneeled down and took a drink from the spring .
" what the hell ' s that to me ?
everyone is talented at a certain age .
make him come .
“today we have got something very good .
“let them come aboard , ” i said , “one at a time .
sharp at the edge of this extension of the forest floor commenced the sweet fern .
he’s covered everywhere you can hurt him .
he had been noticing nothing but her lovely face .
, salmon and big-sea , about sex in books , many books , too many books , about all court
no , i’ll be in the chapel .
' m ' cola , theatre business , abdullah , and i came back that evening late in the cool
" he spread his hand flat on the table .
" " they ' re a fine lot , " i said .
' ' so , ' kandisky was saying to my wife .
i don’t want to hurt you .
holding the rod , pumping alive against the current , nick brought the trout in .
they were playing the riau-riau music , the pipes shrill and the drums pounding , and behind them came the
” “i’m afraid they expected us last night .
they were sweeping the streets and sprinkling them with a hose .
” “what do you want me to call it ?
in shooting quail you must not get between them and their habitual cover , once the dogs have found them
” “yes , ” said hogan .
“you want to get in the game ?
it was damp and clean where he had washed .
what ' s all this about him and brett , anyway ?
all those mules with their forelegs broken pushed over into the shallow water .
clean .
just one stuffed dog .
“i have a fresh and original talent for description .
she had some letters and a telegram .
but remember to sleep , he thought .
days like cats that crawl into the coal bin with a bullet in the brain and will not die until
" how old do you think i am ?
” when he was satisfied with his hands he went in and went to work .
i explained that bull-fight in spanish was the lidia of a toro .
mail and a half-bottle of evian water .
vous n’avez rien mangé .
poor beggar .
his father put his hand on david’s shoulder to move him back and have him wait outside and then he
break his nose .
they aren’t tank men .
so she evidently hadn’t been arrested .
he looked across at them and smiled , his wolf smile that was only with the mouth .
he’d come back again and slipped the forward hatch and gone down into the cabin and gone to sleep .
“that was a fine bunch out here this afternoon , ” he said .
the road curved and climbed again , and ahead there were some grouse dusting in the road .
coming as slow as men wade , waist deep .
droopy looked around at me and grinned .
the daughter of the house came downstairs as we went in .
' wonder what became of the bull ?
this is something we want to get straight .
' ' only a few of them .
he was sitting there , his arm hanging , when the boat passed them coming back up the channel .
food had an excellent place in the count ' s values .
he was lying perfectly still but every once in a while his eyes would open .
“say it once more .
of jack’s head and socked the right into the body as hard as he could sock , just as low
some mr .
make mud images .
on his feet .
" yes , we must .
you must take more beer to loosen your tongue .
' ' but you couldn ' t have married a woman journalist that kept on being that ?
and i loved to sit there with my old man .
it was so far away i couldn ' t tell .
wilson looked over at her without smiling and now she smiled at him .
grass under my soft-soled boots and the pleasant weight of the rifle , held just back of the muzzle ,
what a gag that is .
i would remember it somewhere , and afterward it would seem as though it had really happened to me .
" " i ' d like to meet that fellow .
" it mounts to my head .
” “i’m sorry , wesley , ” the man said .
frances was talking on to him , smiling brightly , looking into his face each time she asked : "
that old hieronymus bosch really painted .
" " do you know what he is doing now ?
that it was us , the three he knew so well , who were going to attack .
" alles , " the peasant repeated to the girl .
” “you are a worthless liar and the son of a griffon , ” the wickedest of all the lionesses
the engines ran smoothly .
_num_ st roman soldier—you see me slip the old spear into him ?
two thousand francs swiss .
when you can ' t overhear it ' s no good .
i told her how since the death of joselito all the bull-fighters had been developing a technic that simulated this
_num_ d soldier—just for two , george .
you ought to watch both of them if you’re going to see things .
then the window was dark again .
" i wouldn ' t mind bird-shot any .
in the dark going up the gran via there was much new broken glass on the sidewalk and much rubble
” they each took a drink and then mr .
maybe you could make one .
“be yourself .
“he draws it , manolo , ” retana said in explanation .
" yes , " said georgette .
" you don ' t mean that .
" et le lendemain il ne reste rien .
would never have met ; except me , and i was a mistake .
they said it was because there was so much ore in the ground or something about the mountains , but
i think that could be arranged .
' ' you poor old son of a bitch , ' the surgeon said .
there was no indian there now .
“il a tué un jack .
we were close to the bank now , and ahead , the game trail went straight out into a long
garrick started to talk in a loud voice .
he simply knew that droopy was a better man than he was .
“i oughtn’t to talk about it .
he reached in the inside pocket of his coat and brought out a razor .
“that way it lasts longer .
, ' piga !
" " i don ' t feel like seeing anybody .
the match was made at a hundred forty-seven pounds at three o ' clock .
” “never .
' i ' m sending him down with dan to the sable country , ' pop said .
sandy road that ran down to the woods , crossing the creek , on a bridge this time , where
i ' ll just tell you anecdotes .
down at the station there were five whores waiting for the train to come in , and six white men
blaine .
“only through the individual can you attack the class .
she had one of those strong , semi-classical faces and was built like a lion tamer ; and the boy
” we went up in the elevator .
he smiled and blinked .
" " how much are you getting ?
' where ' s karl ?
a smother of snow and slowed into a loss of speed parallel to the hillside and the wire fence .
" madame asked .
i could be a part of the ground where the children play in the evenings , and in the mornings
maybe , bumped into something as a young child , but i finally had somebody verify the story from spider
one should never let roederer or perrier-jouet do the talking .
valley one long heat mirage .
” “i can’t take it .
" let ' s go up and see the boy , " the fellow called morgan said .
making the horizon were the brown mountains .
chapter xxxii ' you slept quite well for a time , ' the girl told him , lovingly and gently
" " i said something , mike .
you shot damn well .
by god , he was a man .
' ' i ' ll try it .
" " oh , go to hell !
i feel like hell tonight .
“you went up and put your hands on his face once .
now with the lightning : there you have something .
” “not with those guys , ” he said .
' below , in the high grass , droop was holding up a grass blade towards us .
i do not mind this thing at all .
we crossed the road and followed the edge of the scrub around a moor-like open stretch .
' it will be wonderful to see him if i should ever be down-hearted .
' and i know damn well where it is .
” she asked guy .
kind of jewfish .
" you ' ll sleep all right , jack , " i said .
all right , ' said pop .
they are down now to gamble at the lido .
" " in love--with a girl ?
" " i know , " the old man said .
" aficion means passion .
he having no idea that he would be arrested .
that day and brought the mail .
through being too young , he had learned how it must be to be too old .
“go on back to the kitchen , nigger .
we’ll get hold of frank and the rest of them .
big !
“you can take it easy on that .
" i ' m going , para , " he said .
gun with his right hand as he looked up from under the rim of the barrel , then stood to
' ' i ' m very glad , ' she said .
“it was very strange and very beautiful , ” baldy said and drank off the glass of champagne .
' she kissed him kind , and hard , and desperately , and the colonel could not think about any
" in a back room robert cohn was sleeping quietly on some wine-casks .
" " it was a very lovely place , " said my wife .
waiting for the paseo , pic-ed through the whole corrida in his mind .
he was staring at his coffee cup .
“it doesn’t do any good to say i’m sorry ?
' politics , women , drink , money , ambition .
“prunes taste like a celebration , ” littless said .
' i ' m through , ' says the other .
yes , by christ , his own father .
what a fine lovely wonderful here .
he read many books , played bridge , played tennis , and boxed at a local gymnasium .
" but you go up and see cohn .
" why didn ' t you spend the night ?
for the lorries to follow on to the eastward and headed on toward the coast and the kudu country .
we sat on high stools at the bar while the barman shook the martinis in a large nickelled shaker .
” “listen , jerry , ” jack put down the glass .
now it was done .
we all knew we had killed the other kudu that i had mistaken for this one , while this first
it ' s good .
" i guess i like them .
“he’s a pretty tough-looking boy , ” jack says to me .
until all of those fiats started coming down over , past and under me and i realized that my trusty
or do you suppose that’s her idea of putting up a good show ?
" i ' ll see you at the café , " brett said .
" " i can ' t understand it , anyway , " john said .
' there was pop .
here it was , all going on right before me , and i did not even feel an impulse to
” “there’s a good chance of it .
you can drive an unwounded lion—he’ll move on ahead of a noise—but a wounded lion’s going to charge .
they are bored in this town .
the colonel looked up the road .
” “everything we want’s the dinner , eh ?
when i started out he woke up and went back to sleep again .
what’s the use of slanging me ?
" " i never eat at the hotel .
had missed coming down .
it was very intimate and you could hear the thin tragic noise the bicycles made when they went over onto
i will !
” “who are your good ones ?
they laid him out on the table .
" we drove for two hours after it was dark and slept in mentone that night .
menu .
the crowd wanted the bull changed .
her into the water .
i can give up my brother .
“i get tired this .
" do you know the american ambassador ?
" why do they call them muletas ?
his mouth was too dry to speak but he could not reach for the water now .
“i am from badajoz .
" " it is very good .
“ah , yes , ” the major said .
not me .
afterwards i will see what he can eat .
” “couldn’t you get out of town ?
rinaldi was a disappointing audience .
” “gee , let’s get under , ” nick said .
i was learning under pop , while chink and i had discovered a big part of the world together and
we have forgotten it .
“for you , ” said the second soldier .
” mrs .
hurray for the foreigners !
” “hold him tight , ” said the doctor .
not taken any notice of what happened at the table .
“what is there to eat ?
" i never used to realize it , i guess .
it was four and then he remembered the man who had the fox to sell when they had walked into
” “i am a veteran of the eritrea campaign , ” said the adjutant stiffly .
” “let’s eat before i have to go , ” nick said .
look out and lying down in bed i could not see anything .
brett used to take the shells out when he ' d gone to sleep .
” “we should see the general .
' ' i reveal ' , the colonel said .
and on the second , high out and to the left , letting the duck climb far up and to
" " three hundred francs swiss .
“you stay out of it .
who wants true combat ?
never tell anyone anything ever .
" he ' ll never be frightened , " mike said .
that ' s where you make your big mistake .
and is practically so now .
' yes , b ' wana .
pot , and some tinned milk in a whisky box with four bottles of beer .
we do not have them .
it was a beautiful tusk and mr .
" it ' s steady , " the old man told him .
on the smoking skillet he poured smoothly the buckwheat batter .
from the other end of the counter nick adams watched them .
" " mean everything in the world to you after you bought it .
no horse named morbid ever won a race .
you know damn well she can .
women are a nuisance on safari .
and that was funny , thinking of george gardner as a son of a bitch because i’d always liked him
i truly do not know .
“you won’t stay ?
karl was thin now , his skin sallow , his eyes very tired looking and he seemed a little desperate
” “not too bad , davey .
bridge of the porte de saint cloud .
maybe that was wrong and they kept their instruments at the place they revelled , but he always pictured them
the two boys had a tommie slung and they were coming along behind her .
" " i ' ve been thinking some about getting a car next year .
i inherited them .
want to get dressed and come down ?
the sack flapped against his legs .
" monday evening he turned up at the flat .
if i kept on reading that feeling would pass .
" what do you mean , kike , you big irish bum ?
we used to ski together .
and attractiveness .
the good lion once upon a time there was a lion that lived in africa with all the other lions
“it’s all right , dear , ” she said .
” “somebody said she was working up at the soo .
” “neither do i , ” said johnson .
emmunds ?
“it was foolish to keep the bird if the house is supposed to be empty , ” he thought .
” “that’s the way , ” retana said .
afterward juma gave them each a breast with the heart in it and ate the two necks and backs and
” “roger .
“tomorrow .
then you got through that and got in fine shape with tom and the kids and you knew you couldn’t
to reach him behind the planks with a half-dozen quick , searching drives with the right horn .
" poor old phil , " she said .
i could get it in the morning .
” “at the berlitz school , sir .
“have a drink ?
that it would be very bad for the cause .
" " inside the last house .
” alice looked at her and then at us and her face lost that hurt look and she smiled and
toward the pine trees .
“you have to watch for stock on all these roads .
there were seven of them including two priests .
" he drew that beer and cut it off and when he saw the money he pushed the beer across
” manuel asked him .
a football picture for a college annual ; now they were humped and swollen in the grass ; propaganda postcards
" " all of them .
reached the bank of the river .
corrals at the edge of town .
” zurito leaned back , relieved .
he felt the firm bottom of the shallow lagoon , put his weight on the top of the wide oar-blade
he had tried him , wheeling him in the corrals and he responded to the bit and the spurs .
you know i thought perhaps you would .
“want a smoke ?
" and we could have all this , " she said .
” “let’s wait .
my talking english to him was an acceptable joke .
one of them was splintered from banging against the barrera .
_num_ st soldier—take a chance on it .
" have you seen zurito ?
" after all , it ' s a pub .
' what ' s an oryx ?
last for me , head .
” “he can’t sweat .
“i slept all right , ” jack said .
' of course not .
" or " will you pass me that ?
don’t you remember me , splayzey ?
' ' he was a great fighter , ' pop said .
bill was buying shoe-shines for mike .
" " there is a word for such people when they do like that , in french , " fontan
i ' m too old .
it was very late .
" his straw hat was far on the back of his head and he sank down into the bow with
there had been smoke in the room from the open charcoal fire ; no , there were logs , he
and with their reeds bent by the heavy north wind , he saw the squared tower of the church at
“i’m awfully sorry about that lion business .
legs with his front off hoof dangling and there was my old man laying there on the grass flat out
" " the boy won ' t .
wine-seller—it’s all right , lootenant .
on a boat , or people who had suffered some heavy financial loss .
or one of your girls .
' ' i remember , ' p .
he could feel its weight but see it growing in buoyancy in the skillet .
frazer said , “the hands are still good .
" but not tonight and not tomorrow .
two is enough from one family , the colonel said .
to switzerland a day ' s wait a natural history of the dead wine of wyoming the gambler , the
there was some pretty dull going too .
” “he hung himself with a rope .
" " the clock says twenty minutes past five , " the second man said .
' ' the hell with you , ' the portrait said , without speaking .
each time nick set a heavy slab of driftwood across the butt of the rod to hold it solid and
' good luck , ' pop said .
we got a certain amount of replacements but i can remember thinking that it would be simpler and more effective
i spent a little money and the waiter liked me .
and how many monuments are there to us in the canals of this town ?
" " you ' ll have a nice place when you go back .
” “you mean that you won’t .
' ' i ' ll tell you true , ' he said .
" pedro romero , " i said .
“alice .
i was going to go back but my wife she don ' t like to travel .
we were back trailing when we heard the porters on the hillside shout and we ran crashing through the grass
behind were the trees and the shadow of the cathedral , and the town silhouetted against the moon .
but i ' d be as scared of snakes if we did it every night for a year .
he was right .
[_he sets down an earthenware pitcher that he has filled from one of the casks .
for shoes he used sandals cut from old motor-car tyres .
the imaginary bull and made a third pass , slow , perfectly timed and suave , then gathered the napkin
and that river that the tartars crossed , raiding , and i was living in that russia again .
' ' you have no kick .
' ' were there no good ones ?
cold with pan-yan pickles , and the red wine we bought at babati , sitting by the road waiting for
he was fairly happy , except that , like many people living in europe , he would rather have been
if you have a lemon you cut half of it and squeeze it into the cup and leave the rind
was still outside of the order for some small , not defined , unstated reason .
the rebecca .
look where my delusion about the razor would take me .
" hello , danny , " john says .
he asked himself .
" " i ain ' t slept for a week , " jack says .
” “why don’t you come along now and get the bath and we’ll go and eat ?
' ' you ' re a little hard on him sometimes , ' pop said .
machine and looked straight ahead at the wall while the straps thumped up and down with his fingers in them
i had no idea , of course , that she ' d fall in love with him .
this time it was a tentative pull , not solid nor heavy , and he knew exactly what it was
" guy asked , " you or her ?
and we drove down the center to avoid sending the mud on to the men going home from work .
it clear of the coiled lines .
” “i wasn’t thinking .
damn if i don’t feel plenty bad right now .
it was neither all over nor was it beginning .
they make money .
they’ll take the boat .
' ' dante was an execrable character .
it’s funny when you have to hunt for small ones .
" shoot him .
’ “‘ja , i loved her , ’ olz said .
” the broth was too hot .
” “i never seen walcott , ” i said .
" i shut my eyes .
one cut of his pigtail and was waving it and a kid grabbed it and ran away with it .
” “it’s the first drink we’ve had all day .
and then he knew that there was where he was going .
holding his straw hat in both hands he started to run along the edge of the field toward the house
“they’re coming in for the night .
the raft and sat , dripping , on the boards that were becoming hot in the sun .
he went upstairs into the loft and nick heard him walking about overhead .
" " certainly , " i said .
greek cavalry herded along the procession .
“so i see , ” the good lion answered like a dutiful son .
' arms spread to show hugeness of horns and a torrent from the roman .
we trailed him fast , hoping to jump him and have a shot , and it was easy trailing in
but most of them had been cheerful because they were going to see the contessa dandolo .
the colonel had said good-bye and alvarito had told him to come down and shoot any , or every ,
the american girl was very bitter against the authority .
' ' why not ?
" " you better go back to bed .
he hit it with his blood mushed hands driving a good harpoon with all his strength .
buffalo ?
“how the hell would i feel ?
but we’ve thrown it all away now and we’ve really thrown it away .
' there was silence produced and re-produced , by the striped waistcoated man with the fascist face and the colonel
a man and a girl passed us .
now , answer me .
” “i’m not pulling your leg , ” manolita laughed .
there were two kitchen tables , one that we ate on and one we did dishes on .
and who could not comprehend , or were barred by their patriotism from interest in , any german machine gunners
” “one summer .
into the lee of the stone wall of the stables of the old montana barracks .
“i wish he was here now , ” nick said .
distance and waited for the next turn to see them , as he turned .
they shone very black in the sun and one was much bigger than the other and i remember thinking this
the indian had been asleep , face down in the sand .
the hell with being too hard to explain .
you shouldn’t have frightened me like that .
away behind the river bank trees .
he was very nice about it .
“i left some in the bottle .
but what a fish to pull like that .
an expatriated newspaper man .
we’ll have everything .
they were all varyingly honest and they were all weak except one ; he would have to make some money
“i know that .
he looks like a caricature of an american who has been run one half way through a meat chopper and
try and stop it .
he might simulate it or confuse it with excitement , but he could not really have it .
' ' they ' re bastards , ' pop said .
he had confidence .
hear the first noise that would send them rushing into the bush .
” “he’s a bohemian , ” the lad who brought the gloves said .
" so i go to austria .
my inability to master the lanish spanguage .
” “will the schooner come to tortugas to get them ?
_num_ d soldier—why didn’t he come down off the cross ?
we can talk about you and how beautiful you are .
, when he , the colonel , had re-entered the room after having left it , presumably for some time
" he just told him to go back to town .
he had been eight days in the kudu camp in the hills , hunting hard , with no one with
i think he’s an anarchist .
“they age it in rusty nail kegs with a few old nails to give it zest .
" " anyway i should say he was eighty .
' better make it two hundred and fifty miles .
then you crush the wild strawberries into the cup and wash the sawdust off a piece of ice from the
when the detectives wanted to cut up their meat they used the fork in their left hand and that pulled
but at eight hundred to a thousand yards the tanks looked like small mud-colored beetles bustling in the trees and
' ' charles laughton , ' said pop , pulling on his pipe .
' i ' m not sore .
“yes , ” said the tall waiter .
fish ' s head which would not tear .
_ _num_ d soldier_--listen , i seen a lot of them--here and plenty of other places .
africa .
they were up on the causeway from mestre to venice now with the ugly breda works that might have been
out in the centre of the ring , under the lights , manuel was kneeling , facing the bull ,
as the wind increased the dark green stems of the fronds blew wildly as the wind killed them .
you aren’t going to die .
' ' i don ' t slave too hard at it , ' the colonel said .
" retana leaned forward across the desk and pushed a wooden box of cigarettes toward manuel .
david came close enough to see him cut off the moon again and to smell the sour oldness but he
blood spot formally with a long stem of grass .
' did you hit him ?
then he gestured at the crowd , his hand warm from the bull blood .
it was a white boat with a buff painted house and a windshield .
i couldn’t have written it .
there were birch trees in the green of the swamp on the other side of the river .
i must have because he quit firing too .
one of them was the man who shot him .
are walking .
bill waved his hand and started down the stream .
probably they ' ll work down into this stream bed as soon as it ' s hot .
” “most of that stuff from the palace stinks .
” they were up on the thirteenth floor of a hotel on biscayne boulevard and the bellboy had just gone
but the old man sat there without moving .
' ' do generals really fight ?
' ' we ' re too tired .
" " i don ' t mean for you to pay it , " jack says .
” “it’s raining a big rain , ” she told him .
came over from france that time .
" all they want is litri and rubito and la torre .
all our early classics who did not know that a new classic does not bear any resemblance to the classics
” he said to me .
” “i’d rather stay awake .
" ah ha , " the third porter said .
” “no , you don’t .
i had looked out of the window .
" the stretcher-bearers came in .
“hello you goat .
i ran onto them .
" sure .
' ' breakfast is worthless here , and i don ' t like the square when it is flooded .
” i thought he must be figuring on taking an awful beating if he doesn’t want to go home afterward
i suggested we fly to strasbourg and walk up to saint odile , or somewhere or other in alsace .
then he comes home and she feeds him nothing .
he was having a very quiet time , he said , bathing , playing some golf and much bridge .
“he just told him to go back to town .
thick tongue out .
when he comes in , he decided .
of where the first had been .
" fine .
" i says .
he was damned nasty .
call on the telephone ?
” we all drank .
he would go to sleep while he waited .
book , a pencil , my solids , the cameras , the emergency kit , knife , matches , extra
“you spoiled it a little , ” i said .
when such people with the leather coats and the pistols come it is always a bad omen in a war
we come up above them as fast as we could without getting me too blown and shaky for the shooting
garrick , the bastard , wearing a large , very floppy , black and white ostrich-plume head-dress .
' then we had a long talk about sable .
tell him , tom .
“i can count them , ” his father said .
front of a fire .
” “they were coons probably , ” carl said .
” down the table manolita was laughing at something the new englishman had said in spanish .
“will you come down to breakfast , harold ?
and then writes vastly and fluently far into the night .
he stopped for a moment and looked back and saw in the reflection from the street light the great tail
" he was that way all week .
' s not talk about the war , daughter .
" " you know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch .
" i had not learned my grammar , and he said i was a stupid impossible disgrace , and he
my daughter fell in love with a man in vevey .
” “could you drink ?
he looked silly when they took him off and seemed anxious to move very fast to do whatever they told
the banks were open until three-thirty .
of the rafters , and , in the attic , jars of snakes and other specimens that my father had
i ' m so ashamed about how things are .
” “she does .
i saw he was watching brett .
“here take a key .
' but they say it ' s very pleasant hunting .
' ' he thinks you ' re very funny , ' pop said .
she had gotten on only just in time .
' ' oh christ .
beggar had probably been afraid all his life .
you have only yourself and you had better work back to the last line now , in the dark or
at the attack across the road at celadas .
' ' bad bugs .
he was a chink all right , but he talked like an englishman and he was dressed in a white
he knew that each of the jerking bumps of the shark had been meat torn away and that the fish
had seen the chauffeur take up the long , winding ramp to lock away .
i’m going to be your common-law wife under the unwritten law .
of getting him plugged at me .
make sure of him .
" i don ' t want any more of that .
“you’re wasting our time .
' and he grabbed my arm .
” the cement road stopped .
' pop came out , finally , with a book and we took no notice of garrick ' s head-dress
” “‘if an angel out of heaven gives you something else to drink .
i was too tired to get the skiff aboard and the sun was pretty low .
one of the men in white smiled and handed retana a pair of scissors .
” george said from the bed .
everything is good except this’— and showed us the stump .
i pointed to the sky .
" nick went out the farmyard and down to the barn .
" what do you do here nights ?
he has ridden out worse tempests than this .
“i like to see that great brain work .
” “you go back and read now .
during this time , it was late summer , he was sleeping late in bed , getting up to walk
time , all consequently lay on their faces , the two hip pockets pulled out and , scattered around them
' ' i wonder why the portrait has not come .
recover the ground lost so that the positions after the battle were the same as before except for the presence
then he woke once with the moonlight on his face and he thought of the elephant with his great ears
what they care about us ?
what is there funny we should talk about ?
we didn ' t count .
he had once argued about everything with hopkins .
” “do you think so ?
” “are you happy to be back from the war ?
" " i can ' t .
if he was any good as a b .
there were only clumps of bush and sanseviera when we heard a deep , throaty , cough .
” “maybe some friend of the children asking for them .
he watched a gondola working up the canal against the wind and thought , not with americans drinking .
it had two good spares , set-in well fenders , a radio , a big spotlight , plenty of luggage
” he was feeling exalted and talkative as football players are in the dressing room after a game .
new york was wonderful .
" " oh , no , " said bill .
in the dark the old man fell flat and m ' cola laughed ; then the cape unrolled and came
i don’t like to not be hospitable , but it might disturb him back again to see you .
anyway the bottle was open .
there were other boats from the other beaches going out to sea and the old man heard the dip and
his lip was cut and he sucked it .
the boy was asleep on a cot in the first room and the old man could see him clearly with
, or , if that is too pompous a comparison , like streaks of fat between muscles .
” ahead of us the man in the steel hat was still walking up the street .
his knees , hot-sweet choking , coughing it onto the rock while they went past him , he saw a
" " he ' s got children .
the coaming .
pedro romero was in the café .
' ' he thinks you did it on purpose , ' pop said .
to give .
he knew these two and thought them a handsome young couple .
your wife sews your pockets up every morning .
i went around to the paddock to see the horses with my old man and you never saw such horses
" " why did you come back here ?
i had coffee and the papers in bed and then dressed and took my bathing-suit down to the beach .
please come .
it was just very clear and bright , and inclined to blur at the edges .
’and this game is even worse .
but he did not remember .
i was beginning to feel awfully good and karl was very cheerful at the prospect of this new miraculous country
" " damned biarritz swine , " bill said .
i hope , he added , and drank a glass of the wine .
“this is better fun than fishing , eh doctor ?
” “how can there be solidarity of workers with fools like you ?
“oh , nothing .
in their room the two i was working on the picture with were still working over the bad camera .
it was still early in the morning and the train was on the other side of a tamarack swamp .
' neither of them said anything and then the girl said , ' that boy , he is a man
he’s a nice fella .
i never play games , even .
” said nick .
with the cancellation stamps and their pads , with the general delivery window down , so that suzy felt again
then you beg .
, infantry , u .
' ' do you love her more than me ?
son pays est comme ça .
he brought his son eddy and another indian named billy tabeshaw with him .
” fontan straightened up .
all the rest of me was asleep .
" the drinker waggled his little finger at him and smiled at us with his eyes .
was hit we were to make a dogfight of it and anyone was free to get him .
” “vicente is my brother .
they sat down in the big chairs in front of the fire .
” “oh that don’t matter .
, ambulances were loading .
' ' but why do you have to obey them when you know better ?
" who ' s out in the kitchen ?
you should hunt kudu alone .
tabeshaw said .
' ' i loved you all night when i was ski-ing in the dark .
' ' it will give him some shooting , ' pop said .
" " you wouldn ' t read any letters , darling .
” “of course you know .
rafters , and , in the attic , jars of snakes and other specimens that my father had collected as
like it ?
” “show him to me .
” sister cecilia was observing them happily .
who ' s been doing that to you ?
and torino/cause if there ever were any easy courses , it’s those two .
” the old man called as he passed .
" i know you wouldn ' t mind it , jig .
" me , manolo , " manuel said .
moved on .
at eight john motioned to him .
" look at the three of them .
i don ' t think i hurt him any .
_wine-seller_--you drink that right down , lootenant .
it was a formula .
" " we ' ll wait and see .
' so he said : ' what medals have you , sir ?
the line was slack .
came up .
“we’ll get out as soon as we can , ” roger said .
let’s have another one and then go up to your place and get a bath .
then these girls were sick , nice girls too , all-right girls .
help me , chucho .
" i can kiss this sheet and see right through it at the same time .
as he pushed in the sword , he jerked his body to the left to clear the horn .
i found my room and went inside and undressed and got into bed .
harris had just finished dinner .
a shot , but in the night they fed out into an open stretch of country and if he could
maybe i will get christian towards the end .
” his father did not draw a bird from the number two trap for the next three rounds .
” “well , i got to keep bright boy amused .
and swept down his broad back from head to tail .
“she said a lot of things to me that day .
when he woke there was someone sitting across the table from him .
" asked bill .
but for the thirst , water .
there are barrels around the wall .
” there was no answer and she could not hear him breathing .
the war is over and forgotten .
i ' m not dead at all .
three main bad ones .
wild geese , or in a duck blind ; remembering the time an eagle dropped through the whirling snow to
don ' t let me get too mixed up .
" i didn ' t mean to foul you .
" " the man is not crazy , " cayetano said .
, and to write as long as you can live and there is pencil and paper or ink or any
' ' do you want this one ?
he ' s going to send some this afternoon .
” “come on , play some cribbage , ” jack says .
" " je veux aller tout seul , " andré shrilled .
“what’s the mechanics of this place ?
i haven ' t thought about him for a week .
no , that must be immorality .
” they paid the widow woman and took a couple of bottles of the cold regal in a paper sack
“the sun warms it a little , ” nick said .
i know some pretty good ones .
the hot weather had swollen them all alike regardless of nationality .
and you try very hard to take good care of her and not only that .
" i suppose you like to add them up .
he wonders if you would like to shoot a couple of kongoni or an eland .
as he watched the bird dipped again slanting his wings for the dive and then swinging them wildly and ineffectually
so they said to circulate around anyway .
' ' i understand none of those things .
' ' dante isn ' t around , ' the colonel said .
" " nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bull-fighters .
big trees , and off ahead down the stream when m ' cola pointed up the hill on our right
get any hay , and that old bastard from the forks who had beaten the boy when he had worked
brett pressed my hand hard .
but don ' t you ever write one word of this .
tell me very low and soft and put your bad hand in mine .
i believe they would be very pleased if i nominated colonel lawrence .
" i know your regular pics .
s- _num_ isn ' t doing so good .
” “i said that first .
so , of course , many nights i was where i could have a light and then i slept because
“be careful you don’t fuck it up , ” his father had said to him and looked at him flatly
“you don’t believe i love you , do you ?
wind to warn everything .
" i started to say , but i stopped .
they only want the young ones .
him into the thick cover .
” “you talk too much , all the same , ” al said .
“i can’t choose now .
” “henry ?
i straightened up and let mr .
” “i can taste that still , ” nick remembered suddenly and completely .
don’t you see our interests are identical ?
” and he and the fat wop went out through the tables .
they were in the hammock and i got up to get them but he found them and put them out
” “but i can stay though , can’t i ?
" alice looked at her and then at us and her face lost that hurt look and she smiled and
i got to stick with it , manos .
when it stops , you just do not know the time .
' by god , he ' s a better bull than we thought , ' i said .
you could not sit outside the hut without dark glasses .
they all wore a sort of roman toga of unbleached muslin gathered at the shoulder that revealed no line of
then i tried several dives .
we’ll throw it all away now right here beside the road .
” “thanks , ” blindy said .
she was there beside him , wishing to be loved , if he had any love to give .
" he writes a good letter .
i suppose you’ve learned how to sleep too .
” “ride you , doctor , on the day , the very anniversary , of our saviour’s birth ?
damn him .
i don ' t guarantee anything .
i shot again and raised a little column of water behind him , and shot again as he went into
name was tristan tzara , who always wore a monocle and had a headache , and , back at the
in his last year at princeton he read too much and took to wearing spectacles .
everybody liked him .
strangeness of his flatness .
that son of a bitch .
we would drink another fine together .
crew in odd positions , and around them , in the grass , more of the typical papers .
itself stood deserted in the acres of sawdust that covered the swampy meadow by the shore of the bay .
i get a big black one all right .
the dried bed was hard and firm and we drove the car until it commenced to look moist and soft
on , without bark , gray to the touch ; slowly the feeling of disappointment left him .
we left a tip on the table and went out .
m ' cola brought the whisky flask and handed it to me very solemnly .
“have a good walk ?
the rhine does not show in the picture .
“there isn’t any good in promising , ” he said .
he laid his rod down , moved along to the shady end of the log and took the sandwiches out
there’s not much there to go for now so i suppose luis delgado , if he had come to madrid
" fontan had come in .
“god guard you and keep you .
this is the time .
as we went forward we heard a deep , moaning sort of groan .
there was a triangular scar on his cheek-bone .
off the birdcage and hung the cage in the sun , she went back to the restaurant-car for breakfast .
) “so when i get up out of water they take off the helmet and so i say i don’t
“no better than you , ” i said .
” he emptied out the notecase .
” “where did uncle george go ?
women , always drunk on wine and bad marc ; and the children with their noses running in the cold
" how about eating ?
” “don’t ruin my afternoon , ” marcel said .
as we climbed higher the horizon kept changing .
' that ' s not bad .
the big trees swayed far over in the wind as he watched .
it was very satisfactory to her to have an audience for this .
got my elbows settled and my right toe pushing the ground and squeezed off on the centre of the bull
the huge horns on some harmless beast .
from it in the sun .
" montoya knocked on the door and opened it .
" wake up old man , " the boy said and put his hand on one of the old man
but for ground support give me a man like pete quesada .
we were eating shrimps and drinking beer .
“i just asked you , sergeant , who killed this italian .
” “i told you that you shouldn’t have come .
as he had been thinking for months about leaving his wife and had not done it because it would be
you do not want to kill anyone any more ; ever .
' ' it must be very nice to have a daughter .
“i guess we won’t have coffee , ” he said .
' ' please be good and kind .
if we had lost the old piave and were on the sile they would move it back to the second
' how is the motor doing ?
my god , leave some for tomorrow .
' ' i ' m not sure i wish to be an old big coyote .
bacuranao is a cove where there used to be a big dock for loading sand .
i settled back .
many people were praying .
i ' ll come back right away .
“haven’t they got anything to drink in that farmhouse ?
his face was haggard and unshaven , and his cheeks were sunken .
' ' is there anything ?
but it doesn’t kill you .
jack went to his corner walking that funny jerky way and we got him down through the ropes and through
“and get out of here fast .
“i’ll pay for it , even though i don’t see it .
she was like someone enjoying a good musical show .
“thanks for coming to tell me about it .
i know it’s bad for you .
“i’m going on to the town .
_vive la france et les pommes de terre frites .
please .
' we were bad boys then , and you were the worst of the bad boys .
the colonel spat on the pavement and said nothing .
" a beautiful , bloody bull-fighter .
not only can you outsleep anybody i’ve ever known and have the best appetite i’ve ever seen linked with a
please , nickie .
he shot it and there was no front compartment and then they went in after what would be left of
" " don ' t know .
you will enjoy these warm , homespun , american tales , bits of real life on the open ranch ,
it was all held together by membranes and a skillfully applied bandage now soaked and hardened , with the structure
the other had a chauffeur’s white duster on .
he never got the kid’s goat .
' instead , now we ' ve got him wounded .
then the electric lights came on , and it was pleasant along the streets looking in the windows .
, and within ten minutes a six-inch shell had lit on the exact place where i had been and there
it smelled good outside though .
there was a deep depression in the forehead and a ridge ran from between the bare white eye sockets and
headache .
" " it ' s good , " i said .
he felt the maw heavy and slippery in his hands and he slit it open .
where was that ?
it was pleasant to be burned black but the sun had been very tiring .
' it was a token defence of course .
but there is no word for what you are .
while the bull was facing away the gate was pulled up and a second bull came out into the corral
' ' that man streeter was damned funny though .
” “we will .
' they got down into the gondola and there was the same magic , as always , of the light
golden beaches and the white beaches , so white they hurt your eyes , and the high capes and the
" " have you got any more beer ?
if it is your town and you have walked under them , but that are only too heavy , that
but regardless of how they started i hope to see the finish of a few , and speculate how worms
" " as long as you ' re in there you got a chance .
they were not in the crowd .
" it and wine too .
i never realized a small church could look like a p _num_ .
it was pleasant enough though .
he never had any trouble making weight , did he ?
" " kid lewis , " jack said .
” the boy did not know that it was me who had done it to him and so he had
chuckling happily .
i come now from organizing recruitment of the natives .
too warm ; the lights were bright and the tables shiny from polishing .
was no trace of any human being ever having been there .
" we ' ll want to ride out to the bois for dinner ?
" " i am a writer .
he went under the anæsthetic holding tight on to himself so he would not blab about anything during the silly
” “maybe we ought to eat first .
the priests left immediately after the picador , hurriedly conscious of being the last people in the dining room ,
i don ' t believe there ' s any sensation in that hand .
thermos jug , the enameled cups , the brown paper bag full of white rock bottles , and the two
" two , " the boy said .
” “there isn’t anything i can do about it , ” ole andreson said .
manila envelopes and rang for a boy to take them to the gare st .
it may make him jump though and i would rather he stayed circling now .
i hate him , myself .
he’s just as good as they come .
i had been sleeping heavily and i woke feeling i was too late .
but it sounds awful .
you could almost describe it as a brilliant letter .
he mopped off his face .
" " i ' m not going to be that way .
not just made up and i know exactly what he said to me .
" trust you .
” “i was stinking in every attack , ” nick said .
i found her and i never got a nickel out of her .
' ' an excellent situation report , ' the colonel said .
a breeze started to blow , and you could feel that the air came from the sea .
the summer was ending , but the new snow had not yet come to stay on the high mountains ;
you become obsessed by sex .
some nights too i made up streams , and some of them were very exciting , and it was like
” “good business , ” said frankie .
” i asked the taller one of them in french .
johnson ?
" " no , he hasn ' t got any con .
solid as a rock .
of the man who sat beside him .
he had watched it but he had not seemed to notice it .
” he showed them .
“kiss me again like that , ” she said .
here i could shoot and fish .
that you could feel the weight of on your neck and shoulders , started the car and went out to
every morning when i shave .
off and put it under two stones in the creek and said that he had lost it .
' the picture was the same .
the stove .
i am going to take a shower now and shave , something you will never have to do , and
away you ran up against the two stubbornnesses : south america could fix it and he did not like paris
' ' valhalla , i can remember .
how far prose can be carried if anyone is serious enough and has luck .
" i don ' t want any more of that , " said sam , the cook .
he couldn’t even read and write .
' ' with my wife .
woods , no undergrowth now , the first sun coming through the tops of the trees , we came on
you wouldn ' t like to make up a party and see the night life of vevey ?
tendalla , yes .
he felt the iron go in and he leaned on it and drove it further and then pushed all his
i learned to call cities towns from you .
clean and fresh .
and many a man has a tractor now instead of simply one mule who knew how to send them home
but there he was , stretched out , on his belly , and , with the sun just over the
' ' i was frightfully tired , ' pop said .
i mustn ' t try for the head .
" no !
several times we lost it entirely and , the three of us making casts , one would find it ,
” “that’s how you lose .
from the striped waistcoated man ' s hand ; noiselessly , and when he heard , or saw it first
then he’d started to cry .
” “he doesn’t want to go out .
" she likes action .
he and peduzzi started down the road .
" so soldier went off on the train to town that same morning .
“can you see the sheep on the hillside toward the point ?
they are good books but can be dull if you have been there .
he said to tell you he ' d be back .
he liked the round dutch collars above their sweaters .
nick put his foot on him proudly .
it’ll sink and they’ll grapple it when they pick up the load , he thought .
' ' i ' ll write it if you want .
” manolita called down the table .
remaining , still changing as the sun moved .
just as , with the radio , there are certain things that you become fond of , and you welcome
' i never stole anything except the compass because i thought it was bad luck to steal , unnecessarily ,
that is where she ought to be and not in any god-damn duck blind with the decoys frozen up on
” “i like new orleans now .
and in tortugas , where i ' d spent months , a thousand men once died of yellow fever .
' that ' s torcello directly opposite us , ' the colonel pointed .
and there was gaby delys , oddly enough , with feathers on ; you called me baby doll a year
” “how do you mean ?
" " i ' m afraid i don ' t .
* * * * * outside in the corridor the detective sergeant stood with the interpreter beside mr .
don ' t you think so , jake ?
in the chest , went over on his back , his four feet and his full belly in the air
he opened his eyes and looked at me .
that was one of the few things that he really knew .
“pa was down into the road and back up again before i seen a thing .
frazer sent down word whenever notre dame scored , and finally , when it had been dark a long time
can you ?
” “an hour is the same .
it was full of smoke , singing , men in uniform , and the smell of wet leather coats ,
” i said to one of the blondes .
i stood up .
; to start over .
there must have been some scenes inside all right because you know she settled fast .
luz sat on the bed .
if they did not lift the shelling when it started , the colonel , then a lieutenant , often thought
we climbed up and found a place on the wall looking down into the corral .
that was all any one had said until they reached the motor car .
there he is .
i would like to fly very slowly at two hundred fathoms high and see the fish from above .
it was like a baseball catcher pulls the ball and takes some of the shock off .
in the doorway stood the maid .
they seemed to move slowly and ploddingly .
to me it is always interesting .
i found my swimming-suit , wrapped it with a comb in a towel , and went down-stairs and walked up
" " breeding be damned .
you ' ve had a little .
t .
and if i missed , i was the clown of the piece and he would look at me and shake
we turned out onto the gran via .
macomber sat grim and furious .
” “i’d kill him .
* * * * * we got in early in the afternoon from the shooting-trip .
' how are you , my colonel ?
i had one good long swallow and then someone jostled me so that i spilled pan of the glass of
we followed the game trail down the river-bed and as we went the grass was much higher .
no talk english very good .
" let ' s see that bottle , " he said .
my father primed the engine through a petcock , rocking the wheel twice to suck the gasoline into the cylinder
” “listen , ” george said to nick .
, bush-bordered prairies that dried into a typical desert country with occasional patches of bush where there was water ,
” it was a strange country again but at the end he was not lonely and later , waking ,
don ' t be shy , fish .
' ' do you suppose we could hunt sheep again , pop ?
the liquor had all died out of him and left him alone .
but they ' re there .
the holy grail was in our ancestors ' time .
two hundred yards down the hillside the fire line stopped .
" we stood in the sunlight .
they had deads too .
when i was a girl i thought if i renounced the world and went into the convent i would be
” his wife said .
it took a long time and finally it would be light , and then you could go to sleep ,
to have weights , though , to hold him down , if there was a ring at the bottom ,
out in the evening to animate the populace .
yes , it was black too , iridescent where the back and head were dusty .
" " do you find paris amusing ?
" " what a morning !
' ' yes , sir .
and as soon as i lost that ability i would stop .
' campi !
they were going to sleep in the lorry .
the doctor came running from the corral where he had been sewing up picador horses .
“did you ever see a man cut with a razor ?
" " yes , " she said .
" right through the back .
” they showed white in the cypress hammock that rose like an island of trees out of the swamp on
" inside the room the major lay on his bunk .
hotel at _num_ .
mcgraw .
hop deserved that .
" how the hell would i feel ?
nancy hawthorne is obliged to make her own soundings in the sea of life .
” the sun came through the open window and shone through the beer bottles on the table .
i thought behind our house was wonderful .
" " this is going to give me pleasure , " bill said .
put it in the top left-hand pocket of his tunic .
' ' but i ' ve been in paris , and i will go back there again , and i
he was one ahead .
one bull hit .
” “let’s be cheerful , nickie , ” his sister said .
i can ' t figure it , the shooter thought to himself .
” “oh , my god , i don’t know .
like , i will ask her permission .
" aren ' t we going to go and have some supper ?
he reached for another orange .
where he stepped in , the water was over his knees .
steve could lick a hundred like that black bastard .
cut him loose .
i knew he’d turn and come for it again .
the turn .
his view out of his side of the car was blocked by our guest .
“i’m going to give you a couple more in a little while , ” i told him .
the train it does not make you happy ; it only makes you want the woods where you live .
good-bye and _bonne chance_ and _hasta la vista_ .
_num_ d roman soldier—they were a pretty yellow crowd .
“blindy’s the name , tom .
so now he ' s going out and get some new material .
” “is it a worth-while head ?
when he’d find a seed he’d spit it out in the spoon and dump it on the plate .
if his accounts had been paid up at the luarca he would have finished the bottle .
as we watched two got to their feet and seemed to be standing looking at us .
it was a gray overcast day with a low ceiling so their planes were not up .
you must stay .
she did not wave , but stood there looking after us .
” “are we going to fight any more ?
two in the house , one in the stable .
i ' m only afraid i may be bored , " cohn said .
me , i guess .
you couldn ' t see the sea .
” he drew that beer and cut it off and when he saw the money he pushed the beer across
let him think i am more man than i am and i will be so .
hadn ' t been ill a day .
" " isn ' t that fine !
“what have you for dessert ?
we can hunt oryx down there and get those zebra hides and get on after the kudu .
“i wouldn’t be a drawback to him .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--they were a pretty yellow crowd .
" " i don ' t want to be buried in france , " nick said .
i meant will you please tell me more true episodes later ?
he had not seen zurito .
“i worry about property i got up in the bronx , i worry about property i got in florida .
what hasn’t left you ?
fish ' s side just behind the great chest fin that rose high in the air to the altitude of
you wouldn ' t do such a thing now , would you ?
” “what do you talk about her for all the time ?
' ' you may find some tracks .
i poured a little in my glass , then a glass for brett , then filled my glass .
in the holster .
but it really is wonderful .
" " frances wilson .
” “i don’t want you to have to carry the stuff too far .
plane or for what .
go .
” “he is a card-player .
given to the customer , and the other side filled in and kept as a stub .
" drive me to the hotel panier fleuri .
nick knew that by the time he was through with breakfast they would be as lively as ever .
” they had put the wild turkey in the back of the seat and he had been so heavy ,
icicles out of both eyes and he didn’t look really very good .
” “was it rough ?
jack just raises the left hand up and it ' s in walcott ' s face .
, seemed to curve much higher and farther back .
from now on walcott commenced to land solid .
“look , littless , i’m going down to get a few trout for supper .
and the look of the tree trunks showing black through the early morning mist , as the car made its
the trunks , the green mangos lay on the ground and on the trees and the blossoms were dead and
it was a movement without hope .
" " this one , no .
the cape was heavy and smoothly stiff with gold .
i drank another cup of tea , went in the tent , dressed , put on my dry boots and
clear .
i had it to-night .
late in the fiesta it would not matter what they paid , nor where they bought .
our people had seen it at its best and fought for it when it was well worth fighting for .
” “you’d have had a chance .
“no , ” jack says .
but i could not sleep .
their big , heavy-footed horses , their costumes wet , the horses ' coats wet in the rain .
” “oh , he’s a better guy , all right , ” bill said .
" he said aloud and struck hard with both hands , gained a yard of line and then struck again
” “we’ll see it a long time yet .
he would go over to the schoolyard and watch helen play indoor baseball .
they said they oughtn’t to let him fight .
it irritated him .
" want some ginger-ale ?
“just that .
“i know he is not .
the walls were painted bright blue and were of wood and the lamps threw their shadows against them .
i ' ve never gotten anything i prayed for .
in the cool night and went to bed and she felt as over-ripe as she looked but smooth , rose-petal
they were having quite a time .
at the foot of the bed .
" vous savez , il est crazy pour le vin .
you did not stay long , the man thought .
bottle of listerine and an alarm clock .
_num_ d soldier—show me a guy that doesn’t want to come down off the cross .
where the hell does it end ?
you had them killed .
some more dishes and then came out again they would be out of sight beyond the point .
i was just mopping up a little .
' ' drink , my colonel .
in the dark nick put his arm down into the spring but could not hold it there because of the
to his companion .
' ' most of the damned safari books are most awful bloody bores .
cayetano looked at mr .
george can ' t tell it to her .
" " tell me where brett is .
don ' t you want a dessert ?
" that ' s all he want do , " she said .
coming out while you were poised unsteadily on the icy , springy brush they made difficult shooting and i killed
” “bonjour , ” i said .
' i tried to tell him that i had a better one and that it was no good to eat
i guess the nearest is that it looks as though someone had cut her hair off on a wooden block
” “but you killed the moose and you sold the trout and you killed what they took from your boat
he was very noble and he loved to fight .
" get the sandwiches made and a bottle of wine .
" i shouldn ' t think so .
of the loyalists , helping to provide support for their cause and covering the war from madrid as a correspondent
he had fallen .
“didn’t you see it when you came in ?
” “you know damn well we ain’t been carried up to no miami , ” he told the nigger .
” the secretary eyed the iron pipe .
we had an old ford coupé .
i wish i could see him only once to know what i have against me .
while we sat in the machines correcting my grammar .
what a pity .
everything , the skischule money and all the season’s profit and then his capital .
" zurito looked at his face .
" i know who they are .
" you know i ' m right .
” “they do it in pictures .
in this club , they have enamelled buttons with their first names and you are fined if you call them
but it was still the right colour , the colonel noted .
sidewalk under the laurel trees .
” “you prefer either one ?
' ' was there supposed to be a comparison ?
but it is not nice that i cannot make love and i am sorry that i am not gay .
all the money we made all the time fontan worked in the mines and i did washing .
" " what did you think i was doing ?
i can tell one writer from another and i tell you that a mediocre writer has a long span of
“do not give him too much importance .
, roger , drove .
then the elephant’s shadow covered them and he moved past making no noise at all and they smelled him in
there was no stringiness in it and he knew that it would bring the highest price in the market .
that we understood .
' ' i daresay that makes marvellous reading .
as near as i could make out he was offering them the empty petrol boxes in exchange for a piece
he could make her do it all right .
of the bar .
" " i ' m praying that it will , " sister cecilia said .
it was a funny name .
' this is what i enjoy .
“he says the first bull got up and went into the bush , ” wilson said with no expression in
they sat there and drank beer while the big drum started and the ngoma began to build .
red said they were waiting to tie in behind white .
the innkeeper went in with us and unlocked his office and brought out our mail .
the ring was rolled and sprinkled , and carpenters replaced weakened or cracked planks in the barrera .
he couldn ' t have held on if he wanted to .
his mouth was full of the taste of pennies and they stopped behind some rocks and there were the turks
i had the cash box then and i said let me attend to it , paco .
we did not lose money on the wine , and the girl was shy but nice about bringing it the
he wouldn’t move .
" she asked .
' ' let ' s neither of us be responsible .
as the bull saw the horse he charged .
well , that would be a damned good thing .
" " are you an italian ?
it’s such a long time though .
across the marshes , brown as those at the mouths of the mississippi around pilot town are in winter ,
then in a jerky-flighted , sharp-beaked little flock we saw the tick birds rise and fly away .
but plenty .
everything of which he could control the locality he did in front of her all that afternoon .
chill gone .
do you put them in the bottle ?
the colonel worked as hard with the poling oar as he had worked coming in .
that is why we can speak gaily and without pomposity .
' i hope that is the correct diction .
there was no answer .
don ' t you owe any money ?
“we have to go , ” i said .
don’t worry , papa .
" let ' s have one more drink of that , " brett said .
then he swooped low so he could look at the eyes of the wicked lioness who rose on her hind
' ' how often do you think of me during the week ?
" so long , kid !
the bottles came .
hendaye had a splendid beach , but he was anxious to start on the fishing-trip .
i drank off the glass of whisky and soda and heard my voice say very cheerfully , ' you '
as he looked towards the mountains he could feel a breeze on his face and he knew , then ,
" i got a good girl .
, starting where it emptied into the lake and fishing back up stream , trying for all the trout i
there were high cumulus clouds and enough cirrus above them so that the old man knew the breeze would last
it was a shame not to have gone to fontan’s—but in a little while i was asleep .
” “he goes to see her every day .
now will we be jolly ?
if i could talk spik it would be different .
suddenly it happened .
“this is ridiculous .
now , of course , and goes with very many women to hide what he is , painted my portrait
” “do you think they will send americans down here ?
then he pulled himself up on the log and sat , the water from his trouser and boots running down
" right here was where pa ran over the skunk .
finally , when the speedometer showed fifty miles , we stopped and woke a native in his hut and m
" " sure , that ' s what i ' m after .
i’m all for you .
i thought the eyes would come out of jack ' s head .
in byron ' s bed nor in the other bed , two flights below , where he used to sleep
” he leaned his head forward on the table .
back the bolt to cock the rifle as i dropped .
“maybe , ” mrs .
we’ll have to be like the deer and only be out then .
he seemed to have a hatred for me at the start .
i hope i am not boring you .
the people hated us because we were officers , and from a wine-shop some one would call out , “a
, as i am .
of the dead .
" " leave the kid alone , " solly freedman says .
maybe i should have made a bigger supper , littless .
and we knew it was no use .
jack didn’t make any move , so i gave the boy a quarter .
the money could be arranged .
“he was a murderer you know , davey , ” he had said .
there were ticks and fly to kill the stock , and the mosquitoes gave you fever and maybe you got
” hogan said good-by to us and brace , the nigger rubber , drove us down to the train in
” it was very hot in the train and it was very hot in the lit salon compartment .
and there they were .
it all looked too deep to wade and the bottom was soft but finally i found a heavily worn hippo
" " much yuletide cheer ?
“can’t we speak decently ?
don ' t you trust me ?
as rough as the sea when a line squall comes up , said .
but he rose into the air on his wings and circled the group of wicked lions once , with them
the three lines of fortifications made three black lines of people .
in ignorance and is strange to you both .
contract with , a publisher .
” the waitress said .
but don’t be superior and be careful some one else doesn’t come along and take you .
here we had come through a beautiful country of virgin timber where kudu had been once seen walking along the
there was a bandage around his head under the cap .
we had lunch and were ready to start by two o’clock .
” “maybe he was that way once , too , ” nick said .
his ears were curled in the same way theirs were .
why don ' t you live in new york ?
the world was a good place to buy in .
there ' s too much sun this time of year .
" no , " said zurito .
he ' s a good lad .
it was the rule of the house that they should all remain on duty until the diners whose tables they
and he hugged her .
” “what do you want me to do ?
well , in a way , that is quite a lot to lose .
“the gentlemen are just come down from the wiesbadenerhütte , ” the innkeeper said .
he said , ' oh , i asked you to do it .
_ _num_ st soldier_--sure , go on and kid him .
” “i’ll get a job on a paper .
the great general who was to explain the operation .
she stopped in front of us and took a telegram out of the leather wallet that hung against her skirt
he shot again and missed and he heard the carawonging roar as wilson shot and saw the leading bull slide
manuel swung his body clear and , as the bull recharged , brought around the muleta in a half-circle that
, but cars had obviously gone through , so , believing it was some repair which had been completed ,
watch out you don’t get killed , ” he said .
' he knew how boring any man ' s war is to any other man , and he stopped talking
" " we know all that , bright boy , " max said .
he was beginning to be spooked again .
we were lucky weren’t we ?
i don ' t get any fun out of asking that spik questions .
' ' we will have anything you wish and what we do not have i will send out for .
he was a natural welter-weight and he ' d never gotten fat .
we ought to do it in the winter time .
” “nothing .
“certainly something can be said about a day so full of events .
making punch , and then we started fighting and i slipped and he had me down kneeling on my chest
' ' tell me something i can say in true american to the pitted one if he comes in .
' ' did you make them early or late ?
, now that you could no longer do it .
“did you shoot it , jim ?
he liked me and we got along fine together ; and he liked hogan , but after a while soldier
these cartridges may no longer serve by then .
it’s all right now .
he turned his head a little , very slowly , as they came onto the lighted driveway of the malecon
” he looked at me a moment and i noticed his eyes were a grayish-yellow and that they did not
i know you did .
his face , his eyes down , never giving any recognition to applause and saying , “thanks , ” in
it was still early in the morning but the breeze was rising and the leaves stirred over our heads .
” “it’s probable .
the old man loved to see the turtles eat them and he loved to walk on them on the beach
they were all around the house .
" " you going to fish bait ?
“those specks of cork in it don’t matter , ” said nick .
i’ve been throbbing all night .
” ‘when you drink this it makes you feel as though you could do anything , ” the girl said
give away medals in a night club .
" get it on the hill .
_num_ to carry as they went on through the broken light of the forest .
” “were you ever tired of trout ?
still , it was too heavy .
dearly as a writer , as a man , as a companion and as a proud possession ; it was
the beer was not good and i had a worse cognac to take the taste out of my mouth .
the bicycle-racers had left several copies of l ' auto around , and i gathered them up in the reading-room
how are your scaloppine ?
i tipped him and told the driver where to drive , and got in beside brett .
' do i have to hate the krauts because we kill them ?
when they first start nailing him , there isn ' t none of them wouldn ' t stop it if
the high ground to the meadow .
“what do you want to eat , al ?
he had vanished .
she’ll eat wonderfully .
he took off his shoes and trousers , sitting on the blankets , rolled the shoes up inside the trousers
“no , ” said the little short man .
” “you know , a funny thing .
" " fine .
then he motioned to the driver to go on and the car moved slowly along , the driver avoiding warthog
he’s more down to earth than the majority of those people .
" " no , " said the major .
they would come , later , in the dark ; but then it would be too late .
did i say i had a third one ?
where the hell were we , pop ?
” he screwed down on the drag .
we slowed up , at the side of the road .
what the hell is this all about ?
he winked at it and went on .
he did not recognize it .
" " you don ' t know frances .
i’ve loved you all my life and if that’s possible it’s possible to be happy isn’t it ?
retana ' s man tucked a baton inside the red cloth of a muleta , folded the cloth over it
“ya lo creo .
first .
you won’t talk to me like that again , will you ?
' you misunderstand , ' kandisky said .
must get ahead , i got on him , then well ahead of him , and squeezed off .
it was hard hit and i took my time , shot carefully , and broke its neck .
was the crowd looking in .
the wind blew in the trees now and was cool as they lay in the shade .
they sat together and ate the fried chicken and each ate a piece of cherry pie .
he could tell that she knew something was wrong and he pulled hard against himself so that there would be
" " you gentlemen are friends of cayetano ?
single file in the moonlight across the slope , on up and to the top where it was easy ,
" the coffee was good and we drank it out of big bowls .
and later there was the good beer at lipp ' s at midnight after mascart-ledoux at the cirque de paris
" " oh , all right .
“it isn’t hard .
' ' was it much of a place , sir ?
the consulate was closed .
' we haven ' t kept track of him in venice .
" " they ' re fine .
after it was dark the train was in avignon .
bed will be a great thing .
try and take it .
what is he ?
my father got the suitcase down , opened it up and put the book in it and something out of
“don’t you think it’s about time ?
she was very angry .
he had his cap down over his eyes .
odgar looking at her .
“sounds like an old-timer , ” robert wilson said , looking up from his kippers and coffee .
, and jake was lying under a table .
when the birds were cleaned he smoothed their feathers and wrapped them in ferns and put them in the flour
” “felipe ?
“want some ginger ale ?
he also bought some razor blades , a tube of mentholated shaving cream , some dentyne chewing gum , a
” “and is it very expensive ?
but he kept on smoking his cigar .
" " listen , " the detective said .
kate came up out of the water like a seal and pulled herself up the ladder .
and i’ll do away with you .
his shoes felt the gravel .
i ' ll get killed sometime that way , he thought .
weren’t we lucky they had rye bread ?
' i am so excited and i always say the wrong things .
“there won’t be any tourists out with this weather .
' ' we ' ll carry you in key west , ' karl said .
" " c ' est entendu , monsieur , " the patronne said .
he looked at the wall .
" you like music ?
’ asked the officer .
” “but he is my brother .
" she tells me you never made a sound , " mr .
of the blanket and then he felt the girl cold-warm and lovely and with upraised breasts that his left hand
droopy was on the other side of the hilltop , squatted on his heels , looking , and m '
“but i’m not in pictures .
i was not at all sure mike ' s rods would come from scotland in time , so we hunted
' don ' t bully me .
there is no order for good writers .
” he went over in a corner and sat down to read a book .
around and seeing him with you .
down beside me on the floor and put his arm around me and says , “come on , joe ,
across one of the strips .
' ' i have no patience with it .
" in the kitchen , " brett said .
“anybody want them ?
about the new house i remembered how my mother was always cleaning things out and making a good clearance .
you really can .
" " i can ' t stand to think about him waiting in the room and knowing he ' s
“it’s gone .
that was the year they shot the wild turkey as he crossed the road that early morning coming out of
' to ride herd on them , and to wield the pointers , there is a group of pistol-slappers .
' ' swell , ' i said .
she did not look back at him .
" let no one disturb him .
in the shanty nearest the road there was a light in the window .
“my daughter .
the basques liked it .
' ' have a drink .
it was at the edge of a belt where all the trees had been girdled to kill the tsetse flies
hands of the sort that poison ivy or poison oak can give .
and something of the flight of curlews and looking back with hatred , waiting to have the last word if
“i’d get back in the car , ” wilson said .
certainly that isn ' t dull .
if it’s a scar and not a scab it won’t hurt to will it ?
but with the tops of his cheeks flushed by the fever , staring still , as he had stared ,
" " afterwards comes the headache , " said the thin one .
i can ' t hate fascists , he thought .
so having promised and decided that did he then take a pencil and an old exercise book and , sharpening
and it’s been a long time .
“see , it’s a boy , nick , ” he said .
because they are ambitious .
i was ready to stop and make camp anywhere .
“put the napkin over it .
” “tell him he is a beautiful boy , ” the lady said .
" na , " said cayetano .
johnson , ” he says , “you’re just unlucky .
it was simply the pleasure of discovering what we each felt .
she was frightened .
hold him very tight .
he looked at the date and then waved us on .
“i’ve just thought of it , ” kate said .
” she went back into the house to get some beer .
they will be on their way south to-night .
' ettore , two montgomerys , super montgomerys , with garlic olives , not the big ones , and please
the smoke of any ship .
ida that works for strattons .
" " she made me write that .
“oh , dive , wemedge , will you ?
through that valley and out to the lake , ' pop said .
i speak german and french and the dialects .
that must bother you .
very close and whammed it in all the time they attacked and until they breached us .
" " where did he go now ?
when he started to kill it was all in the same rush .
she put her hand in the pocket of her apron , brought it out full of coins and counted out
he was not the same looking man as he had been before he had told her to go .
“molo , ” she called , “molo !
" he shook his head and walked away , carrying the coffee-pots .
meter in paris , to prevent faking .
i got dressed in all but my shoes and reached under the curtain for them .
robert cohn was angry .
“listen , sergeant , ” the little man said .
you tell me , general , and , incidentally , while we are discussing the matter and it is frank
' he asked the girl in italian .
the two of them were quite practical men and the vision of the honourable pacciardi defending the italian republic stimulated
my old man bets five thousand on kircubbin to win and puts on a thousand to place and we went
" be careful of my sheet , " william campbell said .
” “they don’t deserve it .
besides , with the drag off , line would go out so there wasn’t any danger .
brett can ' t get up in the morning .
" " i don ' t know , john .
do you have to go ?
” “i don’t know , ” i said .
lake out beyond the point from the breeze blowing from charlevoix and lake michigan .
he told the driver .
“how about you , jerry ?
manuel turned as the bull came and raised the muleta so that it passed over the bull’s horns and swept
john thought .
, and i shot him high and a touch behind the shoulder .
the road curved around the headland and the wind blew through the crack in the wind-shield .
_où sont les neiges d ' antan ?
“did you ever smoke opium ?
“the razor’s a delusion , ” he said .
over that part of the bus .
it was stiff and hard to lift out of the wagon .
jackson , ' dan said .
it was quite a way down to the main road and then we walked along the main road about a
i have erected the defence against brown-nosing my superiors and brown-nosing the world .
and he’d make some joke at them in french and they’d pat me on the head and go on .
they haven ' t come back .
" " mangez ici .
then he massacred the poor , bloody bull-fighter .
“there is no sense in moving now except to make it easier for you .
“are you germans ?
can ' t knock out vienna boy in vienna .
" " you tell him , jake .
she never could forgive learning that and she was afraid people would notice it , where she ' d learned
on the second floor up was a cut brass sign : hotel montana .
settled back in the slow , smoothly rolling fiacre we moved up the avenue de l ' opéra , passed
' ' a little .
" " he was eighteen feet from nose to tail , " the fisherman who was measuring him called .
he had a safe conduct pass somewhere but he had mislaid it in a pocket and he kept on searching
" " you want them with water ?
we kills the savages ’ bulls , and the drunkards’ bulls , and the riau-riau dancers’ bulls .
i ' ll keep yours and mine together on ice and we can share them in the morning .
” “who are they visiting ?
he made him up you know .
” “do you think we are lenguas largas ?
i came astern on her .
' ' my god , she looks big , ' i whispered .
i got my rod that was leaning against the tree , took the bait-can and landing-net , and walked out
counteract the feeling of inferiority and shyness he had felt on being treated as a jew at princeton .
smith but liz was afraid .
“anyway that was off to the left by carabanchel .
i won ' t have it .
" " you see ?
sing say something in chink and all the chinks in the boat started to climb onto the stern .
then i thought of her walking up the street and stepping into the car , as i had last seen
“is a good drink hokay .
against the glare of the afternoon sun with a screen of broken matting , when the authority arrived accompanied by
" oh , i keep in touch with them , " hogan said .
“personally , and as a spaniard .
no , " he said .
that cow .
“look , daughter .
because they write when there is nothing to say or no water in the well .
' bobby , ' the boatman called .
crooked way i walk , the combat boots (those , of that stripe , disliked the practicability of combat boots
he could hear the men talking and he waited , gathering all of himself into this preparation for a charge
fly as before out to the lake , but you make a long circle to the right and come out
there were plenty of good places to camp on the river .
” “well , ” i said , “so long , soldier .
" " good , that will be fine .
i saw one sable looking toward us , toward him , rather .
i remember when that started and i thought perhaps it was seven-year locusts in the trees and i did not
“weigh him , ” jack says .
the bull , in full gallop , pivoted and charged the cape , his head down , his tail rising
there was a wind blowing .
that was one story he had saved to write .
" her eyes looked flat again .
" " i feel like hell .
you have to be that , always , and then be the smartest of the smart .
” “were your books all right ?
while the water was heating in the pot he took an empty bottle and went down over the edge of
me instead of being eighteen solid stone blocks away .
_ _num_ st soldier_--oh , he ain ' t lucky .
we went around one side of the mountain , doubled back on a higher grade and crossed over , out
things really stood .
zurito said something to manuel .
_num_ st soldier—i was surprised how he acted .
" you come back tonight all right ?
his hand reached out and found the glass and he raised it accurately to the three of us .
" doesn ' t get us a table , though , " bill said .
” somebody said .
” “is she a little crazy ?
' ' don ' t think of anything .
nobody floating .
" we had a drink .
“these gentlemen are wanted for murder .
it’s better to get away .
always nothing .
" " i ' m drunk , " i said .
” “i can’t telemark with my leg , ” nick said .
” “i love the olden days .
" an old lady , " said mike .
“ay !
not winded and discomposed but smoothly worn down .
there was applause .
while he sat there wilson came up .
then i asked a man and he took me by the arm and led me to it .
but i’m going to damn well find out .
on his sides showed wide and a light lavender .
back from his nose .
north .
a curtain hung over it .
i’m sending you the letter .
or would she ?
the road descended with short , barely rounded turns .
” “he’s wounded .
mist all the time .
it ' s my own fault , all right .
m ' cola and kamau had to break his handholds and pull him off to re-load , him shouting ,
“i want to write , ” he said .
' ' tell me about when you were a general .
” now he had money he went off a good deal faster but i tell you it was poison to
after all , it ' s his show .
just around behind the hill .
yes , i know about that .
our children’s children—what of them ?
' morning , ' he answered in that husky whisper .
' ' it is the usual room .
” “you’re not .
by the bombardment .
" " sure , " said bill .
' what did she write ?
with cluster , nor two silver stars , nor the other junk , nor the medals of her own country
” “you always thought about things .
post from another .
" that means nothing .
she was frightened but she wanted it .
, and sixty miles down to town to turn the boy over .
“i really love you .
we wanted them to hit the cross roads fast and keep coming .
ran through it , wild guinea fowl used to come and roost in the evening .
robert ' s sending me .
clown away , i reached up and touched the wanderobo ' s ear .
” “i’d leave that to you , ” mr .
the captain couldn’t have known it was quicksand when she struck unless he knew these waters .
train came in and stopped , and everybody started coming out through the gates .
saw he could not speak it came a little closer , and now he tried to send it away without
me , i like foreigners .
" tom asked him .
" he ' s some sort of a dane .
well , i had plenty of time to think about it and i held her on her course and every
' you see , during the war they sent the indian troops to fight here .
' ' no .
i know i ' m not .
it was then he knew that he should have been sent back to the shamba once he had put them
melting ice water of the cooler .
we passed through a town and stopped in front of the posada , and the driver took on several packages
" hello , retana !
he probably had it mixed up with some other place .
smith and mrs .
slowly i pulled it along and looked at the muzzle .
look , this cabron who shoots me just now .
in the morning i came downstairs about eight o ' clock and got some breakfast .
be a damn fire eater now .
like old-fashioned battle scene .
then over on her beam ends .
goodby to the american lady , whose name had been found by the man from cook’s on a typewritten page
" " you probably did .
to spook a bull off of it , by a shot , to frighten him in the way we had
c ' est très bon pour la santé .
probably nothing .
ahead there was an iron bridge across a clear , dark-watered stream , beautiful and clear moving , with live
to shoot out here ?
' the bar-tender came , with the two drinks , frost cold from the chilled coldness of the glasses and
but we’ve got pretty good dope for being so far away .
“i didn’t mean to foul you .
' there is a pair of _pescecani_ from you know where .
“i feel badly enough about it as it is .
do i have to hate them as soldiers and as human beings ?
' i wouldn ' t take him unless you want him for meat .
the first shot he fires into nothing .
“i don’t need it .
space of the corral , i saw the picadors .
they were on the teruel front and now they have come here .
the head game-keeper was standing on the bank in his high boots , his short jacket and his pushed back
' ' yes , and he doesn ' t have to read books written by some female he ' s
all tomorrow .
and then i had to watch for the sand bar that came way out beyond the point .
i had one then but it was easy .
still we thought they had brought him for a visit , and all of us who had not been to
saying , ' damu !
“things look good , ” the man behind the counter said .
in a seat .
' ' yes to both questions .
you ' ve put it on the line enough times .
i ' m frightfully fit .
” “oh , the chauffeur will have it .
sometimes there would be a train across on the other side of the river .
finally .
nothing came to the salt .
i wished mike would not behave so terribly to cohn , though .
and shoot nothing , or only to eat .
" " oh , no , sir , it is not permitted to drink in the café with the clients
as nick crossed the open field above the orchard the door of the cottage opened and bill came out .
excellently .
must take good care of her and keep her happy and get her back safely .
" count mippipopolous , meet my friend lady ashley .
he put on his trousers and shoes .
dostoevski was made by being sent to siberia .
“what about a drink ?
” “no , sir , ” i told him .
it ' s a great pleasure to drive that big engine on the good roads .
” “would you kneel and pray with me , harold ?
against a stump to kill it .
masts at key west and the la concha hotel up high out of all the low houses and plenty smoke
" " and how about the bulls ?
as he bumped the fish and closed his jaws .
there were some english and americans from biarritz in sport clothes scattered at the tables .
" that your great desire isn ' t really-- " pinin looked at the floor .
i couldn ' t .
” she asked in a flat voice , her two hands folded on his thigh now .
he made the fish fast to bow and stern and to the middle thwart .
but i was damned if i was going home broke and starve a summer in that town .
he is dead , as i said .
" you better be fearless and confident yourself , old man , " he said .
' buffalo , simba , leopard .
' ' how are american women ?
' only we called them k rations .
robert harris .
i always thought we ' d have children .
” “it will have to last for a while .
" put some water in it , " i said .
' ' how old are you , my colonel , if it is not too indiscreet to ask ?
“how do you want the eggs ?
kate always in her bathing suit .
of the dugout .
” “it’s wonderful short for swimming .
" " i have mine left from today .
maera felt everything getting larger and larger and then smaller and smaller .
but i like was better .
the veteran zurito resurrected some of his old stuff with the pike-pole , notably the suerte---- " " olé olé
he talked of his work as something altogether apart from himself .
somehow they always made me angry .
he knew it very well .
they were starting to dance around the bull .
' what else ?
" " oh , that ' s all right .
“they’re savages .
with the rest of the gang from maisons and i guess that’s one of the busiest parts of the town
“let’s not think about it now but everyone be happy and go out to dinner .
i have quite a funny face but it is not the face of a russian .
' do they really have energy crackers ?
” “you’ll write about her sometime , ” sister said .
they ain’t anybody can have an idea what it’s like .
the inn .
joe and mrs .
cypress and pine sawdust in the heat .
' well , did you get one ?
' ' i always supposed he was a great general .
' ' but many people without money shoot in the veneto .
“is it raining ?
i liked it and that part of kansas city is very beautiful .
the colonel looked at her and saw she was indefensible , now that the light was good , or almost
didn ' t you , robert ?
“yes , sergeant , ” said the little prisoner .
stopped over .
billy tabeshaw went back and fastened it .
" i went out too far .
after the sun went down he tied it around his neck so that it hung down over his back and
this time she noticed everything as she came in .
” “i guess he’s all right .
' ' but won ' t it be an awfully long time until morning ?
then he said , “i’m sorry , littless .
“i remember you in cheyenne the day tom horn was hanged , ” mr .
but i finally paid for it myself .
' ' i can do without it , ' the girl said .
top saucer of the pile .
“they’re a couple of sharpshooters .
aren’t you my beau , hare ?
cohn looked at the bottles in bins around the wall .
” and he described it .
” the english newspaper man said .
the camp .
ahead and let me see you .
that ' s what they always tell me .
" say , " he says to john .
he sat smoking and watching the river .
" " no , i don ' t believe it .
out there on the heap of ashes and no one ever touched them .
it is only really fun towards the last when the children play .
" i got to go over there , " manuel said , and started on a run for the other
" fräulein , " he called the waitress .
he went over and took a drink of water .
the woman is nice .
they were all smiling .
” “no , ” said another .
' look , daughter , ' the colonel said .
with the red stripes around it .
” “why don’t you produce him and we could try it , ” evans said .
“what’s the matter ?
his face looked bad , the eyes open .
" " they ' re always late , " i said .
too steep for us to make a circle .
he waved and went back in the tent again .
he went to the bathroom , taking the _herald tribune_ and red smith with him , as well as a
the tusks of the elephant weighed two hundred pounds apiece .
" " you do not believe in education ?
' ' it was resumed when you spoke , ' she said .
not so good , jake .
“take the wheel , ” i said .
littless had brought four old flour sacks and he was proud of her .
” he lay alongside of her , his right foot touching her left , his leg touching hers and he
' pin me no pin curls , my beloved , ' he said to the portrait , ' and i
' ' then don ' t strain , ' the colonel said , ' and you will never get piles
' ' you could stand sidewise .
that i am half a hundred years old , they know i fought for it and am a part owner
on the plain while we had been hunting the twenty-five-mile salt-lick , and some bread .
closer to her so that there was more of his side of the blanket under him .
' ' shoot me in the pants , ' i said .
that was before .
” “i always swing on the noise of the trap .
she pressed close against him .
“is it the gentleman’s birthday ?
it was these sharks that would cut the turtles ' legs and flippers off when the turtles were asleep on
“i’ll wake you up .
i only criticize goodrich or firestone or general .
" in the report to the commune she died of heart trouble .
barnes , it is because i have lived very much that now i can enjoy everything so well .
" has he done this for us more than once ?
" silly thing to do , " she said .
just to oblige a friend , bright boy .
barefooted .
perhaps i should eat some of it when i clean it .
and had three medals of the sort we each had only one of .
what do you have to hurt her for you bastard ?
" et vous , monsieur ?
the _dichter_ .
you can work your way back .
chapter xxii he loved the market .
_num_ d roman soldier—come on , let’s go up to the barracks .
but it was in the working part of his hand .
they brought people for the bull-fight .
too , and bill took another pernod .
” “thank you , nickie , so much .
the fortifications were levelled but grass had not grown .
' how is the lorry ?
michel in the warm june evening .
" to hell with that stuff , " hogan said .
he would as soon be in bed with her as any one ; rather with her , because she was
bugs put some wood on the fire .
” “at under a hundred yards ?
” the husband went on reading , lying propped up with the two pillows at the foot of the bed
it’s kind of spoiled tomorrow for me .
" there ' s the boys that always work for me nights , " retana said .
” “where are you going to put them ?
“thank you , ” he said .
“i’ll kill you !
but here we were , now , caught by time , by the season , and by the running out
” the man drew the coffee and put the pot of milk by it .
the sky was clouding over to the east and one after another the stars he knew were gone .
, bronze breasts and shoulders , green under thin-flowing water_) , and when they put up the bust of flaubert
“you know we love you and i want to tell you for your own good how matters stand .
” we were fifty kilometers from the front but the adjutant worried about the fire in my kitchen .
the decadent period that he would only have to be in the ring .
his mutilated face looked childish in repose .
“you hear him ?
” “i couldn’t cut it like a sunday-school boy .
don ' t you ever want to change your ideas ?
" " i ' m all right .
the boy turned away with his face blank .
“what did you do , you monkey ?
he was being led around the paddocks with his head down and when he went by me i felt all
, the water splashing up out of the pipe in the sun and then ties and the swamp and the
his hair was pomaded and shining and he was very smartly dressed and clean-cut looking .
when they signed off at four o ' clock in the morning it was five o ' clock in the
“but it will go better , ” he said .
jack ' s head moved a little on the pillow .
“i’m going to pitch .
that is not far above gibraltar .
the young man , who was named enrique , took off his shoes and , putting them down carefully ,
” “i have always worked , ” said the older waiter .
we had shot .
the sexton was amused .
give us some literary anecdotes .
camera .
' ' chai in the morning .
mike had an arm around me , and i found i was sitting on a chair .
' ' stop it , ' p .
the referee called them out to the centre of the ring and jack walks out .
” “did you know him ?
i opened it and showed him .
they caught the rabbit and the tallest runner came up with him to the car and handed him to me
, and that if he had died it would have meant nothing to me except that we would be short
' ' please don ' t ask such silly things .
from the shadow .
” summer people halfway down the gravel road from hortons bay , the town , to the lake there was
“he’s just winding up .
thing that flies .
but there is something about a man shot off a bicycle at close range that is too intimate .
tomorrow they won ' t have anything to drink , and then they ' ll be sorry .
but it is the mind working , its ability to work , which makes the rhetoric .
' ' tell me , my colonel , what do you really think about tito ?
" " it ' s a good hand , " brett said .
' we tried to take pictures but there was only the little box camera and the shutter stuck , and
” “i know it , ” she said .
the only possible way was to quarter every foot of the high grass and trace every foot of the gullies
do sometimes .
would jump while i was trying to make the shot certain , but remembering pop ' s ' take your
' ' it ' s damned strange how you can love a country , ' pop said .
” “hell of a situation , ” i said .
even if his father had never touched a drop bill was not going to get him drunk before he himself
the seriousness with which the honourable pacciardi took the post of minister of defence of an indefensible country was a
william campbell took a drink from the bottle .
” “il est catholique , ” i said .
just carts loaded with everything they owned .
' he iss a very fine one , ' dan repeated .
his dressing-gown , and then he had his arms around my shoulders and said , ' you god damned bull
" he removed his cloth-covered helmet , put it on again and , stooping , went out the low entrance
after they , or the colonel , rather , had paid the gondoliere who was unknowing , yet knowing all
" then the chicken .
” “were they happy ?
he could thank his father for that .
” “i’d like to save the world .
nick poured out the liquor .
i won’t have it .
now it was starting to rain and the locusts were no longer flying .
' no , i ' ll finish this .
he only looked up with his eyes .
things crawling around on his belly and under his legs .
he’s naturally a little exhausted after the treatment .
his head had been banged against the floor of the washroom and he was still unconscious but my father said
you did not kill the fish only to keep alive and to sell for food , he thought .
but you know , no kidding , it was something to see .
it’s sort of like being a priest .
to a chair .
i think this is the turning point .
_num_ d soldier—he was all right .
' ' i ' ll damn well find happiness , too , ' the colonel assured him .
" " you ain ' t got any idea .
could be michelangelo .
i woke up .
" " never fall in love ?
“here they are , ” he said .
and i can hang and rattle .
“good god , ” he thought .
” “i am sure not .
" told him i was in love with you .
" we just came to say good-by .
' ' i know , ' the colonel said .
“nice cabins .
i saw in an instant that it was not hit and knew that , in spite of the back-swung dark
he ' s got nothing to worry about .
i will take care of you .
where’s the rifle ?
hay la mama !
the old man said he was huge , he was black , he had great horns , and he came
" he said in english , " you tell fortunes ?
' ' i can ' t make out except that you cross the plain , go around that mountain and
there were two of them , good-looking , well built , and shy , but interested .
he saw his hand was trembling .
hills of burnt timber .
the train went by and guy started the engine .
hello !
vigía in spanish means a lookout or a prospect .
this smoke was dropped accurately , and clearly showed the target which was the kraut positions .
are dead .
“can i go up and put a couple into her ?
told him .
husband who would go with me , we keeping in the timber and grading up our side of the valley
“the young gentleman’s father is the world’s champion .
there is nothing cut that means anything .
" we were going to celebrate so , and instead we ' ve just had scenes .
' good evening , privy councillor , ' he said to the bar-man , who was not a full paid-up
nick was feeling hollow and happy .
what he meant was that he had taken money for writing something that was not the absolute best he could
' ' don ' t be patriotic , ' i said .
then the driver came out swinging two flat leather mail-pouches and climbed up , and everybody waving we started off
temper , never bragging , never complaining except in a joke , tolerant , understanding , intelligent , drinking a
" " he ' s gone to drink at my colleague ' s , the löwen .
i was thirsty after the run and the climb , and the sun was up now and it was getting
" she stopped .
new means must be discovered to find room for us under the sun .
” “see , my poor lieutenant ?
“oh , ” i said , not quite understanding .
i looked around at the bay , the old town , the casino , the line of trees along the
” “what sort of a car ?
they sank leaving a trail of phosphorescence in the water .
she had not understood that she was to stay behind .
as i threw the shell , slammed the bolt forward and shot again , behind him as he went out
this was a fish built to feed on all the fishes in the sea , that were so fast and
” “i don’t want to take a cure , ” william campbell said .
" well .
it’s better to hold a place and i’ll join you .
" tell him he is mine , " she said .
he went to america on a boat from genoa .
” his father sat down in a chair beside the oil-cloth-covered table .
he went out of the room looking back at the two men at the table .
i’m dead .
the russians that came out as demonstrators when the government bought the tanks were perfect .
” he said .
' ' should we go and ride in a gondola in the wind after we have dined ?
, looked up at the president ' s box .
potential biter-off of your face at night while you slept , sad yowler , camp-follower , stinking , foul ,
you go along .
chapter ii minarets stuck up in the rain out of adrianople across the mud flats .
they were not othello and desdemona , thank god , although it was the same town and the girl was
' take us to the gritti .
i have saved your table .
" the bull-fight on the second day was much better than on the first .
” “no , ” said mr .
" " probably he owes them money " i said .
" " yes , every once in a while .
you know i feel rather damned good , jake .
' ' i ' d rather get one , a good one , than all the rest .
, leg-drawn-up leaps as unbelievable and as floating as those one makes sometimes in dreams .
they had just passed the place where he had killed the rattlesnake that winter driving through here with david’s mother
the fish didn’t make any difference to him .
“he only writes the big fights .
remember him now .
he picked him off , hooked him and tossed him out .
” “all eight , i think .
" " me ?
i picked up a brass nosecap flattened and plaster marked at the end and handed it to the girl called
the little man’s cap was down over the bandage around his head and his lips were swollen .
is a good for the buzzing in the head .
' and what would i buy with the god-damn three thousand five hundred lire ; and this is a good
the grasshopper , you know , what we call the grasshopper in america , is really a locust .
let me tell you something .
we were splitting it even between us and neither of us liked our share .
" but i know many tricks and i have resolution .
he baited up , then picked up the rod and walked to the far end of the logs to get
' _por merito di guerra_ .
' ' it isn ' t bad , ' pop said .
“i thought they’d killed you , ” he said .
nothing more came .
" " you could , " bill said , " but you don ' t need to .
leave it at english .
' how do you feel , poor old mama ?
” “get dressed then .
finally the bull charged , the horse leaders ran for the barrera , the picador hit too far back ,
the searchlights played on over the weedfield where the girl lay flat against the ground , her chin in the
then it was the place where you dropped in to find out who was in town , or where they
“but you do not know this , ” he went on angrily .
' ' i ' m really glad he has him , ' i said truly .
the sheets as full as any diaper with one vast , final , yellow cataract that flows and dribbles on
" you ' ll be a damn sight sicker when walcott gets through with you .
what are we going to do today ?
' ' might make lots of trouble .
life was opening out .
" " was there ?
the first thing a pane of glass went and the bullet smashed into the row of bottles on the showcase
and excited .
the childish , drunken heroics of it .
trees and all blown out and a channel cut through and all the water white as chalk and everything on
' ' one is as necessary as the other .
that can be .
well , that is what i have to offer as a _gueule_ or a _façade_ , he thought _num_ it
“he can’t pull that stuff with me , jerry .
intelligence .
one of the white men sat on his cot with his head in his hands .
" making it cold , no time to get it , he couldn ' t find his own after the
" " on dit que schmidt est catholique , " fontan said .
" you want to work ?
he wanted to keep himself pure so that he could bring to his wife the same purity of mind and
m ' cola had hung the empty water bottle on him , and garrick had loaded him with the cinema
" " all right , " he said .
" " not a jam , " i said .
" everybody felt terribly .
m ' cola took some dead leaves and crumpled them and tossed them up .
' and i love you .
i had no idea , of course , that she’d fall in love with him .
shoes off under the table and put both her bare feet on roger’s .
' ' why don ' t you buy some good glass ?
knew was a good bit higher because we went very slightly up hill through the brush to reach it .
we were going to the champagne .
there was a carved wooden clock on the wall and a bar at the far end of the room .
” “then it must have been evans found the meat where he had it hung up in the old springhouse
the utter bloody fool .
packard smelled like her kitchen and her kitchen always smelled good .
of a hotel bell-boy who stooped and picked up the hats and canes thrown down onto the sand and tossed
he smiled , his face natural again .
it flopped over his shoulder and made a musical sound as he walked .
but you don’t mind if i say my prayers at night ?
manuel , lying on the ground , kicked at the bull ' s muzzle with his slippered feet .
there was a shower , a toilet and a washbowl with a mirror .
m ' cola motioned with his left hand and counted four fingers .
” “lorna doone and kidnapped and wuthering heights .
about the time when it became necessary to turn off the radio sister cecilia came in .
" " you bitch , " i said .
” “listen—” says the referee , and he gives them the same old line .
' i suppose it would and i withdraw the suggestion .
if i think of her and of her only , everything will be all right .
" " i saw them .
“oh , yes .
” “ceux , sont des poivrots pourris , ” claude said .
” it was the night after the last big international shoot that they had ever shot in together that they
" there ' s the speise-karte , " i said to john .
” “quite , ” said mr .
“didn’t you hear me ?
“uncle george , ” the chef said .
m ' cola looked blank .
suddenly a crowd came down the street .
i ' ll shoot him .
i threw the gun up and m ' cola grabbed my arm , ' manamouki !
we must try to live up to it .
' ' you have a drink , ' pop said .
” the old waiter with the bald head unlocked the outside door of chicote’s and let us out into the
he had always thought it was solitary drinking that made drunkards .
green stop-and-go traffic-signal , and the crowd going by , and the horse-cabs clippety-clopping along at the edge of the
" i guess he don ' t feel well .
the referee had been holding walcott back with one arm while he counted .
" i can give you a nice double room for ten dollars .
then another layer of fems , then three more trout , and then covered them with ferns .
” “he’s in the royal air force .
“i promise .
” the girl brought the wine in and they had trouble with the cork .
get me out .
“i have your big gun , ” he said .
they all were tall , their teeth were white and good , and their hair was stained a red brown
he nodded and said , “yes , bwana .
' ' did i ever see their ears ?
" et aussi , il y a trop de polack .
" " we ' ll be fine afterward .
after a while i stood up , gripped with my toes on the edge of the raft as it tipped
ever since i was a little girl i ' ve wanted to be a saint .
“he said it , ” alice said and smiled .
up in the air off the chair as though he was being derricked , and him holding just for a
) so i told m ' cola to open another bottle and we were through the plain and climbing the
' ' do you think it breaks for me ?
“nothing , ” franz shook his finger .
" he looks a lot like villalta .
i don’t think that goddam evans kid knows about this place .
“the other can watch to keep the birds away .
" " Ça va , " said the other porter .
i turned around .
“how about jack ?
jack put the left in his face and walcott took it , came in under it and started working on
" he put on his muffler , his coat , and his hat .
” “i am very truly sorry .
a crowd of natives .
gets back in bed before his wife comes home from the show .
' ' how are his kids ?
well , we had played our string out with him .
the front of the houses , and in between the steady drizzle the rain came down and drove every one
first class compartment in the paris-lausanne-milan express in the gare de lyon while she went out on the quai to
' tell me what it ' s like , mr .
“this was his askari .
" " but i thought he was fine with the cape before .
” “she says that italy is her country .
' ' i hunt ducks day after tomorrow before first light in a botte in the marshes .
the real chestnut and the horse-chestnut .
" we went up the street , past the whitewashed stone houses , families sitting in their doorways watching us
he liked to watch them walking under the shade of the trees .
” “lorna doone isn’t .
then he goes away to work in the oilfields and brings home this indienne that weighs right then one hundred
but no matter how rum dumb you get , if you ever talk about that , i promise you .
' pop asked her .
" " i ' d rather stay awake .
” asked macomber eagerly .
of that woods .
tell me , what do you really think of rilke ?
he checked on the one that had it first and noted he slept peacefully , chin down , with the
let no man be ashamed to kneel here in the great out-of-doors .
way down upon the swanee river and for where we are going .
” “when did it happen ?
so i forget about them and just am as happy as i can be to be with you .
' ' there is much wind , my colonel , and the room is badly heated due to the lack
” said hogan .
it wasn ' t how they ended .
when you ' re feeling .
it is humiliating before others to have a diarrhoea from ptomaine poisoning or to vomit from it .
" i ' ll kill her , " he said .
that is all , gentlemen .
it was late march .
weren’t you ?
it is not intelligent to be wounded when it can be avoided .
“better take your shoes off , ” bill said .
ignace and sheboygan .
” we came in slow over the reef and to where i could see the beach shine .
, would call for pictorial representation of their plight but , more likely , would , if they were articulate
“tell him how wrong he is , ” tom turned to me .
two car-tracks and we drove down the centre to avoid sending the mud on to the men going home from
" " not so good , jake .
is it to have one longer day ?
you beat-up old bastard .
fish on the cords .
it’s my mother .
go down and find him .
" " good god !
i’m so sleepy , darling .
jack didn ' t say anything .
against the wide band of the tump-line .
' the girl was asleep , still holding his bad hand , that he despised , and he could feel
the sunlight came in through the window and shone on a map on the pine-board wall of the hut .
' ' never .
the cows were big , grey , striped-flanked antelope with ridiculously small heads , big ears , and a soft
they were all running , packed close together .
” they climbed out through the ropes and hogan came over to me .
i can ' t sleep , jerry .
' ' good-bye , you damned bullfighter .
night long , every one along the corridor heard the russian .
” johnson asked one of the porters .
but nobody coming would know there had not been aircraft through here .
" hel-lo , jake , " he said .
" " some days we took a dozen apiece .
he looked out of the window again , drank the coffee , and lit a cigarette .
if that was a bull that garrick pointed out , then they were all bulls .
' ' whatever you have , ' the colonel said .
then i asked you to ask him and you were too timid .
they were fond of each other .
it ' s only a question of not spoiling the meat and selecting the more rugged specimens .
after all , what can they do to you ?
the bull had light circles about his eyes .
” he lay there thinking of his mermaid while kate’s insteps pressed against his back and she and odgar talked
i looked at him , big , long-legged , a smooth grey with the white stripes and the great curling
were feeding close to camp ; quick dropping heads and switching tails , he watched them keeping well out away
" he felt faint again now but he held on the great fish all the strain that he could .
, which , by then , was only getting hailey , became useless .
then we crossed in a wild , water-throwing smash and , all pushing heavily , made it halfway up the
" i lit the cigarette .
” “like religion , ” said the thin one .
" " not in the summer .
manager and sword-handler .
it’s awful when you can’t slide .
brett ' s mad to go .
' ' i believe i get the point .
" is this your first trip ?
" they were simply madly in love .
“fine , ” jack says .
i ' m no doctor but i know that .
across the bed built like a beaver dam and evidently designed to hold back the water .
going to write me a letter and send me the money i loaned him .
the traps , and the drum came down the corridor .
” “and you really want to ?
you aren ' t funny .
' ' yes , ' the roman said .
the springfield was very wet when we got out of the car and i told m ' cola to clean
" she paused .
later i went out with a friend and got my things from his place .
the same fear you would have in a ring with a bull .
” “all right , ” bill said .
sighted along the blade .
“you could have read it .
us , moving his head up and down .
“he has fought all day and he will fight tomorrow and he hasn’t eaten .
“largo caballero is liable to be shot .
i ' ll get twenty-five thousand bucks .
sing , ” i said .
” “i’d love it if you went to sleep .
“no you won’t , ” the bartender told him .
will throw it away .
" " anywhere .
” “i saw them .
like himself .
“now let me tell you something more about largo caballero .
compton came back more cheery than ever .
so he did it .
there was a heaviness , a power not to be held , and then the bulk of him , as
“où est la fucking point ?
tight until it grimped into itself in a hard knot .
" i was just kidding , man , " retana ' s man said .
" " carl can ' t get a girl , " his mother said , " not even a squaw
' i touched each of the cartridges in turn , ' simba , simba , faro , nyati , tendalla
rifles , intrenching tools , ammunition boxes , star-shell pistols , their shells scattered about , medical kits , gas
and steaming in the room .
everything dried up and died .
why should i ?
could with his body and his legs .
let us therefore see what inspiration we may derive from the dead .
' i can smell them , ' i whispered to pop .
but i knew .
he loosened it from the pan with a fresh clean chip and flipped it and caught it , the beautiful
as being recommended by a dutch hunter who had been here a year ago and who was dan ' s
“i’ll never lie to you .
" " it would have been a great pleasure .
” “because you had the drag on and didn’t have the rod in the socket .
" " poor russian , " said cayetano .
" " thanks , " i said .
but she does it .
you spend all the money you took with you on suits and then have them spoiled by salt water so
he was out of shot before i could reload the double-barrelled · _num_ and we had all heard the snorting
the fish righted himself and swam off again slowly with the great tail weaving in the air .
my head started to work .
' ' until he dies , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
“it’s a hell of a thing .
but last night , and at first light , i talked to the portrait as though it were you .
he pointed the legs with the knives on them forward and held the chair over his head with the two
“will you have another little cup ?
“shut your goddam mouth .
you want to choke me for ?
the girl will bring the eating-card .
" " and why does he do that ?
finally it was dark and we went back to camp .
there was more whisky than water .
i turned off the gas in the dining-room , kicked off my slippers sitting on the bed , and got
“old head’s awfully wet .
it looks washed up .
' ' i ' ve lied four times .
i looked around and saw garrick was all right now , letting his mouth run freely again .
max .
" " and bring your friend , " said mrs .
contempt for the huge , stupid loggerheads , yellow in their armour-plating , strange in their love-making , and happily
“i’ll sleep , ” jack says .
' ' what is your great sorrow ?
one time he killed a jack-rabbit and he wanted me to cook it with a sauce with wine , make
manuel was facing the bull again , the muleta held low and to the left .
mike ordered a bottle of fundador and glasses for everybody .
like that .
' ' you can always remember how you shot them .
“will you bring me the bread , mister adams ?
he was a good trout , and i banged his head against the timber so that he quivered out straight
he was on the offensive again .
i went back to him .
" " i felt so terribly .
there were still wingmen then and she’d lurched and started to smoke twice as much and then the door of
" i guess i was pretty stewed last night , " he started .
he reached out for the line and held it softly between the thumb and forefinger of his right hand .
" from the crowd .
“it’s deep and scary for a little stream .
he was sweating .
he would answer in what he thought was french .
but now it was all over it was swell to know we had the winner .
" i don ' t want to work , " manuel said .
been an r .
" " i don ' t know , " mike said .
he had felt sorry for his mother and she had made him lie .
well , by god , i always said i’d run chinamen if i was ever broke .
who left him , a letter telling her how he had never been able to kill it .
sounds like a nation .
he wished he was a fish , no he didn’t .
it seems to be necessary to them .
my word yes a most pleasant business .
" no , " said romero .
nobody’s noticed it i don’t think .
what the veterinaries won’t pass in the daytime .
" bad one , " said the sword-handler .
i saw a couple of smacks headed in toward havana and they were coming from the westward so i knew
say baldy , you must have had a hell of a time bailing out with that wind pressure with the
it was too late to get back to charlevoix .
you’re rum-dumb and sleepy .
” then in a little while he saw it was a tanker and not buildings and then in less than
still , none of it had touched him .
“i wish you’d worn another sweater .
“we only have double rooms , ” the clerk says .
that is the good thing about you going to die that you can ' t leave me .
montoya could forgive anything of a bull-fighter who had aficion .
please whisper to me if you wish .
” morgan and steinfelt looked at each other .
’” “on christmas day , too , ” doctor wilcox said .
up-stairs in the office i read the french morning papers , smoked , and then sat at the typewriter and
it was an overloaded grey-green camouflaged volkswagen and it was filled with steel-helmeted people looking as though they were racing
" i heard they ' d cut your leg off , " retana said .
sun , the rocking-horse canter of the long-legged , grotesque kongoni , the heavy swinging trot into gallop of the
what was it ?
” “we’ll go there too , ” he said .
“have you ever swum in a sea where it was phosphorescent , carl ?
from the dock .
a voice in the next room stopped singing and a girl in a blue apron came in through the door
was really an accident .
i want to get back in that crap game .
it up .
he’s through .
' ' yes , ' said pop .
they were all for the blood spoor and it was like trying to make badly-trained bird dogs hunt a dead
he ' d been on plenty of operating-tables before .
and gouging and biting and i see one of blackie’s eyes hanging down on his cheek .
the turtles saw them , approached them from the front , then shut their eyes so they were completely carapaced
” the young gentleman went back into the hotel and spoke to his wife .
damned lucky to have it , too .
for him to start down the road .
the man who was getting ready to say something spoke to me very low , " must be like getting
” “i never learned , ” she told him .
a few kids came up when the bus stopped , and a customs officer for the town made all the
" about what time do you think i ' m going to die ?
the old man was thin and gaunt with deep wrinkles in the back of his neck .
well , after this shooting , i did not blame him .
already i can ' t see him .
once walcott interrupts him .
how do you know .
and came home that night around the mountain with the moonlight on the fields of narcissi that grew on the
the road came out from the shadow of the woods into the hot sun .
” “they should be rescued from ignorance .
jim took a long pull on his way back to the house .
they sat in front of the fire and drank the irish whisky and water .
' ' no , ' said andrea .
but , he thought , i keep them with precision .
' he ' s a good man .
we came around to the front of the house and there standing in the doorway was hogan .
i saw them coming and hollered at my old man as he went by , and he was leading by
" absolutely , " said harris .
or ever was .
there were no such lines .
he laid them side by side on the log .
she saw how close romero always worked to the bull , and i pointed out to her the tricks the
we all got into the car again and i began to feel sorry for the poor , bloody , useless
but they had no wish to provoke him .
absolutely no one .
books by ernest hemingway the complete short stories the garden of eden dateline : toronto the dangerous summer selected letters
there were empty tin cans around the back door .
hard for two hours .
make some crack about primo de rivera .
cold water .
also you said good-bye .
all this time the roman and the old man had been standing saying nothing .
” “it’s not good for you .
and the navy , you know , wins all their fights always .
i’m coming up a minute , ” he said and climbed up very slowly and carefully .
i don’t know how else you’d do it .
“but not much .
sweater and her eyes in the wind and he said , ' yes , i like it .
well , i went out of there and there were plenty of them with him and some come out after
the wanderobo was a pitiful chopper and garrick was little better .
then i went in and had lunch .
day sunday .
“we’re quite close , ” his father said .
they sat silent , manuel watching the picador ' s face .
the critic of _el heraldo_ lit a cigarette and tossed the match at the bull , then wrote in his
“one hundred and two .
the wind would come from there , rising with the sun and that some birds would surely come flying in
” they were seated in the boat , nick in the stern , his father rowing .
" manuel rubbed his forehead with the back of his fist .
remember her mother and that guy she married .
room for women .
tree burst wounds hit men where they would never be wounded in open country .
things were bad .
" got a stamp , hogan ?
" " don ' t talk like a fool , " i said .
short and grew beautifully away from her forehead .
" " no , it is not , " agreed the waiter with a wife .
" " brett will tell you .
it was just that she was so nice .
" " ah , " said johnson .
under and beyond the logs was a deep pool .
the scent in their excitement .
“they’re gone now .
” “oh , shit , ” said the man from down state .
turned off on the right .
' s big field glasses , a canteen with water and kati sending a chop-box with food .
also you are jail-bait .
c ' est un mot très fort , " he apologized , " mais vomir sur la table-- " he
" the man called " listen " through the curtain .
" what do you think about the shape i ' m in ?
which is finished is still good .
" " why don ' t you send him down on the cable railway ?
" you couldn ' t do a thing like that , manos , " he said .
“see if he will help you .
“i’ve got to put gas in her , ” i told johnson .
” he was happy now .
he knows what i think of him .
" i ' m going over to the hotel .
“why do you hate the north americans ?
he cleaned out the two-quart tin pail he’d made tea in and filled it with cold water from the spring
we went along quite fast , but walking carefully , and below us , now , the stream bed was
but anyway if i do four as good as i can do and as straight as god could do them
” “no , ” he lied .
it’s a good thing that girl likes fish , he thought .
" oh , yes , " i said .
their faces were very black and they were too tall to stare .
just the women stuck by him .
creases did not show so much when the old man was asleep and his head fallen forward .
, rose-coloured , gauze-winged locusts that rose in clouds about us , making a whirring like a mowing machine ,
" " thanks , old man , " krum said .
waked me at six .
” “you’re three to one to be a saint .
i got out the smith and wesson thirty-eight special i had when i was on the police force up in
“i wouldn’t let her .
” andré asked .
i do not think i ever really hated him until he had that little spell of superiority at lunch--that and
the chafing crushed it and he smelled it as he walked .
but i ' ve tried .
' ' what about the good writers ?
" want to hear some more ?
did you try that mattress ?
came down—we always came down .
a nickel for your thoughts now , he thought .
who of them ?
' with water better , ' he said .
' faro , ' he whispered and put his hand palm open on the side of his head in the
a dream of the bloody-headed lion standing over him , and listening while his heart pounded , he realized that
with handles , he thought .
" how old are you boys ?
“why should the people be operated on without an anæsthetic ?
“let me wash your shirt good too , claude .
you know the boy that sculled them out wasn’t .
” “i don’t think it would work .
we believed in that although they had not found a new name for it yet .
garrick and abdullah built a fire and they , kamau and m ' cola cooked over it .
the waiter seemed a little offended about the flowers of the pyrenees , so i overtipped him .
" " good old horace .
' " ' i don ' t know , ' olz said .
[the third roman soldier tastes the cup that the wine-seller has mixed for him .
from the cool side it seemed as though the breeze came down the valley .
that is easily replaced .
they had the car surrounded so we could not move .
in the dark it looked like some enormous pregnancy .
the backs of our shoulders touch .
what was it you were going to do ?
“juma knows where he’s going now , ” his father explained .
the matador who was a coward had the older sister of paco in his room with him and was trying
" who ' s there ?
" " around two thousand .
i don’t want to lose my arm and the boat both .
” the girl still said nothing and he looked at her face that he had thought of all the months
' we had lunch , a very good lunch , and it was just over when kati came and said
i would rather leave it to someone who knows more than me .
why didn ' t you find out from the concierge ?
they were shined and i put them on and unbuttoned the curtain and went out in the aisle .
held on his own grey head .
i better get a partridge or a couple if i can .
i put the reels in the tackle-bag .
” “and if you’re not all right that would be fine for me , wouldn’t it ?
“but i have some .
' ' but i don ' t want to command , ' the girl said .
" do you feel better ?
the bolt i tossed inside the opening of our tent on to my cot .
“goddamned mossbacks , ” she said .
" you ' ll be all right in a couple of days .
no , don’t thank me , mister adams .
the other prisoner was looking out of the window .
i waded out .
the match sunk into the gray wood , making a tiny furrow .
in the hot day , and had a glass of lemon-juice and shaved ice and then a long whiskey and
“miedo .
“i’ll see you tomorrow night , ” manuel said .
he didn ' t like it any , though .
" no , i can ' t say i liked it .
i thought it would all be like where we lived only more of it and that it would be just
” jack asks .
“us conchs ought to stick together when we’re in trouble .
" come on , " brett said .
a boy came up with the paris times , and i bought one and opened it .
this impressed the roman greatly .
" i went to sleep , too .
" " nice of you , " said brett .
they spoke of her as a contestant or a place or even an enemy .
done it .
ambition was another , an opium of the people , along with a belief in any new form of government
harry , why don’t you carry me ?
" it was .
” that was close to a thousand dollars then .
now , as he watched the black hopper that was nibbling at the wool of his sock with its fourway
he is too concentrated .
“i’ve got to carry something , frankie , ” i said .
" clear up .
the masai stooped and put the rabbit on the ground and as he ran free they all laughed .
" i was thinking .
“i don’t want anyone to be hurt tonight .
“i hope not .
” “he’s got plenty .
bootblacks opened the street door and each one bill called over and started to work on mike .
” “then you must not say it .
had been to him when he had gone up close to the elephant in the night , and he knew
it was all right .
” “i wish you wouldn’t , ” nick said .
they often had the most flattering inscriptions .
“ici , c’est une maladie , les books .
“you don’t have to fear bullets , ” i said , “but you should avoid them when you are in
“now let’s drink to chesterton .
at the station they took him off and the detective took the other prisoner off too .
' ' it was very funny .
we’ve been having to make them in six weeks and there aren’t so many with a talent .
i glanced back and there were the whole outfit on their bellies or hands and knees , the wanderobo-masai shaking
” “i think they would .
” “that’s important .
he was not a boy any more , of course .
you kept from thinking and it was all marvellous .
" they ' re always talking about kikes , these big irishmen .
he’s just the typical fashion plate of a young college gentleman .
“don’t look that way , harold , ” his mother said .
they rushed us into a wine-shop .
finally he came in , and we bought a pretty good rod cheap , and two landing-nets .
we have to go through some long bad slashings .
" " i can order one .
“he wanted a quart of it , ” said the wife .
m ' cola and i grinned and garrick looked virtuous .
” macomber asked his wife .
the carts were jammed for thirty miles along the karagatch road .
now he was hungry .
then he leaned over and picked something out of the ashes .
i better put a small line out with a spoon on it and try and get something to eat and
' we saw the moon come up , smoky red over the brown hills , and we came down through
downstairs hogan was sitting at the desk in the office reading the papers .
he laid it closed on the palm of his left hand .
in a trench dug in snow , high in the mountains , wearing an alpini hat with an eagle feather
" " it ' s liable to go down by five o ' clock .
on this afternoon it was snowing and inside an automobile dealer’s show window , lighted against the early dark ,
the other lay flat on his cot with a blanket wrapped around his head .
” “oh !
corral to receive them and keep them from fighting , and the bulls tear in at the steers and the
what a meal you ' ve eaten .
the procession of them went around on the other side past the pelouse and then back up to the near
” “not me , ” said baldy .
“don’t you really believe i love you ?
he was always ready to fight and his coat was black and shining and his eyes were clear .
* * * * * the mexicans came and brought beer but it was not good beer .
come from a long way off , and i could hear my feet walking a great distance away .
the waitress came over to mr .
few mango blossoms whose stems had not died .
“claude told him to halt in good french .
dempsey beat sharkey .
i will take first that following the austrian offensive of june , _num_ , in italy as one in which
push really hard with them .
“you’ll be leaving us soon .
" " which one ?
he would be glad to see me back .
' ' we did , ' i said .
“here comes the memsahib , ” he said .
" how do you feel , kid ?
are modern paintings--and poetry--art ?
the other was huge , dark , brown-faced , good-looking , with black hair like an indian and enormous hands
' ' tell the waiters if you like .
“do you want me to make a drink while we’ve stopped ?
” “what would you do nights ?
” “no you .
there was an orchestra playing inside the café and i sat out on the terrace and enjoyed the fresh coolness
but my old man said one day , in the dressing room , when he was getting into his street
i had coffee out on the terrasse with the team manager of one of the big bicycle manufacturers .
how did you like ‘far away and long ago’ ?
the diner and through the tables back to the kitchen .
he was politely contemptuous of karl .
” “that will be fun , ” he said .
he was asleep when the boy looked in the door in the morning .
” “can’t you let a man die as comfortably as he can without calling him names ?
i wouldn’t be upset or worried about the progress that boy’s making for a moment .
, floating and playing , and then swimming in to walk further along the beach .
gun .
' ' did you ever get up before daylight .
he tapped on the table with his fork .
” “you wouldn’t believe it .
no one ever better .
it was very warm and thick .
" finally we could not see genoa .
in the sunset with all the rocks and dirt giving back the heat of the day .
“i love you so , wemedge .
“i wouldn’t turn him over , ” wilson said .
you couldn ' t tell how english would mix with each other , anyway .
' if he lived in kudu country , he could .
' the waiter made the call while the colonel was in the bathroom .
black hump of muscle above the wide , wood-knocking , splintered-tipped horns that lowered as he went in to kill
bored .
he knew his neighbors in that quarter then because they all were poor .
the white horse into the air , front hoofs pawing , and swung him to the right as he pushed
" now you get him , kid , " zurito said .
thanks .
” “how much did you get out of last night ?
in the distance .
but they ' d have it too and the essential problem is just the same , except who holds the
” we paid the bill and stood up .
to hell with the bull !
into the stream , then washed the trout carefully in the cold water and then wrapped them in a small
it came out of the long spouts in two streams into the big cup .
did you always know it was so flat and dull ?
“i hadn’t thought about it , ” krebs said .
“go on , ” the young man said softly .
she was built with curves like the hull of a racing yacht , and you missed none of it with
when i come back you can tell me about the baseball .
still climbing , then levelled out onto a dark street behind st .
” “don’t show it to me until you want to then .
“after a little we’ll have a look .
they were fighting on the ice of the road with the snow all banked up and the light from this
" i don ' t know about sheets , " he said .
there was no underbrush and the trunks of the trees rose sixty feet high before there were any branches .
air dancing .
nick had wondered about them as he walked , without really thinking about them .
it ' s damned useful sometimes , " brett said .
it was lighter in the tent .
" what ' s your name ?
" " we better eat .
it would not work any more because it was too late .
” “hold him tight .
“you go up to bed , ” i said , “you’re sick .
” “let’s go back to our house and then start out terribly early in the morning .
girl a good husband .
' the driver did , and the man moved over to the side of the road without either looking up
let ' s drive down toward hendaye .
” “being in cold water’s supposed to be good for that .
' watch your beautiful mouth a little on that .
“why don’t you cut off your coleta , manolo ?
we have the valpolicella for the other things .
i don’t care about my body .
his head was on one side and he had a narrow , foolish , and depraved-looking face .
make it seven thirtyish .
“boy i got a headache .
“i want to protect you .
” “i saw her in the kitchen of the hotel and she asked me if i’d seen you and i
of the ocean but it was to eddy’s cooking of the same things as old re-used grease is to fresh
shells fired from the batteries behind us , the thud of their bursts , and then the rolling yellow clouds
i was thinking of the buff the way i had seen them when we had gotten the three that time
he cast her off .
they should be allowed to keep the name of the language .
it was a lie and they both knew it .
“there’s the speisekarte , ” i said to john .
also it was not intelligent to think all fifty-year-old colonels would not understand their language .
” “are you glad ?
now don ' t think of her .
she simply opened the door , went in , and closed it behind her .
do it a day at a time and keep each day’s promises to her and to yourself .
" " i doubt it .
you are hungry .
" you ' ll be stale .
” “that next big cape ought to put it out of sight .
what’s the use of taking care of yourself all these years when you can’t sleep ?
i know you .
oh christ , he said , i wonder what she looks like now sleeping .
i don’t know why i’m doing it .
but i kept on with my prayers and i prayed very often for john in the nights and his class
he ' s wonderful .
now you are getting confused in the head , he thought .
mason , and i was reading a wonderful story about a man who had been frozen in the alps and
” “there should be a rubber cup , ” said paco .
i looked down the aisle at my father .
" " eat some more salad , " fontan said .
meant that the bullet was home ; but the lion kept on going .
braddocks looked out on the floor where georgette was dancing in the arms of the tall , dark one ,
as soon as he got it right he was going to send it to his father .
” “you have it , ” i said .
you just walk ahead a little way and let me look at your back and your can .
also please do not ever hit andrea because he is my friend .
when i asked him what they were like he said that he had many friends among them .
" " perversion , " he said .
" " oh , yes .
you came down to san sebastian where you weren ' t wanted , and followed brett around like a bloody
” “you go and eat , ” al said .
marat , a _num_ meter steeplechase .
everybody else does , though .
the brother led the way through some heavy brush that soaked us all ; then through the open forest ,
they did not use the words that people always have used in speech , the words that survive in language
“you take the corner one , ” roger had said .
you were looking at me .
” “is it really bad ?
" jack asked the fellows who were weighing .
it was time someone should be coming now .
" grand woman , though .
” “what can i do to help ?
david noticed the white flowers that were drooped and dying .
are you thirsty ?
“the trouble is you have a damned small battalion to command .
" " but i won ' t go , mike , " said cohn .
and it’s true and you know it’s true and god can strike me dead if it isn’t true .
suddenly he saw him stop ; he was quite still .
" " i can give you a double room for seven dollars .
' i feel terribly about the regiment , ' the girl said .
droop had handed me the springfield and i slipped my arm through the sling and sighting , the buff now
peduzzi was walking up and down at the other end out of the wind and holding the rods .
on retirement pay i could make it all right .
cold when he came out , and put his ring clothes and his bathrobe in a bag .
pretty , very modest , very wifely , wearing a garment of brown tanned skins and neck ornament of concentric
' it is truly lovely .
fuentes walked forward .
he could feel her bow rise and the green mangroves coasted swiftly alongside as the boat sucked the water away
they rose in soft panic ; passing the fires of the travellers that all moved to the westward by day
you do it in a week as easily , but it is not so impressive .
" double-crossed somebody .
droopy came toward us and spoke to pop .
he was reading his book .
" " cadillac is where steve ketchel came from and where ad wolgast is from , " the shy man
" pour moi , " said johnson , " ça ne va pas .
” “i think i’ve heard of it , ” the girl said .
in the darkness he loosened his sheath knife and taking all the strain of the fish on his left shoulder
i went up to the flat wondering what brett had done to the concierge .
“on dit , mais on ne sait jamais , ” madame fontan said .
' ' of course not .
take with him .
we started tracking again , m ' cola shaking his head and very amused , and in a little while
dreamed of the different harbours and roadsteads of the canary islands .
“shoot him in the earhole with the three oh three , ” his father said .
have made salt , he thought .
” the man looked at nick and smiled .
them to open up the ballast tanks so she ' d lay solid .
they all wore sweaters and shirt waists with round dutch collars .
the red door of the toril swung back and for a moment zurito looked into the empty passageway far across
he was smoking a cigar again .
' tell him in the morning in our tribe we always shoot them twice .
all roaring and looking at him .
” “we can have a party in my room , ” manolita said .
” “i get mixed up on it .
it was a windy day with the sun coming out from behind clouds and then going under in sprinkles of
we ' ve made some money .
chapter x they were walking , now , along the right side of the street that led to the gritti
and the lack of politics , women , drink , money and ambition , ' i said profoundly .
” “sure , ” said jack .
' the contessa is not at home , my colonel , ' he said .
very tanned .
“remember i’m in the people’s army .
" it was only his turn , " he said .
we call a pistol-slapper a non-fighting man , disguised in uniform , or you might even call it costume ,
rods .
he now looked as though he should have not only an old school tie but one of those little caps
he smiled and stood before a bar with a shining steam pressure coffee machine .
“now you’re shooting !
would not scorch them .
it was possible to try to have a baby but cornelia could not attempt it very often although they wanted
whatever stuff they’ve got in the corrals .
“you can take those off with a towel , ” i said .
under the dining tent fly pop and i talked over what we had better do .
very strange .
" " it ' s a lie , " peroxide said proudly .
jack , ” john said and handed him the glass and the bottle .
' ' keep on trying , daughter , ' the colonel said .
, reduced from being a general officer , said .
_denatured africa .
san fermin is also a religious festival .
' the colonel , who was four star general now , in his wrath and in his agony and in
in the dark in the storm they just missed it ; raining the way it was they couldn ' t
“enrique , how is chucho ?
“fuentes , ” the gypsy said .
rubber sandals , gloomy-faced and disgusted looking .
” “nor to tell you how it is ?
i had been that way for a long time , ever since i had been blown up at night and
as the bull lowered his head to hook , fuentes leaned backward , his arms came together and rose ,
“go on , ” he said , “if you want to .
on the range he ' ll shoot the pants off of any of us .
, syrupy , smooth-bellied , big-breasted and needed no pillow under her buttocks , and he left her before she
“didn’t i tell you to keep your drag light ?
he ran very quickly out the yielding plank of the springboard , his toes shoved against the end of the
it takes six months to make a good tank man , i mean to know anything .
” “i don’t worry , ” he said , “but i can’t keep from thinking .
' your grappa is very , very good .
" the train comes in five minutes , " she said .
you have blinded me !
' ' we heard you shoot .
” “in this fellow henry’s room where the crap game is .
“that’s the hell of it .
this fiesta ?
the spearsman and the tracks of the smaller buff , which had no blood on them , up to the
you ' re dead , that ' s all .
sometimes all their lives .
he was already further out than he had hoped to be at this hour .
he was all right unless he was exposed to liquor , or the opportunity to gossip , and nobody had
" what ' s the matter , darling ?
time and again at noon .
" you look _so_ much better , " she said .
" the woman brought two glasses of beer and two felt pads .
y pues nada .
“you seen this walcott ?
" " if i thought you were a spy i would shoot you now , " the second lieutenant said
” “we’ll work everything out fine .
you ' re sure he doesn ' t support you by tracking and wing shooting ?
or has he got politics ?
” harris asked .
” “oh , for christ sake stop bragging , will you ?
i am a boy and i must obey him .
i’ll go in then and see her while you stay out and come back out with you and take them
there was a cupboard full of liqueur bottles .
they wanted to get married , but there was not enough time for the banns , and neither of them
" jerry , " says jack , " you can ' t have an idea what it gets to be
the river and go west .
on it as the leaning tower of pisa .
manuel flopped the cape ; there he comes ; he side-stepped and swung in another verónica .
the dust of the salt-lick had been cut up and printed deep with fresh kudu tracks and there were several
with the man several times that day , writer , poet , national hero , phraser of the dialectic of
sent him back to his wife .
" " good night , " said the younger waiter .
after that he began to dream of the long yellow beach and he saw the first of the lions come
they were coming down fast .
" " that was bright .
romero ' s bull-fighting gave real emotion , because he kept the absolute purity of line in his movements and
one time there was this wopping big dinner and the prince of wales was to be there , and the
just the lights over the ring .
started now .
you can’t make me listen .
” from then he started to take a beating .
he could never remember just when it was decided that they were to be married .
" what are all the clocks for ?
hiring him .
cedar waxwings make me so proud and happy that i cry .
' ' i better try to tell you something pretty good , ' the colonel said .
” i said to him .
she was practicing being a boy .
" my wife does , though .
it is not permitted to drink in the café with the clients .
i knew a good country when i saw one .
" " barnes .
richard from renata with love .
didn’t odgar know anything ?
at least the kind of strength that i need .
my big fish must be somewhere .
then that poor man will feel better .
with light and singing coming out of the wine-shops , and sometimes having to walk into the street when the
' ' plenty of other things .
two hundred yards , offhand , breaking his neck at the base of the skull .
' we better not carry it too god-damned far .
“i’m so glad .
” “he’s a good man , ” i said .
" don ' t be a damn fool .
" " i was never so happy in my life .
” “let’s sit here a little while longer , ” he said .
“a votre santé , monsieur , ” said the porter .
he did not want to rush his sensations any .
good-bye papa .
” “do you want to go back ?
, finally , unendingly , never-endingly , never-to-endingly , suddenly ended , the great bird flown like an owl in
“neither have i , ” nick said .
he talked about the shop to d .
this way , we will have better wine and make an impressive saving .
" ole andreson rolled over toward the wall .
he went up , his neck up and out , his head horn-heavy , his withers rounded like a fighting
she liked his dignity .
isn’t there going to be any crap game ?
then his cheek went down against the comb , his left hand was far forward , his weight was forward
that boy’s no good , mr .
at the same time , he was storing up ideas for a number of his short stories , with themes
we ' re going fishing in spain .
“of course .
mr .
the sun was nearly down .
it was a little long for nocturnal use .
he’s liable to be in this room right now .
' ' there has been nothing since we were together last .
she loved him as always , but she realized now it was only a boy and girl love .
" why , hello , robert .
we were beaten and we have to wait a while now .
i do not know , the old man thought .
” “well , i don’t feel good never to have even visited the tomb of my grandfather .
up into another tree-scattered meadow , and through it , and into a long field with piled up boulders at
” “but with women ?
i ' ll try it again .
please put your hand here .
” zurito called the waiter .
then you think there is something to my theory ?
the nigger lay on the floor of the cockpit and there were sacks of liquor , shaped like hams ,
" pinin went out , leaving the door open .
that ' s a good one .
it ' s really not anything .
" " it was extraordinary .
i first became aware of his lady ' s attitude toward him one night after the three of us had
" " i won ' t have you circulating around to no purpose , " captain paravicini said .
we picked up the shenzi ' s tracks and saw where he had gone on back to the road .
” “i seen him last sunday , didn’t i ?
already in the electric light .
' ' but that was terrible .
it is more important than anything he can do .
“prohibition’s over .
' ' the biggest bloody kind .
' going to have one ?
" i don ' t know any more .
" see that horse-cab ?
" " i never carry a gun .
wings , that were his pectoral fins , spread wide and all his wide lavender stripes showing .
he really wanted to marry me .
' what you win in boston you lose in chicago .
" i say , " said harris , " let ' s utilize it .
the little man’s right hand was pulled out across the table as the sergeant reached .
in new york , chicago , key west or marseilles .
but , of course , you couldn’t .
“you can’t just quit at your age and take to pumping yourself full of that stuff just because you got
i noticed when he quit firing .
i’m shy about it and very frightened .
' ' one day ' s march .
but we had to figure to get out and back and keep the road as clean looking as possible .
gone over in a storm , it lay back into the woods , its roots clotted with dirt , grass
' ' i wish it was me taking the medicine instead of you .
" " that ' s strange .
a rack on the wall .
no one believes this ; but it is true .
night .
well , it would have been all right , maybe , if we’d stayed in milan and ridden at milan
were sold to men who rolled them up and put them away in their pockets .
' ' maji-moto .
handkerchief were having an argument at a table in the galleria .
then we started on again , and outside the town the road commenced to mount .
jack stuck the left hand at him .
, his making-fun-of-me laugh , his bird-shooting laugh that dated from a streak of raging misses one time that had
" " and when you come back tell me all about it .
“didn’t you ever have to go to the can ?
remember your good friends and remember your deads .
this is only a statistic to a journalist .
braddocks put in .
he felt quite proud of himself .
and leaning on a fence , looking over at the herd on the ranch of his friend the bull-breeder .
' he held her as tight as he could without hurting and she said , ' i would not have
on the buffalo that he could see .
“do you think it’s true ?
" " how about the horses ?
, but he made his living by them ; and their standards were his standards as long as they were
' you have not received your parchment yet but i appoint you super honorary secretary .
that was all a lie .
ready with the un-needed aid to the elbow of the ascending or descending passenger , always ready to help when
' ' any time now .
i looked for brett and mike at the tables .
“there isn’t going to be any mrs .
i ' m going to visit friends .
" the guard will pick him up , " one waiter said .
" " it seems the bull-fighter fellow was sitting on the bed .
the wind brought them all down , and don manuel orquito ' s face was sweaty in the light of
" " that ' ll depend , " max said .
" " yes , all right , " madame fontan said from the next room .
“maybe he’s asleep , ” i said .
" another brandy , " he said .
the _gran maestro_ served adroitly and with respect both for the food , and those that were to eat it
i ' d hate to fight in this town where i love the people .
' here are the two things from the square bottle .
the others are dead .
it ' s a wonderful monument .
" " oh , don ' t be a fool .
when do we have to leave ?
i was beginning to feel strong again after the dysentery and it was a pleasure to walk in the easy
this time he felt the bone at the base of the brain and he hit him again in the same
he looked , the colonel thought , as though he had forgotten to change his wig as he grew older
” “my old bratchen .
” “oh , everyone has money , ” he said .
this is a real bull .
” “i’m glad you’re not grown-up then .
" how you feel ?
looked at the arm and hand of the negro and at the negro ' s face .
' then i know how he should go .
have touched them before we rolled out of it .
in the silvretta the skiing had been all right , but it was spring skiing , the snow was good
the glass was broken in the windshield .
off when he came back after dinner to the game .
i remember once at san siro , regoli , a little wop , that was riding for buzoni , came
if they don’t , shoot two and try to scoop the others out some way .
when i came back and looked in the café , twenty minutes later , brett and pedro romero were gone
she often came in when he was in bed and asked him to tell her about the war , but
it ' s certain .
" " we want two anis del toro .
all night .
with a man sculling .
too .
that ' s torcello there .
but they were married .
gee , we had fun at maisons .
it was a long walk home to burguete , and it was dark when we came down across the fields
" " i haven ' t had anything to eat for five days .
that was a trout .
' ' did you really like rommel ?
but where you going to get a pillow when you need a razor ?
mounted the gun before he called for a bird .
juma picked it up and looked at the sun .
can he shoot ?
and i poured the pint bottle full and some spilled on my hand and i licked it off and i
" " all right , signor tenente .
a herd of zebra , white against the green of the bush .
go on and help , red .
” he felt too faint and he was lying face down on the floor and it was over very quickly
” eddy asked me .
” the lady took my hand .
he called the resorters “change-of-lifers” and he made fun of them to mrs .
” they walked down the road to the concordia three abreast .
' ' you mean it .
” he showed them a length of iron pipe that he used for clubbing shark .
a while .
perhaps he had never existed .
' t get at them , because these bandits had no sea-power .
“there’s a table , ” i said as two soldiers and two girls got up to go .
he said the police were right behind him and they gave him woolen socks and held the gendarmes talking until
shot looking possible , i sat down , slipped my arm through the sling and as he looked up and
who the hell is going to make any trouble ?
but it was not out of any book .
drink it .
flooded ground holding the rifles high until they fell with them in the water .
suppose you go to fight in china .
” “all right , if that’s the way you feel about it , ” i said .
" let ' s eat somewhere simple , " guy said .
' ' i ' m getting stupid , ' the colonel said .
a franc for the tip .
“i hit him twice .
” “it’s going to be fun though .
true pride .
” “pretty sure .
” “got to finish off that buff first , ” wilson told him .
“i’m afraid the other car is crowded with all that bit .
i think i ought to go to pray at the tomb of my grandfather .
yes and no .
nick took the line in his left hand and pulled the trout , thumping tiredly against the current , to
she gave me this chap cohn ' s letters to read .
the trees , his head up , staring at us , the bristles on his back erect , long ,
kudu ' s the prize here .
” “you want them with water ?
there is no one here now in the winter time and the dining-room is too big .
it looked as though elephants had traveled it ever since the lava had cooled from the mountain and the trees
i am quite sure .
' ' nothing like .
there were two beds separated by a monastic partition .
i put my hand to my mouth and motioned him down .
" to-morrow .
" " i have never been to america .
from the time he had gotten down off the train and the baggage man had thrown his pack out of
sometimes he lost the scent .
' we can pick up the other one any time .
” “shut up !
” “i want to go with you .
” “if you call me doc once again .
_ _num_ d soldier_--no , come on .
he ' d look after it right away .
" " they look awfully real to me .
don ' t i , bright boy ?
corto y derecho , he drew the sword out of the muleta , profiled on the splintered left horn ,
" " how is he ?
he carried his head low , but not too low .
m ' cola said , ' shenzi !
his father was as sound on those two things as he was unsound on sex , for instance , and
" we ' ll drink a bottle together .
” “he has plenty of money .
the trout was steady in the moving stream , resting on the gravel , beside a stone .
“avanti , ” george said .
jack started training out at danny hogan’s health farm over in jersey .
” “tonani , ” the major said in the same tone of voice , “can you hear me talking ?
look , jake , we ' ll come down the night of the _num_ th .
” “he’s missed a lot , ” nick said sadly .
“you’re not a lengua larga , are you ?
too late and plenty of time the wind is wrong .
to sit on had a lunch in the deep shade of a big tree , drank some beer , and
and certainly not me .
i carried the rod-case and the landing-nets slung over my back .
” his father said .
tell me , are you much of a tracker and bird shot ?
when the wind died down .
they struck down toward the orchard .
" i said .
thicket , the little hills rising above it , and all along the road we passed groups of people making
six miles .
it was just like water in your rubber boots when we go duck hunting except it was warm and thicker
again .
i was thinking how real that russia of the time of our civil war was , as real as any
” “three hundred pesetas .
credit that they respected it .
the bull under and through so the horns passed safely under the horse’s belly and the horse came down ,
on his bare feet to the other side of the door .
then the music started up again and he jumped up and twisted away from me and started dancing .
certainly , she said .
they stood together , looking out across the country , down over the orchard , beyond the road , across
you must not be awake yet , to talk that simply .
“take this with water .
girl and does not have any fear of dying .
' yes ?
but you never get tired of trout nor of perch .
” “i bore the hell out of myself sometimes , ” he said .
' ' do people like you have names and serial numbers ?
without his ever saying anything they were simply a little something shameful between us , like the spilling open of
he took the bait like a male and he pulls like a male and his fight has no panic in
it has more force in the evening too .
" john asked him .
now he did not know what he was going to do .
let the others come to america who did not know that they had come too late .
i know it .
there must be other comfortable trains that don’t go so fast .
what would you like from that window ?
through the trees it was a faded yellow .
could see .
oh , they ' ll have to take me , all right .
” and i’d look back and he’d be sitting under a tree with a towel he’d had around his waist
then i saw she was crying .
we said good-bye to the roman and started out of the thorn-bush fence just as the sun came through the
wemedge , ” kate said .
in other fondas , yes .
” “can i make you a drink ?
david could smell him and they could all hear him pulling down branches and the snapping that they made .
we ought to get some coal .
, and when , on the sea , you are alone with it and know that this gulf stream you
he had some sort of an english accent .
offered me ten thousand dollars to go to biarritz with him .
it was a long low pleasant building and there was a trattoria next to it .
and hit it .
me that you might be a member of the national geographic society .
the ball of smoke hung in the sky like a shrapnel burst , and as i watched , another rocket
i’ve tried so very hard , but she doesn’t seem to take an interest in anything .
” fontan asked me .
oh yes , that was what i was thinking about before those jerks showed ; how much money i had
it ' s for us .
ho !
peduzzi stopped in front of a store with the window full of bottles and brought his empty grappa bottle from
i had rewritten them so many times and gotten them just how i wanted them and i knew i could
“you fire on one slit .
“i have been gassing too much .
we had fried trout afterward and some sort of a stew and a big bowl full of wild strawberries .
" look , jake .
finished with the quarrel .
" " where are our friends now ?
while they were strapping his legs together two guards held him up and the two priests were whispering to him
” william campbell breathed in and out through the sheet .
” i asked the extremaduran .
" anything happen at the encierro ?
he had made himself a place in them to lie down in .
side , his bill almost touching the planking of the skiff and started to pass the boat , long ,
we went to fish a little while , but then we came back to sing again .
then he went back and down into the cockpit .
“good , ” said mr .
' ' it certainly is , sir .
she pressed tight in against the curve of his abdomen .
sometimes when we have the british ambassador and his dull wife for dinner i will teach the footman , who
“here he comes , ” wilson said .
he was shaky with excitement and i saw he had been washing blood off his hands .
they don’t bother me .
it could not go farther , the snow drifted solidly across the track .
wide , forward-pointing spread of his horns .
his father waited for him to come up and said very gently , “he rested here .
lights , then charging in a gallop , moving softly in a fast gallop , silent except as he woofed
” it was the ghee , swimming far out .
“j’aime beaucoup shooter les canards .
' ' some of them .
" now i must prepare the nooses and the rope to lash him alongside , he thought .
in the five minutes a man came in , and george explained that the cook was sick .
perhaps he is too wise to jump .
" you wouldn ' t draw , " retana said .
" sit down , " said harvey , " i ' ve been looking for you .
henry’s the man of the ages .
et , my god , ils sont sales , les polacks .
" dancing , i looked over brett ' s shoulder and saw cohn , standing at the bar , still
were playing the accordion .
across the room the old man had folded his paper .
you ought to know that .
droop handed me the stick , then took off his single garment , made a sling and got the buck
it was funny watching him and it kept me from thinking about it myself .
“but you were the one said we had plenty .
' ' hear from karl ?
but not mine .
i sure learned about racing from going out with that gang and the fun of it was going every day
i had different ways of occupying myself while i lay awake .
then took a course that would lead us down the hill , across the grown-over gully at the bottom ,
the sun was gone behind the hill and there was a shadow all across the plain and the small animals
they were all men eating in the restaurant .
it had always been the same couturier .
the attack was just starting .
what the hell , maybe there never was any spell , the colonel thought .
” he looked straight past me and out through the window .
don’t you love your mother , dear boy ?
“i feel fine , ” she said .
behind them a sort of gully ran up into the hill that blocked the end of the valley .
all right , canvas girl , the colonel told her , not saying it aloud , we ' ll drop
” “finish your breakfast and we’ll be starting .
not a bad-looking girl .
' he ' s my pal .
pans .
point and whisper ' damu ' , and we would go on again .
“how are you comrade ?
” he was sweating .
always moved before first light .
he and the bar-tender had a joke about this because the honourable pacciardi was minister of defence in the italian
” “marvellous , ” she said .
and tall , in their brown skin garments , their clubbed pig-tails hanging , their faces stained a red-brown ,
i hope that you will find some that you like .
" well , " said bill , " have we got everything ?
there was much betting and people went in and out of the room under the kerosene lights and he had
" " five and you nearly were killed when i brought the fish in too green and he nearly tore
' what do you want to eat , daughter ?
“mon capitaine , on a fait un véritable massacre .
retana’s man handed him the heavy porous jug .
“no , ” said the friend .
i must inquire .
i went back to the washroom and went in very carefully so as not to wake the porter and sat
' that ' s rotten , ' i said and i tried to feel bad about it but i was
the maid came in and said that the female english wanted to see the male english now , at once
by trying to speed him up , and that he has been a smugly righteous bastard again .
one eats very well .
don’t forget .
i’ll set the alarm and call you .
sick inside , and that he would follow a woman who looked like her in some way , along the
there was a waiter sitting at one of the tables with his head in his hands .
you can take the rifle until you get tired of it .
with his head down he motioned us forward .
disliked intensely being compared to a little terrier .
it was at this point that he suggested that mr .
johnson’s table .
paper and towels from the washroom and folded them over and made a plug for it and tied it tight
i watched the train pull out .
a curve and commencing to climb .
" only two bottles beer , " she said .
don’t slip or make the wood fall down .
voice .
" it ' s a remarkable place , " harris said , when we came out .
arrows .
soon it was a rolling black cloud and in the greasy black smoke you could see the red flames .
brigades all the time so i am probably a spy .
wished there was a girl like that , maybe he’d get a girl like that , probably never , there
i love you very much because you are beautiful .
there is jack britton .
as good , taken a rest on the ant hill , missed the buck at fifty yards , seen him
" " i ' m not getting drunk , " i said .
' here ' s to royalty .
swept , with the manager who was an old friend and who was now very pleased with the literature we
“last week he tried to commit suicide , ” one waiter said .
still looking at the little end of hair that was left he turned the razor in his hand and flicked
he had turned his coat collar up and pulled his hat down and his nose looked cold in the wind
' ' you are making the discovery .
it ' s mostly been written already , " mr .
but i’ll come back .
but you can all right .
the dusk to the hospital .
the crowd was in the cafés and the dancers came in , too , and sat , their tight-wound white
he climbed the steep road with the skis on his shoulder , kicking his heel nails into the icy footing
' ' we ' ll send the lorry to haul that sportsman into handeni .
” the woman asked him now .
quit being bitter .
but they say people get tired of them .
’ “so just like i say come others .
" " i ' d better go now .
the cloth sign hung against the planks in the hot sun .
” “not much .
but the good lion would sit and fold his wings back and ask politely if he might have a negroni
" " this is bill gorton .
the olive groves of the jarama , in the heat in the smashed houses of quijorna , and in the
he turned and shut the gate .
first thing in the morning i got hold of the broker and told him to clear us .
some day they ' ll put a tablet up .
" " do .
i thought you would understand .
but my father is .
" " one the first day .
i guess somewhere inside of himself he was angry , very angry .
it was tender , with the peculiar slippery grace of that kicking muscle which is the tail , and the
” “tell that hired girl to come out here .
he swung up on the pole and it bent almost double in his hand .
“sixty , ” ad finished .
' ' yes , sir , ' jackson said and thought , the old son of a bitch really is
“we can keep to the two sides of the road if it isn’t too scratchy .
it wouldn’t be a man .
" you are nineteen ?
" " oh , isn ' t he lovely , " brett said .
_num_ st roman soldier—oh , george is a nice fella .
writers are forged in injustice as a sword is forged .
” “where do you think they went ?
so then you sit , bundled against the evening chill , at the fire , with a whisky and soda
i’m chewing .
there was nothing much you could do about vehicles , but other vehicles coming would normally assume they had been
” “probably it’s better for me to go on the way it was in the story .
i want to go with b ' wana !
' ' what about staying in the blind all day ?
and on that hill to know you ' d made one real mistake , finally and for good and complete
“she’s a lovely car , ” the girl said .
the man who had wanted to pay then bought me a drink .
it was cold with the sun under the clouds in spite of the heaviness of the air after rain .
are you sleepy , jim ?
s body had been dumped on the boneheap ; on the public boneheap .
” “what will the tanks do now ?
" " he ' s just a young bull-fighter .
we watched for gerenuk , that long-necked antelope that resembles a praying mantis in its way of carrying itself ,
' .
dill pickle , the egg and the ham , and he smelled them all and the good early morning coffee
" " i don ' t know how to describe the quality , " cohn said .
“he was from a very good family in vevey .
what i would make in four hundred years .
he took a fifty-peseta note out of his pocket-book and laid it , spread out flat , on the table
we sat with our heads down in the blind , each covering a different direction through openings in the thatched
bill had poured out the drinks .
' ' wanderobo-masai king of guides , ' i said .
he swung the hook on which the two worms curled out over the water and dropped it gently in so
about four o’clock when we’re coming back close in to shore against the stream , it going like a mill
“do you lack for anything ?
' ' then learn it the hard way .
he had very long eyelashes and his eye was the most alive thing david had ever seen .
the old gentleman took out from an inside pocket of his coat a leather pocket-book .
there was some talk by the natives , then pop said : ' one of these sportsmen claims he was
” “not today .
' _piga simba .
the bill had been paid .
' i said let ' s go .
after we ate we went upstairs and jack played cribbage with john again and won two dollars and a half
' ' we could in the dark .
and m ' usuri in them , but now it seemed natural , no longer to be italicized , just
_num_ shorts under the brown-needled floor at the base of a big hemlock .
at eleven o ' clock i went over to the quai d ' orsay in a taxi and went in
you make me happy .
but my god she was big .
incidentally , and of course these occurrences are always incidental at the shaef level , the regiment was destroyed .
" i ' m not drunk .
the other gear beside it .
i missed him .
gayer than me .
i have even had a very small look into it .
take another cup of wine , please .
" " shoot , " i said .
” “everything looked marvelous .
; that it was all right .
i’ve never been able to afford it .
father was getting into the upper berth .
' ' over there behind that tree .
white rock .
but now i’m tired .
it was out before he knew he’d said it .
spear on him longer than your arm burst head and shoulders out of the water and smash at that mackerel
icehouse and put it in and then fill the cup with scotch and then stir it till it’s all mixed
that wrench was too light .
i had started to pull when i lowered the rifle .
the old man had seen many great fish .
suppose you mind yours then .
it wasn’t any good .
index .
prize short-stories—will their authors write our best-sellers of tomorrow ?
" " four days , jake .
began to seem very impossible and romantic and quite untrue .
do you know a big swede named ole andreson ?
mention in madrid , valencia , barcelona , and other political centers .
they ate without talking and the man held her hand under the table .
” “you won’t touch me .
he’s had enough fight , so he’s watching now .
" i was a fool to go away , " she said .
common visits to selborne , and bishop stanley has given us a valuable , although popular , familiar history of
that was many months later .
it was my fault .
" he asked the gypsy .
“how rare it is .
all right , you dirty , lousy bastard !
” “yes , ” said the girl .
“all right , ” he said to the hired girl , who had opened and shut the door behind her
" come and turn this damned thing off .
” “you don’t sound awfully jolly .
he didn ' t have much legs .
i do not think so either .
that’s a different thermometer .
" john collins is out with a couple of friends to see jack , " i said .
' ' better not know , ' the colonel said .
' please don ' t pretend to be stupid and please let ' s not think of anything , or
you will be wet .
_wine-seller_--no , i didn ' t take any interest in it , lootenant .
” “i can’t replace it for under three hundred and sixty .
fine fiesta , and that we would get some fishing .
” “they’re mechanics , but they couldn’t learn to soldier .
the waiter came over .
i’ll give you three hundred francs .
” nick went into his room , undressed , and got into bed .
there !
quite naked , from the village .
" you know , " he said , " i like liquor pretty well .
all american writing comes from that .
' ' for keeps and for always , ' the girl said .
' ' did you fight much ?
inside the dining-car the waiters served the fifth successive table d ' hôte meal .
the hook was bent and he straightened it .
and free to shoot for the meat we needed .
but she wanted some one that she respected with her .
' ' it was young girl poetry .
we went out .
' ' it will come as a surprise , ' the _gran maestro_ said with his long and loving face
” “he’s going to make sense , ” another flyer said .
" bill looked around , half-shaved , and then went on talking into the mirror while he lathered his face
the white road , and then up a side road that went up through the hills past many small farms
it was a very complicated operation .
a street-car motorman came in .
“henry !
” hogan went in through the screen door and i sat there on the porch and read the papers .
“you mustn’t get what i have .
big , big bull .
” “i’d muffle it all right .
he should find things he cannot lose .
and i put it in my pocket and forgot it .
he climbed the bank and cut up into the woods , toward the high ground .
i walked over to get it through the early dusk of a madrid winter .
' arnaldo spoke into the phone , then turned to the colonel who was looking out of the window at
we got out from the crowd .
he pushed the bull under and through so the horns passed safely under the horse ' s belly and the
“there , ” his father would say , “it’s your sister dorothy .
one day montoya took them all out and dropped them in the waste-basket .
' ' it would depend on what you lied about .
" " well , i got to keep bright boy amused .
“il y a des gens très gentils , très sensibles , qui viennent aussi , ” he said .
every one danced .
it was understood all right .
“put on your shoes and stockings too .
three or four miles of swamp .
" " you , " he said .
my mouth was still dry .
' ' _ciao_ , ricardo , ' andrea said and that was all .
“he never even tried to make a break .
" we were sitting in the blind that wanderobo hunters had built of twigs and branches at the edge of
it would be wonderful to do this with a radio .
the church of frari there was no colonel .
you shoot him .
" ' i don ' t know , ' said olz .
noise clink in my ears but it wouldn’t break and i had to come up .
" i was sure he didn ' t , so it was all right .
sitting crowded on the front seat of the car , the negro reached under his shirt and put his fingers
' no , ' he said , dismissing the idea .
" " i ' ve never seen you drunk .
" " i know , " said johnson .
" they play and make jokes and love one another .
" " in france that wouldn ' t make any difference .
' ' we could be married .
the gate and one of them was counting a bunch of mutuel tickets and he said , “well , butler
" it ' s nothing .
the hands cure quickly , he thought .
ahead of him , as far as he could see , was the pine plain .
then he added , sometimes .
" i guess it isn ' t any damn use .
caused a panic ; which is one of the strangest things there is , the colonel thought .
we must eat and get out of here .
” “yes , we were up early .
“we have to get to pisa , or if possible , firenze , tonight .
" " no , i don ' t want one .
through that smoke-filled hall , down those tricky stairs , out the door , and down the street faster than
to talk .
but it turned out , when the waiter came , that what she had asked me was to have a
” andré had brought the twenty-two-calibre rifle out from the cupboard and was holding it in his hands under the
the middle-aged gun-bearer was sweating heavily and wilson had his hat down over his eyes and his red neck showed
bathrooms at the time of building , and , later , when they were introduced , they had been built
” “but listen , caro , you must have piombo .
” “you shoot him , ” david had said .
” then he’d get up and before he started to cool we’d jog along back to the stables .
' ' would you kiss me and hold me tight , and we both look at the grand canal where
you only have to take one look at it .
” asked john .
“gentlemen , ” i said .
“we are all of us in his kingdom .
" hot and with plenty of milk and sugar in it .
we call it lucky if it ' s tear gas .
" " poor devil !
on purpose .
“all right , ” she said .
" isn ' t it pretty to think so ?
“you’re poison to me .
inside the lit salon compartment the porter had pulled down the three beds from inside the wall and prepared them
' ' yes , ' the girl said .
to work and train in order to bum it out of his body .
“he won’t be back before five o’clock .
his true love was sleeping again .
the bull was suspicious .
said he couldn ' t do it .
he knows everything about working in close too and he’s getting away with a lot of stuff .
" my heart ' s broken , " he thought .
them i wondered at them and at how i had ever done them .
the man went on to explain the interlocking interests of these three and roger listened happily .
' what is there to eat in this _wirtschaft_ ?
you have to be good now in every way until you say good-bye .
“don’t talk about it , mr .
then he rolled and hung onto that arm and started to cry and i said : “what the hell you
' chapter xli so that was that and maybe it was that day or maybe it was another that made
i knew everything i had ever written and everything that i had great confidence in was gone .
after he ' s gone .
i realized that right away .
high , walking out of the battle .
the crowd felt it , even the people from biarritz , even the american ambassador saw it , finally .
that ' s what you ought to work up into a mystery .
and that they have coming ?
fifty grand .
' ' one pretty good right behind the ear .
for you .
' ask them if they would like to meet b ' wana hop-toad , the inventor of the hoptoads and
during this time robert ' s mother had settled an allowance on him , about three hundred dollars a month
' _m ' uzuri , memsahib_ , ' and m ' cola and the porters all saying ' _m '
i’m not lonely .
in a little while we could hear them coming in the brush and i shouted to let them know where
, but there was never any action taken , although many felt it was a shame the hospital could not
sometimes they darted off .
' ' forget them , daughter .
_num_ with a muzzle velocity of two tons had hit him in the mouth , nor what kept him coming
his arms around her .
here is the glass of decanted vino .
” joe asked .
” we climbed down the ladder and my father put it in the woodshed .
" then he added , " blessed virgin , pray for the death of this fish .
" all right , " he said , and handed back the bag .
this is the way it goes if anyone is ever interested ; which i doubt .
they knew about the other boys who put the big ten-centime pieces under their arm-pits to produce jaundice .
“on ne mange pas bien .
a boy and girl were at the other end .
“no , ” he said , “one for a vecchio .
' ' fine , sir .
" they show the hour all over america .
” “well , some say he is .
we finish it .
he did not want to get into the intrigue and the politics .
" " neither do i , " said johnson .
he’d stay on longer next time .
i thought it was accidental and went on : " she ' s been there two years and knows everything
bones two hours later .
“that’s not the question .
“you think it’s all right to stay with him ?
he very nearly took it from the hall porter ' s hand .
so i would not be nervous .
could only see well in flashes .
” they stepped out the door .
a simple process , but a rite .
" going to kidnap us .
chest .
“nothing , ” he said .
she tells all the stories that reflect discredit on me .
' here ' s to you , daughter , ' he said .
for the first time in his life he really felt wholly without fear .
give us a prescription , doctor " to a .
” “it is very good , ” said the smallest one .
' ' then you are happy ?
the liquor had run all over everything .
” “why are not all the opiums of the people good ?
a porter came in and said the simplon-orient express was an hour late at saint-maurice .
" twice more it was the same on the turns .
” “how’s the weather over there ?
" what can we bring you ?
' the girl was crying , finally , although she had made the decision never to cry .
' ' oh , i wish you were not in that business and that you were not going to die
he handed me the boy’s feldbuch .
" want to buy anything ?
his cloth-covered trench helmet .
" " rotten .
looked like that early in the morning .
he started to climb again and at the top he fell and lay for some time with the mast across
but i think it too much .
you haven’t been wicked .
the water tasted like rotten eggs because these were mineral springs and nick and his sister used to drink from
we would pass hills with a farmhouse and the woods behind them and they were the same hills but they
he excused himself , some soldiers made room for him , and as we watched we could see him starting
” “are you a midwife or a veterinary ?
” they kept on along the road and then took another road that was even more overgrown .
" " what do you suppose he ' ll do ?
please hold me very tightly so we can be a part of each other for a little while .
you know how you hear things .
' where should we go ?
" " i ' d a damn sight rather be in town with the wife .
he put on his coat and followed the porter onto the platform where the snow was falling .
he used to be a taxi driver .
" " what ' s yours ?
trees and the movement of the big ears and the searching trunks coiling and uncoiling , hearing the crash of
he had talked to her about how they would go to italy together and the fun they would have .
" why not ?
” she stopped again .
i’ve got to get some groceries .
i can describe the scene very well .
i had been getting something for nothing .
“this man is very funny .
then it moved slowly nearer , unmistakable now , louder and louder until , agonizing in a clank of loud
maybe we could both sleep a little while , with luck , and then , perhaps , your mistress would
“one place is just as good as another to run over a skunk .
maybe they weren’t even steering .
” bugs turned from the fire .
' he did not understand the words but the tone made it clearer than if i had got something out
the gentleman from montana and his wife and his son , hubert , were sitting comfortably .
" is that all right ?
but d ' annunzio , truly , was only making heroic gestures with the other things .
in spain you could not tell about anything .
give it the generic title of waterloo .
it was strange because she had been present in the room for a moment , and she had very nearly
the bird went higher in the air and circled again , his wings motionless .
he knew that was a lie .
" " whose novillos ?
" son of a bitch , i can get in .
you keep behind me and a little to one side .
chapter xxviii they lay together now and did not speak and the colonel felt her heart beat .
he pushed the shells back in against the spring of the magazine .
once he knows everything .
but i must have confidence and i must be worthy of the great dimaggio who does all things perfectly even
“it would be fished out then .
as you watched the man in front sank onto his knees and then sat down .
“where you go eat ?
he had slim , handsome legs with well-turned ankles on the style of babe ruth ' s and i remember
and you’d see people and could have some fun and then you’d come back and it would have to be
straight down as he swung his body clear of the right horn .
” we went out .
but they were both ashamed of those who had ordered that and they never thought about it except as a
" " did the typewriter put you to sleep ?
sing bit me .
” said jack .
” she came out to the fence at the far corner where nick was making up his pack beyond the
in his coffee .
that is your own affair .
they never really became as tame as the other barnyard fowl the spanish settlers brought with them and some escaped
“will you shut your mouth and get us out of here ?
” “i wouldn’t know that , cap .
“want me to treat you rough like walcott ?
deadly weight on my head and i was very thirsty .
” “what did he want to kill himself for ?
then the weight increased and he gave more line .
he started down to the stream , holding his rod , the bottle of grasshoppers hung from his neck by
why did you wake so early ?
the dome of the dogana , ' ettore says he will try to move them , but he is afraid
" madame fontan asked .
of the royal cellars and the date it had been put in the bins .
may i tell him where to go ?
" " probably it wasn ' t you .
hebrew wine-seller—gentlemen , you know i got to close .
he felt lighter , as he had felt before bill started to talk about it .
i’ll just have to go over and suck up to the headwaiter and give him some more money .
we took the track and followed it on the damp reddish earth for two hours in thick bush that was
you can’t eat it .
i said if she would go about with jews and bull-fighters and such people , she must expect trouble .
things like the handler opening the rooster’s bill and blowing in his throat when the referee would let them pick
' everything about war bores those who have not made it .
the emotion left mike ' s voice .
" " oh , rot !
” i asked the greek comrade .
as he turned , he stopped for a moment and looked at the church of santa maria del giglio .
“i won’t .
“how’s that ?
' ' but this country is washed out .
maybe they don ' t any more .
“that we could start .
get it .
” he stood up and i watched him go out .
" " i didn ' t see it all .
, and through his mother of one of the oldest .
do it and you will do it .
“i don’t know , ” his father said .
“the victory , ” he said very quietly in spanish , his mouth disdaining the word , and shifted softly
" what a fish , " he said .
he cannot go down deep to die where i cannot bring him up .
“i’m through with all that running around .
nothing doing ?
they were too far out for him to hear what they were saying .
he went over to his suitcase and got out the cards and the cribbage board .
his original plan had been to go down home and get a job .
” “we’ve got a lot of country to get through first .
first line did not hold .
have you eaten ?
" with his prayers said , and feeling much better , but suffering exactly as much , and perhaps a
" something hurt him then , " he said aloud and pulled back on the line to see if he
" " what did you say ?
the sun will bake it out well now , he thought .
” “no , don’t encourage me .
eat this slowly and drink some tea and go to sleep again .
" what a box to sweat in !
a woman standing in the doorway of one smiled at us and we crossed the street and went in .
all the rest of it was quite clear , including the responsibilities .
evans .
they were smoking cigars .
' cold , and with mayonnaise .
they ate steadily , making a dropping in the leaves .
” nick hesitated .
" peroxide said proudly .
” “what are you talking about ?
man leaned over the stern and lifted the burnished gold fish with its purple spots over the stern .
seems as though that were the thing that keeps it all going and about the only thing you can figure
be careful .
” “i’ll give them a good show , ” jack said .
a spring .
but too many books are bad , ” madame fontan said .
complete with tumbrils .
" well , what are you smiling at ?
her lightness prolongs both our suffering but it is my safety since he has great speed that he has never
" " it will come , all right .
they have to write to keep up their establishments , their wives , and so on , and they write
father say one could well wish themselves dead if once they became a victim of that malady—i believe my father
the bartender put out the bottle and glass and a glass of water .
" i went back to bill .
my eyes are bored i guess as well as tired .
it was such a sharp , aching , hurting feeling that she thought she couldn’t stand it .
' the _gran maestro_ said to tell you , as you embarked , that this bottle of wine was his
" i couldn ' t look away , though .
” “who was killed ?
everybody gets what they want .
mostly it was just a hand .
" " splendid chap , " said mike .
i was sure it would be there ; that some of the manila folders would be there because i could
he would never know now how he would have turned out ; so he could never be accepted either ,
but i’m nervous from hearing him roar all night .
" " you like being married ?
after the hot day , the dew had come quickly and heavily .
" i won ' t kill him unless he comes around the house .
would you like to take some of that ham and some bread with you ?
this is really interesting .
but if he only half-looked they were there , the far-off hills of the height of land .
it was the last day of the fiesta .
and make his hands go round and round to show how the bird turned over in the air .
he still could not see .
at one time when he was feeling so badly toward the end , he had thought perhaps it was a
the trail climbed steadily , then twice looped back on itself and for a time seemed to wander , without
' listen , ' the man in the boat called .
" " that is all right , " said mr .
i swam back to the surf and coasted in , face down , on a big roller , then turned
and my feet are tough from going barefoot all summer .
and swelling smooth against the resistance of the log-driven piles of the bridge .
you’re not going to serve them for the dinners ?
every morning now it took the heavy , woolly sky an hour or so longer to clear and you could
then he came at the usual hour , wearing a black band on the sleeve of his uniform .
" jack asked him .
" " you will tell them .
amen .
" listen .
then pop said , ' look at that son of a bitch ' , and shouted at m ' cola
did you see it , doc ?
what was he like ?
" if eddie gilby ever comes at night and even speaks to dorothy you know what i ' d do
" " what was it ?
i ' m hopped to the eyes .
' ' but do you really prefer the gritti ?
' ' mine is a decanted flask of the valpolicella .
” “what do you want out here in the rain ?
i love your hard , flat body and your strange eyes that frighten me when they become wicked .
we fly to kansas city , don ' t you remember ?
" brett gestured at him from the bar with her cigarette-holder and wrinkled the corners of her eyes .
the gypsy was very good with the banderillas .
back and fireweed growing beside the track and nothing more to look at to remember .
it means you do not comb your hair enough .
' ' i know it .
unless you want to take the big buick roadmaster , with the dynaflow drive .
" " c ' est vrai , " fontan nodded .
" be yourself .
this was not outrightly funny to him .
' papa , please try to act like a human being , ' she said .
got out the books and m ' cola made a small fire and boiled water for tea .
i step from under the mosquito bar into my drawers which are held for me .
he did not feel like going on into the swamp .
” “oh , well , ” he said .
“will you tell me the rest ?
i’ll get her to give me a sack to put everything in and i’ll get some dried apricots and some
figure it out , he thought .
he was pretty good in there today .
well , i can always give her back the picture .
no matter what you do with it .
" who are your friends ?
” “why didn’t you shoot him ?
” retana leaned forward across the desk and pushed a wooden box of cigarettes toward manuel .
“horace , ” doc fischer said , “you don’t mind me calling you horace , do you ?
the eyes were already dusty and there were flies around them and the horns were heavy , coarse , and
“me good politics , ” frankie said .
let’s try now .
i was not kicked again .
glass , but i bled so i had to wash out the water glass .
” “what’s to prevent him going down by east jordan and grand traverse ?
that house meant more than anything and every night he had it .
“so much better .
” “me either .
“if you are interested in scars i can show you some very interesting ones but i would rather talk about
but i’d like to bet you’re going to have plenty .
nobody could have been on deck in that blow and rain .
” they came in heavily loaded and everyone was very cheerful .
“how about some food for the young gentleman and myself ?
thaw is counting on it .
a little piombo .
" " he sobered up afterward .
“they couldn’t hurt me .
through to the inside , there was a shout , then another shout .
' ' he was always one of my great heroes .
the wine one dollar a litre .
manuel noted the fresh blood shining down the black shoulder and dripping down the bull’s leg .
i hate the english .
" " of course .
” “and then what would you do ?
" hello , jack , " he said .
” “not in jail .
i don’t think we have to worry about him till they get home to evans’s .
i stopped and read the inscription : from the bonapartist groups , some date ; i forget .
' ' because the wind is from the wrong direction .
see that you do .
" " the englishmen all have saturday off , " woolsey said .
“we’ll have to wait a while before we go in to find out” “what do you mean ?
the train started with a jerk , and then ran smoothly , going down grade around the edge of the
what do you mean , kikes ?
jack hadn ' t drunk anything since the one drink .
' manamouki !
in san pier d’arena , the industrial suburb outside of genoa , there is a wide street with two car-tracks
” nick and his sister followed her outside .
' ' but you don ' t ever write to her ?
coasted lightly over .
" bill took a long drink .
more of a change than any loss of virginity .
that was a mile deep .
' they are really interesting .
the head was swaying and i could see the ears forward and twitching , and see the little pig eyes
" so i did .
“i didn’t say something i shouldn’t did i ?
there had not been a real one for a long time .
other push carts with pillows and blankets that you rented ?
the tails .
then he straightened himself and began another circle .
five men sentenced to be hanged were in the five top cells .
” kate pressed all the way up for answer .
" you see that one ?
with some firmness and he closed it in surprise .
it was an idiotic idea , he said , “a theory , like another .
mais je reste catholique .
" well , let ' s talk about something else .
“all right , nigger .
' ' it ' s not too neat but it is damn lovely .
the french tank commander had got drunk to be brave for the attack and finally was too drunk to function
he could talk french just like english and all those kind of guys knew him ’cause you can always tell
” “all right , as soon as the bait comes .
" i ' ve never let you down , have i ?
” “he must have got mixed up in something in chicago .
i looked at the count .
there were only four batteries down there , when there should have been forty , and they were firing only
“i know , ” i said , “but they photographed very well .
if only one of the good ones doesn’t get knocked out at the start .
it had a picture of the concha , and said : " darling .
we walked to the station .
foolish .
many must have it .
“plenty , ” roger agreed .
” “thank you very much , ” claude said .
" " well , " i said , " it can ' t hurt marcial any .
a part of milano ; and bologna .
' put your right hand in your pocket .
some sort of y .
if fie don’t want us it’s none of our business .
work down to them .
” “that’s right , ” said john .
god knows , i ' ve never felt such a bitch .
pope ?
“gentlemen , i give you fishing .
not at all now after the chocolate .
“perhaps he wants some kek , ” fontan said .
conscience , he thought .
he heard the bird fly out of the cage and then he heard him sing in one of the laurel
what ' s the matter with him ?
' ' it ' s a beautiful view .
littless leaned forward and spat toward the fire .
for the next twenty-two years until his death , there was still a real country on the south side .
i could find out how they are quilted and make one with duck down from here , he thought .
but you get fed up with horse-dung unless you like the aroma or the taste .
“i’ll clear in the morning and pull out at dark .
it was a long time since i had dined with a poule , and i had forgotten how dull it
she was worried .
back of the counter they drew the wine from casks .
there ' s a big rhino there too .
” “that’s right , ” george said .
" don ' t you say it , garner , " his wife warned .
” “take them off and dry them and i’ll get you some , ” bill said .
aren ' t we all friends , jake ?
sun , moving with a quick waterbug-like motion across the hill .
his body was heavy on his feet .
" " he can be damn nice .
a waiter went for a taxi .
” “i don’t want to wait for no boat .
you might get going .
in the field the girl lay , her hands clasped across the top of her head .
at dinner that night we found that robert cohn had taken a bath , had had a shave and a
glasses , leaving a little in the bottom .
“i want to talk to harold .
he held his glass in one hand and the book in the other , leaning back against nick’s chair .
were those two men killed who went out with the stretcher ?
one .
the money was all right .
what kind of a dirty business at this time of night !
” “what’s yours ?
the street was solid with dancers , all men .
shifting the weight of the line to his left shoulder and kneeling carefully he washed his hand in the ocean
come through the warehouse and get out on the dock .
the fish is calm and steady .
look at that !
across the knuckles , held in place by his forefinger and his thumb .
manuel set down the jug and watched .
dogs had eaten part of him .
manuel looked up at the stuffed bull .
" she brought the coffee from the kitchen and mr .
olz didn’t say anything .
” “does it make any difference whether i do or not ?
, of the town rising up from the bluff above the river .
he had betrayed the elephant when he had gone back to tell them at the shamba .
' ' why didn ' t you like him ?
" " who did you think i went down to san sebastian with ?
we went into the restaurant , passed madame lavigne at the desk and into a little room .
he wondered how long they would stay that way .
next time we will give all venice botulism from _num_ , _num_ feet .
" " don ' t talk like a fool .
' i ' m tired of seeing you , because you worry and you don ' t have fun .
i wish to christ he hadn ' t got any kind of malady .
liz hadn’t known just what would happen when jim got back but she was sure it would be something .
" he said , offering the match to retana .
' ' _good .
i’m really like the snoring one at the table says he was .
" " i feel fine .
" what do you follow her around for ?
or i may eat the rice cold .
nor of monte corona , nor the sette communi , nor of arsiero .
' ' chai ?
" " we might as well , " said bill .
” “am i really your girl ?
some are cynical and some are extremely eager .
he ' s decided i don ' t film well .
" " i can remember the tail slapping and banging and the thwart breaking and the noise of the clubbing
“he said we would talk , ” pancho said .
“how much do i get ?
“steve knocked him down , ” peroxide said .
“son of a bitch , ” said billy .
the tuna off the gaff hook and put the gaff back in place .
i ' d be a good wife .
he was choking me and hammering my head on the floor and i got the knife out and opened it
” “it is understandable , ” said the oldest porter .
“give me the apron .
" " oh , don ' t stand up and act as though you were going to hit me .
the woman who owned the luarca was already asleep in her bed , where she lay on her back with
their heads side by side , their horns against the newcomer .
" the big one asked .
“they used to roost much closer .
he did not mind .
the slashing heavily cut prints of their hoofs as they had gone off up the bank and then , far-spaced
” “that’s what your father calls you , ain’t it ?
there’s streams of people going by and all sorts of guys come up and want to sell you things ,
” “straight up .
” “no , littless .
' god , he was a talker .
they were cutting away his shirt .
my god , think of it !
s- _num_ informs that a company will swing around and tie in with b .
“let’s not talk about the lion , ” she said .
“it’s such a fine old hotel , ” said the american lady .
“nuts , ” said captain willie .
have you anything else to say ?
" he asked aloud .
finally , we got out of the crowd and made for the café .
of all the ways to be wounded .
" zurito rode by , a bulky equestrian statue .
” he asked again .
that makes my eyes ache .
" listen , boy , " doc fischer said .
maybe i am .
i’m going to have it just as cold as it will run .
he looked huge .
” “i am simply tired , ” said baldy .
he stepped along the track , walking so he kept on the ballast between the ties , the swamp ghostly
the colonel was watching the movement the dog made in the high grass and sedge .
but he not understand .
_your_ saviour , undoubtedly _your_ saviour--and the ride for palm sunday .
” paco had said nothing .
someone tackled her heavily and she went down .
” “good , ” red said .
” “can’t we be happy now ?
bright boy is nice .
the big flocks , then there is a shot and you and m ' cola crouch , heads bent ,
" " it is very good , " said the smallest one .
“trust schmidt .
the little man sat looking at him across the desk .
dolphin is too sweet .
" " i know vevey , " said my wife .
” “i’m not talking rot .
it is almost worthless , he says .
" of course not .
” “you wouldn’t like to play with me ?
open window and looked out on the great canal which was now becoming as grey as though degas had painted
we stayed at that camp two days .
the road down below against the woods with cars going along it , lifting the dust up .
i can reach him with the gaff and eat him here in comfort .
" we were married in the eyes of god and i belong to him right now and always will and
" " i want to go to south america .
“i came straight , ” said enrique , crying .
we can start on that and save the other for sometime special .
" " stop talking that way , carl , " said mrs .
" " how should we know , " bill said .
as he ran forward to put his hand on it the other birds whirred off .
i try little one .
then half a spiny lobster with mayonnaise , and a salad of lettuce and lentils .
” “you were in a kosher convent .
what there was she held as you put down all the cards , having counted exactly .
' ' then the clergy .
" sure , " i said .
" this for cohn ' s benefit .
snow as smooth to see as cake frosting and as light as powder and he remembered the noiseless rush the
" " i ' ll do it .
" watch him this afternoon .
and you’re getting strong .
across the river were mountains .
david had felt the tiredness as soon as they had picked up the trail again .
” my knee did not bend and the leg dropped straight from the knee to the ankle without a calf
the square was full of people and the fireworks experts were making up their set pieces for the night and
" now that i have him coming so beautifully , god help me endure .
“and it doesn’t show .
during the early years at the finca , papa did not appear to write any fiction at all .
” “what would i do if i was hooked to a fish like that ?
” “can we really do it all that fast ?
packard ran the hotel .
i looked at it carefully .
sacks of sugar or at the havana coal company .
“we’d take them both fishing to the ’voix tomorrow .
very devout mohammedan gun bearer , charo .
" you whore .
frankie smiled at him as he went .
all the cells were occupied .
' ' i couldn ' t be better , ' the colonel said .
" " let ' s see them .
the proprietor back of the zinc bar , and the proprietor himself .
' ' and nothing prevents you going , ' the boatman , who was an elderly man with a red
campbell and lady ashley .
' ' we have the most terrific military secrets that one general ' s wife ever told another .
" " say it to me .
he sat with the gun on his knees .
cohn was lying , face down , on the bed in the dark .
“listen , hogan .
his hand was amputated .
, and a stream and ripe fields of grain , and the road went on , very white and straight
maybe fontan will have some of the wine .
you must devise a way so that you sleep a little if he is quiet and steady .
afterwards i slept soundly and well and i woke happy .
" god let him jump , " the old man said .
” “je veux aller tout seul , ” andré shrilled .
' it would be good fun to take porters and a light outfit and hunt on ahead of them down
two assault guards with rifles sat on chairs outside the embassy gate and the meat was waiting at the porter’s
touraine had not turned out the way it looked when it started .
gamblers sitting there and cutting each other up .
" " he ' d lost it anyway , " john says .
the minor vistas , the shops and the _trattorias_ and at old palaces of the city of venice while you
zurito , the picador , looked at manuel ' s white face .
” i had eaten two helpings of chicken and french fried potatoes , three ears of sweet com , some
he thought about one thing at a time .
ahead of the formal procession and behind it danced the riau-riau dancers .
' he must be over fifty , ' pop said .
the machine gun started firing before the driver’s hands relaxed and the car went into the ditch spilling the occupants
“they drank that bottle so i got another .
it looks like rain .
lot of country but i did not want to suggest that we go up into the smoker until my father
' ' once , ' said p .
i wonder who the benny meyers of the ground forces were ?
a few do , but not many .
" god knows how much that last one took , " he said .
the whole thing made me feel pretty bad .
" i must when i go back .
it was a four-gallon jug and there was quite a little slopped back and forth in the bottom .
at his father sitting on the screen porch reading the paper , and thought , " i can blow him
there was romance .
" " haven ' t you got anything cheaper ?
this was a comparatively safe place , i ' m really not lying , not me nor anybody eke .
borrowed lipstick , ed is a lice .
” “what’s the matter with you , boy ?
finally the road after going parallel to the burnt hillside reached the top .
in _num_ , when his wife pauline’s wealthy uncle gus pfeiffer offered to stake the hemingways to an african safari
' he ' s a wonderful rhino , ' p .
he was a present .
“because you come running here with your tear gas to be evacuated .
oh monsieur , she said , madame is beautiful and amiable and tous le qui’il y a de gentil but
the leaves of the tree that moved slightly in the wind .
' i loved her fine .
" i thought i ' d sit here because i felt a little tight .
he could feel the steady hard pull of the line and his left hand was cramped .
better let him alone .
retana’s man tucked a baton inside the red cloth of a muleta , folded the cloth over it , and
there will be a regular cuadrilla out there .
' at your age if you can ' t sleep they ought to take you out and hang you .
” “it’s the sister of vicente irtube , ” said the lieutenant .
“it is alcohol that mounts to my head .
, and you ' ll like it ?
did you walk far ?
" do you want coffee ?
" yes , with water .
“thank you very much , ” i said .
she don’t cook .
“didn’t jack johnson knock him out though ?
“does it hurt your feet , littless ?
board , he tightened and he was in the water , smoothly and deeply , with no consciousness of the
going down to the coast and seeing the old places .
nick was glad that it had been that way ; for some one has to give you your first gun
with notes of rejection that would never call them stories , but always anecdotes , sketches , contes , etc
“that’s all i seem to say .
guy is thirty-eight and takes some pride in the fact that he is taken for a travelling salesman in france
the lieutenant kept riding his horse out into the fields and saying to him , “i’m drunk , i tell
“it wasn’t your idea .
but you ' ve got to realize---- " " i realize , " the girl said .
or the owners wouldn ' t let the captain chance coming in ; they say he wanted to try ;
the hipódromo .
' ' no , ' the colonel said , and his heart rose and he felt it choke him .
we rode down in the elevator and went out through the lobby , and got in a taxi and rode
" pa was down into the road and back up again before i seen a thing .
' ' say it , ' the girl said .
, but i got this from a friend of mine that ' s in the business .
" two years ago this fall .
back of her was the count .
" " we are germans , " i said proudly , " old south germans .
when i finished i stopped in at donovan’s and had a beer and talked with the old man and then
" well , " says jack , " you better go back to town , soldier .
' ' tell me , ' she said .
they must have took it inside .
“take your unearned increment , ” the chef said .
" " they have other men on the team .
” “how were they lost , roger ?
' ' whatever it is , whatever it is , while i ' m still in the lee .
they ' ve been after me to write it for years but i drew the colour line .
nick was a little embarrassed to sit there like that .
procession .
“come on , drink along with me .
we had tried , in all the shoot , never to be competitive .
" is it a system always to respond in a different language in switzerland ?
" " sure , they ' re horses .
” “think anybody is jealous of us now ?
' ' i don ' t want to be a sorrow .
it was hot and we came off the floor perspiring .
' it ' s all kudu country , ' pop said .
el heraldo’s second-string critic , drawing on his cigarette , his eyes on the bull , wrote : “the veteran
on the black sweater that was his fatherland .
’ “‘don’t know , ’ olz said .
i worry about the kids .
we’ll make a fête before you go .
" out of the hospital , " zurito said .
, and into a dusty turn-off that led into a deeply rutted , dust-filled track through bushes to the shade
it was strange coming up from underwater into the dark .
" cohn stood there .
their knee-caps so they would not have to go to the war .
who’s going to keep you from killing him then ?
" don ' t bother with these two , " the clean-cut young man said in a wearied voice .
' i don ' t know whether you can either , ' the girl said .
eat them , fish .
nick did not care about fishing that hole .
” “hogan was here .
to be comfortable ?
' ' what is this now ?
give them a few energy crackers to stall their whimpers .
it will be cool .
but how could she love a sad son of a bitch like you ?
the tuna shone silver in the sun and after he had dropped back into the water another and another rose
” “over there .
" " you ' ll be all right .
now it seems almost impossible .
saint sebastian and i remembered standing with him up on top of the stand watching the final of the big
his face was white .
as a field for the observations of the naturalist .
take harris .
that will be a big help to me .
' " " this wine is too good for toast-drinking , my dear .
he went inside when he saw me and came downstairs disgusted .
' ' i won ' t , daughter .
jack’s head moved a little on the pillow .
" don ' t go , " mike said .
down and down , sliding along the curved side of her .
he could have made camp hours before if he had wanted to .
we stayed five days at burguete and had good fishing .
” “will you excuse me , sir ?
it was exciting but i did not like it .
you’ve known that .
then they left the red bridge on the right and passed under the first high-flying white bridge .
” “how were you when you sighted them ?
i ' ll be down soon .
he could die just like a dog for all those mexicans care .
each other .
" " don ' t go .
it only came alive about hunting or some joke .
the engravings were like this country now after the rain with the river and the mountains going up from it
he was happy the fight would start in a few minutes .
” “behave myself ?
gray blue hills behind it .
" well , they smell about the same .
“i don’t like any of it at all .
he’s at the mines .
he was a member of the order .
” “if you talk like that you must go out .
but that will be good to take him in with .
" he took out a receipt-book , made in duplicate , and perforated , so one side could be given
we could see six , then eight buffalo , black , heavy necked , the horns shining , standing on
t feel so badly .
he just did the right thing .
” then waiting in the bed he heard her in the bath splashing and then drying herself and then she
, that roger added from a small pitcher , was dripping down into the clear yellowish liquor turning it to
then they get to depending on the tanks and they won’t move without them .
blowing away in clouds as you looked , into the tree-shaded , pretty , whitewashed , german model-garrison town of
his fingers , and then with the insides of his fingers , and then with the palm of his hand
" " i should send you to battalion headquarters .
i blew out the lamp .
the waiter watched him go down the street , a very old man walking unsteadily but with dignity .
“i love it under a sheet , ” he said .
toward them coming down the channel around the end of the key .
a carabineer in his cocked hat and yellow leather cross-straps came up .
“i cut my finger .
” asked the voice .
” “i’m going to work now as soon as we get out west .
we had several drives and shot pheasants and i shot a chevreuil .
' i nearly busted her .
' ' we go , ' i said .
the poor sole exists , in shallow water , to feed man .
' he said nothing and looked very angry .
they would kill me and they would kill kibo if we had ivory , he had thought , and known
' did he think i spent all my time reading the bloody gazette ?
” “see us ?
never be daunted .
" i couldn ' t eat a thing .
you haven ' t touched it .
” “you like being married ?
for bryan ' s sake .
i must bathe before dinner .
" what a morning , " bill said .
' the colonel took the drink arnaldo , the glass-eyed waiter , made him .
some day i ' m not going to be working for an agency .
“the dark is just the dark .
“be a man , my son , ” said one priest .
“yes , man .
“he’ll lose it , ” he almost shouted .
" if they gave me another shot at him , i ' d kill him , " zurito said .
but it will loosen up .
i liked it .
it was very interesting .
the two indians sent them back to the shanties .
it was the second winter of shelling in the siege of madrid and everything was short including tobacco and people’s
" " no , " nick said .
if they raced at tremblay he’d have them drop him in town on their way back to maisons and he
really ?
” “why , nickie ?
at the end of that time you have shot everything and you are sorry for it .
" we walked along port royal until it became montparnasse , and then on past the lilas , lavigne '
" " oh , he told every one that we were going to be married , and i told my
' wanderobo-masai my pal .
mallard , pin-tail , widgeon .
there is nothing african or even continental about this view to the north .
“those must have been trying days .
it was lonely and rainy there , and there was a battalion of arditi quartered in the town .
it was a good thing .
” “you be careful too , ” helena said .
, dad ?
there , and much blood in the snow .
wine of wyoming it was a hot afternoon in wyoming ; the mountains were a long way away and you
i have seen it come , loosening itself from the bomb rack , and falling with that strange curve .
" " another fool .
“would you like me to bring you something ?
_ _num_ d soldier_--no , i ain ' t tried it .
" his voice was very high and breaking .
a body bulking smoothly .
he came out of the square , the children following him , and piped them past the café and down
" " if it ' s not too much trouble .
” “that’s it .
" christ , " he said , " i might as well go .
she pushed me away .
" walcott had been just hitting him for a long time .
full of brains too many times .
" be soft , pinin , " the adjutant said to him .
” “let him get sick before we follow him up .
she kept looking away from me and looking ahead at the wall .
do you want a drink ?
was it ?
” “i’ve just started on it .
” she had been holding her hand on his thigh while he drove and now she took it away .
lots for location , karl and i hunted in the dusk around two of the hills across the road above
into the water , where it was not too deep .
" " drink up , harris .
” he looked on at her back .
she can talk up there .
beer cans and dead barracudas a woman saw a great long white spine with a huge tail at the end
gas .
the cut places with the syrup .
“it’s all gone .
of very good short stories by an irish writer .
see you tomorrow night .
reduce the bull , to make him manageable .
he did not want any consequences .
" quiet down , jack , " john said to him .
they walked down the hill across the fields and then turned to follow the river bank .
anyhow , we were sitting on the terrace of the café select , and harvey stone had just crossed the
" " qué va , " the boy said .
when you add water it turns milky .
“it doesn’t make any difference whose fault it was , ” bill said .
“your gun-bearer has your springfield and the big gun .
" thanks .
" " it ' s a lie , " said bill .
the radio can almost make the voice .
" at this time he had a contract for six fights at four thousand pesos a fight besides his benefit
he tried to remember how he had felt .
" no , " jack says .
” “you better go back to bed .
us healthy bastards shall inherit the earth .
take ham and eggs , " the man called al said .
he took the sack off , over his head , the trout flopping as it came out of water ,
' ' giorgio , ' the colonel said .
you did very well to get a double on them .
to you—and only because i need not see you , can i confide in you even .
he squatted down and bathed his knee .
already everyone but m ' cola was losing faith in the bull .
and we got a lot of things with it but the best one was a magpie .
you know my bad news ?
s nothing to be done .
she is sleeping with it spread out on the pillow and all it is to her is a glorious ,
ici il y a trop de churches .
' ' he gets so very excited , ' pop said .
" " well , " i said , " take her with you .
i was furnishing all the tackle and he had her chartered at thirty-five dollars a day .
“look at those black pigs drink .
where he tightened facing up into the current .
' ' then let us abandon all ideas of public manifestations for this winter , and work within our cadres
you remember , too .
and sophisticated ; he loved madrid , which was still an unbelievable place , and he loved his work which
' ' amazing , ' said pop .
with the answers known his father had said , “you and i will go back to get the packs where
the old man was roasting meat on a stick .
” “she broke down .
to a chautauqua or a self-betterment course .
of the trees , of the small animals , and all the birds , to know the language and have
' ' do you still have the stones and did miss portrait help any ?
i could do that with two pencils and a few hundred sheets of the cheapest paper .
sudden showers in the mountains and the smell of the regiment like a copper coin in your mouth .
' ' shooting .
were in full leaf and one could see the heat waves rise from the barrels of the guns where the
smoothly feathered , and knocked their heads against the handle of his hunting knife .
but i believe that this one could hold the pace and stay the course .
" " not so good .
" " just what happens ?
boy , you sure get tired of them .
finally , when he got really bad , he used to tell her he ' d kill her .
' ' i love you and i love you and i love you .
and over the edge of the gully and to the meadow on a dead run .
but i had given him the shortest cut to having delgado arrested in one of those excesses of impartiality ,
' i agree .
” “he says he’s missed a lot himself , ” nick confessed .
that fail have such a bad press and the winners always lie so .
' god , he went over like a rabbit .
the palm was pink .
" " so long , old kid !
a cloud of dust that blew together and made one , and below , across the flat , long streams
love her .
but what was the real one ?
he did not want any consequences ever again .
i drank a little beer , noted the old man watching and spread out six cartridges .
burning in the road beside the house .
" " no , hombre , only to make a joke .
' that ' s the sort of trip to make , though , ' pop said .
you cannot say more ---- than wyoming because there are less than thirty thousand there , perhaps , hell ,
not any lousy pillow .
they don ' t talk any .
the two small glasses .
all engines dislike me .
they couldn’t have lived on deck .
” “you lousy rummy , ” i told him .
’ but i think it’s better to be catholique if you are .
i ' m perfectly all right .
“i say , you wouldn’t like to drop my beauty as a topic , would you ?
outside , above the singing , we could hear the music of the procession going by .
the monos were spreading canvas over the two dead horses and sprinkling sawdust around them .
at the landing place , where jackson was handing the luggage to a porter and looking after the portrait himself
" sister cecilia wants to know how the game is going ?
” “it feels lovely , ” his sister said .
' i ' m sorry , daughter .
in pyjamas by the fire , and karl not yet in .
the dam .
i suppose it is a man who will make his play and then backs it up .
" " don ' t talk to him , " brett said .
back in the car , the oryx head wrapped in a burlap sack , the meat tied inside the mudguards
well , ” blindy said without any rancor , “that put a stop to my fighting days .
was just one big thing of flame now like you never saw and going round and round and there were
several people asked questions to hear themselves talk and there were a couple of questions asked by news service men
” “i don’t want to look at him .
“what’s the matter with you , son ?
frankie came over to the table .
he ' s a nice boy .
that’s the way you work it .
if he was in it he’d be killed .
“you know what her mother was like !
you love me , don ' t you , sheet ?
you may give expensive sausage to a dog before a man who works for his living and knows what a
shape ; he handled his cards well at bridge , and he had a funny sort of undergraduate quality about
please may i take your hand ?
” “il fait de la vendange .
' she cut a thin , paper thin , slice for him , ferociously and lovingly , and when the
" " come on , " i said .
" " i told you that .
never letting it get between him and the bulk until he could see the elephant’s head and the great ears
” he heard the door open and close and her feet on the stairs and he thought , i must
" it ' s to-morrow , " mike said .
it was like piano keys .
made him slightly suspect afterwards in his own army , and had done his career no good , had a
' or i declare it to be such .
i’ve often wondered why .
i don’t care about them any more .
“no , sir , ” i said , and i dug down in the ice to get him a cold
' ' i like to hear them nights .
" cohn turned to me .
“what animal would you like to be , odgar ?
we ate in the dining-room and there was a clean tablecloth .
“we have bananas .
you spoiled everything .
i said , " grüss gott , " to the priest as he walked past us coming out of the
with him was the skinny , dirty , wanderobo with the slit and curled up ears who stood on one
the snake may be poisonous too .
but it was very unlikely .
" nothing , " franz shook his finger .
" asked hubert .
nobody gets in here ever .
stronger when i took my first drink at the crowded bar .
he would eat , then , by himself and could read a book with his meals .
i ' d just tromper you with everybody .
“your number’s dirty .
they were so close you could throw a broken tile or a piece of mortar from the smashed apartment house
' and you ' re the sun .
' i don ' t want to see you , ' the colonel said .
seventy-five centimes would have been better .
so they bought a drink and then we bought a drink , and then they slapped us on the back
i checked on the aperture in the sight being clean , cleaned my glasses and wiped the sweat from my
they called it fever and ague .
” “where are you going yourself ?
” this fellow was just a punk , you understand , a nobody he’d never seen before , but from
all our love and sorry to be late , but brett was really done in and will be quite all
water as a speed-boat does .
let ' s not talk about it .
' god knows where .
the next day and on other days to come .
they can make you feel .
they all wanted something that i did not want and i would get it without wanting it , if i
“now is it sight or is it scent that brings them like that ?
" " sounds like vienna , " bill said .
” “what do you want to do now ?
the colonel got into the boat and the boatman checked the blind and unhooked the pocketed , apron-like device which
" what the hell do they know ?
and they were sent to america .
“she was a nice girl , ” helena said to roger as they got into the car .
you on the way up and into the air .
' ' i seek it , too , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
apron pocket and took out a pocketbook .
but someone would always stop for him because he was a blind man .
, burst , and sloughed off in pus .
' ' i liked charlie curtis ' s .
“i always wanted to be a boy anyway .
” “keep them away from your head .
' ' i ' m sure of it .
the rest is just cheating .
hugeness of the bull , and the dust in his sparsely haired hide , the wide boss of horn and
shoot where he saw any movement .
" i ' m all right now for quite a while .
i am your lovely .
so i’m going to try to be good .
look .
he fastened a hook on the end of the leader .
war , the colonel thought , and gabriele d ' annunzio (i always wondered what his real name was ,
he has no regard for those who must work .
then it yielded , rising in the water with the line .
so when he got back to paris that time he could not talk about it or stand to have it
' ' will they all go ?
around noon i’ll get up .
i have none of the qualifications for the presidency .
“sure , ” said fontan .
i will ask the porter to speak with you .
shooter swung carefully up onto this , feeling the frozen grasses break as he stepped on them .
the nigger was going out of his head , or becoming religious because he was hurt ; anyway he was
once when they were out shooting together nick shot a red squirrel out of a hemlock tree .
you might as well stay in bed .
' it ' s just like when we were kids and we heard about a river no one had ever
that’s not much of a stretch for time with the bridges and the towns .
juma would not have found him if i had not seen him .
he ' ll take it .
there was a knock at the door .
in the pack he found the prepared buckwheat flour and he put it out with an enameled saucepan and a
we’ll leave the mannlicher in the car with the memsahib .
' we can make or _fabricar rognons_ grilled with _champignons_ dug by people i know .
strange light the sun made now .
you ' re stupid , he told himself .
through wide nostrils as he charged , glad to be free after the dark pen .
put his hand on her head and neck .
the girl said .
“you smell so cool , ” he said .
“you’ll sleep all right .
i know about that and why and we don ' t go by the numbers any more and we threw
they had stopped on the way for several drinks .
a blue suit and he wore a cap as though it was only for travelling .
it rained hard .
' not thirty inches .
there it was .
called from the tent .
" that was rather good .
' ' should we hunt her down and hang her to a high tree ?
” asked the cook .
we were frightfully put out when we heard the flank had gone , and we had to fall back .
he was beginning to feel a slight nausea .
the waitress filled the four glasses .
it , for the family , himself , to be a great writer , kate , the men , odgar
in madrid during the spring season ; but they were well paid and in the fixed employ of fighters who
up with them and go on for kudu .
he was settled into something .
there was a board over the spring and i lifted it and , knocking the corks firmly into the bottles
“i couldn’t get any of our marriage beer , ” she said .
' ' it ' s loose , ' i told him .
“there isn’t any need to ride me .
" " well , " bill said , " we might as well have another drink .
that ' s all .
the green lantern and the widow woman and regal beer .
“i don’t want to , ” kate said .
" you cannot understand .
i am an only child so i have many duties .
" " come on , " said robert .
“come on in , hogan , ” he says .
i mean my time for the wood i split and corded .
“is he in the tanks ?
" what are you going to kill him for , then ?
with the parmesan cheeses and the hams from san daniele and the sausages _alla cacciatora_ and the bottles of good
its porch you could see the sea , very blue , at the end of the street .
stern to know that this had truly happened and was not a dream .
it was a quiet evening on a week night in town and there wasn’t any excitement .
in light patches on the grass .
” the absinthe had come and from the saucers of cracked ice placed over the top of the glasses water
' no , ' he said and shook his head .
' you ' re a hell of a fellow , too .
his father picked the baby up and slapped it to make it breathe and handed it to the old woman
just let her try it .
“plenty big business .
” “richard feverel .
" " do you know that in about thirty-five years more we ' ll be dead ?
he ' s not coming .
" who ?
' ' it does not hurt .
had done .
capes far down the coast .
my father lifted down the bags from the dock and put them in the stem of the boat .
" he ' s a lovely wolf .
then he looked at her .
stayed at the luarca until their last pesetas were gone .
" he took about forty pounds , " the old man said aloud .
“captain doctor .
” “i’m coming down .
' he ' s telling him not to show off his speed .
porters .
to meet , there when juma and his father and he were heroes and kibo was a hero’s dog and
some of the pros smiled as though at a secret when he put his gun to his shoulder and looked
“when do you want to settle up , mr .
' i want to be like me only much , much better and i want to have you love me
in a while you would hear the whistle .
it sound as though it were made up .
“what does fourteen to nothing mean ?
i never looked toward him , and m ' cola , kamau , and i could not look at each
s amazement , but then we came out on very short grass and rock again and now the trailing was
and very light exercise .
his table was beside ours , almost touching .
he was disgraced .
“is it good with water ?
' ' i will go and check on what there actually is among the meats .
medium-brown is a plump , compact , succulent hopper that i can recommend as far as one may well recommend
at that moment he felt him stop moving but the weight was still there .
“good night , ” they told him .
” “do you remember when we barred that phrase ?
” “tell me what they were doing .
it was cool and dusky , and we stood in front of a long wooden counter with two women behind
he never heard it without thinking of his huge hands .
the third had taken theirs , but it formed an untenable salient .
pop was reading _richard carvell_ .
' ' you wind-blown son of a bitch , ' i said , then , using my fingers .
she walked back to where jim was lying and shook him once more to make sure .
and wood ticks under logs where sometimes i found angle-worms that slipped into the ground as soon as the log
“and you don’t mind my telling you i made up stories ?
don ' t you think it will be fun , jake ?
“won’t you have a drink with us ?
” “touch me carefully , ” he said , eating .
elliot had taken to drinking white wine and lived apart in his own room .
you do not hear the noise of the shot on game but the slap of the bullet sounded as he
' portrait said nothing and the colonel answered .
mexican had been to see him since he had been brought in .
, suddenly perilously difficult , then blindingly , happily , safely , encompassed ; free of all doubts , all
" " no , " hogan said .
looking out the window and seeing snow on the mountains in bulgaria and nansen’s secretary asking the old man if
“que toro más bravo , ” the matador said as he handed his sword to his sword handler .
when he handed you a time-table or explained about a direction .
you want some more , shakespeare ?
i went down-stairs and out the door and took a walk around through the arcades around the square .
' an ugly face , ' he said to the glass .
destroyed by aircraft .
so we knew they had fed on up the meadow valley .
why don ' t you say something , robert ?
i ' ll buy it , the colonel said , to himself , since there was no one else there
“he’s just as gentle .
for a long time now eating had bored him and he never carried a lunch .
" got anything to drink ?
" how ' s cayetano , sister cecilia ?
“if he’s all that what’s he doing in key west ?
wasn’t he a wonderful lion ?
and i don’t know how he can do it .
” “bad word , disgusted .
they had surrounded it .
” no , he said .
" " the hell with him .
gentlemen , there is one thing i would like to have you remember .
' ' she still runs , ' the boatman said .
land .
hopkins said very confidently that none of them would make fun of his real girl .
" what ' s the matter with you ?
why don ' t you just talk ?
" " hullo !
" the waiters moved the people away .
" " i didn ' t ask you that .
same way each time , the gun bearers all laughing , the truck that had come up with the outfit
john’s store and get everything we need .
" you big mountain of pus .
if not , have them ring the house again .
“it ain’t any good if you haven’t got a watch .
“take a look at the buff , ” wilson said .
“good-bye , gentlemen all , ” george said .
" i will not , " mike said .
" where do you get all that tape ?
“we bring the little presents .
“good-by , mr .
and where he spent his summers as a boy and youth .
i began to feel drunk but i did not feel any better .
” finally he felt his anger go out of him and he felt a little sick about it being the
do you think you add to the party ?
” “he’s my best friend and my conscience and my father and my brother and my banker .
" " vienna , " said bill , " is a strange city .
he’s on the defensive now , manuel thought .
an unsuccessful haberdasher .
i must ask the price .
" no , you wouldn ' t have .
i know how she looks , he said to himself .
" i ' ll call up and have them get a taxi .
“should we match a duro ?
” “what papers do you read ?
" " no , " said mr .
“no , that was very , very exceptional .
we talked spanish and the critic knew a little french .
he ' s a big brute , too .
the right tusk was as thick as his own thigh and it curved down almost to the ground .
” “he killed this italian , ” the prisoner on the front seat said looking toward the detective .
' ' fifty-two .
the half-track lay across the road and any vehicle passing would have to slow down .
from smith’s back door liz could see ore barges way out in the lake going toward boyne city .
“that’s how i started out .
" " i ' d better go up the street , " the motorman said .
and all seas .
the colonel and the head waiter both spoke spanish and since that is the best language for founding orders ,
he did not believe he had ever been hungrier .
' thank him , ' the colonel said .
pebble broke the back of one and the bird began to jerk and toss with its wings thumping , another
' they looked at the man at the third table .
he leaned his back against the weight of his pack where it rested upright on the stump and got his
“there’s nothing funny , ” the cook said .
wished we were just going on a fishing trip and not going away .
oh , lord , may he hit safely !
you wake me up if you want me .
look at me .
formerly , with the shamba , we had the _querschnitt_ .
we did not talk much .
“sure , ” she said .
“we better go back .
' those others we stop at ; but not for the night .
“you shut up .
he has no such thing ?
i remember , after my grandfather died we moved away from that house and to a new house designed and
“we must check all romanticism .
they had moved to the edge of thick cover now and the elephant was close ahead .
you can ' t go wrong .
' he ' s huge .
“don’t be too sure , ” odgar said .
across the square were the two lines of men in front of the ticket-booths .
” baldy drank it off .
no aunt jemima buckwheat flour .
" " they ' re just english , " mike said .
' go ahead , ' he says .
" " i agree with you , " said johnson .
the café .
” “all right , ” i said , “but see you look after it .
" " do you really have to go ?
" i ' m stony .
“oh , to hell with it , ” and went on to the dressing room .
there were many large white clouds and the tall trees of the forest on the mountain side grew so closely
” there was no answer from the next room .
line of the jaw .
sing was about the smoothest-looking thing i’d ever seen .
against the wooden case .
' ' that ' s nice , ' she said .
" what kind of a hand is that , " he said .
it is like professional football , _calcio_ .
christ knows i ' ve made a few and too many men are dead from when i was wrong .
” “i’ll say , ” said doctor wilcox .
” “he doesn’t prefer the newer numbers ?
" " you ' ll lose it if you talk about it .
" if we don ' t have to walk .
he felt badly about the odor .
why do you do it ?
" bill slapped him on the back .
it’s not snow and them all saying , it’s not snow we were mistaken .
the bird looking down from the red willow brush was beautiful , plump , heavy and looked so stupid with
have a weight it did not have .
“it’s like walking in deep sand or in a dream .
, but he speaks to me now when i meet him as though we were friends .
’ “‘it was very wrong , ’ said the priest .
i worked the deep wells for a week and did nothing , he thought .
the back of the collar and the upper part of the shoulders were gray with dust .
" " i ' m not very hungry .
” “when they wheel and light and then move so proud and friendly and gently , ” nick said .
it seemed to make him happy .
sin novedad .
“well , then , we’ll have to get some convenient place in america .
one ?
both his cheeks and biting his lips , he walked past the machines and out the door .
she went down to san sebastian with him .
it wasn’t worth it .
” “fuck elephant hunting , ” david had said very quietly .
on our left was the mediterranean .
' ' i take it anyway you want as long as it is true .
” “take it easy , ” the man said quietly .
" look after this , " he said .
two austrian dead lay in the rubble in the shade of the house .
' we ' ll split the bottle .
we were back again in front of the hotel .
he dipped a half a cup of water out of the small pail he had brought from the spring and
' eat your steak before it gets cold and forgive me for talking about my trade .
" there ' s a place down the street , " i said .
the bar ?
there were beetles and insects with legs like grass stems , and grubs in old rotten logs ; white grubs
how was it ?
this is saturday .
anyway there wasn’t another thing for them to hit till they’d get to mexico once they were in that gulf
' when you are a general you live in a trailer and your chief of staff lives in a trailer
to hell with this operating-table .
“the major is sleeping .
don ' t you remember ?
he came over , still angry that the headwaiter had gone over his head and served al .
had been picked up by the inside of the hoof , was not yet softened by the rain .
the boy and i will splice them when we are home .
pop slept quietly too , you could see his soul was close in his body .
“i’ll see if the cashier has one .
“i went out just for that fight .
why am i kept in ignorance of everything that goes on ?
" you ' ve such lovely manners .
the dingo .
i never even looked in his pockets .
drink , faithful to the girls they left behind them , many of them never had crabs , wonderful chaps
' ' they won ' t be big for long , ' the colonel promised her .
" " lot of money .
” odgar said in his husky , near-to-kate voice .
sun from between the line of trees , and away off you could see the plateau of pamplona rising out
take the cot up very gently and carry it into the tent .
" we turned to the right off the place contrescarpe , walking along smooth narrow streets with high old houses
" you see in me quite a different man .
the hands of the clock marked seven o ' clock , and then five minutes past seven .
if he had sense he would know there was no place .
i’m going right down and pray for him .
" the referee is talking to john and he says , " what could i do ?
” “his niece looks after him .
enrique picked it up .
damned good thing .
his face had the sallow , yellow look it got when he was insulted , but somehow he seemed to
houses and canal banks and hedgerows .
bright now , went on around the boulders , over the rocks and up and up and left us on
nick looked carefully up the stream and along the hillside .
” “oc-toe-pus , ” said john .
' ' i am not proud of it , ' the girl said , very sleepily .
to soak and he put them on the fire now to stew .
" " what do you want to do about the car ?
he was still asleep .
a hand up , my mouth too dry to talk , a heat shimmer over the ground now when you
” “oh , ” i said .
that was a long time ago on the black river .
it was all strange .
film the attack .
she looks like anybody ' s mother in an illustration in _the ladies ' home journal_ , the colonel thought
' we have ascended the cook at the magnificent to the rank of commendatore .
how are you , maria ?
the place has not even been swept out yet and they have an amateur pianist beating on the box .
nick put in a pine stick as a cork .
beyond the fence was the woods .
to work in leather and to cane chairs when he got well enough to leave the hospital .
a big car passed us , going fast , and a sheet of muddy water rose up and over our
i could only get as far as “on earth as it is in heaven” and then have to start all
' ' that ' s the proper attitude , ' he said .
but perhaps i hate the russians the most .
frazer felt .
” eddy paid out rope and when finally she didn’t drag he made her fast .
” “i may not be going , ” said the young gentleman putting his purse back in his pocket .
charley simmons are on their way to being really a credit to the community .
his scuffed slippers were by the bed .
“you get over outside the fence , ” his sister said .
back to see where the heel of the stock rested against his shoulder .
but still he is not russian .
the smell of a battlefield in hot weather one cannot recall .
” you have to lie very often in a war and when you have to lie you should do it
they could not take that away from him .
that way we could sleep late and then have part of one day in town and then leave the next
" how much is the wine ?
" " i heard it was a tricycle .
at the next table was pedro romero .
a punishment for all hunters .
what he liked to do on board was sleep and read the papers .
“you want me to go ?
he said something to the sword-handler .
he never worked on a ranch before , and the man that owns the ranch said to fontan that he
that men like that should die in failures in a foreign country ?
and stretcher-bearers , threw a leg over the saddle and roared on over the ridge , his machine churning a
glad to hear you’re doing so good yourself .
' did you see the head ?
" " we never agreed .
i wish he would go home .
i like it very much .
" sit down .
“no , ” he said , “only the animals i stated .
” “leave me alone , i tell you .
' said the roman and grabbed me by the thumb .
bill was out first roll .
" he waited with the line between his thumb and his finger , watching it and the other lines at
“‘don’t know , ’ said olz .
i love it so much and when i think of you taking it , then , it is as though
" " seen the paper ?
" there are many good fishermen and some great ones .
were natural cedar railings alongside the steps and natural cedar railings around the porch .
il est crazy pour le vin !
“go out the door and across the lot , ” he said .
as enrique rose to his feet , thin , gaunt , sharply outlined in the beam , pulling at the
' we ' ll be going in a minute , ' the colonel said .
" muerto !
“no , thank you , ” said the waiter and went out .
no longer make love .
growth and found juma shaken and bleeding from his forehead all down over his face and his father white and
it was very pleasant and we were all great friends .
” “daddy ?
but now the number two trap is about twice as loud as any of the others .
that it sank , swirling in the fast water , and he lowered the tip of the willow pole to
you go down after him , said maera , he hates me .
“they’re all happy now , ” he said .
' now , let us discuss the affairs of the order , ' the colonel said .
" his voice broke .
" but she ' s much lighter now .
came from the muzzle , and the crawling , heavy , yellow bulk of the lion stiffened and the huge
“don’t fool with those buttons .
after the armistice they agreed he should go home to get a job so they might be married .
then he leaned forward on the table and went to sleep .
“they aren’t here until they come .
“your damned money was my armour .
' he may be marvellous , ' pop said doubtfully .
' please , ' she said , from almost underneath the blanket .
' i ' d rather stay with you .
but i would like to go very much .
“what are you doing that for ?
i ' m going to stay here for a while , mr .
the head skins were all spread and neatly salted and the skulls with the horns were leaning against the log
sing , and the kid sculling .
" hogan charged me for the rubbing .
she had very fine hands and the man looked at them .
the counter .
” “anything you want .
" carl was quiet .
” peroxide asked , complacently .
” al said .
' ' i heard you , sir , ' jackson said .
, fast-moving tail .
' ' droopy ' s _beautiful_ .
" " i don ' t want to look at him .
his temper has to go bad before he can write .
" " old bill , " i said .
one morning we were all out on the road .
the sea change “all right , ” said the man .
i am .
" who said so ?
i’m too happy to be tired .
fine .
” “good night , ” said the younger waiter .
what will you drink ?
i watched him walking alone down out of the war .
too damned smart on the coast certainly .
i’d make you dinner but you ought to eat out tonight .
the match had started on a sunday morning and ended on a monday morning .
no , he thought , when everything you do , you do too long , and do too late ,
" manuel stepped out on the hard sand as the bull banged into the fence .
" many letters , " she said .
let’s talk about it or anything else and i’ll be friendly .
all very gloomy and full of prejudice against droopy .
the kitchen he had lain down on the floor with a cushion from one of the chairs for a pillow
threw a club into the reeds where he had heard the snort .
but i swear she was nice before she got ambitious .
he was all right though .
there is plenty of water over the reef and inside it’s all sandy bottom and slopes right in to shore
the people he knew now were all much more comfortable when he did not work .
it was no great thing , he thought .
’” “they never answer , ” john said .
he’s right and he’s reasonable , ” eddy told him .
“mrs .
he adjusted the sack and carefully worked the line so that it came across a new part of his shoulders
it ' s too hot to go out yet .
getting up from behind the ant hill and turning away in disgust , walking towards his partner , who says
' ' then we could see the trees when we woke up .
i ' d like to spread a bed roll here and prove it .
sign the forms he did not believe in , could see an object , as soon as it was visible
you ' ve used it well enough .
“can we see the lake , too ?
we agreed too that the picking up of the fragments had been an extraordinary business ; it being amazing that
i put the bottles under the table .
“you stinking bastard .
' they stood there and kissed each other true .
chances are we’ll hear him growl .
it was the first man he had killed that day and he was very pleased .
" you ' re some boy , jack , " john says .
but i know i’m sick of you .
at a larger table .
" " i am not married , " cayetano said .
" you got to take a cure , billy , " mr .
“don’t you make them big eyes , ” he said .
" it ' s not really an operation at all .
we respect them more than all others and i hope we understand them a little .
a long undulating country with frequent rises and descents , sandy underfoot and the country alive again .
each side of the log .
' ' bloody english ?
' he likes to carry things in the game pockets , ' i said .
it was bound in limp leather and fitted his coat pocket and he had bought it at the advice of
" later in the day we learned that the man who was killed was named vicente girones , and came
she came from lens .
“no , but i can get some .
” i better go upstream and find a shallow and try to get a couple of small ones , he
you know everything .
" " absolutely .
she ' s just a lovely , healthy wench .
“i always sleep warm you know .
” “i’m not upset , ” he lied .
not yet .
“you know they’re stolen as well as i do .
another boy who walked with us sometimes and made us five wore a black silk handkerchief across his face because
” “i was a whore’s assistant .
what do you ever get up for ?
, nor was he bound in any way .
worried .
“did you ?
“that’s true .
” “not just filling the wood box and hauling water ?
that i could do anything and that i can write wonderfully .
" " i cannot read it .
” “they moved so slowly , ” the girl said pitifully .
he did not want anything making lumps under the blankets .
barnes , " the count poured my glass full .
got her to watching the picador place the point of his pic so that she saw what it was all
” they trotted down the long hill , the wagon jolting .
he must remember that .
il y a trop de polack .
” “why don’t you come out from behind that counter if you want to talk like that ?
' ' quite hungry , i suppose .
” revolution , mr .
finally the bull was too tired from so much bad sticking and folded his knees and lay down and one
” “i’d be afraid if i were alone .
just like they’re jealous of us .
' do you want to trade ?
after the siren on the recorded announcements came a crying baby which the announcer said would be satisfied with malta-malta
maybe he is not an ex-fascist , too .
” george and i went out to the gate and i was trying to stop bawling and george wiped off
” “it’s such a long way .
i will stay in venice and go to mass with mother and my aunt and my great-aunt and visit my
is what we do to lenguas largas .
' ' oh , fifty-seven , ' karl said .
on one of them a woman sold roasted chestnuts .
grate .
" the other porters nodded .
he nodded his head and smiled .
“ain’t no nigger any good when he’s shot .
seemed to be of the same age and who wore their hair in a heavy club-like queue that swung against
" " all right , " the major said .
' the colonel asked her .
the damned moors .
” johnny said .
the veteran zurito resurrected some of his old stuff with the pike-pole , notably the suerte—” “olé !
they ' ve picked walcott up and they ' re working on him .
” “mine are good , too , ” said nick .
' we were sitting under a tree on the summit of a hill and could see off over all the
' have another _carpano_ , ' he said to the _gran maestro_ .
but who should criticize whose tubes ?
finally it led down from a rocky hillside with the last of the sun on it , down into the
an irishman don ' t draw in new york like a jew or an italian but they always get a
is the place ?
i’d rather see him shoot than any man i ever knew .
" i had a lovely dream , " bill said .
” he stopped and looked back , the great heavy helmet looking ridiculous as he turned his head , like
did you notice it ?
" none of these guys are going to send you away , though .
i could see something looked like a spar up out of water and when i got over close the birds
' ' i don ' t know what you mean and please don ' t make fun when i tell
you lost money in the game ?
by god , i knew he had taken a big one .
all the good ones are promoted .
” “to harry’s bar , ” the good lion said .
he waved a bottle .
" " i won ' t sit down , " i said .
frazer and on the doctor .
' take plenty of beer , ' pop said .
the end of something in the old days hortons bay was a lumbering town .
they are moving out too fast and too far .
“here she goes , ” manuel said to hernandez .
beyond the hedge , he saw a low red farmhouse with a big barn .
" brett , you know .
" mussolini has abolished the brothels .
we could not find him .
besides i believe it is a sin .
he sweated himself until they were well past on their way to the dock because he thought they might stop
they were standing there , under considerable fire , looking carefully over all the broken country below the ridge and
he had complimented the undertaker .
' ' i work at it in the evenings , with the things you sent me .
“they were going to shoot him when he came in to eat .
“take some bottles , ” said the bald man .
i ' ve never become one .
they were all quiet now , their heads down .
i bring you small things from the px and i buy you drinks and meals .
but do you think my hands were as great a handicap as the bone spurs ?
” joe garner laughed .
” i guess that was the truth all right .
but god knows he has had enough chances to learn .
" " we must get a good killing lance and always have it on board .
the curb , a stone fell on the tiled floor of the porch .
” alone in the center of the ring the bull stood , still fixed .
bucket with the ice and uncorking the bottle the gran maestro had uncorked and then placed a common wine cork
“this dirty whore of a war .
” there was a choice to be made soon of two main highways with very little difference in their mileage
the first one in is the one that counts .
" he says he never saw the fellow at all , " the interpreter said .
it had a black bone handle .
just like we were before .
he had saluted the president with the same wolf-jawed smile and contemptuous eyes , and handed his sword over the
i think she was rather good .
but i fixed it so you wouldn’t get in trouble about it .
they took an assurance that he did not feel .
she has been so good and she was not built to be good .
that is one of the things you can ' t say no matter how true it is .
” “i’d like to be something else tomorrow , ” he said .
i ' m tired of you both .
' ' yeah , ' the colonel said .
but imagine if a man each day should have to try to kill the sun ?
' if we keep low i don ' t believe our scent will carry up there once we ' re
it and hit it .
” “he is commanding the battalion .
he doesn ' t read french very well himself .
" that ' s no good , " madame fontan said .
your father can’t read his star if it’s been mussed .
now they came down and under the accademia between the pilings where they passed , at touching distance , a
i gave the nigger the wheel and told him to work along the edge of the stream to the eastward
i’ll see that your call goes through at the hospital .
we can make better ones .
" the old ones get fat .
as always , he thought .
he was not the same-looking man as he had been before he had told her to go .
” so what could he do , wilson thought .
which substituted for adequate artillery preparation due to the government’s then shortage of heavy artillery .
” he called .
pane , salami , formaggio , good stuff for all of us .
the new spaniards are some of them good and some not .
” “much .
“good-by , ” she said .
army khaki tunic , complete with buttons , that had originally been brought out for droopy , who had been
“feel good , ” said john .
“i don’t believe it .
us to see them if they signalled .
m ' cola did everything well in which a knife was used and he swung a panga with a fast
the american lady pulled the window-blind down and there was no more sea , even occasionally .
strong .
" william campbell pulled up the right sleeve of his pyjama jacket under the sheet , then shoved the right
" " take some more coffee , " i said .
finally i was certain we were above them and that they must be ahead of us , and past where
' " so the bull-fighter fellow hit him just as hard as he could in the face , and then
you wouldn ' t understand the campaigns in detail , and few others would .
“you got to have confidence steering , ” he told the nigger .
' m ' cola said shaking his head .
' ' when you get it you won ' t have any heart .
barnes , " answered the count , " all i want out of wines is to enjoy them .
" i always pay everything back .
' they were made and they ' ve all been paid for .
” “the police took it .
but would you take one for a lucky stone ?
beyond the bridge were hills .
" " you called me a pimp .
the town and be cheerful and leave you here to be wrapped .
" all countries look just like the moving pictures .
” “where are the other kids ?
perhaps i was only better armed .
i kill plenty of great horned owls and a great homed owl will kill a partridge every day if he
” “oh i know .
' bach was practically a co-belligerent .
' ' i am a boatman , too , ' the shooter said .
they say she was just outside of havana harbor when the hurricane hit and she couldn ' t get in
then he dreamed that he was in the village on his bed and there was a norther and he was
couple of porters , and to that end we put him in the crotch of a tree .
it was dark early .
she called to some one in the house and three girls came to the window and stared .
“who the hell’s shot worse ?
” asked the waitress .
' that ' s the house of the contessa dandolo , ' the colonel said .
” “maybe the nerve will regenerate .
_num_ st soldier—he didn’t want to come down off the cross .
use the telephone during a thunderstorm after the time papa was hurled to the floor in the middle of a
wheels .
and you love me so much and i take such good care of you that you get an epoch of
why don’t you go over and join the memsahib while i just get it over with ?
brett was sitting looking straight ahead at nothing .
smelt of incense , and there were some wonderful big windows .
of the road and we were not technically prepared to cope with armored vehicles .
” he was steering to the westward now to go in to lay up for the day in the mangroves
through his full belly , and weakening with the wound through his lungs that brought a thin foamy red to
' ' how are your boots ?
” “all right , ” nick adams said .
her own will , lovely , loving and full of illusions about you , and with her asleep beside you
silently before lifting the other , walking as quietly as in a dream or a slow motion picture .
' ' then the front part of the valhalla express dropped coloured smoke and turned and went home .
the young gentleman put one of the marsalas in front of her .
” “sure , ” said frankie .
' " ' ja , i loved her , ' olz said .
take off is putting it very cleanly and pleasantly .
he can only come , from where he lives , on skis until the snow melts .
" retana ' s man asked .
" mangez du fromage .
" how do you know he ' s don manuel ?
” roger asked .
sea and he said to the nigger , “where the hell are we ?
he brought the frying pan and the coffee pot from the stove and sat down beside me and we ate
that there is an old man in the party .
like any other man .
“beer .
” “lying down ?
she was sitting on a canvas chair beside his cot .
or is it more ?
' ' they both have nice faces .
' ' that all depends on whether one has luck or not .
it’s going to be murder .
my old man said the black was kircubbin and i took a good look at him and he was a
" that of red lodge is the best , " said the big one .
" like you like noise , my dear .
was raised .
nick sat down on the bundle of canvas and bedding the baggage man had pitched out of the door of
there was a little current there that kept it open for a while .
he anticipated every move of the enemy force and comported himself so brilliantly that he was promoted over many better
then i took the wheel and told eddy to look under the stem for some pieces of iron that i
they ' re working all the time .
' i ' ll go to cipriani ' s and get some money .
" i just couldn ' t stand it about brett .
” the tall waiter said .
“baseball is a game for louts .
" good-night , jerry , " jack says .
tell him i ' ll put him in the cinema .
” “we’ll come before we go .
that’s what seems to be there .
imagine myself having done all the things they had done to get their medals ; but walking home at night
" " you are hateful .
” “what do you think i want to do , get sick ?
come in .
' it sounded as though there were when i said it .
they asked our mother for your rifle but i’d hid it in the woodshed when i saw them by the
the only person i really cared about , except the children , was with me , and i had no
' what did you do then ?
it was ten o ' clock now and very hot in the open , the sun pegged and the breeze
” he wrote in indelible pencil , tore out the slip and handed it to me .
please tell me some more about the meeting , or the assembly .
“what did you do , dad ?
' it was frozen-up at our post , ' the colonel said .
he was looking at bill , trying to make him out .
" he shut his eyes and opened them , moving the eyelashes against the sheet .
“yeah , ” she said .
the blood ran down his cheek a little way .
fuentes came down on his toes , arms straight out , whole body arching forward , and drove the shafts
jack doesn ' t say anything .
“i hope you have a good summer .
it ' s harder to do than my first book .
” the porter brought a truck and piled on the baggage , and my wife said good-by and i said
' let ' s get the little memsahib and have some breakfast .
” “we’re not like that .
but i wish to christ he hadn’t ever got it .
robert cohn was waiting for me .
" there , " his father would say , " it ' s your sister dorothy .
main thing a man had .
if i can fix it so that i get an even break , that ' s all i want .
' ' everybody , ' she said .
” “i am not active any longer .
other people who knew they were married believed she was going to have a baby .
when they signed off at four o’clock in the morning it was five o’clock in the morning in the hospital
he had always liked new orleans , the little that he knew of it , but it was a letdown
" i don ' t give a damn who shot you , but i ' ve got to clear this
and making it all right afterwards .
in the ordinary .
her face clearly as we came out on the avenue des gobelins .
maybe they are former fascists or maybe they are something else , or maybe it is just the line that
and delicately made and he ' s never done any work with his hands .
“not much .
" and he said " i don ' t know who killed him but he ' s dead all right
but more than shame he felt cold , hollow fear in him .
' ' it won ' t be salvage , daughter , ' said the _gran maestro_ .
over and over , and shot them out on the floor with a snap .
said , ' it is coming up in that hand-pulled device .
“what made you say that ?
" thanks , we ' ll be in , " i said .
" shut the door , can ' t you ?
" " it probably was bad .
game .
the one who was with me , busy changing film in the hand cameras , had not noticed him .
the rest was the necessary garnishing of a dish .
' chapter xliii at the landing , before the long low stone house by the side of the canal ,
hurt him or mark him up no more than he is .
i was nuts about the horses , too .
as kamau came back from carrying a load to the car i told him to bring the camera and then
it will be simpler .
all this will not last , you know .
then you can only really follow anything in places where you speak the language .
" she went away and mr .
and men could not move further and live , when the order came to move ahead .
' ' i seem to remember a grant of some sort , ' pop was teasing .
a road went up to the hills along the edge of the timber and along that road he picked blackberries
and the cruelty are all gone as the high-piled scow of garbage , bright-coloured , white-flecked ; ill-smelling , now
the road went up a hill and we got into thick woods , and the road kept on climbing .
he would finish the cigarette .
” “sure you do .
but you have to get the ones with a vocation for it .
” “wouldn’t there be snakes ?
would you like me to describe the scene ?
" " no , i ' d like to get this settled .
“you rummy fake santa claus .
' i want to go with b ' wana !
and i ' m fond of him , too .
" take off your cap .
but if you can write that well you don’t need anyone to help you .
you can ' t touch them .
bull hit .
" the old man looked at him .
the table was in the middle of the room a little on your right as you go in .
i can find out anyway .
” came the nigger’s soft voice .
" " you should .
i was watching them through the glasses and kzar was running well back , with one of the bays making
bank in the sun and he named her off .
' ' two very dry martinis , ' the colonel said to the bartender , ' and a glass of
there was no wind and we knew that when the breeze came up it would be from the east and
" " was the letter you got monday--from her ?
that’s when we first used it for that .
this meadow to the bridge .
” “i know , ” i said .
" " i misjudged you , " harvey said .
and he had felt the illusion of returning strength of will to work .
he couldn’t hardly lift his arm .
it’s just as though it’s automatic .
' ' do you work on this much ?
" " we must .
" if you are interested in scars i can show you some very interesting ones but i would rather talk
to r .
being slightly out of hearing of the orator , responded , as one man , at the pause for the
“it would be impossible for steve to have said that , ” peroxide declared .
" " i ' m a tremendous bankrupt , " mike said .
” “twice in the abdomen .
” “i know about missing , ” the girl said .
" " are you trying to insult me ?
" why don ' t you try to go to sleep ?
a little too much sun .
at a big garage just around the corner from the municipal theatre for four hundred francs .
you must do nothing stupid .
he was very sorry for him and he felt a cure might help .
it has a sort of a carved look .
hers i mean .
really living it .
cruise around by yourself and see what happens to you .
” guy said .
chapter xv it was really home , if a hotel room can be so described .
bar next door .
" look what he ' s done for marcial lalanda .
' should we go , daughter ?
he put it down by the bed and walked to the edge of the porch and looked .
then fallen into a glacier and disappeared , and his bride was going to wait twenty-four years exactly for his
jackson said on one occasion ?
a pursuit race william campbell had been in a pur suit race with a burlesque show ever since pittsburgh .
i pushed them clear and the boy with him started sculling off .
i don’t want you to get scratched .
" asked the adjutant .
" what news along the rialto ?
they tried to have a baby in paris .
have we enough scotch ?
” “you want to hear the cucaracha another time ?
as they entered the long hallway that led to the big stairs and to the elevator , leaving , on
on our way back across country to our main camp i made a fancy shot on a reedbuck at about
jack just moved around a little to loosen up .
one waking morning of his life ; attack or no attack .
wind-shield and radiator .
“mon capitaine , should we die together ?
nick kept his direction by the sun .
” “how did they leave it when they cut all this ?
there were small clearings around the villages where the vines grew , and then the woods .
thought .
let the world get on with the mess it had gotten itself into .
“you mustn’t feel that way .
" " you haven ' t drunk much of it , " i said .
' absolutely no .
a house , which , since it was over six miles from any military objective , had the good fortune
all rights reserved , including the right of reproduction in whole or in part in any form .
hit the glass as hard as i could with the wrench .
going .
one reader writes she sat at the table in her bedroom with a newspaper folded open before her and only
" " i know , " i said .
the leading rider saw the fresh blood on the road and then he turned his head and saw the vehicle
” the little man walked after nick and sam , the cook , back into the kitchen .
as soon as we started out on the road outside of town it was cool .
but it was the feeling of all those things that the country along the hudson river gave me .
tail gone .
' ' go on .
“you’re very merry , aren’t you ?
“there’ve been other violations .
' what do we do , pop ?
" " if you talk like that you must go out .
but you kill fewer ducks than many bad and fair shots .
” “he’s dumb , ” said al .
each sardine was hooked through both eyes so that they made a half-garland on the projecting steel .
' but she said , ' no , it isn ' t any good to be catholique in america .
" " what ' s his name ?
lashes ?
read them .
" they were like the cochon .
a bottle of that _vino secco_ , from vesuvius , for the small soles .
a lot of people went there that i did not like , the same as at the stork , say
bending and flapping wildly in the air .
it was an old smile that he had been using for fifty years , ever since he first smiled and
" " no , don ' t .
glasses .
” “don’t you believe it ?
she ' s right at the end of the quicksand right at the edge of the gulf .
but i don ' t want anybody but you .
" they ' d tear him to pieces , " nick said , pleased with the picture .
i ' d kill him like this .
american men make the best husbands , ” the american lady was saying .
while i was pulling her astern i was waiting for something to hit me on top of the head but
' and you are the most beautiful woman i have ever known , or seen , ever in paintings by
their color was not gone yet .
” asked the girl , holding his arm now and looking out .
" below in the narrow passage of the callejon the sword-handlers arranged everything .
' ' that ' s a short sentence .
" " not for me , " the waiter said .
” “you will be uncomfortable .
” “that was the day we caught so many fish but had to come in because it was rough .
but first you might be saving me and then next you might be saving the world .
“i tell them all you’re my beau .
” “i’ll take another cup of coffee , ” roger said .
i can live on tick at this pub in saint jean .
“if you see nick , dear , will you tell him his mother wants to see him ?
he was curly haired and well built and his lips were prominent .
liquor makes you feel like i’ll feel in an hour .
” asked the adjutant .
” asked the tall waiter .
but he cannot pull this skiff forever , no matter how great he is .
miserable boy of nine years .
stride at a time , leaning forward against the grade and the altitude , dead tired and gun weary ,
leaving the dining-car i asked the conductor for tickets for the first service .
i don ' t give a damn about these rhino outside of the fun of hunting them .
” but i don’t know .
there’s plenty of room to land and we have the smudges ready at both ends .
and they’ve always come .
his hands were folded on the blankets .
there ' s nothing to it , ' the colonel explained .
m ' cola was watching .
he looked at the sun carefully .
” “ah , ” said the lady , crestfallen , “he doesn’t take bananas .
" " she ' s indian all right .
people climb up out of the black-painted vehicle .
hair on his cropped head .
' ' i ' m awfully glad you got him , ' i told karl at the mouth of his
" when ?
" " you are in love with this girl now ?
by their proper names .
one day he refused to eat eight masai cattle and only ate some tagliatelli and drank a glass of pomodoro
he did not classify them , except at the moment , nor treasure them truly .
and we don ' t know what the next changes are .
“i better go find hogan , ” i said .
it was here dan had sat on a haystack one time waiting for a kudu to feed out into the
" yes , " bill said .
sad and curious , ” the waiter said .
" you needn ' t be superior .
” suzy asked him .
i’ll never tell them anything again .
” “i am , ” the boy said .
" " it ' s all on the office , anyway .
they were rising to insects come from the swamp on the other side of the stream when the sun went
then , suddenly , personally , sobbing , “help me , vicente .
" " don ' t let anybody shoot you in the back .
" where the hell were you ?
open country , down to cross the dry watercourse , and up and into the grateful shade of the trail
he said it was too hot and he had drunk too much at lunch .
the brush was very thick ahead and the ground was dry .
it was a swell fourth of july .
” “do you understand spanish , john ?
” “tired !
” “i don’t know what you mean , corrupt .
up and perhaps start him off over that heat-hazy , baking , noontime plain .
and his wife and robert wilson were standing by him .
" the little man walked after nick and sam , the cook , back into the kitchen .
" do you lack for anything ?
" i hate the english .
it was large , wide and high ceilinged and there was a long and distinguished interval between the doors of
outside the old walls .
the man who sold the tackle was out , and we had to wait for him to come back .
it will do you no good .
part iv pursuit as happiness chapter one the road was only a track and the plain was very discouraging to
” “it must have made him feel good to bust you , ” the man said seriously .
' ' this is the best sausage .
' ' salt no good .
" you don ' t joke him .
” “that’s an idea .
the sun was something serious by now .
a writer .
kudu .
it had not been engraved in the same place it was purchased .
that’s the way it was keeping down to weight .
take it .
" hello , kid , " the big man said .
suddenly , poisoned with envy , i did not want to see mine again ; never , never .
up at pubs and go right across the oberland and up the valais and all through the engadine and just
” at one time she would have prayed , but she had lost that and now she needed something .
” “all right , ” said george .
and inside i could see the stakes on the long reef and on the western dry rocks and the wireless
he was ugly to look at and everybody liked his face .
i couldn ' t even head the opposition even though i don ' t have to sit on telephone books
” “i am not afraid of anything , ” the extremaduran said .
then he was on his knees and then he rose slowly to his feet .
continuing of his mother’s grave .
chapter _num_ it was baking hot in the square when we came out after lunch with our bags and the
there were many hyena tracks and , as the trail came on to a ridge of grey rock so that
we passed some lovely gardens and had a good look back at the town , and then we were out
" i didn ' t have any luck .
all the time she says sonofabitsh goddam .
the members of the cuadrilla , who had been watching the burlesque from the runway between the barrera and the
i walked back under the hot summer sky to the farmyard to wait for the point .
then shift the bull ' s charge to the flannel and finish out the pass in the classic manner .
i hung onto the dinghy and got my breath and then i climbed in and took a couple of breaths
i like you .
i won’t if you’re sleepy .
it went well with his face .
trying to kill me and all the time i was trying to get the knife out of my pocket to
gone out of sight , the grass suddenly was high and over our heads and every one slowed down .
you called me a halfwit but i’ll see you get a full day’s charter .
i judged camp to be straight down below us and about five miles to the north-west through the timber .
" " if he comes .
“all those european countries are the same , ” the man said .
' i ' d say you were wrong , daughter .
" " let ' s go in .
” “i think he’s after nick by now , ” the girl said .
poor cayetano , he ' s having a dreadful time and he doesn ' t make a sound .
then to the clerk , ' put it in a box and send it to cipriani ' s and say
wheeler looked at her interestedly .
nor the process which led to their construction .
" " summit .
he looked around the room , saw us and came over .
' ' the lick i suppose .
but listen while i tell you something .
but this sort of thing means something to you , really ?
and , away off , the mountains .
” “il est crazy pour le shooting , ” madame fontan said .
i ' ll see .
we were good friends and he loved whisky , and he is now dead .
" " thank christ i can ' t , " i said .
what have they stored here ?
was the thick bamboo forest of the mountain .
they’ve been feeding out in the marsh .
two men got out and came in through the gate .
he was a young fellow and he held the wine-bottle at full arms ' length and raised it high up
“put it right in , ” dick boulton shouted .
then , in a little while , coming out of the cove , i see a boat come toward us
” “there was one man , ” madame fontan said , “and his wife never lets him get out .
" come back in , edna , " he said .
' nyati , ' m ' cola whispered .
skinned out and their flesh cut into strips for salting .
“have one , ” my father said .
you’ll see .
they sat silent , manuel watching the picador’s face .
" " what you say ?
“he wants the title bad .
“what’s the matter , boy ?
before the present vendeuse , named thérèse , there had been another vendeuse , named amélie .
” he had drained the glass when we drank to him .
i jumped behind the bar on the left side and could see looking over the edge .
” “you don’t have to .
” “how are you going home ?
” “very much .
these i should distribute with a kind word and a pat on the back .
we have charming and sound accounts of the flora and fauna of patagonia by the late w .
there were wide wooden steps that led down to the pier that ran far out into the water and there
and was running naked , and the four of us were running now , full speed , like hounds ,
it is no trick at all to catch a very great quantity indeed , and no officer , in my
" we went in .
the trees seem as though their leaves were never quite dry .
' ' permit me to be sorry .
the way i can’t stop getting .
the other letter was a wedding announcement .
he knew he did not deserve it and he accepted it and he lived by it , but he sought
two that fought , tinily , in the glasses , pushing head-on , fighting in front of a clump of
” “don’t you think we’re going to have fun , nickie ?
" " the keeley , " william campbell said .
' ' measure , ' m ' cola pleaded .
i was using a pair of field glasses , eight power , small zeisses that you could cover with your
i’m so very sleepy .
“why should i ?
“we are friends of he who wounded him .
“like to take a walk , jerry ?
' ' i ' ve made mistakes in my home town , ' the colonel said .
' i held out the flask .
shot and shot at the whole animal instead of calling the shot .
san pedro was a fisherman as was the father of the great dimaggio .
where is she gone out ?
my choice was to go there to find him beyond all people .
' ' other people ' s orders , ' he said .
we’ll drink it inside .
" chapter _num_ the ledoux-kid francis fight was the night of the _num_ th of june .
shakespeare too , though it may seem impossible .
finally he didn’t say anything any more but just sat there and looked at holbrook , and the two of
" i must get a bath .
havana .
i wish we could ask you to stay the night but it’s just out of the question .
the port holes were all shut tight and i could see the glass shine in the water and the whole
the photographs did not make much difference to the major because he only looked out of the window .
he remembered now that was hopkins’s way .
it was his money and he discovered he liked the authority of editing .
" her hand was trembling .
' meaning ' he ' s hit !
and that last night , drunk , with joyce and the thing he kept quoting from edgar quinet , '
so they would not worry .
came out and sat in one of the canvas chairs under the open dining tent and read somebody ' s
" the doctor tossed the saucer full of iodine in his face .
he held her close and kissed the top of her head .
” “i was a boy myself once , ” the big prisoner said .
" we stopped in front of a frame house .
" we ' d come in that town at one end and we were going out the other .
like a bird dog .
' it is all gone except that lorry .
of course i didn ' t know anything about the eskimo .
he had great poise and dignity and seemed to be very intelligent .
we left bill ' s baggage at the station , and he bought a ticket to paris .
" " how do i know ?
it was his tracks by the spring where that nester’s boy was shot that they hung tom for .
that did not want to leave , on the rhino carcass when they had gone there the next morning and
we came up to the place where the rhinos and the buff had come out of the reeds and i
" i must shove off .
a buffalo up the other bank .
i know the place is cold and their wages are inadequate and what fuel costs .
four legs , the head hanging down .
he twisted the blade and as the shark slid loose he said , " go on , galano .
” “give me the gun , ” fontan said .
” or “will you pass me that ?
look at him and see if it ' s not .
” “we’re through with your mermaid .
the little man came toward him slowly , stepping flat-footed forward , his left foot stepping forward , his right
” “it’s a very old place , ” nick said .
without being taught and disciplined .
" they ' re a bunch of edna ' s friends from biarritz , " bill said .
“i’ll get out , ” the boy said .
“hola , amigo !
" you ' re tired inside .
frazer finished .
“here’s the money , ” he said .
forward and back , the body leaning out against the swing , the sticks accenting the curve like points of
" it ' s a crime .
" " but they haven ' t taken it away .
the wall .
so harry crossed last night .
" the music stopped and we started toward the table where the count sat .
the water was cold and made his eyes ache .
' ' i could put it up and all that sort of thing if you value neatness .
first we must try to make sure there were no more of them in the timber or the meadow that
' it was daylight before they reached the oaken-staved hogshead sunk in the bottom of the lagoon .
' ' you ' re wrong , ' she said .
“by all means .
” “elle est indienne ?
time to be in it and to move slowly .
“you show two lights , one above the other , at the point .
“have you any solids left ?
coeducation maybe .
along a faint trail through thick second-growth .
around the edges the buckwheat cake began to firm , then brown , then crisp .
then the big one got up and stood broadside with head turned toward us as garrick came up whispering ,
once m ' cola , in the dark , loaded with pop ' s heavy gun and an assortment of
' ' you ' re damn right they will .
field and i could not figure where we were to go from there .
' ' about as you would imagine .
the others went down and took the bottles with them .
the current must be carrying them to the eastward .
" " no , ma ' am .
but perhaps he has been hooked many times before and he knows that this is how he should make his
" " leave ' em for you to finish .
" all right , " jack says , " i ' ll play you once more to see who pays
" " could we try it ?
” “don’t lie too much , ” she said .
“i won’t say ‘you know’ all the time any more , ” he told her .
' i ' ve got the braggies , ' i said .
" " you said it , kid , " agreed the short waiter .
' ' wasn ' t my cardiograph o .
' ' i think i can know .
we were born lucky , he thought .
as crazy as they say .
” “enameled , ” roger said .
we had been skiing in the silvretta for a month , and it was good to be down in the
we were going to check that today .
they were like a bunch of masai donkeys except for the beautiful straight-slanting black horns and all the heads looked
” “from me , ” said the thin one , “he won two hundred and eleven dollars .
" his voice sounded very strange .
little and papa spoke of his rival , whom he would now and again beat at tennis by the lowest
” “what about the others ?
in the back of the store he said , “tell me about it .
” “i told you that .
“well , ” says jack , “you better go back to town .
" bill raised the wine-skin and let the stream of wine spurt out and into his mouth , his head
” “a cat ?
cohn couldn ' t knock him out .
there is doctor henry van dyke .
_ _num_ d soldier_--you been out here too long .
and he never got me the papers he had promised me and today i heard i was going to be
, he swallowed them with the martini .
there are two schools of thought on that .
" it doesn ' t make any difference about the wine .
two swiss sat over their pipes and two decies of cloudy new wine next to the stove .
i am sorry gentlemen , but i have to leave you .
' at b ' wana , ' m ' cola said , and shook his head , ' at the
he went to the window and looked out .
you’re not a firehorse and you have as much obligation to the kids as to anything in the world .
” “a whore is also a woman , but i am not a whore .
they came to europe , where the lady had been educated , and stayed three years .
the gypsy bent back , drew back his arms , the banderillas pointing at the bull .
manuel drank a glass of water poured for him by one of retana’s deputies , who was acting as his
across the field to cross the two roads and get into the shuttered estaminet and find out what had gone
" " you ' re three to one to be a saint .
the rain made the windows of the train wet so you could not see outside clearly and then it made
the horses in bull-fighting .
he was in his home where he had made it .
you marked the last blood with your eye and both made casts to pick it up again , signalling with
it was the hour he had always gone to the café alone when he had lived in paris , to
“i have not seen such a comrade .
that always did the trick .
” “which champagne would you prefer , sir ?
montoya was glad to see us , and shook hands and gave us good rooms looking out on the square
” “i’ll come back if you want me .
“this is the first sort of letdown we’ve had .
” “let’s keep it like that for a while .
told .
for forty minutes but try and let him stay .
" " don ' t be a fool , " nick said cheerfully .
then he shifted the heavy line from his right hand to his left and washed his right hand in the
plenty of it .
but there was plenty of prize money .
we ?
" " why doesn ' t he get a divorce ?
' and remember you speak worst of all about yourself .
had no confidence , coming back to eat alone , no one to whom he could talk , his wife
” “do you think you’ll get lonesome with me ?
broken balcony .
we had dined at l ' avenue ' s and afterward went to the café de versailles for coffee .
” “all the time , ” said para .
“we might as well say good-bye to it , ” nick adams said .
i didn’t know you were allowed to shoot them from cars though .
heat , and then turned off around a hill with a high , fire-scarred hill on either side onto a
it was simply priceless .
' you wonder beauty .
i did not realize the extent to which it had set him off until one day he came into my
they were in a storm , the rain so thick it seemed like flying through a waterfall , and then
the room was in that disorder produced only by those who have always had servants .
" that ' s right .
" franz , come over here .
“the best arrow-heads went all to pieces , ” he said .
it was funny how much fun it was to swim underwater and how little fun there was in plain swimming
the bull never showed and i was absolutely sure that we would find him where i had seen him go
' buffalo .
' i know how lucky i ' ve been .
“jimmy , ” he said , “are you awake ?
they went into the cedar swamp , moving as softly as deer .
the air was cold and sharp to breathe and he smelled the cut hemlock and balsam boughs .
i better get the sack and put it over my shoulders .
car that i would eat to-night ; but those teal were the finest of all .
“see that patch of bush ?
the taxi started and brett waved .
' the barone alvarito looked away and spread his hands towards the fire .
' oh , lord , may he hit it out of the lot !
" " i love you very much .
from inside the ring came the shouts .
m ' cola was grinning , pressing his fingers tight on my wrist and we watched the big buck shiver
" you got a good hand , kid , " manuel complimented him .
' ' take me home , please .
b ' wana simba killed his last kudu interrupted it long enough to state he would only hunt with abdullah
tighter than a simple tobacco chewer’s mouth needed to be .
" " we like it , " said the count .
but it must have seemed like the wrong career to him when they finished up on that hill above the
" he walked off , bare-footed on the coral rocks , to the ice house where the baits were stored
” “who ever fishes it ?
' and now , since she is not , let us forget her for keeps .
will you sit in the sun in the doorway ?
he pic-ed in the hot afternoon sun for big money .
to move ; when you must force movement forward by legs that feel as dead as though they were asleep
" sleeping , " the boy called .
" don ' t be afraid , " the major said .
over all the lovely coolness and met hers .
' ' good old mama , ' karl said .
“take hold of my wrist .
i opened mine and there were a dozen flies in it .
i handed it back to claude who gave it to red .
“it was really just an unfortunate misunderstanding .
will you send a note by the bus to tell us what to do to rejoin you all on wednesday
it was a four-leaf clover disguised as ivy .
' ' think about your fenders , sir .
” captain willie continued on his way up the channel , the two-cylinder palmer coughing steadily .
i know when i ' m not wanted .
" je veux shooter les rats d ' eau .
they were his standards in all except the shooting .
" " no , you won ' t , " manuel said .
what a good-bye that was .
” “down the creek , boys .
who says it ?
that can be replaced .
only that ' s an airplane .
” “it sounds pretty bad , ” his sister said .
he intended to ride him all through the corrida .
no salt .
” “that’s no way to speak , ” said the second waiter .
“senta rinaldi .
hapana , simba !
the two restaurants were side by side .
they left the logs in the woods to rot , they did not even clear away or burn the tops
, and he dropped his oars and felt the weight of the small tuna ' s shivering pull as he
three of the men to be hanged were negroes .
“she tells me you never made a sound , ” mr .
“there he is , ” he heard the whisper .
he never looked too good early in the morning but he looked plenty bad now .
" " i say , jake , " brett called from the next table , " you have deserted us
" " you can ' t tell .
” “i’ll bet he wasn’t better than you .
” “you’ll be back soon ?
the waiter shouted to them .
the touch .
' ' shoot ?
” zurito looked at his hands .
he heard two blasts on a whistle from close to the house and he wriggled steadily on .
" " did he ?
you don’t have to take me in as an equal or a partner .
it just catches .
” “don’t bring anything .
” “no , hombre .
their wings were suddenly set to alight , as when you lower the flaps .
in california he fell among literary people and , as he still had a little of the fifty thousand left
i was going to sleep that night .
“when you got it you don’t know about it .
then three more got to their feet .
i sat down and waited for him to stop and when he did , obviously anchored , i sat there
i feel rather good , you know .
but you wish to command , too .
since i still loved to hunt i resolved that i would only shoot as long as i could kill cleanly
“i know , ” he said , “we’ll get some piombo and fish tomorrow .
they were blue that day , and the snow on the high mountains shone like glass .
" what do you think ' s going to happen ?
out , coming in a charge , his little pig eyes bloodshot as he looked at them .
“i’m going to pay you .
we had roast young suckling pig and drank rioja alta .
' ' they were too far , i tell you .
“that explains it .
him , sweeter than an eland even , stroked his nose , his neck , and his shoulder , marvelling
a little desperately .
" " how ' s your friend cayetano ?
sanguesa who could stay over for the funeral .
then it was sweet fern , growing ankle high , to walk through , and clumps of jack pines ;
” i yelled to the nigger .
photographs of bull-fighters who had been without aficion montoya kept in a drawer of his desk .
shirt she wore .
things all ended so violently that started so pleasantly .
para , accompanied by the two runners , was coming down the line of the sunken road .
" he walked with me up to the kiosque at the corner .
' that ' s enough .
the side and behind him .
' ' yes .
joe dragged him into the bushes and got back up on the wagon-box .
great friend .
” “night before battle , ” “nobody ever dies , ” and “landscape with figures , ” which is published
“there were three animals altogether , ” he explained .
it’s supposed to be bad form to ask us not to talk though .
then he hit the buck and broke its neck .
“it is normal , ” the first soldier said .
” “the royal ten dollar gold piece inn and emporium .
it would be fun .
the natives had carried on his head produced , in its straw casing , a bottle of german beer ,
boy to help you haul it , and the two of you took it out over the road on skis
the sun was terrific and as it was necessary to track with heads bent down and stooping , in spite
“i know the one , ” nick adams said .
it was a damn dull dinner , and i couldn ' t stick it , so i left .
" tell me some more .
morgan was sitting on the bed where jack had sat .
miss portrait and i talked late and early and it made everything much easier .
you ' re fast enough so you can take your time , remember .
now he knew they would kill the elephant and there was nothing he could do about it .
the sergeant was sleepy , his eyes would shut and then open , stay open a while and then shut
the chances are , of course , that he will fail .
in an ice bucket with a glass beside it on the silver tray .
the wind started and the noise of the bees in them outside his window .
the monotony tires you , he thought .
” “they should , ” i said .
” “i though that was all settled , ” she said .
" listen to him , " said carl .
" it is not half-past two .
if he is a fisherman from the creases from the cord cuts .
” “we couldn’t .
' ' eff florence , ' the colonel said .
the veritable flowers of the pyrenees .
i took a long drink .
liking that made her feel funny .
' there wasn ' t a bit of wind when we stalked the salt and there was just light to
story .
many people in hailey who owned radios protested about the hospital’s x-ray machine which ruined their morning reception , but
' ' you ought to write , ' the girl said .
' you should not take it so seriously .
we never sell the beer before it ' s good .
“don’t you like this war ?
adam’s-appled german i knew who was working at the censorship and two other people i did not know .
here there was game , plenty of birds , and i liked the natives .
" " it ' s me .
“i’m not scared , nickie .
he seemed sad , really , like carnera .
" " no matter how vulgar a hotel is , the bar is always nice .
palms until they were parted in a line forward and away from the grey trunks that bent with the heavy
" do you come here to the café often ?
not really ?
” “i won’t .
he , with the shooting coat now full of ducks , crouches and a flock of geese pass over in
there was smoke from many tall chimneys—coming into marseilles , and the train slowed down and followed one track through
” “you should see it , ” he said .
when we’re enthused from any cause .
the plank nailed above the gunwale until he stood , looking down at the nigger , his right hand still
” “i’d leave him alone , ” i said .
nothing about the waiter .
capabilities .
' i have great admiration for him .
once was enough .
he took the bottle , drained it to the last bit of froth and crouched by his meat sticks holding
” “cochon , ” he said delicately , hesitating to use such a strong word .
i can write truly what i hear or think .
tablets into his left hand .
' you ' re in good shape , colonel , sir .
hemingway attended his first bullfight , in the company of american friends , in _num_ , when he made an
fathers and sons there had been a sign to detour in the center of the main street of this town
” he was very embarrassed , having brought out this thing he had lived by , but he had seen
, slung on one side , water canteen on the other , skinning knife , whetstone , extra box of
" " listen , " the clean-cut young man said .
i figured he was plenty nervous .
that took up a great amount of time , for if you try to remember all the people you have
i sent her up to the show tonight .
” “i always have fun when there’s any time .
” “tell me about out in chicago , ” i said .
the boys said there was a very big one about here .
he reached forward and turned on the radio and tuned it .
“no , ” said kate .
if he was good for it , the longer he went the better .
i didn’t mean i didn’t love you .
" they were a whitish patch on the gray-green of the hill .
' ' it was a pretty good old river , ' the colonel said .
“louse is the word .
but the head was big around more than four feet anyway .
now is it all right not to talk about it ?
they hunt ducks nights too , with big punt guns , out along the edge of the marshes on this
where the headlights picked out the trail through bushes and then , when the road was better , i went
“you’ll be all right in a couple of days .
' i haven ' t a thought but what you will .
” “you’re a pretty bright boy , aren’t you ?
” he looked over at them .
" you said you had fifty grand on walcott , " i said .
" gentlemen , " he said , and unwrapped a drumstick from a piece of newspaper .
" i don ' t know , " one of the men said .
“you know more about wine than i do .
“have you some lead ?
” “she’s not .
he puts everything in a book .
his neck and back and the small of his back rested as he stretched .
' they were all very different but there were some things you could co-ordinate .
you get precious .
an old bull would be grey but a good herd bull might be as black as a cow .
of the dolphin .
" mike called .
' ' charo and the trackers said there was another bull with this one .
” “quite a few from time to time .
if there were no women he would stare with enjoyment at a foreigner , un inglés , but lacking women
feel the rains coming , as they moved steadily north , as surely as though you watched them on a
' morire non a basta , ' and the colonel , then a lieutenant , had thought , ' what
” “you know you haven’t had any sleep at all and that we have to travel ?
get some money on him , jerry .
" you drew the worst lot , " the boy said .
was getting sleepy , so i prayed that the bull-fights would be good , and that it would be a
nick went on into the kitchen .
i found a couple of pieces of what i wanted—iron from the old coaling dock at tortugas—and i took some
maybe they can .
i figured he was pretty drunk .
, and jack sort of lifted his shoulder sharp and caught him against the nose , and then brought down
on the snow .
watched .
one , wilson , the white hunter , she knew she had never truly seen before .
" yes , don ' t i , " says jack .
he ' s over in scotland now .
" " yes , " he said .
he went out .
” “so far .
ducks .
" i am _so_ sorry .
" " hernandez , i think .
the shoulders .
whyn’t they bring the liquor in on the ferry ?
' s acted ?
” he picked up the razor in his right hand , gave it a little flip and the blade came
” “it’s a fine country for la chasse , fontan says .
plenty rough and i took it down along ; and when it was daylight i was off eastern harbor .
” “this comrade is in the tanks , ” i said .
i drifted over her in the boat .
she pretended to be indignant at our going off and leaving her alone but she was only teasing us .
for the bullet hole .
mind you , you’ll be scared too , plenty of times .
“it’s like miles and kilometers .
' he had made a concession , with obliquely , instead of saying , correctly , oblique .
some of those guys are nervous at night .
here , i thought , we would jump him in a gully but the spatters of blood , not so
at all and had to cut up one of the trout i had caught and use him for bait .
” “tell him i love him .
before the lorries arrived the old man came back with the skinniest , hungriest , most unsuccessful looking of wanderobos
' ' it will be cold , too .
steinfelt and morgan were dressers .
everything’s fine really .
he reminded me more of a dead sparrow .
we’d seen tankers going up the gulf for quite a while .
but that was exactly the sort of thing that he would do in order to be able to boast of
bill had been rather difficult at the last .
" it is half a day and a night and now another day and you have not slept .
but they weren ' t ever jews , and they didn ' t come and hang about afterward .
" barnes , " he said , " have a drink .
' do you think we should have one more montgomery ?
he walked with great dignity across the part of the street where you were sometimes fired on and continued on
we are devotees of the pictorial arts .
papa , who was always very good at that sort of thing , suggested a quotation from turgenev to marty
the crossroads to pick up the lorries and head to the east into the new country .
” “the car will protect us .
no , i ' ll be in the chapel doing what i can .
they were all very quiet .
there’s an empty lard bucket .
but i read it too .
where did you hit him ?
' " the priest looked at her again .
i would say his progress could not be more satisfactory .
he broke off some sprigs of the heathery sweet fern , and put them under his pack straps .
fred stood there on the station platform and i watched the station , fred standing there , then walking away
oh , you’re too sweet , ” she said .
“i’m all right , ” jack says .
, was running brown , and up to the banks .
“tell her they’re playing them off their feet , ” mr .
how you want me to work ?
" " you ' re not flamand ?
“i’d be out of business .
" " it ' s grand .
“he’s gotten into a bad place though .
two men on cow ponies , wearing western work clothes , got down from their stock saddles and hitched their
” “i doubt it .
don’t ask me .
in between the rounds i worked on his legs .
give her a winner .
" go get some wine , fontan .
” “you’re too damned smart , ” doctor wilcox said .
profiteer of milan , who had , in the course of a dispute over property , accused his young wife
and branches with the brilliant and worthless seeds growing .
it stretched away , pebbly-bottomed with shallows and big boulders and a deep pool as it curved away around the
’ and she said , ‘darling , everyone thought you knew what you were doing .
” macomber asked .
” “you know maybe we ought to stay tomorrow .
” “why ?
" " now ?
his running and sweating out again , and him and i were the whole stable gang .
of two to one .
way low below the belt .
” she asked him .
' ' i always wondered what you did .
in the bottle .
wheeler watched to see if she spoke to the porters .
they tried to hold him up against the wall but he sat down in a puddle of water .
but i suppose these ducks have to go to the market and no one would know how to skin and
we ' ve scouts out to watch both of these hills .
i had thought he was a girl from his face for an instant when he first came up , as
“there’s nothing we can do now .
the trunks were straight and brown without branches .
nervesa .
“the one i saw is a splendid cabin .
" " i wish i were .
we saw the four of them climbing together up the gap , and we saw pace’s hands were not tied
don ' t you feel better to be loved ?
' ' memsahib _bathi_ , ' molo said hopefully .
“i’m through with it .
back in the town i went to the café to have a second coffee and some buttered toast .
' but it was too late .
that was their business and i thought it was bad luck to touch it anyway .
” “she reads books all the time .
“listen , ” said the detective , shaking his finger almost at cayetano’s nose , which projected , waxen yellow
" " oh , my god , i don ' t know .
but i ' ve read several books .
but i had to call him .
" you want another copita ?
dew from the grass ; with the breeze starting and the country like an abandoned new england orchard to walk
yes , he thought .
the line and break it .
he furled the muleta , drew the sword out , profiled and drove in on the bull .
' ' she was an ambitious woman and i was away too much .
he felt happy .
“go on up , john , ” i said .
abdullah , on the black skin of his leg with a sharp twig .
there , standing with the hotel runners , was robert cohn .
“want a chair ?
” “it is necessary to be very strong against something , ” mr .
the skiff was floated away with the tide and i swam over to her with my nose bleeding in the
' ' it ' s from the high mountains .
to have fun together .
” “ask him who shot the russian .
you ?
give me that card .
that ' s all that counts .
is that her portrait that you have wrapped up in the back of the car ?
” “well , i don’t mind him , ” guy said—“except the way he leans out on the turns .
you ' re my true love .
he really respected her love of culture because she said she loved it just like he loved good bonded whiskey
probably had more creditors than anybody in england .
“you owe two hundred and ninety five dollars for that rod and reel and line , ” i told johnson
a trout had taken him .
did you watch it ?
" would you like me to bring you something ?
zurito saw him go by , smiling , pointing at his vest .
” “i wrote a note to our mother and told her i was going with you to keep you out
and they treat me well .
the old man could see the slight bulge in the water that the big dolphin raised as they followed the
' all cows , ' garrick said .
' ' i ' m afraid i gut-shot him .
in the fading light , hung over the collar of her short , fur-collared jacket .
and germany .
bad luck .
, karl , and karl ' s wife who had come out and joined us at haifa , were sitting
' don ' t worry about us .
i ' m absolutely through with them .
i looked at m ' cola .
she said , ' please , richard .
' better to get it out .
of the tongue that enjoy it more .
we circled back in the rain , getting thoroughly soaked , saw nothing , found the car , and as
“one , ” he answered .
' ' colonel , do not say anything subversive .
chevreuil with the saddle and joyce and i got drunk because we were off for africa the next day .
eland , and another oryx i had not seen before running with the kongoni .
sun rose and lighted the opposite slopes , seeing two kudu cows and a calf feed out from the timber
nick pulled hard and the trout was off .
“all those first confident stories were lost .
“want me to walk with you ?
but i ' d like to get one that wouldn ' t look silly beside that dream rhino of his
they were conducting the conversation on a high plane .
' _ay hija mia_ , ' the colonel said .
troops came in and took the town after the commune and executed any one they could catch with calloused hands
i swam slowly , it seemed like a long swim with the high tide , and then pulled up on
” the chef put the ham and eggs on two plates .
i just love you .
you never asked me to prove anything .
he’s not stupid .
the only other shot is into his chest or , if you’re to one side , into the neck or
the sergeant brought the handcuffs up into the little man’s face twice without looking at him .
" " i saw it , " she said .
" i don ' t give a damn any more .
although some prefer the radio , another opium of the people , a cheap one he had just been using
the waiter took the bottle back inside the café .
but those were the old boys .
and went out and found my boat where i had her inside of mango key and she was all right
the drinking , gray-headed picador was sitting with a glass of cazalas brandy before him staring with pleasure at a
' do you think---- ' ' i don ' t think , ' the girl said .
to worry about , send the porters back , and make a camp in the timber up the stream above
“you better sit here and be comfortable , ” he said .
of the meadow where the tyres cut in through the turf to mud and spun in the slick greasiness .
” “it’s a lie , ” peroxide said .
she stood up with just her head and shoulders out .
“it means about family .
he thinks you’re a bootlegger .
' only it is the main muscle .
but his left hand had always been a traitor and would not do what he called on it to do
“truly .
“nicolo .
“and that the pain stops .
i ' m sorry i asked the question .
but all it does so far is just bring us to the edge of misunderstanding , ” the girl said
it was a final look to ask if it were understood .
her .
sticks slipped in a rush down the slope .
“i have denounced him .
” in the night when he woke after the moon was up he was sure they were not proud of
take m ' cola , kamau and these two .
we ain’t never made friends .
" " do sit down , count , " i said .
right now i’m a better piece than you , you dried up old hot-water bottle .
cohn had been talking about the two of us going off somewhere on a weekend trip .
“he’s off .
got it all at zelli ' s .
“imagine having them around the house all the time and going to sunday dinners at their house , and having
to hell with you , brett ashley .
cut it out , he told himself .
all the hilly slopes and the edge of the forest .
" mademoiselle , " he called .
the flatness of the valley , through cultivated patches of green corn , bananas , and trees i did not
there is no need to be unquiet about the cat .
” “he would make a very good member .
he watched her go .
when they’re not they make a lot of trouble for everybody .
“who is that man ?
shoot the pigeons down .
the lieutenant sat on the floor holding his good hand to his eyes .
they were the colour of black walnut meats and they were beautiful to see .
both his father and juma seemed very sure of themselves and the going on the elephant road was so easy
“wash them and put them in the ice box , nickie , ” mrs .
' we got one too , ' said p .
' turn your head sideways , beauty .
c ' est le truck de charley .
the stripes showed clear on him .
avanti .
gone out he decided that he might as well stay in bed .
i put the rifle up and sighted on his chest .
that’s the way you’re supposed to be .
i can’t slide .
aren’t you sorry to go away ?
i bet he’d go a thousand pounds .
he had not been at the front long enough to get any medals .
he fought and twisted away , and started running , in the midst of them , toward the exit .
" let ' s get out of this .
holding the pole and the line with the baited hook in his right hand he walked very carefully and gently
“in at bacuranao .
the tide was about half-way out .
the waiter told me that my friends had been there and gone .
' do you know any of these morning drinkers ?
pretty sad .
but i can’t do it .
" " and why does one do it ?
then we headed up through the woods , crouched , in single file , to try to get above the
the sword-handlers and bull-ring servants came down the callejon carrying on their shoulders the wicker baskets of fighting capes and
they came in a buggy and they asked where you were .
' ' all the better , ' i said .
out of the rain .
” “i understand .
“he turned to smile at me .
bullets and the shelling , and walking toward the river .
then the negro , after the rum , would try for a tremendous effort and once he had the old
the sand key light and he had never observed carefully how things were .
the decisions .
' no results on this but a long speech from the roman which i took to mean they were watching
please drink your wine .
the coffee-boy was gone .
“to hell with it , i feel clean .
“no , ” jack said , “i never liked to go to these wakes .
quite a lot of the boys were there .
“right here was where pa ran over the skunk .
and he was stand on his feet like on tip-toes and look at me like this .
' and as the car comes up and you ride in through the dust the bitterness goes and there is
' what would you do about mantova ?
' it ' s only a phase in the big picture .
, you won to-day , jerk , ' he said in the best venetian dialect he could summon at that
“i said it wouldn’t last , ” the other said .
’ “‘must know , ’ the priest said .
" no , " said jack .
but the world they were in was not the world he was in .
but they didn’t like it .
" if you were my boy i ' d take you out and gamble , " he said .
he lay there while he heard bill come into the clearing walking around through the woods .
but i missed the stories as though they were a combination of my house , and my job , my
" he ' s all right .
they sunk the ends of their cant-hooks into one of the logs and swung against it to loosen it in
it ' s wicked the way no one has come to see him .
the sexton watched him .
i wish i could show him what sort of man i am .
they were to eat , and ahead we could see the car looking very small and beyond it a stretch
a kidder gets to be an awful thing around a camp if his stuff goes sort of sour .
we got down and the driver handed down our bags and the rod-case .
“but i’ve got to attack in the morning .
you cannot eat a password .
“that’s all right , ” manuel said .
they had made this safari with the minimum of comfort .
i put the mail on the table , went back to the bedroom , undressed and had a shower .
” “no one can leave .
nick came up the ladder .
it was half-past four .
world , was more important .
he could say what he wanted to when he wanted to say it .
he was what romero wanted in bulls .
the doctor came up to the machine where i was sitting and said : " what did you like best
“you can’t hit anything on that side , ” he said .
" " what didn ' t you like about them ?
he had seen them come and go , and they go faster , when they go , than any other
' " ' why did you do that ?
" " where you going ?
that must have been lovely .
” “i left them in the wagon at garner’s .
what do you plan to really do ?
' ' i ' ll get you the god-damned jeep complete with handles , ' the colonel said .
' if he comes don ' t worry about droopy or the others , ' pop whispered .
but maybe they are just good friends .
the concierge was just behind him .
it ' s only dirty from the state of the roads .
i got a lot of use for that arm .
sing ?
" he can cook and everything .
their minds .
“but it is a heinous crime .
where we are .
“it’s all right now about the writing on the mirror .
, caught the calling hen and put her in her sack , and , with the dog slithering on the
he shook hands with every one , explained that to a fascist and a man as used to travelling as
i have re-classified him in my mind .
not agree .
' i knew he hated to make a stalk and to shoot in front of people and so i said
“i ain’t forgot nothing either .
a man in a narrow-brimmed , flat-topped straw hat stood under a tree on the comer .
' don ' t talk .
truly i didn’t want her to send it to you .
but you had better stay on as my servant .
packard , he told nick adams , would get worried about the salvation of his immortal soul after she had
they hung from the roof in bunches .
turner said .
” “what do you call yourself ‘walcott’ for ?
my father ' s office .
“you’re not supposed to mention it , ” wilson said , looking in the other’s face .
” “without discipline everyone will die anyway .
i cannot keep him from hitting me but maybe i can get him .
and i’ll do it and then everything will be fine .
he was very lazy but a great worker once he was started .
father was in china— thanking you and trusting wholly in your advice i am and signed her name .
” “oh , yes , ” he said .
but what can i tell this girl now on this cold , windy morning in the gritti palace hotel ?
i listened , then blew the whistle twice and everybody faded back , red hauling the last kraut by one
gee , how it would be , you couldn’t ever get a girl though , a girl couldn’t go through
" say , wasn ' t that harris nice ?
” “oh , hell , ” i said .
everything that is here must be moved tonight .
' oh , let ' s not go into that , ' p .
' ' beer ' s a food , ' pop said .
he trotted , heavy , bigfooted , swinging wounded full-bellied , through the trees toward the tall grass and cover
" she looked up , very bright-eyed and trying to talk inconsequentially .
loud mouth , the financial and , now , theatrical , genius who was giving a gesture-by-gesture reproduction of how
“why do you want it now ?
” “for me it is a good way to speak , ” said the tall one .
” the cook asked .
he goes out through all that mob in his bathrobe to the dressing-room .
“it depends on whether he travels when the moon comes up .
the old woman at the table in the back of the room spoke to them and they sat down again
" " the month when the great fish come , " the old man said .
but he had always remembered williamson , that night .
“you’re some boy , jack , ” john says .
' he talked to me softly again , begging and pleading .
further in .
" " well , well , " he said .
it was a library book--_frank on a gunboat_ .
certainly better looking than the shakespearean character , and the colonel had fought as many , or more times than
then in the quiet water i turned and floated .
" " that next big cape ought to put it out of sight .
” “i’ll go ahead when we go in , ” wilson said , “with kongoni tracking .
on ahead islands of dark pine trees rose out of the plain .
“but my boy is a communist .
" asked the waitress .
i suppose it really looked just the same as the country where we lived but it did not feel the
they understood quite clearly .
" so long , jake , " he said .
toward the street .
he had not had the old death loneliness since the first time the night before .
i ' d like to go to san dona to see the bridge again .
“run , maria , ” he said .
they belonged to me for ever .
“i have confidence .
' that one ' s a bull , ' pop said , looking through the glasses .
" " oui .
they take the first bunch of skins out to gallop them at _num_ : _num_ in the morning and they
' ' christ , daughter , if you knew how hard i am trying not to be .
i never asked , i guess .
they ' ve got good hors d ' oeuvres .
her , and watched another , and then saw the first one coming back again .
never in this hotel of course .
” “molo !
" * * * * * that night the mexicans played the accordion and other instruments in the ward and
' ' except for us , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
get the man that held it .
“wipe off your face , ” he said .
” “we could have fun stopping and poking around .
we had seen the rhino go in .
" barmen and jockeys are the only people who are polite any more .
i’ve seen monsieur at work at the table in the dining room when i’ve brought things up .
it doesn ' t all have to be palaces nor churches .
to her two just-grown children , who did not need her and were embarrassed at having her about , to
there was nothing on the salt when we came up to it after leaving the car about three miles away
long it seemed to reach the ground .
" " let ' s go down .
windows that were on to the grand canal .
we crossed to the left bank of the seine by the wooden foot-bridge from the quai de bethune , and
it was difficult to approach .
it was always pleasant crossing bridges in paris .
he stepped clear of the horse , his face white as a dirty sheet , and got the chauffeur with
sometimes i would fish four or five different streams in the night ; starting as near as i could get
" i wouldn ' t not have seen it .
“they aren’t striking , ” he said .
it doesn ' t matter who they lead .
he took a short cut and was at the fish market .
nick , rowing , looked at the white stone in the green trees .
they came out and they were scared and they didn’t have any guns but there were twelve of them .
then he walked to where he had left the pole with the line and the hook and baited the hook
' we started toward them .
then i will play bull for you with the chair held before my head .
“they’re sitting out on the screen porch and drinking whiskey and ginger ale and they’ve unhitched and put their horses
you walk like all the great predators , when they walk softly .
been to a big revival by somebody like gypsy smith , that great evangelist , but finally it would turn
“i was afraid of just that all night , ” she said .
burying your money ?
" " you feel all right ?
" everybody ' s got to go .
nor krauts , either , since unfortunately , i am a soldier .
were not frightened by any noise we made and ate on steadily .
irrigation ditches , and the heavy green of the alfalfa .
top of the hill and on our way toward home .
about nine o ' clock we got into bayonne .
“lock the cabin , ” i said , when they were all in .
' that gives you a lot of dope , doesn ' t it ?
" " he is a card-player .
especially all the things you ' ve waited so long for , like absinthe .
the real ones .
” “where is she now ?
' but suppose they had left something there ?
” “maybe a little .
two soldiers carried him downstairs and out into the rain .
he rubbed the cramped hand against his trousers and tried to gentle the fingers .
then we liked them all right .
of plums , and drank the third , and last , bottle of beer .
he could not see the green of the shore now but only the tops of the blue hills that showed
' ' come on , ' i said , then waved the others down , and we started crawling up
“we’ll throw it all away .
gills clear .
' i ' ve been hearing about them for months .
you will have some yourself if you stay at the front long enough .
" " harris ?
” “it’s all the same .
” i had not learned my grammar , and he said i was a stupid impossible disgrace , and he
” “you will tell them .
“no , ” said doc fischer .
i was more ashamed of it all the time .
head to smother her , one comrade sometimes sitting upon the head .
we walked back through the smoker to our seats in the other car .
oh christian shrimp , he thought , master of retreat , and with your wonderful intelligence service in those two
” i went over to the crap game .
but what could i say , in a note , that we did not say ?
” “we won’t .
tomorrow we’ll really get an early start .
the big wop were standing and the big wop was wiping his face and shaking his head .
the flags in the square hung wet from the white poles and the banners were wet and hung damp against
he had given them the keys .
' go to the camp of b ' wana m ' kubwa ?
i just couldn ' t stand it .
and up the slope toward the big farmhouse lay the casualties of the attack like many scattered bundles on the
i will remember .
hard .
and i didn’t feel good when i came out this afternoon .
" " more to me than to him .
we are going to get there .
don ' t think i don ' t think so , sir .
he crawled steadily , thinking hard , giving no importance to the pain .
he hates me anyway by now for differences in politics .
“don’t thank me .
the sud express for the night , and went into the bar of the hotel for a cocktail .
” “that’s one interpretation of it .
" i love to look at the english .
" " that ' s true , " the porter confirmed .
” “i’m not that all right , ” i said .
i hope so much i do not have to fight again .
" watch him , " retana ' s man said .
this waiter , also , was indignant and the flit gun man squirted him twice more , lightheartedly .
i don’t want to get there late .
finally pop said , ' it seems there ' s some sort of a salt-lick where they come to lick
" i was looking over my desk .
“this course rides itself .
we dropped them .
a building you would see on the boat train from havre or cherbourg , coming into the banlieue before paris
that night after dinner we heard the flamingoes flighting in the dark .
_ _num_ st soldier_--aw , hell , you don ' t know anything about it .
it was nice to see a great writer in our time .
' ' have to get him out .
” “how’d it taste ?
cohn was gone .
but coming in like a death ' s head when we had been clowning made me behave badly again and
” “he fled ahead of our troops because he was a collaborator , ” claude explained .
he did not change his direction and the men shouted : " hah !
' ' listen , ' i said to pop .
he did not hear them .
" " want to go back to the café ?
' ' six feet six , ' said andrea .
i’ve got a frenchman from marseille that’s got his left shoulder in a cast with two wounds still draining that
a country wears out quickly unless man puts back in it all his residue and that of all his beasts
” just then the lion roared in a deep-chested moaning , suddenly guttural , ascending vibration that seemed to shake
even here , in reserve , i have much thirst .
” “i remember when he came in , ” a waiter said .
he heard a shot beyond the hill .
stay here and starve ?
" " don ' t rub it in .
no pleasure in anything if you mouth it up too much .
there will be several millions of americans here shortly .
we do not bargain .
but i will kill you dead before this day ends .
adjutant !
i can ' t get this second book going .
" " let ' s try it .
when i woke it was half past four .
manuel , running again toward the bull , wiped his bloody face with his handkerchief .
even now , drunk .
“i’ll shoot a thousand , ” al said .
maybe it did not last .
” in the next machine was a major who had a little hand like a baby’s .
i didn’t tell you all the ones .
stepped down from the buggy .
for the country , we came through the difficult going and out into another open-meadow stretch and could see a
" " one more , " brett said , " and i must run .
" " did you have a good time ?
listen , you !
now , where do we load ?
“i don’t smoke , sir .
" you ' ve been asleep two days .
garrick was sitting straight up , dramatizing his awakeness , and the old man was trying to see the road
she looked very pale .
" no , " said bill .
then they settle .
“what do you know about steve ?
“i never saw him after the shooting started .
the grass of the savannah and the dried bed of the lake showed a white-grey with many small animals humping
still this now , that he had , was very easy ; and if it was no worse as it
still dark with winter , and the fields full of mulberry trees .
' i love you , you know , and i would like to share it with you .
then i sat with my back against the tree to think and to look down the road .
” “oh , he’s going to die , i’m afraid .
" " a north or south american ?
" romero looked up smiling .
thin branches i had seen a lesser kudu bull come out of the brush to the edge of the opening
' now we throw away the book and chase for keeps .
' ' i was thinking about the rapido , sir , i didn ' t mean to be insolent or
” “listen !
that ' s the great place , isn ' t it ?
' ' the tide is low .
' ' he may be very good , ' karl said .
the colonel saw that while they had been joking , he had not watched the door and he was annoyed
she hasn ' t had an absolutely happy life .
” nick reached in the bag and brought out a loaf of bread .
i said “who killed him ?
“listen jerry , ” jack says .
doubts as to whether these animals were really mortal .
' i ' ve known that for quite a long time .
bill was in my room reading the paper .
good time and you could see the buoys and the channels .
" " fortunate fellow , " mike said .
" " will you want to eat soon ?
" i ' ve only got two shells , " nick said .
" " it seems not , " the girl said .
there was much wine , an ignored tension , and a feeling of things coming that you could not prevent
" let ' s take a drive .
but if he was in madrid he had to go there .
“why no third car from the rear ?
they do not drink too much .
” “i don’t want to hear it .
" " why don ' t you tell him ?
” just then eddy slaps him on the back .
little big horn , with the ponies making the circle around them in all the dust and the sage brush
almost all the good boys i know were in the three good regiments of cavalry , or in the navy
, and a fez that some hunter had given him .
' i suggested .
he was a nigger that never thought much of any of us .
of the canyon , well down the stream .
tell him he can always find me at the new stanley or at torr ' s .
” “let’s find out .
“what a ride .
“my boy is in the one hundred and forty-fifth brigade .
” asked the porter who had spoken first .
" " just as you wish , " he said .
he can ' t handle them .
then , speaking confidently , to the detective , " he don ' t know who shot him .
then he stepped the mast and , with the stick that was his gaff and with his boom rigged ,
" it ' s a sin against purity .
" " hello , zizi , " brett said .
' ' still i believe cipriani is prepared for them .
i don’t want him to because i’ll never ever tell him or anybody anything again , never anything again .
not real ones .
as we waited , the fascist came up on his bicycle .
that was because he had all that stuff too .
" " but why do they ask that ?
and all he felt now was a great tiredness and anger that this was the end of it .
what i wish is , though , they would paint some good pictures of that high country up around the
she could feel her heart beating against the ground .
told him i knew too many people in monte carlo .
" remember something about a prize-fight .
“well , you can’t tell , ” i said .
it is good here , too .
the low tide .
have you ever been in action , comrade ?
the wind was blowing a gale .
he didn’t even think that was funny .
that winter the colonel , who was a lieutenant then , and in a foreign army , which had always
” i asked him conversationally .
” “belasco .
i learned that word , too , from my governess .
the more people the less game you ' ll see .
i unlocked the cabin door , opened it , and said : “come on out .
" " never .
” “they ought to have hamburgers and maybe barbecue .
“why don’t you be friendly and cooperative .
it’s not the horses’ fault .
" she stroked my head .
readers will note the reuse of names subsequently given to other characters in the final version of islands in the
” “how long ago did you leave vevey ?
“but i’m going to find out .
color , and after his second bull was dead and the throwing of bread and cushions was over , after
" " you do .
what a damn wonderful girl and what am i doing here anyway ?
the two who were making the film had already eaten and gone back to work on the bad camera .
" zurito asked .
' ' now tell me .
about it until then .
” they were coming down a long hill when they saw sunlight ahead through the tree trunks .
, were the heavy , grey-green lobsters with their magenta overtones that presaged their death in boiling water .
“he says opening bottles is what makes drunkards , ” bill explained .
the truly big picture .
he shut his eyes again and went to sleep .
what are you doing in that uniform ?
manuel went in , carrying his suitcase .
“i don’t want to eat yet .
“sure you don’t want me to help you ?
they sailed well and the old man soaked his hands in the salt water and tried to keep his head
as we came up the ladder , walking across the grass under the trees , we passed the big ,
' he stopped , and thought truly , but off-key , and said , ' no .
then i saw a dark muzzle and the shadow of horns , and then , with a clattering on the
" they got a good crowd , " jack says .
and love your girl .
it was not an interrogation .
that ' s us , he thought .
they pulled the boat up the beach and nick lifted out a pail of live perch .
he did not want to be carried on people ' s shoulders .
and i saw it across the water .
" how he could touch the guitar .
he was truly handsome as a man should be , from the inside out , so that his smile starts
" bill said .
“that’s one of the best things there is .
maybe we have them without knowing of it .
' don ' t tell the honorable pacciardi , ' the colonel said .
why do you follow brett around like a poor bloody steer ?
" " what you come over here for ?
does it mount to your head ?
" you ' re a good boy , pinin .
gee , i remember the funny people that used to go by .
she looked at me dully .
turned over in the market , the brown side not showing , and looking thirty hours dead , was shouting
it’s really not anything .
' i wish to christ i could give him a regiment .
that much mannitol hexanitrate produced a certain amount of nausea , sometimes , and he was anxious for the interview
it is too far for the pellets to reach , he thought , but at least he will know that
i was happy to hear it .
but it was because he was sick his father had told himself .
“goddam it .
“they’re regular elephants we’ve got tonight , ” the boy said cheerfully .
i knew in the smoke and din of chicote’s that the offensive was a failure and i knew it even
yet they are still good .
“what have you got to eat ?
" that ' s where we ' ll go when funds get low , " brett said .
we done right to come in .
putting your hands together , and sunk a foot deep in the loam of the forest floor , where some
let me in all right .
_ ' ' did you shoot , karl ?
he passed it right and left , left and right before the bull’s muzzle .
does this bore you ?
" girls never got a man anywhere .
“i’ll go to the bank in the morning , ” johnson said .
and how do you keep it fresh ?
unable to close , even , the gap at falaise and found the going rather sticky and could not quite
” i asked him .
he hurt my throat bad .
' and that pitted man with the caricature face ?
i looked for sharks but there weren’t any .
i love it now but i just can ' t think about it .
henry’s had been made over from a saloon into a lunch-counter .
' used to admire his writing no end .
with the chef .
ico , could you get me a glass of water , please ?
they ragged him about me at the café , i guess .
kongoni , the old gun-bearer , in the lead watching the blood spoor , wilson watching the grass for any
animals .
something else grew in its place .
” “he must be a very interesting young man .
' then he looked at her and smiled and regretted taking her beyond her depth , as you might take
” “they’re looking for us .
' he asked lovingly .
' i envy you to know them , ' he said .
maybe her rudder was carried away .
rain .
the pleasanter proverbs aren’t so true .
the electric light went on in the patio .
" i cannot laugh yet .
i remember the way he’d pull on a rubber shirt over a couple of jerseys and a big sweat shirt
they all looked like the one i had shot and i was trying to pick a big one .
” “good night .
“that way we’ll go faster .
they’ll be shooting with him all right .
an indian can make a profit from a sisal shamba .
“i wonder what he did ?
“i have shot a proved collaborator .
” “did they say anything else ?
“you guys don’t make much , do you ?
his mother ?
i’ll wake you up for the medicine .
he did not say anything after that .
“tonani , ” the major called .
we drove out along the coast road .
” “i’m sick of hearing you talk .
" oh , absolutely .
to the sea .
” “was the man your daughter was in love with a swiss ?
" i got something fine to tell you .
his hands are as smooth and not a callous on them .
when you were with english you got into the habit of using english expressions in your thinking .
patria ?
find they cannot write , or the first time they cannot do anything else , or else they get frightened
" we climbed down .
they had come in so recently from the plains and the hills that it was necessary that they make their
there were no bees now and he refused to use the foreign word for this wind .
younger of the two priests kneeling beside the chair .
the blood inside his lip .
“good-by and good luck .
i stepped back from the tracks and looked back at the lake with the two grocery stores and the boat
" " i don ' t want to make you trouble .
then he took two turns of the harpoon line around the bitt in the bow and laid his head on
that now he looked a monument to his dead self ; complete with protruding eyes and his delicate , far-extended
” “i don’t want to have to talk to them .
great friends we were .
he moved just like a tiger and he was the finest , free-est spender that ever lived .
nick swung the rod back over his shoulder and forward , and the line , curving forward , laid the
' ' in the morning i will try it .
shoulder went forward between the horns as the sword went in , and for just an instant he and the
the road and the heavy sound of men falling and the clatter of equipment .
“two different places in town .
dashing fellow .
so i would go on reading about the river that the tartars came across when raiding , and the drunken
” “i’m pretty sure there’d be a lot .
” “not the shadow of a guitar player .
i never have .
” “i’d stop her all right .
just then the concierge came to the table and said , ' excuse me , my colonel .
lo .
" to-morrow night .
then i ' d get the night and the early morning and give this lick a rest .
doctor wilcox was short , dark and carried an indexed book , _the young doctor ' s friend and guide_
” “you missed the skillet anyway .
the patronne found one .
nobody interrupted you .
' ' the tide is very high and we only just made that last bridge .
then , while we watched , there was a boom , like a rockslide .
” “ay dount think theys aneh dainjah een a house , ” the authority said with calm and condescending dignity
” he put his hand in his pocket and reached the money out toward me .
” nick had cut up away from the stream into the edge of the timber and they were walking in
otherwise they become like writers in new york .
“leave it alone , ” the man who was steering told him .
” “thanks very much .
“it toils not , neither does it spin .
' s mannlicher slung over his shoulder .
“you can tell them , ” bill said .
let ' s get out of this .
" i would advise you gentlemen to get some sandwiches .
” “let me get it .
harris put sugar in it , crunched the lumps with his spoon , and looked out the window at the
wheeler was thinking that it was very inexpensive sport .
it ' s just that when you want to see them you don ' t .
he shook the skillet sideways and the cake was loose on the surface .
comes straight down here , sometimes in his pyjamas just with a coat over them .
when i woke it was the sound of the rocket exploding that announced the release of the bulls from the
" " how about vienna ?
" do you want to meet pedro romero ?
” “we were sent here by the police , ” the smallest one said .
this gave us a strong historical feeling for the village of kibaya and as it was still cool and the
' ' don ' t you think we might better just go to sleep ?
you’re so beautiful that i’d be happy just to look at you .
" he ' s a pretty smooth boy , " hogan said .
and you know it , and i never lie and you know it .
he didn’t want to be knocked out .
' ' but you do nothing for them ?
but what a trade it is .
behind her they were shouting .
' ' i ' ve seen them quite well costumed in brussels , ' the colonel said .
and speed that , scuttling flat and uncrushable he would make you undress completely to kill him .
me lives on and maybe yet will live to see the actual death of members of this literary sect and
' ' no , ' i said .
they spread the blankets , kate smoothing them flat .
space in the rear and it was sand colored .
i ' m all right .
“thirst is fear .
” he stood there biting his lower lip .
mouth on the floor .
it could fall of its own weight .
" " don ' t neglect to insert the brandy , james , " the first client said .
he stood on the porch looking out .
it was there , cleaned and ready , and he picked it up with his left hand and ate it
wemedge slid his head down , his nose touching along the line of the neck , down between her breasts
would you mind if we came down with you ?
frazer could hear them all laughing and merry with the music made by the mexicans who had been sent by
nobody is .
the young man handed in a parcel through the window .
you can have a little more meat if you want it .
' ' right , ' the colonel said .
but then he would see the cramped hand .
and out washing the sleep out of my eyes before i was really awake .
” manuel asked .
" do you think brett wants you here ?
didn ' t you see the way she looked ?
" globos illuminados , " mike said .
renata was talking to the gondoliere , her hair blowing .
" he ' s a pretty tough-looking boy , " jack says to me .
' i have not the talent for it and i know too much .
“but they must have found the basket and the dishes by now .
the hell with you , he said to the mirror .
i held the rifle in one hand for him to look through the breech and then put the bolt back
" they ' re friends of his , " john said .
when i alighted with my trusty para-chute there was a tendency to regard me as a criminal fascist due to
and what is mine ?
“what do you trunk’s going to happen ?
" " it ' s five pesetas .
use one of those , ' the driver said .
“she should be useful .
now , good day , for i must take a walk for the good of my liver , or something
that is if blowing things’ heads off is lovely .
" " oh , what the hell , " said max .
the boys took off their jackets and sat against the wall on the other side of the stove .
the woman came out from the bar .
they all looked interested .
" " no , " said the thin one .
she’d probably like it , too .
" let me buy the wine , " the sexton said .
' you ' ll wish .
and white across the wide , building-sided canyon of the gran via and we walked up the sidewalk with the
they picked her clean .
then he made that wonderful speech : " you , a foreigner , an englishman " (any foreigner was an
he’s reserving himself .
“aunty’s asleep .
“i just know things .
rutting season , and that later they herded up together again .
" we ' re talking bulls .
went out together .
someone else took her under the arm and lifted her .
but seattle he came to know very well , the taxicab company with the big white cabs (each cab equipped
' goddam it .
“chances are he’ll come to drink along here , ” wilson whispered .
" he laughed .
je connais beaucoup de rats d ' eau .
' you see , i thought that if you slept you might get rid of them , just being asleep
then there was another fence and the hard , hot trail from the barn to the house and the hot
" yes , " he said .
” carl was quiet .
but some nights i could not fish , and on those nights i was cold-awake and said my prayers over
we lay where we had set up and the two vehicles covered us from behind the manure pile .
" it ' s a good thing , with this rain , they didn ' t try and pull this
" don ' t be silly , " he said aloud .
sway like a felled tree and came smashing down toward them .
” “you’re looking very well yourself , ” the barman said .
' ' what ' s the matter with you men ?
i ' ve been out with the boys , but i never cared for it any .
the monos , in their red shirts , running out to drag the picador clear .
back and he couldn ' t even wear them .
' ' i didn ' t mean it like that .
” “don’t try .
' ' so do i , except that i go duck shooting to-morrow and that to-night is to-night .
' ' maybe ten , ' the colonel said .
“frances , ” she said .
” tommy turned to me .
“and a quarter litre of red wine , ” the sexton told the girl .
” “we won’t stay there .
' it ' s awfully good meat , ' pop whispered .
by their drivers , were coming up the gap in the ridge , and men with empty stretchers were walking
across the world in distant australia , the english cricketers were sharpening up their wickets .
war ii and _num_ .
" " quite .
” “i’ll go find hogan , ” i said .
” “about horses and eagles .
it was your father’s suggestion that we talk the matter over .
showed up there and it was the place to start an evening from , all right , and we had
frazer was knocked out by the leaded base of the lamp hitting the top of his head .
" " san sebastian .
then he got up and unhooked the door of the cage and opened it .
" " ten thousand francs .
off and writing for a week , or writing half the day , or every other day , and get
there was no meat in camp , and i wanted to hunt back in a circle with droopy to see
it seemed like a fine philosophy .
“i have to go to the annex .
i said we would be right back .
' i hope so , ' pop said .
we dispute about nothing .
' that where the people lived that were driven off the mainland by the visigoths .
once you had a drink all you had to say was : " well , i ' ve got to
they were the descendants of the communards and it was no struggle for them to know their politics .
and joined the a .
i was beginning to be a little tired of the extremaduran .
" " i ' m sorry he don ' t feel well , " the woman said .
" no , thanks , " said hogan .
he heard some one coming very heavily up the stairs .
his straw hat and goes without saying good-bye .
' ' did you see the one in cuba ?
dick kneeled down in the sand and looked at the mark of the scaler’s hammer in the wood at the
" " they got a cure for that , ' sliding billy ' " turner said .
" " stopped at the crillon .
” “is dying hard , daddy ?
i could not understand all the speech , but it was that paco must be punished as an example ,
they started off and walked up past the cottage and out the back gate into the woods .
he stepped into the stream .
he rushed , but always came , the spring of the rod yielding to the rushes , sometimes jerking under
extended to the open out in a steep sort of grassy basin at the upper end where it was backed
there are only differences of opinion and politics .
his gaiety comes in contact with the seriousness of the war like a butterfly—” “oh , very like a butterfly
what are you going to have , darling ?
" a plane is sort of like a tricycle .
' we may have a few belgians .
you know you ' ve been hurt .
closer , closer , closer now closer and ever closer , to go on past all belief , longer ,
but are they worthy to eat him ?
the discipline of flaubert .
" mister campbell , " mr .
" " but mr .
their windows , marked sol , sol y sombra , and sombra , were shut .
marjorie sat on the blanket with her back to the fire and waited for nick .
with nothing that will go bad afterwards .
” “i’ll bet they are .
and when i come up close to it i saw it was all dark under water like a long shadow
the second load driving through onto the bird already dead in the air .
try and find something heavier than the wrench but i couldn’t find a thing ; not even a sponge hook
the leather soles of my shoes felt insecure and slippery on the rungs .
" you like me ?
in his life he had never felt so good .
he looked at him carefully , gentling him as you might gentle a horse .
expensive to eat in , if you had one of the special dishes , as _num_ or the colony in
this was a virgin country , an un-hunted pocket in the million miles of bloody africa .
he and luz could hear them below on the balcony .
we were at the top of the last range above spezia and the sea .
' ' you do .
captain willie went on shouting , “i don’t know where this place is where i seen you .
we came down that military road , and they were hauling lots of wood .
" tell me about the great john j .
as he shut the door he saw ole andreson with all his clothes on , lying on the bed looking
” he asked the gypsy .
” “oui , j’aime la bière , mais fontan , il est crazy pour le vin .
all the other people from the hotel were doing almost what they had been doing when the accident happened ,
” “oh , it’s pretty bad .
through the tree trunks they saw an open meadow that sloped to where white birches grew along the stream .
but she missed him with her claws .
listen , i ' m all right with my conscience .
" " don ' t be difficult .
“and you don’t know where you are .
“it hasn’t any ether in it .
“this is fine .
now i’ll stop .
make him pay for the line , he thought .
nick and the ghee walked down the road into the orchard .
i don’t even know that i can get them up there .
red sticks , fish-hook points out .
” “they were mechanics who had to return to their air field , ” someone said .
remember the whole thing now .
but he felt , as he dropped the tip to ease the strain , the moment when the strain was
” “dead at lérida .
it looked like a big chicken coop .
the little man looked at the sergeant and then across at us .
that same morning i wrote cohn from the office that bill and i would leave paris on the _num_ th
i speak english , but badly .
" i saw cohn coming over across the square .
i cut the switch and killed the motor .
' but i have to give them back you know .
he looked very fine , marshal ney in his top-boots , gesturing with his sword among the green new horse-chestnut
we’ve got to be quiet , ” kate said .
“i don’t know what i want to eat .
“see you later , ” he said to the two detectives .
_ _num_ st soldier_--it was the least i could do for him .
drink , and he stayed with us awhile .
" then cohn broke down and cried , and wanted to shake hands with the bull-fighter fellow .
get on into town and take it easy .
” “i’m so sorry .
so there was little movement to the water , and the dead had stayed , there a long time ,
i haven’t any head to go out of .
obligation and no compulsion to write , happy in knowing that at four o ' clock we would be starting
she couldn’t wait till she saw jim and it seemed as though everything would be all right when he came
" how was it ?
' ' did you not , ' said pop .
" " you can talk spanish .
let us accept on faith and simply say--i want you to join with me in saying--what shall we say ,
' ' every day is a disillusion .
" give me bacon and eggs , " said the other man .
" albacore , " he said aloud .
what is that ?
the photographs of bull-fighters montoya had really believed in were framed .
patches of yellow , sun-bleached sargasso weed and the purple , formalized , iridescent , gelatinous bladder of a portuguese
birds going on ahead of me and behind me .
i love more than any son of the great bitch alive , the colonel said , but not aloud .
” “oh , the lion , ” margot said .
never saw it .
do that .
but if it was a failure everyone was in such a rage there was always a chance of being sent
he took a fifty peseta note out of his pocket-book and laid it , spread out flat , on the
she did not complain about them but i could see they hurt her .
” “he must be eighty years old .
he was a great bartender and he was always pleasant , always cheerful , and he had a lot of
what if i do ?
and perspiring until he found it .
" i stop here , so you won ' t get into trouble carrying passengers , " he said .
they were huge .
you could beat this sky ; but not the country .
“what about a cuadrilla ?
then they came out into a clearing .
” “go away , partridge .
" if that ' s the way you feel about it .
" " they ' re packed .
' ' any amount , ' the colonel told him .
the bull had smelled the blood of the dead horse and ripped into the canvas-cover with his horns .
the fish never changed his course nor his direction all that night as far as the man could tell from
i could give her my ring from v .
the waiter came over to my table .
” “books are all right , ” fontan said .
we walked on the road between the thick trunks of the old beeches and the sunlight came through the leaves
tawny hide , and his big yellow eyes , narrowed with hate , looked straight ahead , only blinking when
we can put him away later .
now i want you to be a great writer .
there was never any action taken , although many felt it was a shame the hospital could not use their
” “no , ” alice said in that sweet lovely voice , “you haven’t got any real memories except having
the sea change " all right , " said the man .
” “he was an old client and a good client .
he lived under the delusion that he could play the piano , but if you kept him away from pianos
ahead there was the local guide with a spear , then droopy with my heavy gun and a water bottle
abused .
" one hundred and two .
' they ' re damned wonderful kudu .
ladder .
“it’s not so true , ” he said .
' ' bar-tender , ' the colonel said .
" i am sorry i cannot hoist the sail and take you in with the small breeze that is rising
” “you don’t just smoke when you’re nervous do you ?
” “can’t see him until you’re on him .
" " these basques are swell people , " bill said .
the martinis were icy cold and true montgomerys and , after touching the edges , they felt them glow happily
they tell me you make your living with the hands .
wasn ' t that bright ?
" " and you will stay here now for a little while ?
also most of the people turned out badly .
“good-bye to a noble soul , ” he said .
“encore un coup manqué , ” i said .
_secco , molto secco e doppio_ .
cameras , the graflex and the cinema camera and my flashlight .
i reached for it and grabbed his wrist with the money in his hand , and as he came forward
he grinned at david and at his father and took a .
” “weren’t we lucky to come here ?
a failed bullfighter .
i hope she ' s resting well .
more dogs rushed out at them .
finally he put his hand on my shoulder , put his face almost into mine and shook his head violently
” “yesterday you were talking about going to see mr .
he did not look toward nick .
what are birds coming to ?
ain ' t got any beer .
' ' when they riot they really riot .
with his mouth over the telephone , or on paper , nor ever has been hit .
” “you’re talking through a sheet all right .
member of the order but whom he did not wish to offend .
worse than when they cut a boar .
maybe not the biggest landowner but raised the most pheasant anyway .
” “does it mean something beastly too ?
“not for giant killing .
the door opened and i went up-stairs and went to bed .
“ever interfere with a cook ?
maybe he was .
it is too dangerous to rig the oars as a drag if you must sleep .
" and that the pain stops .
' ' it ' s wonderful .
i wonder if he has any plans or if he is just as desperate as i am ?
the black gondola , was blowing back in the wind , so she looked like the figure-head on a ship
but nobody ever looks at it from here .
allez vite .
brother , don’t let anybody tell you there isn’t plenty of water between havana and key west .
“christ !
water and then lay side by side on the cool , firm beach where the last inrush of the waves
any one who knows a foreign language in any country is damned liable to lie to you .
no don’t go away .
road that ran to the left and drove past a drugstore , a general store , a restaurant and along
” “why do you carry a nigger to do it ?
i ' ll say them later .
' you ' re pretty pleased with it yourself , ' p .
the road became polished ice , stained orange and a tobacco yellow from the teams hauling logs .
it would be nice if she were warm enough .
" i ' ve had a good time .
he had it coming to him on the stuff he’s pulled .
now the stream was shallow and wide .
cold , wind-swept square that was hard and old under their feet .
it has more nourishment than almost any fish , he thought .
“i don’t give a damn who shot you , but i’ve got to clear this thing up .
i should not blame them , since they were defeated .
manuel flopped the cape ; there he comes ; he side-stepped and swung in another veronica .
' m ' cola swears you hit him .
" we had stopped at the floor our rooms were on .
“all right , ” nick agreed .
" the bull ' s still strong .
men can talk .
i thought she might have said something .
piled everywhere .
he was stiff and sore now and his wounds and all of the strained parts of his body hurt with
“maria , look there , ” he said .
_ _num_ d soldier_--the part i don ' t like is the nailing them on .
the people who fought on luck are all gloriously dead like napoleon ' s horse cavalry .
" " couldn ' t you get out of town ?
" nor a policeman nor one of those boys that sell cigarettes .
elliot was quite sick .
just like in japan .
it was a good bull-light .
" you ' re in the pay of the anti-saloon league .
the old man looked at the fish constantly to make sure it was true .
” he could not take his own advice because he was killed two months later .
she did not speak to him when she came in and he left the tent at once to wash his
“betty co-ed” was a good tune too , but the parody of the words which came unavoidably into mr .
” “i bolted like a rabbit , ” macomber said .
call , himself and the whole room glowing in the blue light of saint elmo’s fire .
plucked , it meant nothing except to me and to m ' cola .
' you getting hungry ?
you spoke about lightning joe before .
" she took another drink .
it was cool in the shade of the trees and high up in them nick could hear the breeze that
" " no , " said johnson .
but it’s the pace always—not the jumps—that makes the trouble .
the south slope of timber creek in wyoming .
" you in the charlie chaplins ?
" we were the only people in the inn .
light of the arc-lights , the plaza , dark all the way around , rising high ; around the edge
i found the two wine-bottles in the pack , and carried them up the road to where the water of
” the other porters nodded .
“he’s nothing .
you won’t have any light to film by .
hernandez had followed him since he first came out with the muleta .
he likes those hides .
brett was talking french and he was talking spanish and a little english , and laughing .
" i don ' t need it .
chapter xxvii upstairs the room was already done and the colonel , who had anticipated a possible messiness of locale
' i think i ' ve got him .
like the little pig we we we all the way home .
“now i will never be sad .
where are you going ?
they watched the other warden sitting at the table until he put his head on his arms .
don ' t you ever see anybody ?
“i’m talking awfully wet but you have a right to talk wet if it isn’t going to hurt anybody else
“we’d take him fishing to the ’voix tomorrow .
gleaming , unable to smile his full , true smile as he worked the big key in the lock ,
that was a fertile period of hemingway’s writing and a number of stories based on his experiences in cuba and
many of the people on the boat took her for elliot’s mother .
it seemed a very long stairway .
during the night two porpoise came around the boat and he could hear them rolling and blowing .
think of that .
we’ll have a couple of children while i’m a minor .
i picked up the money off the cockpit floor and took it up and put it on the binnacle and
" " we ' re different , " the old man said .
” “you’re not afraid , are you ?
i was wondering whether it was worth while getting up to get the dictionary to ask about the kidneys when
you ' re my last and true and only love .
then quickly , “come on back .
executioner the time they killed coconas and me , and i remember the eve of st .
“you can read it , ” i said .
to see the boats along the canal and miss that main traffic .
the flat sea sent it back at his eyes so that it hurt sharply and he rowed without looking into
' ' good luck , sweet .
” “carries a hell of a long way , ” said robert wilson .
he had never been on this stretch of highway but he knew this part of the state and he was
“is chaves hurt bad ?
" " good-night , mrs .
” manolita said .
you ' re good for ever .
it comes in bed to most people , i know , like love ' s opposite number .
” “all right , ” he said because he knew this was the start of the never telling that he
” on the forearm , from just above the wrist to the elbow , were small blue circles around tiny
“i’ll get everything out of here .
i ' d be perfectly happy .
saw the line slanting slowly upward .
what rot !
” as nick had left the edge of the town three shrapnel had burst high and to the right over
it looked a hell of a country to hunt .
a girl came and took our order and another girl stood in the doorway .
his novelty had been that he was so short that he could barely see over the bull’s withers , but
in the rain we made our way back to the lorry .
' ' not so much .
the husband lost and found his papers several times with nervousness .
i couldn ' t take his money , you know .
i’ll stop that .
" " i think they are equal .
who wanted to know the answers .
" " you make me very happy , my dear .
the owner shook the wine-skin sadly .
“i just want to get my money’s worth .
she was a day late and had wired about it .
it was much lighter on the logging road as the timber was cut away on both sides .
" here ?
" " you better go around , bright boy , " al said .
" " oh , shove it along , michael .
" he says .
' ' no , ' he told her , not rough , but to make her understand truly .
“afterwards we can have the vélos ?
up and handle them before pitting again .
" " how about wetzel ' s ?
out in the ring the bull stood quiet , looking at nothing .
in the trees but he could not see any flag pole , or any dock , only the white of
if you said certain things .
“i won’t leave you and you’ll behave your self .
it was a quarter machine and the young fellow who was playing it gave him a quarter sort of reluctantly
i pointed my forefinger into my neck and wriggled the thumb down .
it had contained dried apricots , soaking in water .
” “it must , ” she said .
“what do you mean , kike , you big irish bum ?
the sun was shining in a thinning of the forest , and below us , under the edge of the
" " damned badly .
but if he did i ' d go on down beyond those hills and there would be another country where
but why do you always wake so early ?
“in all your horror and your beauty— don’t clown , baldy .
they just brought you a bottle of wine and you took your chances .
as soon as his credit ran out .
started off , the wanderobo hanging to the side of the car .
it shivered and was still .
i’m just your interpreter .
hey la mama !
“i was taking care of animals , ” he explained .
“i’ll try to make it come true .
" " that ' s the dinner , " george explained .
_ _num_ d soldier_--everybody ' s a nice fella to you to-night .
' ' it would be just as bad at the garage .
i listened to him being awake , for a long time .
i ' m going to england .
' ' well , if he painted any pictures of that country up around there , with those sunset colour
i want to ask him some things .
out , and over them were flies and around each body or group of bodies were the scattered papers .
' ' turn your head and raise your chin once for me .
been lying on the tin roof now sat between us .
“we’re going to dump this liquor now .
the law’s only for outsiders .
' ' i ' ll have them get you up early .
diana manners playing the nun in max reinhardt ' s ' the miracle ' .
' he would like some hides but he doesn ' t care about oryx hide .
” “yes , ” she said .
' the colonel asked , looking at her early morning , un-retouched dark beauty .
could reach the parklike wooded rolling country on the far side .
" " off and on for a hell of a long time .
' ' they ' re very exciting , ' p .
he tried it again and it was the same .
the next day in the paper we read that he was twenty-eight years old , and had a farm ,
you have the pails ?
[ _num_ ] the reader ' s indulgence is requested for this mention of an extinct phenomenon .
" he didn ' t want to drink with me , after he knew about his wife , " said
paper scattered are the impressions one retains .
we went there , still tasting coffee and kippers in the early morning heart-pounding of excitement , and the native
phrases about the extent of the cold , or the force of the wind , that he could ordinarily have
“we’ve got to get the hell out to alcalá , ” the flyer said .
the branches of the mangroves had come into the cockpit and they made a shadow over him where he lay
she was supposed to be ill .
" " why don ' t you care for him then ?
we found the other horn below in the grass and i screwed it back on to its bone base .
tomb when you are dead .
i don ' t believe in limited objectives .
ask donna renata if she wishes more of this excellent wine .
" " i will keep the cash box myself , " he said .
i was just confident .
do you think we should try now so we’ll know ?
then when luck comes you are ready .
' ' nothing ?
" one of them ' s charley blackman , from chicago , " bill said .
come on , then , ” his father said .
big pistol in the holster under his armpit , the submachine guns opened on him from the darkened car .
the winter had come very cold that year and all the mountains were white beyond the plain .
but figure him and his people , the whole great business establishment , so far back that the best way
each day .
dark water .
' ' are they hard to kill ?
we had both heard the whunk of the bullet .
” “i can give you any kind of sandwiches , ” george said .
' good trip .
' let her stay here with m ' cola , ' i said .
" " that ' s quite a kid , " bill said .
" " i have done so .
' you never saw him before in your life , ' the colonel said to the hen .
it ' s just business .
and all the stories that he meant to write .
i had seen in africa .
harris and then picked up his coffee cup and saucer and walked to harris ' s table .
“i just got out of the hospital , ” manuel said .
" " it ' s sort of what we have instead of god .
” evans said .
_] what ' s the matter with you ?
he was the best-looking boy i have ever seen .
no , " she said .
' if you ' d read it , though , i ' ll send for it .
” “i have no fear of bullets and i hate all foreigners , ” he said fiercely .
” asked the sexton .
' he ' s dead , ' said m ' cola .
' ' the good writers are henry james , stephen crane , and mark twain .
" he turned to the critic .
" " oh , " he said , " they go through .
the thirteen saloons that had lined the one street of seney had not left a trace .
jack sat there looking irish and tough .
" " does he ?
the americans don’t like you to be catholique .
they had fine commanders , too .
” the waitress went away and johnson lit a cigarette and drank the coffee .
” doc fischer asked .
' when ours comes back from handeni .
' would that be about right , sir ?
anybody making their run on an escape route sees things differently too .
" " don ' t care , " said trudy .
_] _ _num_ d roman soldier_--george is a kike just like all the rest of them .
she had not stopped looking at pedro romero .
“it’s not over your heads .
i undressed in one of the bath-cabins , crossed the narrow line of beach and went into the water .
the old man watched for him to come again but neither shark showed .
his eyes were shining and his hair was a little rumpled .
she went out .
' i come thursday .
’” “did you understand it all ?
“over to the indian camp .
' don ' t get sore about it , ' i said .
" " the dirty swine , " bill said .
" i just know things .
” “you don’t care what happens to a man , ” the nigger said .
she waved to them as the car went off through the swale of high grass and curved around through the
but here at home it was all too complicated .
” he added , “with gordon’s gin .
" " we ' ll take a long walk before you turn in and get you good and tired .
i thought it would cut me in two .
, carrying his coat because one sleeve was missing .
" " so do i .
” of course i knew it was funny all the time .
in the far corner a man , from behind one of the plank shelters , attracted the bull , and
" you asleep ?
' ' they were ---- many years ago , supreme commander .
he says no one has ever hunted there .
' we ' re at the dock , sir , ' jackson said .
but it did not bend yet , and instead the machine lurched when it came to the bending part .
how did i let the fish cut me with that one quick pull he made ?
“he didn’t know what castrate meant .
' ' of course , ' the colonel said .
' ' you never bore me .
" i like to drink champagne from magnums .
his father saw as a big-horn ram or as an eagle sees , literally .
at the shot you see the cloud of flamingoes rise in the sun , making the whole horizon of the
" what ' s all this irony and pity ?
” “please sit down , ” harris said .
deliciously , the other animal sleeping close beside .
_num_ st soldier—aw , hell , you don’t know anything about it .
“i want to get them out as quick as i can , ” i told him .
said something to me , i couldn’t hear it and said , “sure .
“just as clean as you want them .
all you saw was the heads and shoulders going up and down , up and down .
i ' ve got to do something i really want to do .
good-night , gentlemen .
i was so damned sure .
” then , “oh , i wanted it so much .
" " oh , he ' s not so interesting .
“i am utterly unable to resign myself , ” he said and choked .
” “fought , shit , ” marcel said .
him quick enough , and he had seven new fighting suits made and this is the kind of thing he
' i brought them with me because i have been thinking and deciding about this all week .
' ' he wasn ' t in .
" " thank you , " the old man said .
there were bags of charcoal piled beside the road , and through the trees we saw charcoal-burners’ huts .
they govern , of course , and to govern one has to be cruel sometimes .
" " you didn ' t , " said brett .
he pushed on the sword as he went up and over , and it flew out of his hand .
we will have fun .
“here’s where he went in , ” wilson said .
“i’ll tell you , you yellow-livered chicago bastard .
there were some grass huts of fishermen in the shade of the last trees and ahead the wind blew across
he ' s mad about me , i tell you .
" you like cigars ?
than he ever had .
out of ten .
the slant of the line showed he was swimming at a lesser depth .
him , the balance of the estate having gone to his mother , hardened into a rather unattractive mould under
" he wrote in indelible pencil , tore out the slip and handed it to me .
they ate swahilis , umbulus and wandorobos and they especially liked to eat hindu traders .
we ' ve been looking forward to this fishing all winter .
the duty and on our return , while we exchanged impressions , we all agreed that it was indeed fortunate
' ' m ' cola has been doing that with you too ?
" i wish i could go .
there had been a grand theatrical season and a whole crop of great young light heavyweights .
' ' you don ' t have to give me that stuff , ' the colonel said .
' that was the agreement .
“come and sit here , would you mind very much ?
“but come straight .
" " no , " the boy said .
dans le pissoir toute la chose comme ça .
all of me is his .
the two men in the fishing chairs were talking .
were there many smoothies ?
gee , the swell places .
cohn came up .
that girl of yours got in a frightful row .
” “i am sorry , maria .
” we went out to the car and drove back to fontan’s , stopping on the way to leave the
or you worked for something .
' ' we will go together and i will tell you there .
fighter ' , and i was clapping him on the back .
if she must be like any dog , and she did not wish to be , she would prefer a
” his voice was very high and breaking .
it made his stomach feel better .
” they ate pineapple pie for dessert and each had another cold bottle of regal fresh from deep in the
" i say that is wine , " brett held up her glass .
“no , you won’t , ” i said .
i knew i could hit one if i shot from a sitting position or prone , but i could not
” “wait till we eat them , ” nick told her .
i will show you .
_num_ d soldier—no , come on .
walcott was after him , going forward all the time with his chin on his chest .
i went down and saw that o’brien boy at police headquarters and told him that he’s got to send some
the fires of the camp showing ahead .
they will charge me less than they would charge you .
" " i been there , " he said .
' ' hurt me ?
“come on up to the smoker , ” he said and i followed him through the car and into the
town .
s run made , knowing the town he would reach for the night , nick noticed which corn fields had
for years it had obsessed him ; but now it meant nothing in itself .
we can get it all right .
it picks up an awful volume of water in that bad swamp up above .
had seen them .
“talking is the easiest .
juma was very confident and they moved fast .
that’s where his old man is after him all the time .
the burned country stopped off at the left with the range of hills .
you can stare , if you like .
and we will live outside the town at viterbo and only go in for the fittings and for dinner in
such a long time since we ' ve seen you .
' do you suppose there are any more in there ?
“i regret the absence of the chocolate , the postal cards and cigarettes , ” he said .
” “me , too , ” nick said .
like young girl painting .
you remember it , jake .
anyway i don’t want you just to be a seeing-eyed dog .
" the boy went out .
' ' the memsahib ' s still asleep , ' i said .
“i’m not now .
teased about prudence mitchell .
it was lighter than when i started to climb the ladder and it was cold and very early in the
it was not nearly so satisfactory to brag when you could not be understood , still it was better than
again , wrapping himself in two loops of the rope .
he is a little delirious .
people from the academy were killed and there are statistics to prove it .
" " that ' s right , " he said .
of adventure to their much envied and ever-enduring romance by a safari in what was known as darkest africa until
the sky was a high clear blue and the clouds came up white and detached themselves from behind the hills
been different .
" the waiter stood there , holding the bottle on one hip .
” “no , sir .
they both knew together when they were a lieutenant and a sergeant .
" " fifty pesetas .
when the old man saw him coming he knew that this was a shark that had no fear at all
they were the biggest , widest , darkest , longest-curling , heaviest , most unbelievable pair of kudu horns in
“pretty well .
the crowd , running , went out the gate with him .
, nick noticed .
he must have fallen off when we left the first bull .
his father came back to him in the fall of the year , or in the early spring when there
" " how strange !
the day before .
' for god ' s sake , ' pop said .
' ' my good or my bad ?
but you’ve got to realize—” “i realize , ” the girl said .
” “you’re immoral , wemedge .
vous n ' avez rien mangé .
” “maybe we better do something about the evans boy .
" he ' s just gone down , " john said .
” “good night , ghee , ” kate said .
“i’m going back to the kitchen with the nigger and bright boy , ” he said .
mine too .
' pop , without looking at him , spoke a few words to garrick in a very soft voice .
and now , along each side of the straight , flat , canal-bordered road they were making time on were
“you stink yourself , ” the bartender said .
he watched the sky lightening beyond the long point of marsh and turning in the sunken barrel , he looked
' we were standing under the big tree by the cooking fire with the light rain pattering in the leaves
” the young fellow asked me .
, always , to understand it .
” “you don’t want to get shot in a café brawl , ” i said .
not in the absolute dark .
he had another gin and tonic in front of him and everyone at the table was laughing at something he
“it sure took a great jock to keep that kzar horse from winning .
we passed a crossroads and crossed a bridge over a stream .
the fish moved steadily and they travelled slowly on the calm water .
a clean , well-lighted place it was late and every one had left the café except an old man who
he wiped his face with his handkerchief .
the propeller churned up the water and the boat pulled against the dock making the water swirl through the spiles
” i asked frankie .
” “a muffled hammer .
it was clouding over again .
” “i don’t want to hit you .
he saw it first when it jumped in the air , true gold in the last of the sun and
she loved to fish .
they were sweethearts ; sure he ' s a queen , didn ' t you know that , of course
” “they weren’t , ” he said .
“i am a bullfighter .
it’s cool too .
” “that was down by viareggio , ” guy said .
we dined at a restaurant in the bois .
' and he offered me the flask .
if they don ' t , shoot two and try to scoop the others out some way .
boyle shot one of the seat of the wagon and one out of the wagon box .
“i don’t know , ” the nigger said .
" " on christmas day , too , " doctor wilcox said .
you are a lovely lady , brett .
” “you’d have a hell of a time explaining that to these sport writers though , ” hogan said .
then they bellied over the big double bullfinch and something came down .
if he cramps again let the line cut him off .
we have the gallantry of worn through-rods that refuse to break ; the cylinder head that does not blow though
in the market , spread on the slippery stone floor , or in their baskets , or their rope-handled boxes
” “to stay a little while is nice .
i’m going to sew up the incision i made .
i think i got everything .
' ' we ' d have to take a few towns for them to respect our thinking .
“yes , ” said the manager .
please , please , wemedge .
his antennæ wavered .
you can keep the door locked .
the two men went out through the store and unhitched their light wagon and drove off .
between the two fences of the runway the police were clearing the crowd along .
come in , so i shoved through the crowd to the fence .
it might have turned out well .
“awfully salty but awfully good , ” she said .
” “i can’t , ” he said .
do is send in a flag , and they would talk it over and come out if you were right
guy said .
” “yes , darling .
remember , he said to himself .
you look well .
" oh , shut up , " said the blonde .
the great gaby , and my name’s harry pilcer , too , we used to step out of the far
' ' it was just rough early morning joking .
the bull picked another man running in front , but the man disappeared into the crowd , and the crowd
” “you aren’t treating me square , ” he said .
" " what does she do ?
“three men at the bottom of everything , ” the man told him .
manuel was worried .
didn ' t they know enough to keep back ?
" i don ' t want to go through that hell again .
we came up to the yellow blossomed tree very carefully , like people walking up to a bevy of quail
one of these was what the young girls today would call a hunk , and marty flirted with him a
he settled comfortably against the wood and took his suffering as it came and the fish swam steadily and the
going to have that horse-cab stuffed for you for christmas .
' ' i hope not .
” “roger , do you have to make fun of it ?
the land breeze brought at morning .
harris stood in front of the post-office .
” “i never even thought about it .
“thanks a lot .
the man who had a matter of two minutes lead in the race had an attack of boils , which
he saw there .
the searchlight was from the police car that had come silently , without siren , and posted itself at one
i guess i imagine that too .
they should have blown it .
he knew he could not stop it now .
” “i’ll be right back .
frazer used to like to think of the morning revellers arriving at the studio and picture how they would look
' b ' wana simba , by the way , we later found out to be an excellent hunter with
that the propeller threw up a circling cloud of marl .
" " well , i ' ll see you to-morrow at the courts , " i said .
cipriani would loan me the money .
” “that’s up to you .
bravest get killed quickest , a big part of chicote’s old customers are now dead .
so i made him get rid of her , and he had brought her to provincetown from carmel when he
ghee , get it out of my room , ” nick said .
and we’re stopped at the cerro de aguilar since yesterday morning .
_ _num_ st roman soldier_--we ' ll have one more round .
fight with him .
“she looks enough like him to be his own twin .
, angling up the steep bank , where wilson had ordered a way shovelled out the day before so they
they were traders as well and several of them were doges of this city as you know .
" " he doesn ' t like my work much .
george stood a little farther down the slope , knocking the snow from his wind jacket with big slaps .
' ' due to the lack of rainfall , ' the colonel said .
why am i so thoughtless ?
the party .
' ' he wants someone to tell him exactly what to do and still leave him alone and not rattle
the fruit had been picked and the fall wind blew through the bare trees .
what did you say the name was ?
captain eric edward dorman-smith , m .
” “i don’t think they could have any better sandwich buns or any better barbecue .
” “i’ll show them to you sometime .
madame fontan came to the back door .
" nobody ever knows anything .
“hello my beauty .
formerly we had the germans .
wanted to make a speech .
he don’t move around much and that left hand is just automatic .
' stop her by the side of the road and we ' ll take a look .
then , when we started to get in the car he broke away and started to climb up through the
” “not if i was in it , ” johnson said .
“he was on the floor with his head enveloped in his arms .
they ride very fast because the race is usually limited to a short distance and if they slow their riding
if we lived by the ocean all the time i’d have to get my hair cut .
' ' i don ' t see what harm it can do .
field , all bunched still , sweeping around the long left turn into the straightaway .
it ' s all right .
nick took it off the grill .
' ' i don ' t think he ' s well now and he doesn ' t feel himself .
” nobody wanted them .
" i ' ll finish the cigarette .
but when you said it about unpopular guest it was unmade .
help me , arturo .
the oil and never burned out that bearing in the truck .
" i ' m not paying for any cuadrilla out of sixty duros .
don ' t you think that ' s bright of me to figure that out ?
my father raked them all out very carefully and spread them on the grass by the road .
" " i am sorry you are not a member .
sell them in bayonne ?
back seat with wilson sitting in the front seat .
she was the biggest whore i ever saw in my life and the biggest woman .
the man that owns the brewery said to me and my sister to go to the brewery and drink the
, romero had to make the bull consent with his body .
the fiesta absorbed even the biarritz english so that you did not see them unless you passed close to a
in the spring some one else had to bury them .
' hell , man , it hasn ' t rained in three weeks .
' ' i would take anything i love and throw it off the highest cliff you ever saw and not
" " what bloody-fool things people do .
it was only a line burn that had cut his flesh .
why can ' t a good painter see this country ?
i’m ashamed .
then he sat up and pulled on his khaki trousers and put on his moccasins .
other bull-fighters used to make it look as though they were working closely .
but i will pay you .
i’ll come in when i see them .
a driver ; while now whenever or wherever he should die i would feel badly .
“keep your eye peeled for her , joe , ” he’d say , “she’ll be back .
machines .
” “i’d like to go to mr .
' ' he asked me who you were .
hooded muzzle of the gun of a tank swings towards you .
" " good-bye , " said alice .
there were quite a few people in the water and on the beach .
they had found the trail of the old bull finally and when it turned off onto a smaller elephant road
i never say chin-chin , nor here ' s to you , nor bottoms up .
each time was a new time and he never thought about the past when he was doing it .
they ' re not hunters .
on and off on this traffic-less sunday , and would be gone next year when the payments on the system
” “he says he’s never been crazy , bugs , ” ad said .
of the men , besides the cook and the one who talked , there were two other lumberjacks , one
“i couldn’t feel no worse .
“why , it would just be punishment .
d’antan , oui .
pretty soon they would come to the big osprey’s nest in the dead cypress tree .
bad to get up .
neither you nor i nor the _gran maestro_ are starving .
" * * * * * that night i had dinner at fontan ' s .
you wouldn’t want to destroy me again , would you ?
' ' you have them , ' the colonel said .
” “mais on a battu .
on his way up to jessup .
” the extremaduran asked .
i never thought about it nor spoke about it .
seated properly .
" " the signor does not take bananas .
in time of war we dispute about nothing .
you can always tell him because he has his collar on backwards .
myself .
” “it’s pretty damned awful , ” he said .
' cow and calf , ' pop said softly .
mais il faut faire un ef ort , she said .
" look , " he said .
it wasn’t this woman’s fault .
the thumb .
" he had been going splendidly , but he stopped .
i looked at the trees and the lake again to remember them and all around ; at the hills in
the bull stood , heavy and dull again after the action .
" i wish you would let me get this .
the mosquito was on the canvas , over his head .
' the surgeon asked him .
to hell with this operating-table !
i am funny .
“get him then , ” retana said .
" i won ' t have carl talk that way .
after he got on crutches he used to take the temperatures so luz would not have to get up from
' and that ' s one more reason why i love you .
” “did you see the letter ?
" " i can ' t blame them .
they moved the cots back out of the rain and covered them with rubber blankets .
the man who had drunk the rye paid and went out without looking back .
do me the courtesy to answer .
with this nose ?
they looked at each other .
georgie patton ' s armour to go through and held it open on both sides .
" we went on .
he only looked sad the same way i felt .
" under the stars and with the night colder all the time he ate half of one of the dolphin
you cannot have the one without the other .
' ' how many have you killed ?
' the colonel indicated the three-storey , rose-coloured , small , pleasant palace abutting on the canal .
americans always eat kek .
chap who did me in .
wilson looked at macomber with his flat , blue , machine-gunner’s eyes and the other smiled back at him .
” “roger , would you really not mind if i went to sleep ?
he was a warbler and flying very low over the water .
why have i never seen a gondola before ?
" what do you mean , kike ?
i wish you would take us .
“sure , ” jack says , “i’ll sleep now .
all in and all the knowledge of them that i could express and i had rewritten and rewritten until it
” “were you there ?
” “what about ?
he had propped open the slit that dishes passed through into the kitchen with a catsup bottle .
and you love each other .
down the attacks with rifle fire and with the machine guns which still existed , or were usable , after
" " not now .
“i didn’t know you .
' ' and you won ' t write about this ?
how can i blame others when i am that stupid ?
” “the major is coming back at once , ” the adjutant said .
ideas and conversation are very interesting .
" " oh , what i ' ve told jake isn ' t any secret .
he did not think we could get the loads through .
“is he in ?
the blacksmith shop was painted red and faced the school .
' do you want your drink , daughter ?
there were always trout in a place like that .
and the hall porter was well through his bag .
instead of spiralling high they made a heavy turn and slanted straight out .
little closer , the bull watching dully , then so close that the bull thought he had him , offering
' ' i wonder , ' pop said .
ago tadada you said that i was rather nice to know tadada with feathers on , with feathers off ,
from smith’s back door you could look out across the woods that ran down to the lake and across the
" " i got into this town last night , " william campbell said , speaking against the sheet .
their mother had told the two men they could sleep in the bedroom next to the living room .
” “once in a while .
under another was the old man , the sable head beside him like some black-mass symbol , his equipment hanging
” with a disposition to wonder and adore in like manner , as bishop stanley says , can any branch
heel in you out that quickly .
i told the barman i did not want anything to drink and went out through the side door .
he built a little fire and put on the coffee pot .
_num_ d soldier—what about some more wine ?
' ' i have never had the good fortune to know them .
“i’ll come .
” i wiped it off with the rag .
he is a lucky man .
he was the best picador living .
how do you feel , jake ?
splashing across the stream , tearing up the bank , the roman ahead , crashing naked through the brush ,
i told her about watching the bull , not the horse , when the bulls charged the picadors , and
and what is a tough boy , he asked himself .
' your stones are in the safe at the gritti in your name .
” “i guess everything reminds you of something” is a completed short story set in cuba , where hemingway made
” “well , i guess i was ruined morally last night when i stole the whiskey .
down the middle and timber along the far side and all the lower edge .
that story reflects great discredit on me .
” he took a drink and licked his lips carefully .
' ' so he ' s been telling me , ' pop said .
” “that’s what i’m worried about .
" he ' ll stay with me too , i suppose , the old man thought and he waited for
he cantered jerkily along the barrera .
open fire place were burned and afterwards their barrels , with the lead melted in the magazines , and the
planet .
then it fell on the floor .
“they broke me , ” he said .
captain , ” said mr .
barrel drove through the first .
' ' the good aspect is that droopy ' s not at all depressed , ' pop said .
” “fine and dandy .
i only thought if you fished them some time it might remind you of what a good time we had
, was pleased .
" cohn still sat at the table .
' _good_ masai , ' m ' cola repeated , nodding his head emphatically .
the dolphin was cold and a leprous gray-white now in the starlight and the old man skinned one side of
“your heart is a book .
" walcott stepped off and grinned at jack .
, only his shadow marking the angle , then lost his shadow as he came through the surface of the
" now is no time to think of baseball , he thought .
bed in the dark .
but i had no idea it was something as awful as that .
” “if we stay .
spezia ' s a lovely place .
they’re polack catholiques .
' ' too complicated to explain .
" " i ' m not going to see him after lunch until the fight .
the way they trailed , stooped heads , pointing each dried splash with their grass stems and occasionally , when
the moon did not rise now until late and he had no way of judging the time .
landscape with figures it was very strange in that house .
say something funny .
m ' cola knew it too , and we were hunting together now , with no feeling of superiority on
“don’t you say it .
” “do you have anything on ?
i think i begin to understand .
“you can get that at six o’clock .
" in front of us on a clear part of the street a company of boys were dancing .
men and boys dancing .
the butterfly and the tank on this evening i was walking home from the censorship office to the florida hotel
“don’t cry , maria , ” he said .
“make him cut it out .
“but first i must have more champagne wine .
” “i’m going in to bathe , ” she said .
“no , ” his sister said .
pinin came into the room .
“i wish we’d never come , ” the woman said .
” “you have the face of a russian .
” “i’d like to , ” macomber said .
when i get like this i don ' t care whether i eat or not .
the trees were big , and the foliage was thick but it was not gloomy .
" " to sleep .
you were never alone in spain and it felt good for a change .
' ' i ' ve never read anything , though , that could make you feel about the country the
it was a quick fight too .
“those must boil , ” he said , and began to scrub his hands in the basin of hot water
i asked them to .
" the lieutenant of artillery said nothing .
we’re good for three days .
he don’t like many people .
they had the true opposition at the other beach .
if i ever get any good luck i will be rich .
we were moving and they were running again now .
” soldier would ask .
he was ceding line but more slowly all the time .
” “he got hurt .
in the sand .
“it’s very strange , ” the girl said .
" you hear him , horace ?
but he was such a calm , strong fish and he seemed so fearless and so confident .
i was laying trying to rest like you said .
their room was on the fourteenth floor and it was not very cool .
unbelievable smash of the .
he lay forward cramping himself against the line with all of his body , putting all his weight onto his
had to get it for .
stop that , he said to himself , and think about your girl .
“answer me if you’re all right .
that’s cubans for you .
i saw a puff of white from the engine and heard the whistle then another puff and heard the whistle
“there’s a lighthouse at the tortugas on loggerhead key with a radio that works both ways .
what would you expect to see ?
the river shallow ahead entering the woods , curving into the woods , shallows , light glittering , big water-smooth
et aussi une femme qui a vomis sur la table !
his long , burned , oiled face looked at pinin .
headman .
you know—” “i wish you wouldn’t say ‘you know’ so much .
to do before the war ?
' i asked him .
extremaduran .
arriba !
she and nick loved each other and they did not love the others .
pretty worried till it came .
the bull has such force that the horns rip like a knife , they stab like a bayonet , and
no one expected her to die .
' the unjust bitter criticizer who speaks badly of everyone .
' ' the box with the negro in it is on top of the cash register .
" nick would look across the lake and he could see the long wooded shore-line , the higher timber behind
it looked like good country for rabbits and i tried to see some game but it went by too fast
" i ' m not saying he ' s not right , you know .
horses .
anything you like .
it felt as though he were hooked into the log itself , except for the live feeling .
” “what’s she say to the whore ?
' ' that looks like one coming up , from the hedges , ' the driver said .
“no , ” said manuel .
john unappreciatively .
' then he said .
” “we could anyway .
he ' d move around fast enough in the ring if he had to , but he wasn ' t
no one will trouble us .
nick’s father went into the kitchen and poured about half of the water out of the big kettle into a
” “shut up , pancho , ” the one who had done the talking before said to the angry one
it’s a drink .
" what have you got to eat ?
of the land down until the land flattened and the grass was brown and burned and , away , across
maera lay with a tube in each lung , drowning with the pneumonia .
still he could always go into town saturday night .
" two people came in the door and went up to the bar .
you split too easy , i thought .
the bull charged as romero charged .
this matador was saying “come on , little savage .
" said the big one .
he sat down in the cockpit and then he lay down .
' he ' s got nothing to worry about .
the two in the leather coats and civilian caps came back over the ridge , walking together , and then
he looked at manuel .
believed in , loved without criticism , heavy now in stone as an idol should be_) .
it makes men into bullies which is the first step towards cowardice ; true cowardice , i mean .
" just act as though nothing had happened .
the shade of the trees .
’ you can be proud and satisfied at the way he’s getting along .
" don ' t you want me to go and see the police ?
" the count was beaming .
" and how i would love to see him get into those clothes .
“i feel all right .
no , daughter , i am only a fighting soldier and that is the lowest thing on earth .
i ' m as fond of the bastard myself .
“well , we got him , davey , thanks to you , ” his father had said .
then i untied the bow line and the stern line and got back in the boat and held onto the
i remember seeing the lion looking yellow and heavy-headed and enormous against a scrubby looking tree in a patch of
“there’s been a wreck .
i wonder why he jumped , the old man thought .
all she does is read and go to the show .
” manuel sat down ; his cap off , his face was changed .
but we have killed many sharks , you and i , and ruined many others .
he was a good horseshoer and did not look much like a blacksmith even with his leather apron on .
” “i’m all right , ” he said .
' ' well , ' i said , ' we have had , in america , skilful writers .
his shoes squelchy .
” “you see ?
when did you get into this town ?
because i would want to look out the window early in the morning .
he didn’t look so big when you first looked at him until you saw the length of his legs and
a bunch of bums .
and fired as far forward as he could aim into the galloping , rounded black back , aimed and shot
manuel drank a glass of water poured for him by one of retana ' s deputies , who was acting
but you’ve got to make a start at something .
as we watched he speeded up and came , fast trotting , angling down across the face of the bank
they were trolling on their way to the point to set night lines for rainbow trout .
it slid the country all sideways if you looked straight at anything and you had to just let it go
” “we can make love after it is well .
skins , " another pic answered .
we’d put out a feather squid and caught four of those little tuna and the nigger put one on his
the moon runs away .
the train stayed twenty-five minutes in the station at marseilles and the american lady bought a copy of the daily
and swam , trying to keep in the trough and not have a wave break over me .
' ' no , ' the boatman said and shoved the boat savagely out on to the thin sheet ice
take your time and kill him .
he is a very good man .
, offered him the cape .
i’ll come back right away .
it had a stone floor , low ceiling , and was oak-panelled .
the spanish children were beautiful .
“what’s happened ?
you aren ' t making me any money in philadelphia , are you ?
she wiped the cups out with a paper napkin , poured in scotch , the bottle still in the carton
i hope no fish will come along so great that he will prove us wrong .
“you want to take him ?
' they feel wonderful , ' he said .
how fresh they are and you down there six hundred feet in that cold water in the dark .
" " this is my card , " harris said .
side of the ring , where the monos were leading a horse out by the bridle toward the bull ,
any remark to make it heard .
the cowards .
scalp .
the stretch of ground from the edge of the town to the bull-ring was muddy .
he was really sleepy now .
had eaten the shrimps .
can’t i , nickie ?
it was the one who was here last night .
' thanks very much for the drink , ' the colonel said and arnaldo , who was talking into the
" he smiled again , showing his bad teeth .
” there was nothing to do about him .
the undertaker had been both proud and smugly pleased .
here , take twenty francs .
' ' thank you .
himself .
the grass was longer and it was easier again .
brett looked through the glasses .
in the heat of the sun and the tall grass blowing .
" you are an austrian , " they say .
they gave him a dollar to see that i got it .
they feed out early in the morning and with luck we may catch them in the open .
will you utilize a little , brother ?
what the hell don ' t i think about ?
now he lay comfortable again feeling the warmth of his sister’s body against his back and he thought , i
” “there’s a law against it .
“thanks , no , ” said the thin one .
but you ' d think they might have told from the way they must move .
” “sande booted three of them in yesterday .
and he would smile his deaf man ' s smile (you had to throw pebbles at him to make him
the rifle .
he would like to help him though .
if you hadn’t told me they would have picked me up .
when the athletics were at bat i was praying right out loud : ' oh , lord , direct their
he had made his camp .
" he turned with the paper in his hand .
the big mill building had all its machinery that was removable taken out and hoisted on board one of the
" " sure , " hogan says , " a letter only costs two cents .
they were waiting for him to bark again because when he barked he would jerk his tail and nick would
close against the side of the station there was the warm shadow of the building and a curtain , made
on top of the bus .
as a hospital patient .
the reporters ' tables and out down the aisle .
came close down into the head of the valley .
my old man figured that training him and riding him , himself , he was a good investment .
“i didn’t mean to wake you up .
“if i’m uncomfortable i’ll go in .
stories , and some of the episodes are probably based at least partly on fact .
nothing came all morning .
" " don ' t talk nonsense .
campbell ?
he felt in his pocket for more cartridges and moved his fingers over the cartridges in the loops of his
maybe there was not any place for the sword to go in .
the little man ran his tongue over his lips .
but my legs were bad now and it was not worth the time you spent hunting good snow any more
there was all this yelling going on .
' ' and we would throw the empty fiascos at the station guards from the troop trains ?
the flower-women were coming up from the market and arranging their daily stock .
“i’m taking him home to my little girl .
dick boulton turned to nick’s father .
it’s just like it was connected with walcott’s face and jack just had to wish it in every time .
i’m going to really bathe though .
“how you feel ?
people at home think _mortadella_ is a sausage , he thought .
another day , with p .
' ' no , repeat , no .
it was a good place to camp .
' you shot very few , ' he said to the colonel .
there i was looking down through the glass at that liner with everything in her and i was the first
off him .
if you had the old bed of the piave then you had the sile to fall back on if the
, was the presence and , even more disturbing , the occasional absence of this long hair .
' nyati , ' he said with his hand up to his face .
“how about a chair , will ?
the austrian attacks were ill co-ordinated , but they were constant and exasperated and you first had the heavy bombardment
” the two at the bar looked over at the two at the table , then looked back at the
she was as big as three women .
' ' i will , ' the colonel said .
” “i don’t think i’m going to draw it , ” al said .
' ' good-bye , my colonel .
' ' where will our house be ?
what was it happened with you and your wife , if i may ask ?
there is no need to quarrel .
“we make a new joke tomorrow , ” he said .
braddocks said .
' but not what you mean .
“say , ” he said .
' thank you , jackson , ' the colonel told him .
we’d go along fast for three minutes and then walk a minute , and then go fast for three minutes
it was fun to swim on the surface in the ocean .
” krebs’s mother came into the dining-room from the kitchen .
" " it could not happen twice .
they didn ' t do much to this in the bombardment .
too involved you give much better value for the money .
“it will have a little breeze in it maybe .
’ he sits in his pyjamas and drinks the beer , and then he goes up to the fort and
out from under the trees and past the gate into the street that led into town .
there were four other shooters before his father .
' one big cow hit .
' ' perfect , ' pop said .
why don ' t you start living your life in paris ?
wheels going very fast away up ahead and a river valley down below us and then i looked around and
” “i heard you call him harry .
“before he goes to lay up .
but it would bore you .
she doesn’t know us and she thought we were going to kid her about her singing , maybe .
' you don ' t want a nice susser tod sandwich do you miss renata ?
, or were walking with their friends or relatives through the dark into the town .
just then montoya came into the room .
the arena .
" we might as well go to the closerie , " brett said .
he felt the featherings of the sand spouting up from the spring cones at the bottom against his fingers .
” his wife said nothing and eyed him strangely .
fallen leaves and watch the kudu feed out and never fire a shot unless i saw a better head than
” it was a long day on the train after the rain started .
why don ' t you pick out some nice italian girl with plenty of money .
it’s so soft and dry tracks won’t show and i’ll walk on the side where it’s hard .
there were chimney swifts in the sky .
i wasn’t so poor because there were more inside .
hopkins gave away his .
when i got up to go i found i had taken off my shoes .
the stone paving had been sprinkled and there were damp stretches in the dust .
” “but that boy’s terrible , mr .
the twilight , only it daylight in the woods and hemlock needles stuck against your belly .
and i do not remember a night on which you could not hear things .
' ' they don ' t , ' the colonel said .
“i thought about her because you told me where she was and when i knew where she was i wondered
on a waterbuck that had heard us , but not scented us , and as we stood , perfectly quiet
' i ' ll tell you any god-damn thing you want to know .
i was proud of everything and i thought gilford was as good a horse as kzar .
” she called .
belmonte came down in his street clothes with his manager and two other men .
" " nineteen or twenty .
to the cemetery , where they buried him in the tomb next to joselito .
“basilio is gay .
“—the aged manolo rated no applause for a vulgar series of lances with the cape and we entered the third
” “i mean they aren’t successful in america until they are over .
" don ' t touch me .
” he was a thin little boy , but his face looked sixteen .
” “manolita has been most kind , ” said the englishman .
a good right hand shot at him .
the russian was going out at the end of the week .
' you beauty and lovely .
toward the sea .
they ' ll probably be at the café .
' ' they scare me sick , ' i said .
" " he doesn ' t want to go out .
i sat up there awhile on top of the house and watched , but the only fish i saw were
about his job for the afternoon .
“isn’t it beautiful ?
highly humorous was the hyena obscenely loping , full belly dragging , at daylight on the plain , who ,
' ' real ones ?
buffalo got bigger and bigger until he could see the gray , hairless , scabby look of one huge bull
owners wouldn’t let the captain chance coming in ; they say he wanted to try ; so she had to
" sail on this course and take it when it comes .
you ' re not old enough to know about it .
' ' say once more , first , that you love me and make the buttons very tight .
keep your head clear and know how to suffer like a man .
" i ' m not worried about how i ' ll stand it .
across the hills and through a deeply forested valley and then up and across a long rise of country with
means the old boy has left his kill .
" oh , no , " said edna .
" the count was tucking in his shirt .
" i asked bill .
they aren’t worth a damn now .
it was a big man with a heavy brown face like an indian .
" i say , haven ' t you met bill yet ?
it was a big two hundred thousand franc race with seven entries and kzar a big favorite .
he had been looking around the room .
he knew how bad his anger was for him .
please say you forgive me , jake .
" " yes , monsieur barnes .
i only give orders and obey orders .
of jaws wide to hit the fish where he had already been bitten .
" " hello , you old drunk , " mike said .
” “i don’t mean for you to pay it , ” jack says .
an old man is a nasty thing .
a nigger gets delusions like old jack or marcus garvey and they put him in the pen .
on it .
by a stone and needed vulcanizing—and , without the car , i walked into the town , doing things that
” “but why do they ask that ?
" here comes brett , " bill said .
i fancy he ' s sleeping .
” “no ; i mean really .
" nick went out .
for if the fish ' s course held true i must see it for many more hours .
sometimes he had a thought and the particular piece of slang would not come into his mind and he could
” “i work awfully hard when i work .
very short horns .
the bottle .
probably , he thought , there must be very many .
of the shoulder and squeezed off .
“who’s matching who ?
through the deepening water , nick waded over to the hollow log .
' also a nylon-smooth captain of the navy who could not command a cat-boat wrote about the intimate side of
ahead there was a railway crossing , and as we came toward it the gates went down .
” the next town was a lumbering town with one long street of frame and brick buildings along the highway
she had a really pretty voice .
i would like to see this english lady .
' have you heard from our leader , _the reverend one_ ?
" what will you drink ?
don’t i santa claus ?
' i ' m not an hysterical .
bait for fishing , minnows , not worms only .
when i saw him coming he was walking fast and shaking his head .
west wall .
everybody in this town likes me .
stepped into doorways as they saw us coming .
" tom asked .
but it was still too early for that .
i sat in the sun and watched the bathers on the beach .
but who could tell you to go out and hang yourself the way we do ?
you read a while or just be quiet .
” “the nigger can do it faster than i can .
fontan sat down in a corner with his head in his hands .
others would die like cats ; a skull broken in and iron in the brain , they lie alive two
nick looked down into the pool from the bridge .
“i didn’t mean it , ” he said .
i hope to god , or anything else , there ' s nothing really bad .
” “what do you all do ?
have another coffee .
well , now it was all simple except for eddy .
' no shoot kuro ?
good-bye .
he did not want to have to do any courting .
' you ' re on the town .
' ' just tell me what you wish and take this glass of valpolicella and stop if it makes you
but then i shouldn’t have done any of it , ” he said .
the down-state man looked at mr .
then he turned him over and skinned the other side and cut each side off from the head down to
nick held him in his right hand and he could just reach around him .
we followed the tracks through thick brush and then out into an open patch .
jumped down into the road and dragged an indian out of the wheel rut .
" how old are you ?
” “i’ll try , ” nick had said .
' they ' re beautiful .
" the shark came in a rush and the old man hit him as he shut his jaws .
” “i’m getting scared , ” roger said .
work the second lot at _num_ o’clock .
that’s what max beerbohm drinks .
the colonel had paid his bill and made the proper tips .
" " how do you feel ?
" harvey stone laughed .
" it ' s gone now , " i said to guy .
“tell him to go away , nickie .
there ' s nothing but that horse part that will bother you , and they ' re only in for
where do the trucks go ?
heavy rain had drenched it all on ahead .
hey , waiter !
cohn said good night outside the door and went on up to his room .
" " is he out of his head ?
' give him my compliments , ' the colonel said .
that in straight , steady trailing , now in the heat , with the sun really bad , truly bad
a good-looking lad in a silver-and-orange suit came up to manuel and smiled .
could not shoot him because he was in some sort of forest reserve .
but it is a topic on which you must be chary in your credibility .
bill and i were going to sit in the barreras , and i gave the extra ticket to a waiter
_ _num_ st soldier_--didn ' t you follow it , george ?
" " he ' s blind as a tick , " mike said .
“how did that man lose his sight ?
damned good , you know .
” “with me it’s different .
so they say to take it by assault .
“a man in my position has the right to be tired .
pancho sat down hard and went over forward .
at the _imbarcadero_ , the colonel tipped the man who had carried their two bags and then looked around for
i looked at the old man .
no corn meal .
but it cannot derive from or resemble a previous classic .
and michael .
just across the street were looking in .
david knew they were proud of that .
” “please take the broth , ” she said gently .
“it’s just a question of selling something or other to get hold of it .
down in the dining room the picador sat looking at the priests .
, which is worthless ; all my worldly goods , which are practically non-existent except for two good shot-guns ,
then kept on until the earth was mud and washed them out and you had to bury them again .
, and you have bourbon whisky when other people do not have it .
shut up and fuck off .
” “i said you would embark them for there .
the chauffeur piled and strapped the bags on top of the car and put them in beside him in the
we may not take these positions now but we have proved we now have an army capable of going on
it down without gagging .
" " leave me with my memories , " peroxide said .
i stood beside him .
” “rudement , ” the first rummy camarade said .
one stream as high as david’s head that had squirted bright on trunks and leaves and vines and another much
chapter xxiv his true love was at the table at the exact time that she said she would be .
statutes , made him his trouble .
was our bull and that he had picked up a cow and she had made the pace and kept him
” “mangez ici .
we had set february _num_ th as the last safe date to leave .
" " how long ago did you leave vevey ?
" a little more , " he said .
of his battalions , and of individual people .
we shall see .
the train started and i looked out the open window and tried to see cadillac but you could not see
it was still deadly hot .
“right now i need the money badly .
' i will remember that all week .
" i don ' t mean fun that way .
“it was simpler that way .
a day ' s wait he came into the room to shut the windows while we were still in bed
behind were m ' cola , garrick , and the runner , who was a man from the old man
his mother looked at him across the table .
straight across the top of the head , he thought .
there were wet dead leaves on the paving of the courtyard .
it was a close-up picture of the head and chest of a dead nigger with his throat cut clear across
he was fifty and a colonel of infantry in the army of the united states and to pass a physical
still we hoped to get the shape of the battle .
the young sleep late , he thought , and the beautiful sleep half again as late .
we were ashamed and could do nothing about it .
we had not been gone ten minutes and were moving carefully up the stream bank , when , without warning
" william campbell breathed in and out through the sheet .
they were good positions and it _might_ have been impossible to move him out of them without something mighty and
” “too many things .
god , what bloody literary discussions we had ; we were literary as hell then just after the war ,
i lay at sou ' west key a day and nobody came after me .
resistant to the comb .
“wine always makes me feel this way , ” he said .
you made places in your mind that afterwards you could never find and they were better than any places could
out on the plateau beyond the town employees of the bull-ring exercised picador horses , galloping them stiff-legged on the
" " smaller .
" " clearly , " said the smallest one , " and costs more too .
was running with a quick trot along the top of the bank .
they were protected in his head by the formation of the brows ; set deep as though a special protection
' have a beer , colonel , ' he said to me .
' ' do they have cattle there ?
' drink another one of those .
splash as he fell .
" john asked .
” “it’s a swell book .
they were all three from milan , and one of them was to be a lawyer , and one was
" " i ' ll scream , " the girl said .
a work of fiction .
i unpacked my bags and stacked my books on the table beside the head of the bed , put out
" everybody knows the american ambassador .
this is the queen , he said .
but i thought we might carry abdullah and garrick and squeeze in the wanderobo-masai .
' ' i think we will have a good time to-night .
were responsible for should all have left , but the one who served the table of the two priests had
the trout was wonderful and the bacon , too .
i don ' t want you .
“don’t look gloomy , ” she said .
' ' explain it to him , ' the colonel said .
what the hell has that got to do with it .
much now , and thought how , when we first were out , he had very nearly died of fever
the bad lions would roar with laughter and eat another hindu trader and their wives would drink his blood ,
they advanced steadily and then raised the bottles high above their heads , one bottle in each hand as they
" " do anything else ?
” “sure , they’re horses .
did you always call it that ?
' he said _oficio_ instead of trade , because they spoke spanish together , too , when they left french
he would get him some day .
" she went on , talking rapidly .
before krebs went away to the war he had never been allowed to drive the family motor car .
you know nothing of these combinations .
he tried to increase the tension , but the line had been taut up to the very edge of the
“i found you and then all we ever had to do was eat and sleep and make love .
i go to see about indemnification for my property .
away and looked up at the crowd on the walls , his crest of muscle rising .
she was walking over from her tent looking refreshed and cheerful and quite lovely .
' they ' ll get out of his way .
you know the type .
oh , i wish to christ he wouldn ' t have got it .
then m ' cola fell in the dark and the old man and i laughed .
, ” marie said .
" borracho !
you say you can’t eat sailfish but you won’t catch no sailfish in these channels .
' the next day i found that i was all wrong about that country .
anything i tell you , ” kidding like , and we beat it out and through all the crowd that
" you know robert is going to get material for a new book .
the colonel walked over to the whistlers .
' but it is like skinning a dead horse .
” “no , ” jack says .
isn ' t that what you got me in on this trip for ?
it’s really horrible .
english constructions .
aren’t you hungry ?
' in comes the general .
' ' i ought to tell it to dante if he was around , ' the colonel , suddenly gone
" the first or the second time ?
the black stain on it .
this they located from the card of his syndicate which was in his pocket .
when i quit bleeding i took another look through the glass and then i sculled over to the boat to
as interpreter , and finally embraced his theory patriotically as a whole and , i believed , by logic ,
" they were both beet workers , a mexican and a russian , and they were sitting drinking coffee in
' ' i don ' t talk like georgie patton , ' the colonel told her .
killed , or that is relieved .
” “how can you say that ?
that’s right mr .
you have to be a tough boy in this town to be loved , the colonel thought .
claws were excellent ; neither too thin , nor too fat .
” “maybe .
they went to fight .
on the white below george dipped and rose and dipped out of sight .
' chapter iv now , on his way into venice , keeping strictly controlled and unthinking his great need to
“i’ve told you , boy .
she had the pails in one of the sacks and carried it slung over her shoulder by the other sack
his gray dusty face and his steel rimmed spectacles and said , “what animals were they ?
i’m only a middle-aged woman who loves you and wants to do what you want to do .
' ' this morning .
soy beans or peas in them , how the thickets and the cut-over land lay , where the cabins and
" i ' ve prayed and i ' ve done everything and nothing helps .
and then she had said , “no .
” “then i could stop and pray at the tomb of my grandfather on the way to the ranch .
” “i better go back and see george , ” nick said .
i couldn’t see who it was , but in a minute the horse was up and galloping free and the
" " it ' s ten o ' clock .
” “i think it is .
you know i met my ex-partner yesterday in london .
but i could try if you taught me .
” “you don’t need it .
it is wicked .
“why don’t you just go to another table and let comrade henry and me talk .
' she had a beautiful horn .
garrick came up and made a couple of brilliant discoveries of blood spots , then sat down under a tree
“if you want anything to read .
" he must be very rich , " mr .
the old man saw the brown fins coming along the wide trail the fish must make in the water .
along with a number of muratti cigarette-stubs , shoved far back in the drawer of the bed-table that stood beside
” “oh , no .
” nick was cooking the trout now .
" " a man was killed outside in the runway .
john touched him on the shoulder .
cut up and butchered .
bal musette they lived above .
the big gate of the bull-ring was open , and inside the amphitheatre was being swept .
she too came from a very old southern family .
stuck in the dirt , they had dug quite a little at the last ; stick bombs , helmets ,
i woke about nine o ' clock , had a bath , dressed , and went down-stairs .
” “do you want to go up there ?
under the arcades and made pools of water in the square , and the streets wet and dark and deserted
” we watched him go over to another table .
“hello , ” he said .
them that run out from san siro .
the detective went into the woods a couple of times and then came out .
we drove in to biarritz and left the car outside a very ritz place .
sell to late comers .
" captain doctor .
i do not believe he thought about his clothes much .
" i ' ll pay it back , " mike said .
to the barrera below us .
david watched their backs and their asses go in and out of sight .
this hum went on , and we were in it and a part of it .
he reeled in slowly .
that must be someone else .
that very afternoon he came to me with a punk , some fellow from his own town who was broke
he heard the rain on the windowpane and he smelled the beech logs burning in the fireplace .
i didn ' t sleep all last night .
” she sat and looked at the glass .
a fork .
" i don ' t remember , " mike said .
is that where she is ?
“across the lot in that direction .
" " the good physician here , doctor wilcox , my colleague , was on call and he was unable
when he ' s going well he ' s awfully easy to get along with .
" " what does he do ?
after a man gets one star , or more , the truth becomes as difficult for him to attain as
the roman ' s brother was obviously not a hunter and the husband was not very interested .
“you know i couldn’t eat , harry .
wherever it is you come from .
" he talked in the same flat voice .
“what do they make it out of up here , onie ?
“nous sommes des copains , ” one called in a deep voice , rich with alcohol .
we done right not to wait .
' where ?
" " oh , rot , " said brett .
' ' kufa !
mailboxes at the crossroads and out onto the charlevoix highway .
you ran into another white hunter and you asked , “how is everything going ?
when the twinge came , the colonel said to himself , the hell with that .
' but thank you for calling my attention .
” “oh , araquistain invented him !
john asked , “what are you after this kid for ?
and out a gate on the other side .
” “i guess so .
" i guess that ' s better .
one said something and three or four others joined in and kamau explained to me that they had seen two
in his shirt the breast pockets bulged against him with the lunch and his fly book .
' ' it is a very lovely portrait , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" i will keep it very carefully , " harris said .
" yes there is , " he said aloud .
” “do you think you’ll ever make money writing ?
in spain if one got inside your shirt you had to get the shirt off to kill him .
' and supply him with the atomic bomb .
they were both dark and bushy-headed .
” “well , ” i said , “they’re always wrong , ain’t they ?
" " you know i think that boy ' s got a future .
' the colonel was conscious of using the word , and so was the _gran maestro_ , and so was
' ' you ' re coming on , ' i said .
floor .
happily .
he was not , either , because just then he saw , beyond the line of close-bunched brown trees ahead
' now captains , ' the general said , ' they know the exact truth and they can mostly tell
i don’t see any end until we destroy them , there and here and everywhere .
nigger went home with us in our car .
the crowd did not want it ever to be finished .
then , without the glasses , i saw something moving over the shoulder of one of the valleys toward a
there was a choice of three bridges .
now , this afternoon in the car , on the way out to the twenty-eight-mile salt-lick , the sun on
at the forest edge , that we watched for rhino to come out .
' ' i would not like .
waiting to go out with the tide .
" he was pulling his cheek before the glass , looking to see if there were unshaved patches under the
slope the only time he hadn ' t done it stinking .
hapana !
this was not as large a dugout as the one where that platoon of the class of _num_ , just
he ' s got damned wonderful luck and he ' s a good lad .
most jocks can just about ride off all they want to .
hearing and seeing the birds and feeling and smelling the breeze that still blew in from the gulf of mexico
” “no , ” the man said .
make them tremble in the fear of justice and of might .
he ' s not a beet worker .
observer had cried like a child .
” “go on , give us some beer .
along this road , abandoning the famine country that was ahead of us ; me sitting , the butt of
” “i am of the tanks , ” said al .
i’ll make it downstairs .
" " don ' t you love me ?
we started and i waved to her .
i even understand logistics which is not difficult .
i could feel her shaking .
i’m all right .
" " what a hell of a reason for sitting with any one .
“listen , ” i said to eddy .
” “go and drown in it , ” said al .
' ' rhino , ' he said .
they sat in the big , white car and looked through their glasses at the fiesta .
” “couldn’t you maybe make it if you wrote cheerfuller things ?
let ' s not think about it .
he said it was a damn fool thing to do .
discussing writing and whether you could call them waxen candelabras .
" " it ' s an awful thing , " nick said .
" well , " john says to him , " jack ' s spotting you about four pounds .
“do you see her ?
you can never tell whether a spanish waiter will thank you .
they sat against the tree and were quiet .
which were courage and a calm capability , and his name on a poster would draw no one to a
the ducks , they were pin-tails , continued on their flight out towards the sea .
” “i was going good , ” manuel said .
still that was the only chance .
nick picked them up , taking only the medium-sized brown ones , and put them into the bottle .
shoot , b ' wana .
" that ' s true , " he said .
then there was another thing .
' the hyena was a dirty joke but bird shooting was a clean joke .
he was thinking that he had never really felt pain before .
john said she loved culture like a lumberjack loved peerless , the great chewing tobacco .
“that’s a broad political program .
he spent all his money , though .
” “but think of who have died—away from here—and in failures .
" he stood up and put his hand on the small of his back .
they had a new pane of glass in the window that had been shot up and the show case was
" he ' s a good bull , " manuel said .
” my old man said , and handed me a couple of soldi without looking away from holbrook .
he didn ' t like it .
it was the bar milano , a small , tough bar where you could get food and where they danced
" " don ' t be silly .
so would you be afraid .
“i know the temptations you must have been exposed to .
et après elle a vomis dans ses shoes .
he poured about half the contents out into the tin plate .
nothing about the rifle .
in a jam .
" we ought to pull out on the noon bus for burguete .
he looked up .
an old woman stood in the doorway holding a lamp .
well , i thought , it ' s only a few days .
deserves to be , anyhow .
” “a north or south american ?
" " good , i detest flamands .
they kill little but make much fear .
the deer hung stiff and heavy and empty , and small birds blew in the wind and the wind turned
“come on out , you !
“of course it’s an accident , ” he said .
" " no , it isn ' t .
jack doesn’t say anything .
it’s locked .
to sell .
a sou to go away and leave him .
" you kill your friends ?
" he must be a boxer .
but you can sleep in the back of the place .
betrayed him in their various ways before he died .
about the steers .
“ready , ” answered the trapper .
arm and i went back to town and they put me under five hundred dollar bond .
sometimes they go right after them and kill them .
any good any more and blindy was so strong standing by him and he looked so awful and finally the
he had been sitting there some time .
they called hop’s girl the blonde venus .
" he ' s stale as poorhouse cake , " hogan said .
have you had a good time here all afternoon ?
great interest in it ; everything was so easy to say .
" where did the boss dig this fellow up ?
frazer lay in his room with the door open and listened to the noisy , bad music and could not
" take a worm can .
' but we saw nothing but some masai cattle in the timber and came home , in the dark ,
we’re coming .
we have a fixed tariff .
” he got out fifteen dollars .
” morgan said .
and found a shotgun of mine and demanded to know if i had a permis de chasse i think there
“oh , ” i said .
" said jack .
“you can’t forgive me ?
and a shirt and hide these so they’ll think i’m wearing them and i’ll bring soap and a comb and
” “i’d like to walk down .
' the colonel went into the bathroom to wash up for dinner .
“you should have killed yourself last week , ” he said to the deaf man .
i know six good stories , he thought , and i’m going to write them .
it ' s a pity you boys ain ' t catholics .
“it and wine too .
they don ' t go on anywhere .
” “we’re making a picture of it .
said the detective had followed her to the train and appeared in the compartment just before the train pulled out
i ' d best stop on here , though .
what about it ?
they looked as though they had a dirty secret , just as they had looked when he had found them
" good night , " i said .
' yes , my colonel , ' the boatman said .
” “when i go to the show i crouch down like this and try to look small .
chair beside the bed , and some one lying in the bed completely covered by the bed-clothes .
we could have a great trip .
i went to sleep reading , the wind coming in cool and fresh under the heated canvas .
“they can’t track us the way we’ve come and i don’t think they would notice tracks in this deep sand
he did not want it and he knew that it was bad for him .
wore his oldest clothes in town .
i wanted to take him fishing but i was too timid to ask him .
“come on , suzy .
my darling .
he despised them when he was away from them although he liked some of them well enough at the time
sun on the water .
said rolly !
“i think you should go back .
“but he doesn’t speak italian .
“and these other gentlemen ?
he was at home in his small house in treviso , close to the fast-flowing river under the old walls
" no one will castrate you .
” “you’re really capturing him single-handed , ” said the secretary admiringly .
" " why are you going away ?
' nor is there any woman of memory .
' ' i ' ve only had two good ones so for .
“what’s the bright boy’s name down the counter ?
abandoned it at pamplona .
i was watching the man at the table .
his eye ached and he was hungry .
and no one to help either one of us .
just smell them .
he had committed himself to writing three “very long” stories to round out the collection (two dealing with battles in
” the waiter stood there , holding the bottle on one hip .
” i told him .
" george said .
” that was true , too .
” “anytime you need anything , ” mrs .
it was warm and white and close under the covers .
i ' m going to fish the dam here .
" no , " the old man said .
her and she smiled at me but that was all that ever came of it because i looked for her
francis macomber the capital of the world the snows of kilimanjaro old man at the bridge up in michigan on
” “she says , ‘yes , indeedy .
phillips , ' he said to pop .
then go half a mile from it in any direction and you find it like that .
they sat looking into the fire and thinking of this profound truth .
“let us go to the battalion .
he got up coughing and feeling broken and gone .
" there ought to be a system for wetting these things , " he said .
his big hand went all the way around it .
then he flew around the old man ' s head and rested on the line where he was more comfortable
he was very happy , stroking the rhino ' s horn , measuring it with his fingers spread , looking
” “maybe it will be all right .
he had owned good saloons in his time and run them well .
" tommy turned to me .
' that would be swell .
" if i had brains i would have splashed water on the bow all day and drying , it would
fifty more .
body was .
" " what about the other one ?
” “my name’s john , ” mr .
" mike is a swell fellow .
i must remember to eat the tuna before he spoils in order to keep strong .
“you know they’re absolutely no damned good , ” nick said .
of the little clearing .
" i didn ' t say anything i didn ' t mean .
who speaks ?
laundry .
" " you know , " brett said , " he ' d only been with two women before .
chapter xxvi they sat there at the table and watched the early stormy light over the canal .
the sunlight was hot and hard , and i crossed over beside some buildings , and walked back along side-streets
now is the big season .
doc fischer was thin , sand-blond , with a thin mouth , amused eyes and gambler ' s hands .
noble and more able .
" i am not going to listen to that sort of rot from you , michael .
“i’ll tell you .
we were both getting at the same thing from different angles .
inside zelli ' s it was crowded , smoky , and noisy .
' in america , they make such things of wire and of sponge-rubber , such as you use in the
i put fifty cents on the wood and he straightened up .
" take me away from here , " she said , " you bankrupts .
i ' m sure my maid would never tell her .
no you don’t have to go yet , his conscience said .
" and afterward they were all so happy .
' so you leave one company dead along a draw .
” “if we can get past ventimiglia .
“no , i feel fine now .
how is everything with you ?
he held the trout , never still , with his moist right hand , while he unhooked the barb from
" when did they get in ?
" talk to me , bright boy , " max said .
he never showed his father the second story .
what ' s a man ' s life worth anyway ?
she told him .
it was a good morning , there were high white clouds above the mountains .
the boy saw that the old man was breathing and then he saw the old man ' s hands and
i’ve had a wonderful time this summer with tom and the kids and now i’ve got this girl and i’ll
good evening , my colonel .
” “anything ?
” he held her very close and tight .
germain .
so i made a big supper , and when they come already they drank a lot .
a slough of high dry reeds .
do you think we’ll come to the sandwich town pretty soon ?
the three men came back in looking serious , tough and very righteous .
it was high from the rain , and black and smooth .
supplies to open the hotel and he hanged himself .
in slacks , a tweed jacket and a brown felt hat .
" well , " i said , " i ' m going to take a bath .
the people were all kind .
doc fischer had suggested that any future editions should be further cross-indexed so that if consulted as to the treatments
out ahead of us , a tramp steamer was going up the coast .
" you can read it , " i said .
“it does look a little silly still staring down , ” she said .
i ' ll take you home and you sleep good and well and to-morrow we will meet where and when
love you , devil .
what did he fear ?
he only thought of her and how she felt and how close life comes to death when there is ecstasy
there was the green of the headlands , the white , red-roofed villas , patches of forest , and the
the other corner .
give him a call day after tomorrow .
the waiter poured on into the glass so that the brandy slopped over and ran down the stem into the
” i thought a minute .
" hola , amigo !
“you do .
he never brought her no good luck .
” “you said it , ” the other waiter who had come in said .
he couldn ' t keep him out with the left hand now .
“a man must not marry .
" see you at the lunch on wednesday .
over the crest of the parallel ridge i heard the mausers’ jerky barking .
“he’s a very good head , ” wilson said .
' thank you , ' he said .
i know where i can get four baits too .
” “where ?
the old man ' s head was clear and good now and he was full of resolution but he had
” william campbell pulled up the right sleeve of his pyjama jacket under the sheet , then shoved the right
“i don’t need my strength up .
want me to knock you down a few times ?
" " that sister ?
“only it’s kind of late for me .
“that’s right .
i saw the concierge standing in the doorway .
at first we wanted to laugh , and paco started to smile .
" we ' re both americans .
but he had that look of eager , deserving expectation .
the big farmhouse and walled court showed clear and yellow against the green hillside that was scarred white with the
” “if you hired a car and ran it off a cliff , don’t you think you’d have to pay
" " you will not say such things !
” “i agree with you , ” said johnson .
“how ?
" do you joke him ?
“i should have gotten some kek for him , ” madame fontan said .
a man shot off a bicycle is always a sad thing to see , although not as sad as a
and fool people , but it didn ' t have any effect on people that knew anything about him .
' but rather vainly .
“i’m sorry you got so mixed up about him .
he felt very tired .
' ' yes , you told me .
you know , signor tenente , if i didn ' t have the kids i wouldn ' t be your
but then he could break it .
' ahead of the point , general .
“that’s the first time he’s called her up since he’s out here , ” hogan said .
i know a good place back by the slashing we came through where we can get berries .
” “it is one of the most heinous of crimes , ” his father answered .
he thanked me very much , but his mind was already looking forward to walking over the pass .
or an old , big coyote when he is not hurried .
" " oh , yes he was .
“never ?
" they let the bulls out of the cages one at a time , and they have steers in the
" " bartenders have always been fine .
” “all except one place , ” he said .
" they were very good , " mike said .
we stopped .
don ' t just encourage me .
the light from the hotel shone on the blackness of the gondola and made the water green .
do you wear yours all the time ?
like some super-rhino .
" " anything you want .
” “isn’t he awfully old to be jealous ?
the chairs were carved but the wood seats were worn and comfortable .
m ' cola found the tracks .
” “as soon as you deal with your breakfast , ” wilson said .
this is unofficial .
” “we’ll go , all right , ” george said .
they just fired a few blank charges at us as we came in .
, and through a dark gate into the tuileries .
” “then they’ll fly .
had to come to them across the open .
wounded as he is that man cannot escape .
by ; sizing up each clearing as to feed and cover and figuring where you would find a covey and
“well , bright boy , ” max said , looking into the mirror , “why don’t you say something ?
probably the elephant is going to find where he was born and they’ll kill him there .
, ' it ' s a lion .
“don’t be silly , margot , ” her husband said .
we ' ll go in on the afternoon bus , i ' m afraid .
' ' you get into the town , and some handsome jerk puts an air mission on you .
” just in an ordinary tone of voice ’cause there ain’t any use him feeling around because george either can
about grasshoppers .
the people all are gone .
everything that shows on the surface today travels very fast and to the north-east .
it or american shoals .
“i’d like to stay with him for a little while , ” claude said .
" " they ' re bad when they ' re drunk .
you won’t ask him to stay ?
still harris was not the upper classes .
nick unhooked him ; heavy sides , good to hold , big undershot jaw , and slipped him , heaving
apartment with his wife that now he loved again , the quarrel all over , the madness all over ,
except , possibly , happiness .
his short story about a motor trip with a friend through mussolini’s italy , “che ti dice la patria ?
" " something the patronne ' s daughter said .
" i put down the game-bags and took in the shotgun and brought out a newspaper from the pile in
' i ' m gentle now and the hell with the rest of it .
nobody was paying any attention .
you could see his fins out wide like purple wings and the purple stripes across the brown .
why weren’t there any virgins in state universities ?
i have loved country all my life ; the country was always better than the people .
" like to try a real american cigar ?
_num_ —dc _num_ _num_ - _num_ cip isbn- _num_ : _num_ - _num_ - _num_ - _num_ - _num_ isbn-
but i certainly should be trained and adjusted by this time not to give a much for nothing ; like
he was really hurt .
” “topping , ” the white hunter told him .
hands , at his hands that had , with his willingness to oblige and his lack of respect for federal
with laughing .
" who won the ball game ?
we were going to come in , run close along the pier , let go the front and rear anchors
so he tells her he ' s tired , and goes to bed , and when she goes to the
she knows .
they promised the aga khan that because they fought in africa , indians could come freely to settle and for
aren ' t you sure ?
” “don’t ever say that to anybody else , ” his father said .
nick fought him against the current , letting him thump in the water against the spring of the rod .
quand j ' étais venu ici je disais , oh , my god , what are all the churches ?
bradley , the schoolmaster , and many others .
nick laid him on the log in the shade and broke the neck of the other fish the same way
“will you ever go skiing together in the states ?
once covered with shadow .
" oh , fine , " jack said .
fairly good publisher .
the old calamity of a motor made , there seemed almost to be no wind at all .
in the evening he practised on his clarinet , strolled down town , read and went to bed .
perhaps that wasn ' t true , though .
" do you remember what we came to this country for ?
the necessities in for the making of camp .
" speak to the lady in your native tongue , guy .
" do i have to talk to her ?
; it had only made him feel nasty .
” “there wasn’t going to be any of that .
we passed a farm with a long meadow and i saw a flock of killdeer plover feeding .
yes , ecstasy is what you might have had and instead you draw sleep ' s other brother .
_] _ _num_ d soldier_--hey , what you put in that , camel chips ?
he found he liked to talk through a sheet .
on the next circle the fish ' s back was out but he was a little too far from the
he was now dressed to go home .
' ' thank him for calling , ' the colonel said .
" after breakfast bill and i were sitting warming in the sun on a bench out in front of the
' ' we both ought to shave in the dark , ' the colonel told him and went out the
" well , that meant san sebastian all shot to hell .
' ' oh , you are going to have to tell them to me later .
he was smoking a pipe .
a joke on all the people who had them .
' it will be fine when we get to that new country , ' he said .
' ' i will .
let ' s go in and see brett .
it was just beginning to be daylight when they walked along the logging road back toward the lake .
the brakeman had a bucket and a bunch of waste and was mopping up and washing where the blood had
robert wilson , ” she said .
had to be done before we could go .
it was just an ordinary razor .
i thought he was killing a snake .
better man and the better tracker .
" " we ' ll see .
he didn’t like being away from his wife and the kids , and he was sore and grouchy most of
his ear was cut by popular acclamation and given to pedro romero , who , in turn , gave it
lighter touch about it ?
i bled them clean and the salt water will heal them .
don’t try anything fancy .
' so they walked .
” “how you feel ?
it that way .
talking ' s all bilge .
“we cut across country here , ” nick said .
” down the gap , walking beside two stretcher-bearers and seeming to pay no attention at all to where he
“i want to look around .
but they could not help his fear because he was up against an older magic now .
' ' when you do , take your time and make sure of him .
' don ' t be sorry for me .
no one showed from the half-track and i thought it was over and was going to wave the fifties off
it couldn’t have been about sliding .
birds all went up in the air and stayed all around me .
her sorrows come regularly .
the native village .
" eat it well .
' we spooked one , ' i reported .
" " twenty-five lire .
strange eyes and the clicking chop of the teeth as he drove forward in the meat just above the tail
' ' but _don ' t_ you think he ' s handsome , really ?
' in the car we turned to the right on the road , drove on up past the mud village
he was reserved and formal , and his face was still taut and sallow , but he cheered up finally
" said nick .
that’s one of the things .
" he didn ' t know what castrate meant .
" the waitress left the table and went over to the bar .
it could not all be burned .
ever since i’d seen the chink and taken the money i’d been worrying about the business .
” “it’s nice .
you go ahead .
i don ' t know , even , what half-arsed means .
" look how he bit me .
“what’s the sense in spending money sooner than necessary ?
of the marsh and try to shoot and keep the birds moving while pop and p .
outside on the square it had stopped raining and the moon was trying to get through the clouds .
ten in ones were good .
women knew it too .
them all .
you never should have told them .
” when she came out from the shower with her hair tucked under a rubber cap she said , “darling
" will you get us out of here ?
” “tin cups make it taste even better , ” he said .
” “why when it will make no difference ?
come on , jake .
” “of course not .
cave-in , one whole end had caved in ; it was that started them ; making it cold up that
' ' that poor lorry .
" i ' m drunk now , " bill said .
the shop they had been dancing to the gramophone while her girl friend was in the front of the shop
very sound .
“it means just that , but it always surprises you .
” the train had come in .
" " she was in the woods with frank washburn .
" i ' ll put you in a nocturnal if you want , " retana offered .
turned a little on her side and looking at me straight in front .
” “and if the tessera is false ?
like you see these selling platers with a shot of dope in them .
" retana , " he said and banged the door .
their feathers .
at ten o ' clock the breeze , which had come up in the east , began to shift around
she don’t work .
' dan was telling them something else .
" he had been waiting to die all day , ever since nine o ' clock in the morning .
” “you’re being cross , ” she said .
" " what ' s he like ?
of her head , and at pop , big , thick , in the faded corduroy sleeveless jacket that was
we turned around and came back out the same way we had gone in , then crossed the open prairie
” “no , ” said the doctor .
” “yes , if you like .
" " twelve years old if i see you are careful .
how do i know we can ever get back here again ?
the knives are the horns .
they went inside and the sergeant shut the door .
the waiter came and said the taxi was outside .
" that son of a bitch , " fontan said .
i think it ' s a wonderful show .
you cut their heads off .
” “dear butstein , ” nick said .
simpson , ” and then heard the cracker voice say , “mr .
most of the men sat against the wall smoking , empty coffee-cups and liqueurglasses before them on the tables .
sea while he watched the sun go into the ocean and the slant of the big cord .
” “it’s a crap game .
it was absolutely topping .
the water and splashed ashore .
the train was slowing down .
she said she wanted to hear me go to confession , but i told her that not only was it
the gale scouring the exposed surface of the mountain had swept the snow surface into a wind-board crust .
” “do you remember when the big dhow came in and careened on the low tide ?
after we finished eating we went out on the porch .
three minutes , against the sand on the bottom , they could float up together , take a breath and
that in some way he could work the fat off his soul the way a fighter went into the mountains
“would you bring me the wine list ?
” “i knew you did .
“no , he’s not , ” said zurito .
" " he likes it .
but there weren ' t any cigarettes and postcards and no chocolate .
" i moved him , " the old man said .
' but hold me tightly with the other arm .
” “are those men all dead ?
” “good-night , nick , ” joe garner called .
' the trouble is , ' he said , ' he ' s a garter snapper .
library of congress gilahging-in-publication data hemingway ernest , _num_ - _num_ .
he had to get so close that the bull saw his body , and would start for it , and
" i know how i am and i prefer to get stinking .
' ' also your love .
it strengthened him , and yet he did it for her , too .
that bell goes off and it seems like it rings for a thousand years and then they come sweeping round
“he’s hateful looking , ” said margot .
well , we came across the square from the dock to the pearl of san francisco café to get coffee
” “i’ll get it , ” she said .
he had drawn the attack and he felt now as he used to feel in the old days before he
' get along to your table .
” fontan shook his head .
of the ridge , huddled in groups , eating , drinking and talking , or simply sitting dumbly , waiting
snow .
what kind of a licence will we have ?
“i came from fornaci , ” nick said .
' ' you liked it ?
" all i want is an even break , " manuel said reasoningly .
' ' i don ' t trust those side roads in this low country .
” the hired girl came out and the down-state man said to her , “you tell mrs .
that ' s when it gets ' em .
' that was a hell of a shot , ' pop said .
” “all right , ” i said but i lay there .
both frontiers are still open it doesn’t look so bad .
, dr .
and you didn’t see her when she was all hot like that inside .
“you don’t know , ” said his father .
' they touched glasses .
' ' he was late getting home with the milk , ' pop said .
" il aime les books , " madame fontan said .
” “of course , ” she said .
“why didn’t you wake me , darling ?
we were overloaded and i did not know how the road was ahead .
“a really big one .
would ever have .
and we were attacking all the time and every day .
you drunken sleepy bum .
very rough trade , he thought .
it was cool all day and lovely and cool at night .
then we were going through the woods , following our trail and trying to make time to get out before
the outfit were all up and i shook off handshaking and thumb pulling before we started down through the trees
“there’s nothing really can touch skiing , is there ?
" speak grammatically !
of him in their memories by looking at the lithographs .
' the colonel did .
" have another porto .
“but i’m not going to waste them .
” and he went out .
” “who was that kid that was around here yesterday ?
, ” which appeared as a story within a story in the garden of eden , a novel published posthumously
i had never seen her cry before and we had seen many things you could cry about if you were
" i unscrewed the nozzle of the big wine-bottle and handed it around .
, the two chambermaids , paco’s sisters , were on their way to the cinema to see greta garbo in
" i asked the driver .
' ' i am hurt , ' said garrick holding his belly .
” said eddy .
" " he looks that way , " brett said .
' ' i don ' t hate anything , daughter , ' the colonel said , and drank a little
he was built as a sword fish except for his huge jaws which were tight shut now as he swam
" how ' s sister cecilia ?
' i do not know , ' she said .
they are the damnedest women .
elected .
but when i had a chance to look at them and think .
" has brett any money ?
chinese hairs at the corners of his mouth .
he was waking up now although it was still hard for him to leave his sleep .
" but he doesn ' t speak italian .
" try and argue me into getting up .
there are some others too .
it looked deep though .
haven’t you got any memory ?
" " where will we eat ?
” “c’est vrai , ” fontan said .
but here there had been a recent heavy rain and we had to be very careful about the low parts
“hello you old lice .
and kill him .
“did you see ole ?
now he waked , realized where he was , and got to his feet .
” they drank all that was in their glasses .
it was raining harder .
to him and had seen his wonderful tusks .
he was class president .
don ' t be a bitter nor a stupid .
“i am a professional gambler but i like to gamble .
" " i want to go over to the barber-shop .
he was going to bring it out in boston and had already sent his check to , and made a
" nick , sitting between the two boys in the dark , felt hollow and happy inside himself to be
' ' of course not , ' the girl said .
the top of the shark ' s broad head .
i say , it is a spectacle !
they slid out of sight as i lifted the sod and i dug carefully and got a good many .
“he writes her every day .
corrals .
” she was crying now and enrique went on eating .
“i’m coming out , ” she said .
" he ' s getting dressed for the bull-fight .
glad of the walk after a day in the car , to find camp up , pop and p .
” “good morning , ” she said .
“put in your own water , ” he said .
” the american lady admired my wife’s travelling-coat , and it turned out that the american lady had bought her
” the man steering was watching the channel closely .
” marjorie dropped the line overboard and watched the baits go down through the water .
room , due to the silver covers on the dishes , came to them steady and as broiled bacon and
elliot kept on at the château in touraine because he had taken it for all summer .
' i sat down , the big gun feeling heavy and unfamiliar , held on the buff ' s shoulder
he had a pocket full of arm bands .
and the morning breeze blew them toward the camp and the plane circled twice more , low this time ,
" you hear him ?
” “and you’re going to be jolly .
” “we’ll have to arrange it .
“but the head isn’t worth as much .
” “how do you know ?
at the end of the safari , hemingway had filled his mind with images , incidents , and character studies
” “how many fish did you catch ?
fish goin’ down in price all the time .
“we couldn’t get the wine .
it was the same room i had slept in when bill and cohn and i were in bayonne .
jim slid the hand further up .
bed we had looked down on from the game trail .
but i did save absinthe .
until he went to princeton .
we can interdict the road from there like in the book .
one table was playing dominoes already .
” “you mean before you decided to do something practical and cut off your hair ?
" " i ' ve been asking you to , " the boy told him gently .
” “do you want to take the bath ?
” “give me kiss on the face , ” said trudy .
he wanted his life to go smoothly .
” they must have thought i just needed to be argued into it because the one kept on .
i was blind , unforgivingly jealous of what had happened to him .
air and then he cannot go deep to die .
so this is what it’s going to be like .
" come on , " i said .
crying .
' what the hell have you got to be sorry about with a rhino like that ?
st .
he had a strange face like an over-enlarged , disappointed weasel or ferret .
” “i’m shot , ” the nigger said .
oh boy you ought to have seen that junker when she started to burn .
” “you said you loved it .
the right and lay in a chamois shooting patch so the gun butt would never catch .
" " why ?
still he was never angry .
' i found raincoat , extra boots , socks , bathrobe , bottle of quinine tablets , citronella , note
“you and the bird took a long swim , ghee , ” he said .
” “nothing , ” he said .
“women upset , ” said wilson to the tall man .
“you don’t really mind if we talk about it do you ?
lockboxes and its general delivery and stamp window .
they came for him in a car and the game had already started .
” “no , ” mr .
the blown bridge was being repaired with a snarl of riveting hammers , and eight hundred yards away the smashed
we halted , said ' jambo ' , and the brother talked to this seeming tribesman who had the air
" the waitress went away .
" " would i ask you if i didn ' t want to ?
“with my true , wonderful memories .
i don’t want you .
his shirt had been patched so many times that it was like the sail and the patches were faded to
nick floated down gently against the bottom .
it was getting into the afternoon and the boat still moved slowly and steadily .
" i will have it put on the bill .
” “never , ” i said .
” “the great italian sense .
you know me , don’t you ?
" " i ' ve meant to get over , " said krum .
” “i know it’s true because it’s so damned hot and we didn’t get the five thousand .
in the firelight old karl looked a greyish , yellowish white in the face and he took off his stetson
was pretty accurate information available about what conditions in those woods were going to be like .
" " corto y derecho , " he thought , furling the muleta .
" i stood up .
he was going to sleep a little while .
maybe he was there when he was a boy .
bottle , and finally two local citizens with spears , water bags , and a chop box with lunch .
the hills were worse than the woods .
nick followed him down to the road .
, and the bull lifted him and then dropped him .
somehow her father was there and he had been very rude .
i do not understand the local allusions .
“warm as piss , ” nick said .
and had a good time seeing the town again .
to the hotel .
enlistment make yourself responsible only to yourself , you exchange the pleasant , comforting stench of comrades for something you
the balance between fiction and nonfiction in his stories of the period , including the previously unpublished “black ass at
aren ' t you , robert ?
a crowd of young men , some in jerseys and some in their shirt-sleeves , got out .
” “not very many , nick .
' he asked the boatman .
i’ll tell you what to do when it’s time .
eyes watching , horns straight forward , the bull looked at him , watching .
drive through and to see .
very much if i asked you to do something ?
' ' they are a damn sight more important when you put them on paper .
' ' what do you want then ; picturesque ?
” “we’re going a long way .
so i did not shoot again .
there was a bottle of valpolicella by the reading light and by the bed a bottle of mineral water ,
, and came back and stood a little way away because i didn’t want to butt in and my old
your gun-bearer can carry your heavy gun .
' have a whisky and soda , karl , ' p .
” “just one more courteous action .
hernandez motioned them to stand one at each side .
' ' the trackers say it is really the property of the lesser kudu .
up at evanston that could hold his breath six minutes but he was crazy .
" " you have it , " i said .
the silver side of the fish , he raised the club high and brought it down heavy and slamming onto
i heard what the gentleman said .
the way i can ' t stop getting .
it is the wife of the working man who suf ers from this shortening of hours .
and the trees were big , high-trunked , and old with no undergrowth but only the smooth green of the
” he hit him pretty hard a couple of times more , and then the rod bent double and the
“you are of the great translators .
and we ' ll go .
” he thought .
“not like a human being .
" " how about the next ?
' on any part of the high ground where we beat them .
i ' ve heard that from one of my colleagues at his hotel .
“you’re shit , ” claude said .
" " bird-shot ' d be all right , " jack says .
these insects at one time played a very important part in my life .
" " you know you ' d like to see him .
we have to do everything we can .
remedies .
i did some bad shooting in the heat on a grant ' s gazelle that the volunteer skinners asked me
” “i suppose what i did was to forget to put iodine on it when i first scratched it .
” “stop it , ” she said .
' ' well , if he painted any really good pictures of that country i ' d sure as hell
" the woods were gone ; the road had left the river to climb ; the radiator was boiling ;
later on in the evening i found the box in my pocket .
you spend all your time talking , not working .
thank you very much for the trip and the two drinks and the sandwiches and the unknown beer and the
i wrote this on the back of the statement .
" this is no great thing of a restaurant .
came in through the scoop in the dash and the slanted glass of the ventilators .
” “how’s your leg ?
seine or net made of common mosquito netting .
' ' what women ?
here’s luck .
" the bravest of these were the belgians , " ' he quoted .
the brass handle of the sliding lock and the odor of eau de tavel in the kitchen and the dust
" watch the charge and see the picador try and keep the bull off , but then don ' t
” “i didn’t drink any of it after you left , ” the local warden said doggedly .
it was very beautiful coming along the hudson but it was the son of thing i did not know about
" we said good-bye to many people and shook hands with many people and went out .
sauce est meilleure que le jack .
turn in ; but beer was mostly those years just after the war with chink and in the mountains .
live the full life of the mind , exhilarated by new ideas , intoxicated by the romance of the unusual
i can do it all myself but you might like it better done properly .
" the major wants you , " the adjutant said .
“i’d like to meet chesterton , ” bill said .
a spring flowed out of an iron pipe .
tears came into his eyes when he swallowed it .
' ' you are much richer than i am .
the menu was written in ink on a card and the card slipped into a wooden paddle .
” “if i’m a mossback what’s he ?
now it is pleasant to hunt something that you want very much over a long period of time , being
quivering , the bull’s tail brushing his chest as he charged the cape hernandez offered him .
tell him !
“all this beyond was hemlock forest , ” nick said .
he gave his camera to bill .
he noticed the way the bull ' s feet were .
surely you will be sleeping .
blindy’s my name .
six months ?
my wife don ' t read english but she takes the paper just like when i was home and she
” she did not answer and he finished eating .
, charging to slide the horse off , horse sliding down .
sisters and how she loved her brother and how he loved his sister , and then they got married in
i walked along the road , not looking toward the game , trying to look casual , holding the rifle
… how when he thought he saw her outside the regence one time it made him go all faint and
” “our mother will get tired of feeding them .
“maria ?
family , who were sportsmen , a french word pronounced with the accent on the men .
said it would be wicked .
the two flat-faced men in the leather coats stood by us on the ridge to let the tank pass .
this mission might have been ordered and never cancelled .
” nick stood up .
we told her it was just like that every morning .
the sedge that marked the canal ahead of them , they worked together in complete co-ordination .
you can purchase others in milan .
" " you can ' t ever tell , " said bill .
we ran out of aragon and down to the bank of a sand river , half a mile wide ,
drunk ?
it isn’t a bad walk .
it was a big meal at the hotel .
he found his pole where he had thrown it .
a rather high forehead , who had been clowning around from table to table , squirted one of the waiters
the nigger drummer waved at brett .
" " it ' s all right .
' please tell me if this bores you .
' i have made the connection .
the colonel had collected liars all his life , as some men gather postage stamps .
” “they’re awfully good .
' i will go in and see the grand master .
“you are sure you are not russians ?
chapter xl he was in the sunken oak hogshead that they used in the veneto for blinds .
i showed them the papers , which were written in very beautiful language and full of fratellanza and abnegazione ,
” “you are not a human being .
" let ' s just keep the car with us .
" are you related to georgette leblanc , the singer ?
two policemen with rifles , who had come in off the street patrol , were standing by the door and
i seen him like this plenty of times before .
he was happy about it , showing it to the spectators .
the general had only failure to show , and they had killed his prisoners .
then he goes away to work in the oil-fields and brings home this indienne that weighs right then one hundred
but he did not know why , because he could not think .
that of the colonel .
“i could fight good then , ” he said .
‘roger , i know i did .
i ' m going away to-morrow .
the nigger’s eyes watched him as he rose on one knee , his right arm dangling , took the hand
is and you can never have it all and yet what there is , now , you can have ,
” jack says and skips away down the floor , slapping the rope hard .
de la contrescarpe , then turned onto the cobbles of the rue mouffetard .
nick got out a bottle of tomato catchup and cut four slices of bread .
we all went in the truck .
“should we rush him ?
but , daughter , sometimes you don ' t just hold .
“it doesn’t matter if i’m moving around .
weight after it .
” “do you think you’ll get to love me ?
' ' is sheridan nice ?
it was surrounded by a sloping rim of earth that had been planted with sedge and grass , and the
the front line had , at the very worst moment , been directly below this apartment house along the upper
“wait a minute , ” somebody said .
money (_all of the stories back in the post that came in through a slit in the saw-mill door ,
it was the sullen boatman shooting at the ducks that would have come to the colonel .
' ' i think it may be because , with the full moon , he feeds all night .
we crossed the bridge and walked up the rue du cardinal lemoine .
“what’s that ?
' ' there in the hills .
it was made of bronze and glistened in the rain .
masai no kill to eat .
” “will we have that ?
“remember we have to fill the ice jug .
' don ' t make fun of me .
' come on , kudu , ' i said .
’ damned fine , eh ?
you stay there the whole season and only fight two times .
you’re my girl now .
where i save everything .
the declaration always set her off again .
way being to turn and take them over your shoulder as they go , before they set their wings and
" " i ' ll remember it , " i said .
he ' s over fifteen hundred pounds the way he is , he thought .
there was a statue of ponte , or maybe it was zonda .
' go on , ' she said .
” “what would you like , sir ?
' let ' s go look at the first one , wanderobo-masai , ' i said in english .
' ' we will have confidence in our leader .
free .
could do nothing about such as the weather .
' ' i think several things .
” “all they did was pick willard at toledo .
“i’d love to , ” helena said .
i sat down in the washroom and waited and he went down the aisle .
' ' the damned wind started to go round in a circle .
” they were going down the stairs now and he felt her close beside him .
” “you ought to , ” carl said .
” “i’ve heard his name , ” i said .
little hope .
he stood waiting , his face sallow , his hands fairly low , proudly and firmly waiting for the assault
' ' fifty plus one .
the cash box to do it and now what’s happened to your mother ?
as we came out , after several long circles in the woods to find places where we could get the
he carefully picked up all the apricots off the floor , some of them had gone under the stove ,
” “and the head , ” he said , tapping his forehead .
” below us some men stood up , half crouching , and ran forward toward a stone house in a
the further west you go the straighter and the easier it becomes .
became too broken , nicholas adams saw what had happened by the position of the dead .
' ' you asked me , ' the colonel said .
across the sweet fern swale , toward the river .
“right this way , gentlemen , ” said eddy .
” “no , ” says jack , “i got the insomnia .
he did not like to waken her and soon everything was quite all right and he slept peacefully .
” “he ain’t got no money to get a divorce .
“you will be able to play football again better than ever .
were arranged in a show-case .
' he pointed to a destroyed old man who did odd jobs and ran errands around the docks , always
and there was always something new about them , while the girls , after i had thought about them a
he was being polite .
" he pulled the sheet up over his face again .
' ' quite , ' pop said .
and at her neck .
” “the tanks were no good there , ” al said .
” “we will go now .
began to be alive with growing things .
" " robert cohn did , " mike put in .
still running water in the back rooms on all of the floors .
” “i’m sorry about the game .
' i ' ve got three more on the licence and we ' re leaving their country , ' i
he couldn’t keep him out with the left hand now .
i know there are tricks i ought to know .
" " we ' ll watch him with the glasses , " i said .
' except , ' he added .
' ' please don ' t talk like that .
we stopped in the shelter of the ridge , me sweating heavily and fixing a handkerchief inside the sweatband of
got a family .
" all night i lay awake and worry my can off .
he tested the knot and the spring of the rod by pulling the line taut .
” “il est bon , le pump , ” fontan nodded his head .
on the yellow plain , the birds circling over a white patch there , another beyond , there a third
damned strange people .
“i didn’t catch your name .
but you pick out somebody you never lie to .
” “yeah .
bring a girl friend if you like .
, even if he didn’t show it .
" if you ' re not tired , fish , " he said aloud , " you must be very
well , there would be no more quarrelling .
" fish , you are going to have to die anyway .
i got to take a beating .
“what’s your name , splayzey ?
we stopped and ate lunch at sestri .
' did you ever see their ears ?
all these people pretended to understand them , as did the boys with the pointers , a sort of half-arsed
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--come on , let ' s go up to the barracks .
" " what the hell , robert , " i said .
retaken , he corrected .
” there was always gambling then .
but watching the movement of the water against his hand he noted that it was perceptibly slower .
” then i told the turk the man was being sent on board ship and would be most severely dealt
was no one there .
across , on the other side , were fields of grain and trees along the banks of the ebro .
writer and national hero , certified and true if you must have heroes , and the colonel did not believe
than he could afford to lose that year , and when he paid coming down the stairs , i remembered
cola with signs that we would circle back in a long swing to the road and see if we could
they were right in front of us .
we don ' t need a map on this part .
“put on a little drag , ” i said .
in bull-fighting they speak of the terrain of the bull and the terrain of the bull-fighter .
" " bring any of the papers of the time that i was gone , " the old man said
puffs of cloud hung on the hillside after the rain and the trees dripped but we saw nothing .
up on his back .
' ' yeah .
but a torero can control his fear so that he can work the bull .
i wonder if she will like to shoot pheasant .
dear jesus please get me out .
they waved to us .
“i have denounced him , ” he said .
" " i ' ve been here long enough .
then he locked the door .
“i’m tired .
_ _ _num_ st roman soldier_--you tried the red ?
” the prisoner asked .
do you want to bathe first ?
i say , doesn’t leche mean milk ?
the barrel resting on my shoulder , and the sun hot enough to sweat you well as it burned the
i don’t give you any more money so you’ll keep out of trouble .
we’re partners .
the stone walls were whitewashed , and there was straw on the ground and wooden feed-boxes and water-troughs set against
i can ' t sleep .
” “let me kiss you , ” her brother said .
i didn’t mean to start this , and now i’m crazy as a coot and being as cruel to you
he picked up the glasses and took them to the bathroom .
“i can wake him up any time now , mister adams .
" " look , " said mike , " when do you go down to spain ?
" i wouldn ' t say .
we had tried working closer but they kept sniping at the camera and you could not work .
' , and shook his head sadly .
you should have been an indian , he thought .
' ' then what should we do ?
" the girl came in with the coffee and buttered toast .
football so they can understand , themselves , what they are talking of .
the small ruby on the crown of the turban .
really , barnes , you can ' t know .
" " you will be , soon enough .
across the river in the swamp , in the almost dark , he saw a mist rising .
" they are good , " he said .
' ' please don ' t be rough , ' she said .
he died , hamstringing him and pulling his guts out while he was alive .
earth .
heart .
' ' you should , please , to give me pleasure .
if one ever hits with the drag on he’ll jerk you overboard .
" monsieur a soif--moi aussi .
i was the last one to leave the town of san carlos .
about jesus .
“carl ain’t no good with girls , ” frank said .
i have not the money to buy it .
he chugged down the channel toward where the other boat lay against the mangroves .
i could feel the old man watching me from up under the roof as i drank the beer .
” “how strange !
' well , portrait .
on the mountain road to the bains de alliez and the beer-drinking contest where we failed to win the calf
' ' you ' d get over it .
” “it’s a long way there through the swamp , nicky .
the boy took the old army blanket off the bed and spread it over the back of the chair and
” “what about mrs .
as we were going along through the broken sunlight and shadow , the floor of the forest smooth and springy
“everything’s got its compensations .
“i’m sorry i talked the way i did at lunch .
of jack ' s head and socked the right into the body as hard as he could sock , just
cars turned onto the main road that led toward the sea-drive into la havana .
ever known , going back to the earliest thing you remember—which was , with me , the attic of the
" come on , you polak son-of-a-bitch , " jack says to walcott .
' ' you don ' t have to .
” “thank you .
we found nothing , no trace , no tracks , no blood , and i told m ' cola we
the tanks .
blackie , him that’s blindy now , and this other boy willie sawyer , and they were slugging and kneeing
“so you won’t ?
it’s your marsala .
” “that must be very elaborate .
could it have been hunger that made him desperate , or was he frightened by something in the night ?
he put on the lights a little later and soon they cut far ahead into the dark and the two
he was strong and heavy in nick’s hands and he had a pleasant smell and nick saw how dark his
you come and eat with us tonight .
so the cape swung out like a ballet dancer’s skirt and wound the bull around himself like a belt ,
" the count reached down and twirled the bottles in the shiny bucket .
” “one more .
against rocks .
he would .
” pinin looked at the floor .
there was plenty of line still and now the fish had to pull the friction of all that new line
" " no , why should i ?
he thought the cockpit was a hell of a sight , all right .
i guess he’s using strategy and tactics both now because we are attacking from straight in front and from both
" see you back here .
” “that wouldn’t ruin you morally .
it has destroyed the best .
” manuel lay back .
” “okay .
" " didn ' t i !
when it was supper-time i was too tired to go out .
he spat into the ocean and said , " eat that , galanos .
“is ole andreson here ?
yuh !
' ' a costly procedure , ' the colonel said .
pulling at him .
what did you get ?
i have my memories .
he’d insult him and make a good clean break .
" " i ' ve seen them , too , " montoya said .
' ' we haven ' t asked for the little negro that will look after me .
better .
” “i’ll need some money for that .
” to onèsime i said , “traverse at body height .
where is he ?
it was a big meal for france but it seemed very carefully apportioned after spain .
” then wham and he lit on his hands and knees beside the track .
afterwards , he couldn ' t recognize people .
but from here they could not see it .
i feel like hell to-night .
behind them came the jingle of the mules , coming out to go into the arena and be hitched onto
” “what’s the matter with chaves ?
the trunk of a tree .
how’s the weather .
" look up there , " i said .
“that’s happy steinfelt and lew morgan .
” “yes , ” said johnson .
” “this is a bigger town .
a chaplin comedy ?
' ' cheer him up , will you ?
we were going on ahead to camp with the chased-by-a-rhino spearman as guide and droop was going to skin out
call it .
houses were in relation to the fields and the thickets ; hunting the country in his mind as he went
“you looked so lovely sleeping .
they were reed buck and they looked strange and awkward as they moved in the distance but trim and graceful
but what about the time ?
on the next turn , he nearly had him .
" " i see , " said johnson , " and you say you have never been divorced ?
" no more tonight .
that will stake the kids while we are gone .
' ' what ' s the tariff ?
” “get them to help you in about an hour , ” said the lieutenant .
they talked plenty of money , anyway , and they spoke the kind of english cubans with money speak .
lovely as the theatre can be .
he could smell its breath .
on the other side there was glass , then the corridor , then an open window , and outside the
or the c .
we don’t shoot rummies .
' ' with no one of your sex .
_num_ d roman soldier—no , it ain’t just that .
est meilleure que le jack .
down over his face and he almost choked and we both laughed .
" and there ' s not a damn thing we could do , " i said .
it should be sharp and not tempered so it will break .
ocean very blue with the tide out and the water curling far out along the beach .
' ' do you see the boy with the wave in his hair , that is natural , and he
" i ' ll stay with you , " cohn said .
jack was on the porch writing a letter to his wife .
” “you better go back to town and stay there .
” “oh , yes , nickie .
” “my business is to care for the wounded , not to kill them .
there was no town , nothing but the rails and the burnedover country .
they were shouting in german and the driver and the officer with him must have seen the mines across the
" thanks for coming around .
it was another place farther on .
but the circles were much shorter now and from the way the line slanted he could tell the fish had
the back .
she saw it and smiled , and leaned forward and took a long sip .
nick’s heart tightened as the trout moved .
at the corner table , renata said , ' do you think we hurt his feelings ?
wheeler and i’m a busy man .
it was strange under the arc-light .
the bar is very costly .
" come on , he thought and looked down into the dark water at the slant of the line .
one of the boys was spread out on the sidewalk , face down , just outside the big window that
my knife broke .
i am sorry that i did that thing .
any girl .
then she was holding him tight and kissing him , her lips an island in the sudden white sea of
nickie , can we stay here always ?
' ' she heard the shots .
" " oui , monsieur .
" " good !
he was the one the marqués of villamayor had to get rid of because he was faithful , ” the
" i know we don ' t get much of a chance to judge good wine in the states now
the blood had flowed down into a pool where his body sagged the bunk .
” “nope .
be tragic .
this was a pleasant camp under big trees against a hill , with good water , and close by ,
” “well , ” my father said .
' you want a good one .
they will be pretty close into the lee with the wind and someone is sneaking on to them now surely
” “there and at the pavillion henri-quatre in st .
there was a clock on the wall , a zinc bar at the far end of the room , and
' _fisi_ , ' m ' cola would say and shake his head in delighted sorrow at there being such
" and keep awake and steer .
there were some people that had known mike at cannes .
had failed to attain their objectives .
la chasse et la pêche , " fontan said .
“i’m not quite right .
” by two o’clock the money was at the western union .
the doctor and two men in white were waiting for him .
' doumi !
horse shot with a man riding him nor a milk cow gut-shot when she walks into a fire fight .
the willow brush .
” then he went on , “you see , now , they’re not frightened of tanks any more .
we ' ll go .
“he just wants us all to be friends , ” the man who talked said .
bill and i got down and went into the posada .
lack that than work) .
' he asked the portrait .
he had not built it .
it’s no good to change the religion .
' the colonel said to him .
elliot and always told them sooner or later that he had led a clean life .
did they want to catch the bull’s eye with the capes after he was fixed and ready ?
” “you don’t have to repeat it .
the driver leaned his head around .
” “it always is to me .
if i cannot fish with you , i would like to serve in some way .
a little spit ran out of the corner of his mouth as he spoke , peeringly , with the elderly
” “we can only stay a minute , ” i said .
" " not yet .
" yes , signor maggiore .
but the thing is to have them .
“but he ought to get wise to himself politically .
peduzzi didn’t like her to be way back there .
gray painted cages with the bulls in them .
she had taken off her hat and put it on the table .
then one chink put his head out and saw eddy standing there with a rifle and ducked back .
then he started to fold the blanket .
he looked at me sort of funny with his derby on the back of his head .
i had heard them talking from a long way away .
“is it good this way ?
" " what do you want me to call it ?
” “come in , ” the adjutant heard the major say , “and shut the door .
you probably think i’m stupid .
“so , ” enrique said quietly .
' chapter xlv they were out on the road now and the early darkness was beginning .
" she brought out a book for me to sign , and i gave her a couple of coppers .
troops and his wearing of this helmet formed in us an instant prejudice against the great authority .
it looks quite differently now , he thought .
' that ' s a lovely-looking friend you have , ' p .
“i think i’ll go for a walk , ” the doctor said .
as detached as the mirrors in a periscope or as a saint in a procession .
he was born in _num_ .
' ' awful , ' the colonel told her .
“oh , yes , sir .
you can see cloud ' s peak .
m ' cola smiled and shook his head at this drinking .
” “oh that’s a key west boat .
' ' no , ' the colonel said .
that was luck for me , all right .
the end of the day never made him think of him .
then some stragglers who were really running .
he came out and said , “i’m coming with you and i’m going to pay you .
“i loathed it .
they were all feeling pretty good when they left .
i’m sorry .
the car went out of the square , along through the side streets , out under the trees and down
places .
you ' ve got plenty of money .
then , looking at the watch , in that quiet tone , that valuable quiet tone , “savoia .
but he had read it and it did not have magic any more and he knew it was a loss
a wheel still spinning .
he’s in the back of that car .
' she whispered .
" " you ' ve got mike .
nick stood up , a little wind blowing on his body .
bill came over from the piano and we drank the hot punch and listened to the wind .
and meanwhile , in the far-off dripping jungles of yucatan , sounded the chopping of the axes of the gum-choppers
” “i’ll love it .
weighed a ton .
he looked at her back .
a glacier , back to town .
“she never speeds up .
also , i ' ll have my maid wash my head and give me a manicure and a pedicure .
now you ' re reasonable .
i took a good drink and went back to the stem , putting the cork in tight and laying the
' i guess a man would do better now not to build himself a fine house or a church ,
dream and went on dreaming to see the white peaks of the islands rising from the sea and then he
but then i think of dick sisler and those great drives in the old park .
" well , " i said to guy , " you wanted to eat some place simple .
but you are not supposed to have a heart in this trade .
he was excited by the early morning and the river .
the long lines of trees were dark in the moonlight .
opposite us were rincón and baracóa .
of the camels .
, old-man biceps and the fallen pectoral muscles .
there is at least one in every town .
“there will just be my nose out of water and the tips of my breasts maybe and my toes and
' ' thank you , andrea .
only a nocturnal .
walcott came over .
“get out .
he liked her face because it was so jolly but he never thought about her .
manuel furled the muleta in his left hand .
on february _num_ he wrote from his home in key west to his editor maxwell perkins at scribners suggesting such
” “and why does he do that ?
you oughtn ' t to go out in the heat now--it ' s silly .
we had some beer under a tree in shade that seemed liquid cool after the white glare of a sun
it’s good .
we followed the porter with the truck down the long cement platform beside the train .
” “well , it’s over .
” “my father was killed by the north americans in cuba while he was there as a conscript .
' they were going with the wind now and they were both tired .
” “sure , ” jack says .
' ' well , it ' s a damn pleasant story .
" is it the gentleman ' s birthday ?
' i don ' t know why they ever let her into the hotel .
i was a fool not to go on and get the berries .
from the far corner of the seat margaret macomber looked at the two of them .
he himself could not read , he had clippings which said that in his debut in madrid he had been
” the cook looked away from him holding his lips tight together .
he can ' t see them yet , but they are going to come and that will make him feel
" the chambermaid put the tray with the beer-bottles and glasses down on the table .
the peasant went out the door .
" in a little while the probationer came into the room again .
feel that ?
the bus levelled down onto the straight line of road that ran to burguete .
” “naturally , ” his father had said , “with that pair of tusks .
“you are very lucky , comrade .
a threat ?
” “maybe it will get better .
they had fought , too , in the earlier stupid butchery on the isonzo and the carso .
but those were the nights the river ran so much wider and stiller than it should and outside of fossalta
" " we didn ' t know where you were .
the square and back to the hotel .
the fifties from the vehicle were firing and there was so much noise you could not hear .
of our bread which they all ate with much laughing , the men first , then the women .
“would you like button shoes ?
” “nothing like it this time of year for what ails you .
' ' he had better go into the wind a little first , ' the girl said .
he ' s too tired .
she was beautiful and he loved to look at her and her feet felt very good on his .
” “daughter ?
“in a fight , ” frank told him .
patch of trees .
" i ' m going over to the hotel to get the glasses and the wine-skin , " i said
as soon as he was out of sight of his sister he changed the .
he always smiled as though bull-fighting were a very special secret between the two of us ; a rather shocking
" there has never been such a fish .
” “because you leave the line , ” said the doctor .
as musicians they are fatal .
' the roman went on talking to me again and i listened carefully and ate another piece of the broiled
i ' ll see you all later .
nick held down the top strand of the wire fence with his ski and george slid over .
manuel , lying on the ground , kicked at the bull’s muzzle with his slippered feet .
" he ' s asleep .
' ' don ' t ever worry .
“well , they’re horses .
” “you’re crazy , littless .
but he had gone back into heavy sleep and the boy had gone across the road to borrow some wood
' ' and you ' re a good tracker , and a hell of a fine bird shot , too
we’ll be tired tonight and this will do .
“what’s the idea ?
he walked , grey-faced , to the concierge ' s desk and said , in italian , ' domenico ,
added , ' in spades .
but it was not quite complete and the colonel knew it and he thought : why am i always a
pillow .
he is beautiful and noble and knows no fear of anything .
' ' we are nearly home and you could be kind now if you wanted .
reserve .
" go on , tell him .
" well , " i said , " brett and mike ought to get in to-night .
always get his head down .
hares together up the little valley above the saw-mill they had talked of the fighting on pasubio and of the
“if he drinks like that he’ll go to sleep , ” another flyer said .
it was difficult .
nick had paid eight dollars for it a long time ago .
david belasco .
things were going to be all right .
" she turned to the man who sat by the cook .
he can always not come .
of an african desert , naked and alone , considering his days as numbered and nothing appearing to remain for
covered solidly with foliage .
turner had been a little strange .
" " december , " said the sexton .
" no other tunes were as satisfactory , mr .
and then he kissed her .
an all-night restaurant when some one came in the door and started shooting at the mexican .
if i begin to feel daunted i ' ll go off by myself .
i’ve wanted it so .
* * * * * i woke with a headache and the noise of the bands going by in the
“you just lay quiet .
, him running with the bunch , shoulder higher than them and black as hell and as i saw it
pedro romero said he had learned a little english in gibraltar .
" you all ready ?
” “your father was a griffon , ” the wicked lioness said , licking her whiskers .
" " yes , i ' ve got to get these cables off .
it was so crowded we could barely move .
' ' ettore says he will call back .
“it can be two bicycle policemen as easily , or be a bird .
he remembered how , by some miracle of chance in a war , he had been with his best friend
i taped it around the wrist and twice across the knuckles .
“i didn’t mean to be rude , papa .
' now , ' said pop , ' we ' ll let droop go ahead and see if he can
they were going to cut off his pigtail .
crossed , his skis sticking straight up and his nose and ears jammed full of snow .
hortons bay was asleep .
“it might be better not to speak of it , ” said the cropped-headed , bristly-faced man who said he
on a beautifully run shoot like this one too ?
“your car is dirty and you are dirty too .
the grass was wet and cold as he knelt on the bank and dipped the canvas bucket into the stream
he lay there in his white shirt on the bed in the dark .
" we better go back .
" " i believe it ' s a brothel , " mike said .
“so would you be drunk comrade old comrade .
" i slept all right , " jack said .
i thought i could shoot a shot-gun better than i could and i had lost plenty of money backing my
” “what are kindred spirits ?
i didn’t even answer him .
he drank it all .
arrived at the thorn fence and the hut , we broke camp fast .
" how can the man say he ' d mind now ?
“well , doc , ” he said , “that’s a nice lot of timber you’ve stolen .
cipriani will not like it .
" i took a note out of my pocket .
i really have faith in him .
the crowd was the boys , the dancers , and the drunks .
he thought about france and then he began to think about germany .
' ' how do you lose a regiment ?
he looks a little bit like georgie patton , the colonel thought .
that’s the way with drinking with your nose underwater .
, machine-gunning them as they scattered and ran .
you won’t !
' ' to come to your room , of course , and see how you live and how things are
it was not too far to get the pine studded hillside , the lake and the outline of the stone
” “it is medicine .
“because really i don’t know anything at all .
" " loss of blood .
" " i ' ll tell him .
he thought the dog would stay and he did but when david moved up toward the bulk of the elephant
' ' the kind of writing that can be done .
nobody asked you to stay either .
a woman came to the door .
” he’d been giving the nigger a dollar a day and the nigger had been on a rumba every night
it ' s a long way from here .
he had to hold it from hand to hand , as he threaded it , or it would slip back
“no , thanks , ” said hogan .
“your friends morgan and steinfelt , ” jack said .
i would leave a call at the desk .
” the little man said to the sergeant .
' or i ' ll buy him myself .
but as we went out to reach the edge of the stream we soon saw the plan was no good
' ' good-bye , ' she said .
” “ham and eggs .
we would find out pretty soon who could figure things out .
” “come on back in the shade , ” he said .
no matter how nervous we get .
it is necessary for a bull fighter to give the appearance , if not of prosperity , at least of
so , as a soldier , i am prepared to fight them .
' he ' ll never own you .
” “and he is dead ?
head , blasted him over .
“he’s drunk every night .
had shown him where to make the first cut , well down on the legs , around the lower chest
" " sure , " jack says .
' ' plenty , ' the colonel said .
“you see i am diver too .
to leave your gun and shooting gear in the trunk , sir ?
and in the heat , my feet out over the side of the car to keep them away from the
" in all his greatness and his glory .
" " i say , she is a lovely girl .
i was born here .
he thought we were silly to go out so late and he was glad to prove us wrong .
" it isn ' t cold , yet .
the blow hurt not only his hands but his shoulder too .
getting the zebra was no fun ; the plain was dull , now that the grass had dried , hot
the log was just awash in the lake .
' turn left , ' the colonel said .
marc is very good .
' ' i couldn ' t agree more fully , general .
" " i find it dirty .
turner .
the newly made catalan liquor most of them were drinking .
the count will be back .
' ' i don ' t need to purge , ' he said .
heh ?
nick was shocked .
“i’ll be right out .
there were four big beech logs lying almost buried in the sand .
“it’s my business and i’m going to do it .
do you think you belong here among us ?
" there are officers from the fort .
” “i’m going to lie down a while , ” jack says .
a .
just because he was a b .
" the champagne tasted like sweet pink cider .
“so you think that’s right ?
“look , an english girl last night told me i shouldn’t write about it .
the little devil , he thought , i wonder if he lied to me .
better give that cyclist some horn .
” “i couldn’t help it , ” nick said .
i wish we weren’t in on this damn thing .
you could sum up their attitude in this phrase , ' don ' t ---- me , jack .
” “i got to .
" " in red lodge it is of all prices , " said the big one .
not them .
" now go down and get the ice .
juma handed the broken weed to david’s father and his father rolled it in his fingers .
" we ' ll put the gear in the boat and then get some .
” ‘i don’t know , ” he said .
he remembered how the attack had taken off from monastier , gone through fornace , and on this winter day
i don ' t want to just hear about revolutions .
could gallop by the stands on their way up to the post and let everybody have a good look at
she’s a jewish girl .
he looked at the different welts and ridges that had come before they had plastic surgery , and at the
what can i think of now ?
" morgan said .
' you can ' t go .
” “c’est jolie , la neige .
dry tortugas .
” “i’ll call up about it , ” i said .
“i think you’re going to have a chance to fight one today , mr .
” “you have ever been in love ?
" " this morning .
at the edge of the meadow flowed the river .
i got it out of the bible .
” baldy stared at him .
" i told the wife i ' d take a room at the shelby to-night , " he said .
his father finished and stood up .
" " well , " i said , " don ' t ask me a lot of fool questions if
it all took a long time .
frenchman had done .
cohn was talking to her .
the other two were looking out through the blind .
so they probably were proud of him doing that .
“give me the stuff .
in the grass , all those papers their pockets had contained .
” “when is a man grown-up ?
old man was raising the strain to breaking point and raising it to breaking point again and again .
the wanderobo sat with me in front beside kamau .
it was a big , closed car , with a driver in a white duster with blue collar and cuffs
and what about some brother officer of mine who split with him ?
there was no more true elephant ; only the gray wrinkled swelling dead body and the huge mottled brown and
' you are an american .
” “we might try , ” said macomber .
also i wanted the whisky for itself , because i loved the taste of it and because , being as
a few minutes with each bull .
you going to run as a christian ?
he leaned over with the pack on and picked up the leather rod-case and started out from the pine trees
all the shutters of the hospital were nailed shut .
“this is a good place .
not feel they were getting their money’s worth unless they had shared that cot with the white hunter .
” “no , ” nick said .
or we can go on a really good train .
a waiter came in and stood beside manuel ' s table .
no sweat .
he put the apple in the pocket of his mackinaw coat .
what i would like to give her is security , which does not exist any more ; all my love
the train was now coming into paris .
" pretty well , sometimes .
' you have boundary lines so that when the battalions cross their boundaries they will not then fight each other
he knows all about it now and he will never trust me again .
" " he comes here at six o ' clock , don ' t he ?
the doctor told me that the major ' s wife , who was very young and whom he had not
was served , toward the city hospital which was on a high hill that overlooked the smoke , the buildings
" this thing i ' m on barely keeps me off the ground , " the first picador said .
practical , too , i suppose .
the memsahib and i will break camp in the morning , move the outfit and go on to where dan
the head bulked enormous and the horn swept up and back in a fine curve .
he was going to be an engineer .
' look at that for an anecdote .
the whole trip had taken only ten days .
" you just told me you had no money to pay me , " i said .
" he had pushed his straw hat hard down on his head before he hooked the fish and it was
following and organizing the road races had made him know france .
only i have no luck any more .
george made me a couple of jack roses .
" asked the voice .
crossing it .
i’d kill him like that .
” “no , comrade , ” said the man handling the dice without looking up .
be ironic .
holes where mustard gas shells had been and the average broken house is finer to see than one that has
“does the boat owe any money ?
“why don’t you stay in camp ?
smoke above it , and the dawson mountains looking like real mountains with the winter snow on them .
a new thing .
i wanted to say something pleasant and hearty , instead , ' how many times did you shoot him ?
" " pretty good , " jack said .
, the lamplight coming from the window , where inside , in the smoky , new-wine smelling warmth , they
not everything .
that’s the way it is every night .
it was all that was left of the town of seney .
, heavy-bodied , short wings drumming , cackling , to go over the trees ahead .
her dark hair lay , long and heavy , over his good arm .
they drove us from the hills that you internationals tried to take today and that you could not take .
“oh darling , ” he said .
“no you don’t .
" i fought in tripoli .
” so i had a look at her and just then she died and went absolutely stiff .
lights , i knew that i would never have done such things , and i was very much afraid to
” “but you gave me the telephone number .
“is it still raining ?
you might have trouble coming back through the plaza de espana .
" " if our money comes and you ' re sure you don ' t mind .
chapter _num_ when i woke in the morning i went to the window and looked out .
re-load , he saw the bull was down .
then he opened and closed them on it lightly to loosen them .
" bill ' s a yell of laughter , " mike said .
” “get away from me , ” manuel said .
there is no question of civil responsibility .
' ' i don ' t put my hands much in my pockets when i ' m working .
“smoke ?
they went off and now , at the end of the day , the sun came out brightly below the
he was very careful to drain his fingers on the edge of the saucer so there was only a film
we started down .
then he fell back into the sea and picked up the scent and started swimming on the course the skiff
remember plenty things and your best friends again and the finest people that you know .
” “henry must be going good .
sky .
to heat the coffee .
this is the best one we have around here .
other man with him in a language i did not understand .
it was very hot in the street and the light on the white buildings was sudden and hard on his
" " i do not understand .
' come on , ' said pop .
the clouds over the land now rose like mountains and the coast was only a long green line with the
there was one panel of rabbits , dead , one of pheasants , also dead , and one panel of
“i’ve got to get the ten-forty from montreux .
“in your room .
the people would not like it .
maize field .
a little is enough .
brett stood by the bar .
me and another .
he looked across the sea and knew how alone he was now .
manuel ran toward the bull .
_num_ shorts in the rifle for the long-rifles .
" she wasn ' t looking at me .
his wife was looking out of the window .
he would not let me buy one in return , but said he would take a rinse of the mouth
' ' you mean she went away , from ambition , when you only were away from duty ?
" oh , yes , " william campbell said , speaking directly against the sheet and feeling the texture with
' ' and what will you drink ?
" aw , hell !
he looked at the bull going down slowly over on his side , then suddenly four feet in the air
' ' take plenty of beer then .
all sit around about two or three hours in front of some drink like a vermouth and seltz and they
' this high pressure salesman , and i say this with no disrespect , but with admiration for all his
" because really i don ' t know anything at all .
, she had gone well away so she would not disturb this little pocket of the plain that he could
one morning after he had been home about a month his mother came into his bedroom and sat on the
i cannot think very well this time of day at any rate .
with the grey eyebrows over the softly hooded eyes and the ever happy face of the old soldier who is
long , yellow house with a low stable and the river much wider than it was and stiller .
and this certainly was not the month to hit it in .
” “he’s hard to describe .
manuel passed the muleta in front of the bull ' s black muzzle .
' ' do you think he will put us in a book ?
” “don’t you dare take her , ” mrs .
the cab started with a jerk .
of the street .
we ate a lunch at jimmey handley ' s place .
up the street were other dead .
manuel noticed the way the banderillas hung down on his left shoulder and the steady sheen of blood from zurito’s
if i can really do four out of the six that will pretty well balance me with myself and make
“you want to give him a cigarette ?
let ' s give everyone the benefit of the doubt .
his nose was swollen and there were edges of loose skin where blisters had been .
hit that bull .
my father reached the package across the aisle .
the sun had gone down while he had been in the fight with the sharks .
" anyway , he couldn ' t bring her over to be buried until the snow was gone .
farm buildings that disappeared in the sudden smashes of stone dust from the hits by high explosive shells , nor
pretty soon come others .
macomber stood there feeling sick at his stomach , his hands that held the springfield still cocked , shaking ,
as soon as is light .
" " do you mind if i come up and sit around the office ?
somebody threw an empty champagne-bottle from close range .
but you ought to have ice cold spring water and the cup chilled in the spring and you look down
" a simple enquiry outside , the snow was higher than the window .
i asked him once .
for it ?
' ' is everything that rigid ?
but it was not the undertaker that had given him that last face .
the first german i saw climbed up over the garden wall .
i refuse to repeat it .
” “he and i , ” she said , turning her head toward the english correspondent .
“what you laughing at ?
beside him too were the two gun-bearers chattering in wakamba .
" " did you feel all right ?
for _num_ caballos , and caused the death of antonio garcia , novillero , april _num_ , _num_ .
we ' ll have to go like hell to get there and back and have any fishing at all .
he had the black ass bad too .
“look , ” i said to him .
packard but she loved him and never minded when he teased her .
he had seen the world change ; not just the events ; although he had seen many of them and
” “aw , he wasn’t out , ” hogan said .
and undefeated .
' tell me just what happened to-day .
he tried to get up .
" " want to call it off ?
on that thermometer thirty-seven is normal .
where these things always happen .
" i ' ll take it , " cohn said .
it was a fiesta and it went on for seven days .
" we were standing under the arcade at the door of the hotel .
that does it , he thought .
this is the wrong attitude to take , he said to himself ; since he did not wish to express
sleeping on the screen porch of the house that stood in the shade of the trees above the lake was
oh , that poor cayetano !
" i didn ' t know sharks had such handsome , beautifully formed tails .
" they were going to shoot you when you came in to supper .
' what are the beats ?
i told him on a cold night like this he’d ought to bundle up so the whole inside of his
there was one mass of yellow shirts dancing up and down in the crowd .
here , at last , was life .
demijohns can’t talk .
“what did she say ?
some one very attractive that is yours and not yours and that makes the conversation more--how shall i say ?
figure this one out and what you have to do and then stick with that , he told himself .
' then the colonel asked the _gran maestro_ to accompany him in a drink , but the maitre d '
“oh , don’t be fresh , ” she said .
" oh , yes , sir .
they had all been packed in the suitcase .
” “my old woman keeps them so goddam clean it’s a crime .
picing .
” “oh , yes .
' ' not any more .
” the young gentleman looked at the stream discolored by the melting snow .
i would avoid it .
so the colonel fired at him twice .
” “terrible .
" good beer .
" " i think so , " said harris .
just what was it you wanted to know ?
t _num_ jackson was in the boat with the luggage and the portrait , which had been well and sturdily
, the blood was still bright on the stones and on the fallen leaves and grass and the hills were
in sight of the masai village .
horn-rimmed spectacles , talked and answered questions for half an hour .
other window , blowing across her as she slept without stirring .
' ' could you tell me any anecdotes , and we stop talking about this , which is my true
” “i’d kill him like that , ” nick said .
' ' thank you , ' she said .
all night long , every one along the corridor heard the russian .
the wind blew day and night for five days and when it stopped half the palm fronds hung dead against
' ' three thousand five hundred .
" " how old will i be when i get a shotgun and can hunt by myself .
you can sell the horn if you don ' t want it .
but they are not important .
after his own image ?
you drank it all up .
" the american lady looked and saw the last car .
” asked the lady .
” “you don’t think things we’ve had and done should make any difference in understanding ?
eyes !
" not like that .
after that , when the second ripping crash had smashed his hind quarters and he had come crawling on toward
' it was a beautiful portrait ; neither cold , nor snobbish , nor stylized , nor modern .
' you ' re sure you won ' t come in ?
, the bush again close to the edge of the road , we came up into some hills and through
we knew there were kudu there and the prince of wales had killed his kudu from that camp , but
" tell him how wrong he is , " tom turned to me .
i thought there must be something wrong all the time .
“hogan’s as dumb as i am .
of the people .
“i hate to write a dispatch , ” i said .
mike and bill came in half an hour later .
it was overrun with badly administered trees , and not a place that you would live in if you could
perhaps i had read something about it once .
motorcars were stopped along the road and bedding and things from inside the farmhouse were spread in the field .
" like at the table , " he said .
if he were in a crowd nothing he said stood out .
“tell me , mon capitaine , how did you feel when you let the thing go ?
he could see denver from the denver post , and correct the picture from the rocky mountain news .
he was playing the victorious leader home from the chase now .
“when they come again i locked the door .
they ' re supposed to feed right out in the open .
" " may i take the cast net ?
” “he is a fellow townsman , ” he said , “and he is in distress .
, “walcott on a foul .
' ' no bugs , ' he said firmly .
but they have read the critics and they must write masterpieces .
" i wish it were a dream and that i had never hooked him .
the basque lying against my legs was tanned the color of saddle-leather .
please and please again .
” “that’s the truth , ” max said .
there were the lights of a car on the road climbing the mountain .
” “packard’s a fine man .
on sunday , i will read all the illustrated papers including the outrageous ones .
” “oh , yes , i saw them .
he would have killed juma , too .
' ' all they got in the local museum is arrow heads , war bonnets , scalping knives , different
“i just started to love this sheet .
i’m sure you’ve cut plenty people’s throats .
" " all right , " i shouted .
danger and the fear of it had once made him feel empty in his stomach .
" better weather for me than for you , fish .
" " maybe they won ' t like it .
" they were both silent .
another absinthe for this señor !
" you know where , " said tom .
" " what happened inside ?
they had the scent and were excited and in the stupidity of their great hunger they were losing and finding
but soon he has to circle .
“the bigger they are , the more meat for the poor .
“you go , billy .
“i’m going up to paris and sail from havre for the states .
” he pointed to a comer table .
we each had an aguardiente and paid forty centimes for the two drinks .
i can ' t slide , billy .
” “you haven’t seen me lately .
that’s poetry .
" " i guess you are all right .
also you have divisional artillery and a battalion of tanks and many spare parts .
used as a brooklyn ice-pick .
he must have felt it when brett gave him her hand .
” “like two against one is nigger fun .
we must all help young writers .
“i’ll climb onto one of those ponies while you collect the kids , ” zurito said .
into the corrals .
cm .
manuel went through the long room to a small room in back .
“here’s to the lion , ” he said .
“i don’t know why i wanted it so much .
“it’s baldy , ” said one of the crap shooters .
tell you some more at lunch .
” “i’ve got some tanks about eight minutes from here on foot , ” al told him .
“another one ship them before him .
edge of the little plateau that the boulevard circled and the trench and the weather-rotted sandbags were still there .
that is the kind of season you have and then you talk to me about running your own business .
face it yet .
and saying , “you must put it out .
not contemplate the delicate conformation of its roots , leaves and capsules without admiration .
we all watching her .
' s knees .
i had believed we might see him from the ant-hill and after we came down we went on for about
" " wonder what day god created the chicken ?
holding her by the two arms they walked her toward the car .
needed it .
then we missed another .
bumped his back , bumped his face in the sand .
it has merde , money , blood ; look how that grass grows ; and the iron ' s in
even in the morning .
he was a muddy red , his horn showed clearly , and there was nothing ponderous in his quick ,
but i don ' t know anything about football .
in going where you have to go , and doing what you have to do , and seeing what you
" i told the driver to go to the parc montsouris , and got in , and slammed the door
” “they’re dead , ” said someone .
“there isn’t enough of this to do any good .
it was now ten o’clock in the morning .
he was lighting up a little .
' ' that is an awful way to say a sad thing .
at the camp and m ' cola seemed to be delighted when the old man fell going through the thorns
they were all standing outside the chapel where san fermin and the dignitaries had passed in , leaving a guard
george fixed me up fine the other day .
length across two planks , with two men staggering at the end of each plank , to the fish house
" santiago , " the boy said to him as they climbed the bank from where the skiff was hauled
“where did the boss dig this fellow up ?
i had read the accounts of his two appearances in madrid in the bull-fight papers , so i was all
inside something seemed to explode .
he grabbed the horn with his two hands and rode backward , holding tight onto the place .
and dove again .
” “no , ” the waiter who was in a hurry said , rising from pulling down the metal shutters
” “i’m awfully glad .
“you and odgar go and talk .
“so would i .
' ' good , my colonel .
” “don’t drink that , ” she said .
' ' whisky better .
” “could we try it ?
” “you’re just scared .
i have been around a very great deal .
it was an odor like verbena and he liked this early morning smell of the dew , the crushed bracken
the hill where we had watched from with our glasses .
he was ashamed of me for a while , you know .
or practical and that was the sum total of direct sexual knowledge bequeathed him by his father except on one
" " never going to get tight any more .
sort of dancy and tight looking with the jock keeping a tight hold on them and maybe easing off a
it ' s your car , sir .
if you could have a pillow in your left hand you’d be all right .
chapter _num_ the taxi went up the hill , passed the lighted square , then on into the dark ,
the kitchen , seemed romantically beautiful .
' ' all right , ' i said .
they ate the buckwheat cakes with butter and log cabin syrup out of a tin log cabin can .
and cars , with seats on the roofs , that went back and forth to the suburbs with , at
sometime we ' ll go out and get some .
as he ran , his jacket flopped where it had been ripped under his armpit .
" he has the type .
don ' t you read ?
but they’re gone now since they quit cutting hemlock bark and the camps closed down .
' romantic bastard .
” “i know that , ” i said .
” “i’m not too old , ” manuel said .
tried to keep the cutting across the calloused parts and not let the line slip into the palm nor cut
m ' cola saying , ' no , no ' , to me very firmly and solemnly .
' ' the _gran maestro_ sent this , ' the second waiter said .
you can tell me any sort of crap you want because it’s interesting and i’m grown up enough to sort
i will be able to circulate .
it was not one siren .
“look , paco .
this is not killing kudu .
they carry those bows and arrows as protection .
onto the stretcher and cried and cried , and he looked so white and gone and so awfully dead ,
i’m full .
the sun was high and the patch of shade was very small .
as she came into the room he put his hand out for the drink and closed his hand on it
became middle-aged , and wilson noted his crew-cropped hair , fine eyes only faintly shifty , good nose , thin
” trudy folded her brown legs together happily and rubbed against him .
“try , harold .
" " au show .
yours isn’t .
wore my coat .
" " isn ' t there anything we can do about it ?
it bowed with the pull .
interpret for him , and so the waitress brought him something else as a replacement , a plate of cold
his lips .
he was pretty good in there to-day .
" zurito leaned back , relieved .
i come back to get married .
i know now and for keeps and for always .
he made four veronicas like that , and finished with a half-veronica that turned his back on the bull and
a pursuit race william campbell had been in a pursuit race with a burlesque show ever since pittsburgh .
he would not mind calling me .
the nigger was lying in the middle of the load of sacked liquor with his leg up .
they can crawl in and stay in there with you .
out of the window of the hospital you could see a field with tumbleweed coming out of the snow ,
cohn was crying , and brett had told him off , and he wanted to shake hands .
" i looked across at the table .
i hoped so .
it was just as white as a lye barrel and coming from eastern harbor to sou’west key you couldn’t recognize
" " here , " i said .
" " i tire you talking ?
" " little girl yourself .
out with them .
" " everything we want ' s the dinner , eh ?
“don’t you worry either , boy .
" no , thank you , " said the waiter and went out .
" it was a wonder , " manuel said .
' ' i ' m all through with that , ' i said .
we won’t ever speak about it again .
” “go on , sergeant .
" the saloon must go , and i will take it with me .
” “that early ?
but we’re not going to kill people , nickie .
” “did you ever meet him ?
" it was going just the way he thought it would .
" the express is an hour late , sir , " she said .
not even in the newspapers .
” “i’ll call you up , ” i said .
it’s like making your own youth .
they were much more powerful and simpler than the general-issue american bazooka , having a bigger warhead and you could
as he stroked him to be quiet and they both watched and listened as the moon came up and gave
all my life i have been perfectly happy .
it tightened , as always , but just when he reached the point where it would break , line began
only the skin running from the eyes down to the nostrils , smooth grey and delicately marked with white ,
“wheah are the tanks ?
ran the place knew that the case was hopeless .
" but you are your father ' s and your mother ' s and you are in a lucky boat
trigger .
” “well , ” i said , “we don’t have to do it .
" " do you understand dialect ?
it was a little before noon .
m ' cola shook his head .
are you still slaving away at _la vie militaire_ ?
“did you hear me ?
the three-inch pieces and then the rising cry of the shells coming toward us and going on over our heads
chapter xxx the colonel and the girl lay quietly on the bed and the colonel tried to think of nothing
' ' yes , ' the colonel agreed .
about it .
lifted the ashes of the burned-over ground as we walked .
her husband did not answer .
where his trunk had moved it a little way from the place it had rested on the ground and where
“what do you see ?
” “after i scalped him i’d throw him to the dogs .
stanford white , too .
i give very much of a damn myself .
i suppose what i looked for then , was patches of shade when we fell out , and wells in
” “about one month ago .
some time along toward daylight i went to sleep .
' ' never fight under me , ' the colonel said .
had hung on the inside of the blind to hold shells .
” “you ask him , please .
how gentlemanly the boys are before the fight !
” “what is that kind of tonic ?
we ' re just waiting to be pulled out .
i couldn’t identify you—” the boats had drifted apart .
” “come on , let’s go some place where we can get some real beer , ” one of them
holding the revolver in his right hand he pulled the cord with his left to stop the train .
each time he felt the horn coming .
old mount-to-the-head hadn ' t thought of that .
” as we went out there were six of them on the floor and al wagner was reaching up to
' that ' s great , ' i said , the words coming out as cheerfully as a croak .
" i say , michael , you might not be such a bloody ass , " she interrupted .
man , came a wild shouting .
when they’re all on board he’s going to give me some more money .
by him ten yards away , hit in two places , in the gut and high up in the rump
' ' splendid , ' the colonel said .
that’s not his play .
she’ll help me because buying trout is just as bad as selling them .
it was not finished to his satisfaction at the end of vacation .
“don’t pay any attention to me .
homage to switzerland part i portrait of mr .
besides i have never married .
but the fighting jacket of the man who killed him and who is called the matador was wet through by
the brakeman opened the door .
" " how ' d you like the bulls ?
soldier was always kidding jack , just sort of kidding him all the time .
then i showed him about the safety and had him put it on and off and snap the gun a
but now it had come and what was he doing ?
' i ' m just kidding you .
he walked it carefully and at the speed he should walk it .
“make me happier than nothing .
i never shot a safer or more careful duck in my life than that .
" sure , " jack says , " i ' ll sleep now .
" nick stood up .
we started down and in a ravine jumped a waterbuck bull and two cows .
" i don ' t smoke , sir .
" don ' t let ' s go there , " brett said .
he was looking at nick .
” “he couldn’t hit you with a handful of bird-shot .
i have other dreams .
it is an ignorant attitude and the people who have it do not survive , but very few pleasanter things
and i said , ' look at them , pop ' .
the bull looked at him ; his eyes were quick .
“that upper beach from where we were was a fine place to land .
it was dirty in the smoker and the black leather on the seats had been burned by cinders .
how much of it was the responsibility he felt for me to pop and how much was his own acute
he ' ll bleed when i start him going and that will bring it down .
then , and his father would say , “they’ve run up the flag .
you’d grow up and have to get married .
' _ciao_ , ' the colonel said .
rien que des books .
he came out , crawling under the cheesecloth .
the peasant stood up .
” “it seems not , ” the girl said .
tail .
" he says you should denounce him , " mr .
' ' then let us be married at once .
” “i will keep the cash box myself , ” he said .
as soon as he was gone the innkeeper came into the room again and spoke to the sexton .
' ' one is not better than the other ?
i was wet to the waist and my socks were mud soaked .
" we went down-stairs and out onto the boulevard st .
" to a man who ' d come in .
“glad to see you , ” jack says .
" the thousand times that he had proved it meant nothing .
i turned off the light and tried to go to sleep .
smell .
” “do you want anything of me , signer maggiore ?
“but it’s chipped awfully fine .
' ' that ' s a little rough , ' the colonel said .
tired , sweating , and feeling more sunk than angry now , i got in beside kamau and we headed
“get on the blood spoor .
” “look at them , ” he said .
last night i found her not so gentille .
he ' s born , is where he ' s meant to go .
" " il est bon , le pump , " fontan nodded his head .
purple-black head of a black marlin .
these two are worth nothing .
he could see the car ferries lying at the trumbo dock where he would go around to head up for
i ' m a lucky son of a bitch and i should never be sad about anything .
" he turned his head and looked at me .
hell .
' ' get you ?
“i am happy about what has happened to my mother , ” he said .
she filled the quarter litre wine measure with a funnel .
in the end i find she is very nice .
a soldier came in and put some pine branches , chopped into irregular lengths , into the stove .
" " don ' t worry , " nick said .
manuel sat up on the operating-table .
" and i remember when he said it and i was a lovely piece then exactly as he said ,
he was rowing steadily and it was no effort for him since he kept well within his speed and the
raincoats my ass .
' i ' m talking true .
" but man is not made for defeat , " he said .
american men make the best husbands , " the american lady was saying .
i just got nine into her .
" " closerie des lilas .
“i’d almost like to take her away because he’s so silly .
' ' let ' s play , ' the colonel said .
you ought to be able to eat on that .
' he ' s got his rhino anyway , ' pop said .
” bill said .
" " south america hell !
" as the sun set he remembered , to give himself more confidence , the time in the tavern at
' ' cheese , ' the colonel said .
" the second time i was better .
' and now we begin the good part of it again .
it was obvious it was not being aimed .
going down in the elevator made him feel hollower than ever inside .
they knew everything the elephant had done , pointed out the signs of it to each other without speaking ,
you get angry about a lot of things and you , yourself , dying uselessly is one of them .
' too far , ' i said to m ' cola .
“where you walk from , blindy ?
i know some people that might let me be buried on their place .
" he stopped for us to laugh .
" he is tiring or he is resting , " the old man said .
” he laughed , then tapped his stomach .
his hand came away wet .
or the bull and then he finally made it .
i gave her a fearful hiding about jews and bull-fighters , and all those sort of people , and do
" retana , " he said , listening .
it ' s like the dry law .
" no , no !
an inside pocket of his old military coat .
wonderful .
' ' i ' m sorry , ' karl said .
" " better eat .
margot is .
” “we will bring beer .
she felt very small .
you want her because she can’t help it and you lose her because she can’t help it and a man’s
was in command .
“i want to have a kitty to sit on my lap and purr when i stroke her .
" french is more cultivated .
“i understand it .
” “take it easy , wesley , ” the man told him .
even if it were wrong to say them he must say them .
was looking at .
' ' go on to , majesty , and we ' ll buy the god-damn jewel .
" " i ' m pretty religious .
" that is my certificate of membership , " he said .
below , across the flat where the ambulances were coming and going , was the green foliage that marked the
i want so to be a saint .
there was an arm of the lake between the swamp and the hills .
but this is so much more fun than flying .
he put on the map-reading light , and with his bad hand , printed a short message in block letters
it made the boy sad to see the old man come in each day with his skiff empty and he
' ' do you think it is necessary to have been born at the time to know about things that
” in the dark she kissed him , hard , on the mouth .
she shot very well this good , this rich bitch , this kindly caretaker and destroyer of his talent .
” “get back to madrid .
it was only temporary of course .
the bird was gone .
' where did all this happen ?
“it ain’t that .
“it’s hell , isn’t it ?
he’s giving me a few extra treatments .
' don ' t kid me , ' karl said .
his name is crut-face evans .
" your friend , is he aficionado , too ?
it was all in his eyes .
" i said we were going out , " i said .
" zurito said .
are rotten and they lose confidence .
' that spooked me , ' i said to pop .
it ' s all in the price of the room .
a waiter came with a cloth and picked up the glasses and mopped off the table .
and besides he’d given us the winner , but i guess that’s what he is , all right .
i reached up and took the other bottle and got the corkscrew and drew the cork .
i truly did .
' ' richard , ' she said .
” “you don’t shoot them from cars , ” he heard wilson saying in his ear .
i couldn ' t do any good with the grains pole and i took off my clothes and stood and
she had blushed and laughed and then gone upstairs crying with the yellow sporting paper in her hand .
" " how big are they really ?
“it’s nice here , ” he said .
what don’t you know , anyway ?
" " he had a wife once too .
he hadn’t lived long enough .
but today is eighty-five days and i should fish the day well .
” “i believe it , ” said the biggest one .
“what ?
“you’ve got to keep to your left .
of the dancing and drinking society of tafalla .
“how much are the rooms ?
they were all around him trying to lift him and put him on their shoulders .
" can i offer you a beer on the terrace and then we ' ll take the stuff home .
he knows the game .
they had seen cedar waxwings so calm and gentle and distinguished moving in their lovely elegance with the magic wax
" every minute now you are closer to home .
he’s a hooker and he carries his hands pretty low .
" i ' ve been asleep .
gilch ?
' _hapana m ' uzuri .
” “it’s very good ; sit here close .
“thanks , ” said the darkest and smallest one .
the fish had slowed again and was going at his usual pace .
looking carefully out across the prairie and all along its far side .
” “sure , ” i said .
ain’t it a beauty ?
" i just had enough to pay montoya .
he was not afraid of the black spots .
“just in the gym .
wops , said boyle , i can tell wops a mile of .
i could learn to run one , he thought .
“feel bad ?
” we went along the road all night in the dark and the adjutant kept riding up alongside my kitchen
" sherry , " cohn said .
he heard his father moving around in the living room .
' ' is the muehlebach very splendid ?
think of what you can do with what there is .
we will say , and i for one am proud to say--and i want you to say with me ,
' ' it ' s _awful_ looking , ' she said .
but the hemlock forests were .
dog goes through in water in cold weather .
but he had said it enough in this country too and he had believed it .
the fear was still there like a cold slimy hollow in all the emptiness where once his confidence had been
nous sommes partis le dimanche .
" zurito asked , big and looming beside manuel in the dark .
but mostly it was dark and unreal and sad and strange and classical like the engravings .
shook his head sadly .
' what happens to those men ?
” and he said “i don’t know who killed him but he’s dead all right , ” and it was
" listen , bright boy , " he said from the kitchen to george .
" fix your eyes on the uniform .
" " once in a while .
” “did they bother you ?
“fuck elephant hunting , ” david said softly .
ahead , and then lifted to a little rise , and off on the left was a hill with an
when they made a dry camp at dark in the forest he went to sleep as soon as he sat
and made into seats , the canary was shaking his feathers in the sunlight that came through the open window
, chief , ” said eddy .
” blackie was biting onto willie sawyer’s face and he had a good holt and it give way with a
" wollen sie trinken ?
etienne du mont , went smoothly down the asphalt , passed the trees and the standing bus at the place
” nothing happened .
station very small and the lake looking different and from a new angle and then we were out of sight
the water came up in a tile sunk beside the road , lipping over the cracked edge of the tile
from babati we had driven through the hills to the edge of a plain , wooded in a long stretch
' wrote _ulysses_ .
" he made as though to roll to one side ; then held himself still .
over .
" " you can call me alice , " the big whore said and then she began to shake again
“i would never denounce him myself , ” i said , now trying to undo for myself what i had
" " there ' s nothing to prove he won ' t be , " i said .
in the upper bunk was her husband .
” “i don’t want to know what they were like , ” ole andreson said .
to continue to use the silly parlance of my trade : this could or could not be faulty intelligence .
' ' i killed four ducks .
a very fine attack .
' ' she is forgotten , ' the colonel said .
but there was nothing now that he could do about it except to try to be kind to his last
i’d come back and sit down beside him and he’d pull a rope out of his pocket and start skipping
" hell , " i said , " why go to strasbourg ?
' pop said nothing .
they took the thing away from his face .
john came out in a car from town .
this is a wicked stretch of country .
, bush-scrubby hills , looked awful .
[_he makes a lifting gesture with his two palms together .
” the down-state man said to his partner .
anyway it did not work well at all until it began to get dark outside ; but all night it
motorcyclists in leather suits and helmets came up and down the cut on their cycles or , where it was
days like this stretched out ahead .
" i need that money too badly .
the wind was blowing , looked at the portrait , poured another glass of valpolicella and then started to read
i went into a bathing-cabin , undressed , put on my suit , and walked across the smooth sand to
i want you .
he did not want to tell any more lies .
they ' ve been shot at there ever since there ' s been salt .
” “i liked it very much .
she was standing looking away , the thread in her folded hands .
bicycle road-racing was the only sport in the world , he said .
it was dark in the wine-shop and full of men singing , hard-voiced singing .
there were three boys who came each day who were about the same age i was .
a walk .
jack and i took one and the rest of them went on and had two or three each .
“it was really just gaiety .
and each one you have to kill separately .
this was flattering and pleasing .
" we ought to toast something .
after about four rounds jack has him bleeding bad and his face all cut up , but every time walcott
" " you made plenty of money .
she said i shouldn’t .
if there ' s a jug goes along , or a case of beer , they think it ' s
they said he was awful .
' did my literary pal get off ?
we want to leave plenty of time for them .
“everybody ought to have button shoes if they like .
” i’d ask him .
” the little white man looked at nick .
if i don’t want one i won’t take one .
good luck , miss hancock .
' ' it is such a sad science ; if it is a science , ' the girl said .
you remember the gare de lyon and how they would have sort of push tables with papers and magazines and
“and i can fly this old elevator .
i ' m the first .
take me on—” “why , i loved you .
" " no , " said johnson , " it is not interesting .
couldn’t we go down it in a canoe some time ?
" he stood up from the table his face white , and stood there white and angry behind the little
” “we’ll know quicker .
she leaned forward against the table and put her hands on her breasts and smiled .
but you’re not going to kill people and that’s why i’m going with you .
outside on the porch the cook got off his chair and passed into the hall that led back into the
he had never thought of that before .
' ' you do anything when i say please .
but there was a good bottle of really cold , dry , resiny tasting greek white wine and for dessert
” “extremadura , ” he said proudly .
came up , followed by the porters .
i’ll go on hurting you .
the colonel , feeling himself sweating , although he knew he was protected from the wind by his field jacket
the fire , not thinking , in complete happiness , feeling the whisky warm me and smooth me as you
the other basques had been impressed .
" he hurt him most badly .
" " up to paris .
when there were parades or speeches to the troops , and d ' annunzio , with his lost eye ,
try not to .
rested against the wood .
" we were through the town and out on the smooth road beyond , with the stubble of grain-fields on
located where i thought the buff had been when i shot .
but what was left you packed on a sled wrapped in a blanket and roped on and you got the
the docks .
when he woke there was some one sitting across the table from him .
” “do you have bad luck with all games ?
” “i know , ” said johnson .
but she ' s lovely .
bruce had worked on him a lot .
" we had a couple of drinks without saying anything .
the change .
, and put it over his shoulder in the way tramps carried their property in a handkerchief on the end
' ' please walk slowly .
“sometime’s it’s very hard to make the legs move , ” i said .
she just looked at him and tears came down her cheeks and her mouth grew fuller but it did not
cool northeast wind .
there than they did later , at smyrna , where the greeks broke the legs of all their baggage animals
” “when was that ?
' i was in the thirty-sixth division , sir .
" there ' s no need for us to be snooty .
" " i say , brett , let ' s turn in early .
“quiet down , jack , ” john said to him .
but with one small lurch he could break it .
” i yelled .
eight pesetas for the two .
“i don’t know , ” one of the men said .
' i respect it more than anything except good , honest fliers .
but nothing came and i was worried .
" that to be something or other needs but to be seen .
' ' but i don ' t think it ' s tough , sir .
“but we probably ought to have some for in emergencies .
a boy and preserved in alcohol , the alcohol sunken in the jars so the backs of some of the
then too , in reality , i am a king here .
' m ' cola said .
he had nothing to do now until the next third .
“i don’t want to work , ” manuel said .
' he shouted , pointing into the timber on the other side of the head of the valley .
he’s done for .
everything’s in the car .
their coats had been opened too and their pockets were out , and they showed , by their positions ,
it was too many .
c’est bon , la bière .
" come on down-stairs and have a drink .
because this kind of woods makes me feel awfully religious .
the two of them went out the door and no one looked back at anyone .
i started watching the spectacle and they were gone .
the owner .
" " what do you keep on doing it for ?
it was reflected , in part , from the canal .
” “castrated ?
“listen , ” he said .
" thank you , " cayetano said .
“that doesn’t do us any good .
" you partook ?
“i’m not pic-ing .
i went in an amateur fight and i was so afraid i couldn’t keep from running .
both of these were the names of mountains and they were both good saloons with old-days bars and the gambling
” he said to manuel .
his best friend .
mais maintenant , no .
there was some gulfweed on the stream and a few birds working , but not many .
little while he was asleep .
but you could obtain nomination through your father ?
there was a wooshing snort and no movement , not a stir in the reeds .
after two or more drinks in the evening ; that he knew was there (it was not really there of
but they don’t .
we watched her cross the street .
' ' you must remember him , ' karl said to her .
he was face down and his face was in the pillow .
it raked back and as the fish swam just below the surface the old man could see his huge bulk
' now we were standing by the car on the road in the village waiting for the old man and
or maybe does it affect her that way ?
the soil of the hills was red , the sage grew in gray clumps , and as the road rose
a hospital .
" he never went turtle-ing .
" where does he live ?
it ' s true , too .
' do you think those low roads will be good with this big car , sir ?
don ' t let him spoil it , the shooter told himself .
" romero turned to me .
i ' ve got his gloves off and he ' s holding himself in down there with both hands .
the side and then putting the hook through the other side and out , tying the mouth shut on the
just at the moment of going off to sleep , and i could only stop it by a very great
sitting , all three together , in an open third-class railway-carriage .
' ' let ' s follow them , ' i said .
what their politics were , or whether he had a little money , or she had a little money ,
' ' are there five corners to the world ?
and the other part of him thought : you must be slipping you bastard if the absinthe can bring the
" il est catholique , " she said .
he leaned back in his chair and yawned .
good evening with excellent food cooked on the old open-hearth kitchen .
' ' what for ?
“i’ve only got two shells , ” nick said .
" bill asked in the taxi on our way down to the ile saint louis .
" " i can ' t , " he said .
and surely .
" he ' s in his room and he won ' t go out .
i ' ve saved you the rooms you had .
it has something in it that keeps you from getting excited .
' but they explained that you were out .
” “oh .
' she turned her head and raised her chin , without vanity , nor coquetry and the colonel felt his
hanged any amount of old pals .
” “all right , ” said paco .
there isn ' t any use my telling you i love you .
" i ' m going in and lie down .
stream bed where there was a long , wide patch of the highest dead reeds that we had seen .
i was just joking roughly .
i wished i had gone up to paris with bill , except that paris would have meant more fiesta-ing .
” at this moment the picador got to his feet , walked over to the priests’ table and stood ,
” “do you know how many days there are ?
bill came out and met me in the hall .
” “i don’t have much .
" ' ' that ' s him .
" " let ' s go and look at the english , " mike said .
never have i seen a greater , or more beautiful , or a calmer or more noble thing than you
“you can see the place .
then he saw them at the bottom of the pool , big trout looking to hold themselves on the gravel
“but you said it was half an hour further .
it is almost the look of a very nearly dead rat .
em up .
“what you got there ?
through the trees .
" i got in pretty bad shape along early last spring and at night it bothers me .
" fontan asked me .
at dark , hunting an animal whose swahili name he could not then remember , with trackers in whom he
" he held the line tight in his right hand and then pushed his thigh against his right hand as
” “what do you want me to do .
it ' s so simple .
he would be standing with his father on one shore of the lake , his own eyes were very good
it is a treachery of one ' s own body .
" " to-morrow ?
after we had stepped out into the bushes to let a big car go by jack said , " to
sometimes they clung to a grass stem .
“another brandy , ” he said .
' you two are very profound fellows , ' p .
_num_ d soldier—hell don’t i know it ?
“who killed him ?
they had stopped the car and spoken to the indian but he did not understand english and grinned and the
' ' i was only thinking of the face , ' the colonel said .
we could see big flocks of geese spread over the grassy hummocks that rose above the marsh .
i am the victim of illusions .
not in this car though .
she did not know what had become of the baby or anything .
' i wonder what he ' s riding me for now , the driver thought .
” “exactly , ” said johnson .
we had stayed too long .
from the next murderous frontal attack .
the circles almost touched one another .
make it look like a shambles .
" do i have to let her put her arm around my neck ?
better get going .
” “i think so , ” he said .
“she’s gone !
when he awoke in the night he heard the wind in the hemlock trees outside the cottage and the waves
just a little irony .
it was one of the most prolific and inspired periods of his writing career .
i don ' t want to think about it .
” “very good , ” said cipriani .
harris would not let us pay .
“you go out and buy me a sportsman , will you , joe ?
“all right .
" " i don ' t care for paris .
” “i’ve got sixteen dollars , ” nick said .
" be patient , hand , " he said .
i was glad to get home and i told the story while we were cooking supper on an electric stove
“he was busting people all the time after she went away and they put him in jail .
the colonel swung sharp to the left at the next corner , seeing what he had to deal with and
' ' i have , ' said the colonel .
some one knocked on the door .
and i don ' t care about our losses because the moon is our mother and our father .
“good night , jerry , ” jack says .
' ' oh please .
” “i didn’t say that , ” evans said .
' ' put your right hand , your real hand , in your pocket once and tell me how you
” “you bitch , ” i said .
" he was trying to swagger it off .
do you know how to use the pump-gun ?
he was asleep with his head on his arms .
austrian ' s lorry , i knew there were only two days more to hunt before we must leave .
that ' s a last bottle .
francis macomber lay now , face down , not two yards from where the buffalo lay on his side and
lion has something to say about that .
jack is always calm in close and he doesn ' t waste any juice .
in slow motion .
' ' try , ' the colonel said .
then they started down a steep path that went in long slants down the side of the canyon .
that had sifted in through the windows on the table in the dining room and going to the cupboard where
“all night i lay awake and worry my can off .
inside the shack he leaned the mast against the wall .
they were just dumb enough to think i’d tipped somebody off about that other bunch .
' ' i can ' t believe it .
” “his niece .
from the madeleine i walked along the boulevard des capucines to the opéra , and up to my office .
" manuel asked him .
she said god would bless me .
' ' awfully , ' she said , truly .
" " oh no , " jack says .
listen , where’s frank ?
he was very wealthy , and would be much wealthier , and he knew she would not leave him ever
hummock to hummock , picking a way across the marsh and wade and flounder through the canals and the ducks
; although living in daily association with people who used drugs , he had a horror of drugs , and
“but i did .
“something happened in me after we first saw the buff and started after him .
" " but he hit it first , " andré said .
sometimes we had to back out of bush and look for a way to circle around and come upon the
he ' ll get a kudu at this next camp and he ' ll be on top of the wave
“who touches a hair—” “run along , ” said the chef .
to eat .
his outstretched , wide-nostrilled muzzle , and he was raising his rifle when wilson shouted , “not from the car
' you know , ' the colonel told him .
he said there were two big bulls in a herd of a dozen or more .
” “take it easy , ” said al .
he did not want to hunt buff or anything else with macomber at all , but he was a professional
jump the bull and get a snap at him in the brush .
first time i go down in magallanes harbor i see oc-toe-pus .
into the lake itself and find the bottom hard and firm and walking knee deep in the water get outside
" oh , yes , he told me all about it last night , " bill said .
“sure it’s true , ” he said .
maybe it will open when the strong raw tuna is digested .
” “it would be better if i were gayer , ” he said .
" " you aren ' t sore i asked you ?
nor anything for the father to forgive .
" " un huh .
they were such a nice pattern .
" i ' m going over to the hotel , " i said .
i tried to like the correspondents and there were some very good ones present at this meeting .
he was nervously wobbly .
' ' but what about you , boy ?
talent such as kipling had .
he would have a black eye , all right .
when you put them side by side they looked all right .
she had rung and the door was unlatched .
' st mark ' s square is where the pigeons are and where they have that big cathedral that looks
i didn’t know how well you could take care of yourself and , anyway , i didn’t want you to
bank’s too steep .
fighter-bombers catch them on the roads .
but it’s fun .
back of the filing slits and the lockboxes and the registry book and the flat stamp books in place along
” “but he kept taking out line .
” “i’m going home with edwin henry , ” the girl said .
" it is my country , " she said .
john was thinking about nick when he went out to the back counter where the two men were waiting for
here .
' ' you ' re with me now , ' she said and held close and tight .
" isn ' t it lovely ?
” “i’m not hungry .
it was evening and the sun was down beyond the hills on the other side of the lake .
” “oh , please stop it , ” she said .
for a long time he had been fresher and in better shape than the two men and impatient with their
" " we don ' t charge too much money .
us here and this good old poison coming and we’ll eat in some fine place .
" what did you do with the lovely edna ?
a spell should be armed if i ' m to break it .
" " at least , " mr .
but it isn ' t true .
it was still dark but along the edge of the hills it was lightening .
but i can ' t .
" there were only two trains up from san sebastian , an early morning train and the one we had
there’s a pail and a dipper in the kitchen .
" " they all know each other , " i said .
“it was frightfully exciting , ” she said .
“you can come back next year ?
" " oh , darling , please stay by me .
find me a man who can tell me about next saturday .
i can’t do it .
“they’re through .
' ' even if i don ' t get one at all , it ' s all right .
' very big cows .
macomber , looking back , saw his wife , with the rifle by her side , looking at him .
" poor old darling .
“go on , ” his voice sounded strange to him .
" " aren ' t you working ?
" i just love sheets , " he said .
" brett stood up .
he was incoherent and crushed .
it was his affair with a lady of title .
manuel turned as the bull came and raised the muleta so that it passed over the bull ' s horns
don’t you think you ought to work more ?
sides .
so i like it , because it ' s my country .
" would you bring me the wine list ?
" " how was america ?
in a very old place .
and knows how to relax truly for five seconds more .
' what an enormous cow .
” that afternoon they had been playing about five minutes when a probationer came into the room and said ,
drag with the waiter because my old man drank whisky and it cost five francs , and that meant a
the coffee-boy looked at manuel ' s pale face curiously .
can we not hope to furnish the reader with a few rational and interesting facts about the dead ?
other unpleasantnesses , ” wilson said , taking a drink from the flask .
“you’re sweet to me .
" let ' s roll for it .
please sleep well , he thought .
" there ' s the whole river between them and you .
' they were lying now on the bed and the girl said to him , ' don ' t you
better shooting .
' ' where now ?
perhaps it was my fault in not training that one properly .
go , ” he said .
something with goggle blinders on was making a great fuss and rearing around and busted the barrier once , but
he also knew when the enemy vehicles had run out of mines and approximately the number of rounds that remained
“i swear to christ i’ve never been anywhere like this , ” he said .
” “since i can remember .
another glass .
we will devote ourselves to the cheese .
the negro was frightened and he put his fingers all the way around the string of blue voodoo beads and
“he’s still jumping .
" you ' re ten years older than i am .
” he took out the bottle .
" we want to eat in the first service .
i was hot and very thirsty .
he’s out with the gun .
” she just keep on laughing and shaking .
your commanding general sometimes puts things down as the fortunes of war .
was someone ' s fault , the guides , the choice of beat , the hills ; these all betrayed
” “i said why ?
their branches solid .
do you , enrique ?
and the wind blowing a gale , and then those teal coming on the table , smoking hot and with
he could have seen nickie kill the buck .
him .
i ' m sleepy now , " cohn said .
" " for how long ?
“now if you—” “if me what ?
of stalks in the heat , then crawled up to an ant hill to shoot one that was not nearly
there was nothing more for them to eat .
let me repeat it .
that was still up .
i ' m afraid to ask about those words every one uses .
she selected it and i bought it .
” it was true , too , a thing which surprised him greatly , especially when he found that it
forty minutes or an hour .
that’s why she’s here .
' and send them to the five corners of the world .
to-day is another day .
' she stood by it , and he looked at it from where he had looked at it last night
it was early afternoon and the sky was clouding over and i was looking at p .
” jack asked .
valéry , yes .
seemed attractive or practical and that was the sum total of direct sexual knowledge bequeathed him by his father except
all hindu traders are very fat and delicious to a lion .
” “they’ve drunk about a bottle , i guess .
” “at one time i was under the age limit , ” nick said .
garrick was not popular .
he likes to think i’m crazy and i don’t mind .
then you will pin him on and we will go to have a drink at harry ' s and see
“he can not hear , ” the major said .
“bright boy can do everything , ” max said .
” when i woke up in the morning and looked out we were going through fine country that looked like
on the next circle he was still too far away but he was higher out of water and the old
, and sung off across the fields , and beyond the fields there were some trees along a watercourse ,
william campbell ' s interview with mr .
do the moccasins chafe ?
he could not lie as quietly as i could because , perhaps , he had not had as much practice
” “do you think there will still be wild strawberries ?
we went up to them .
' ' but he was your enemy .
i reached up my hand to m ' cola for more cartridges , shot again , carefully , and missed
” peduzzi’s day was going to pieces before his eyes .
it made me shaky to think how much she must have in her .
hardly noticing is bad , he added .
this country meant very much to him , more than he could , or would ever tell anyone and now
the water was cold .
when a lot of little chickens like it .
i did not want to see her .
foot two inches too far forward and the knife did not pass , but had slipped in as easily as
" i handed him the package .
” “do we have to hear it ?
' ' i would like to know about the taking of paris .
i thought i might as well take it .
to flush a grouse and have him whirr off to the other hill or pitch down in the valley .
” “dos cervezas , ” the man said into the curtain .
the wind blew everything like that away .
use their machine at a time when people were not using their radios .
" perhaps he wants some kek , " fontan said .
" " i know a lot , " william campbell said .
barnes introduced his fiancée as mademoiselle leblanc , and her name is actually hobin .
told the waitress .
the american girl .
' ' take a glass of this , ' the colonel said , reaching accurately and well for the champagne
“i’ll just be gone a few minutes .
my father laughed .
" " it ' s a lie , " peroxide said .
he’s really come .
if you like we can stroll back down this street , or walk it fast and ask those two that
we knocked on jack’s door .
' the hell with it , ' he said .
world , and all of us that used to hang out there had a great affection for it .
' the native showed that the horn was as long as his arm .
” “not like this .
on the screw-on top of the flask was engraved from r .
' when they were looking out at the grand canal where the light was , indeed , lovely , the
he swallowed the bait and they pulled his stomach out and he came to the top and died .
finally i asked him .
here comes the memsahib .
" montoya smiled his embarrassed smile .
" " you think he ' ll be the president ?
” some eddy .
” “you’re doing all right .
“so that’s war .
well when she got back into the compartment with her paper and her evian water the suitcase was gone .
there was a tug on the line .
then there was one other thing , i remember .
i can ' t remember him except that he gave me an air rifle and an american flag when i
" " love you ?
i pretended to be asleep .
' wake up , son , ' he had said .
” “where can we get something to eat ?
" good night , cohn , " i said .
" " there ' s some in there .
don ' t know where he got it all .
if i lose the glare of havana we must be going more to the eastward , he thought .
leave the door open when you go out .
“well , i guess there isn’t any use to stay around .
i’ll just lie here for a little while .
what you call this drink ?
“is it the nocturnal tomorrow ?
cohn wanted to pick him up and carry him to the bed .
the sword at the spot high up between the bull’s shoulders .
' the _gran maestro_ can convey him any information we wish .
i turned to john and did not look at the table where luis delgado was sitting .
” “didn’t you see anybody at all ?
there is no record of any bullfighter having left the luarca for a better or more expensive hotel ; second-rate
" just then the fish gave a sudden lurch that pulled the old man down onto the bow and would
georgette cheered up a little under the food .
he walked with his joints all slung wrong .
it’s the pace you’re going at , that makes riding the jumps dangerous , joe .
then , ' b ' wana , you shot that bull ?
i must get him alongside this time , he thought .
“can’t you stop that sort of thing ?
of some of the people .
” she cried aloud , “help me , vicente !
” “listening .
walked to the bar .
take some of your belly off , governor .
the public boneheap and your own mother .
“and we could have everything and every day we make it more impossible .
” “but it does mean milk .
” “this house is a folly .
” they undressed sitting on the blankets .
' ' he would be , ' the colonel said .
” “he’s loose now , ” evans said .
much obliged .
" " brett gave him what for .
he has aroused neither love , hate , dislike , fear nor suspicion .
, his bill pointing at an angle .
i knew were very big shots indeed .
” “they hate mr .
he had never seen so big a trout .
' but by god , i want to get one too .
” feeling the slow hard throb under his fingers nick started to count .
" " they ' ve put me in it .
“any kin to the educator ?
but personally i don ' t want him around .
i also .
hit johnson’s bait .
' ' he told me all about american women , ' p .
" " yes , that ' s the way it ' s done in the very best families .
' ' no , i didn ' t .
“your oil’s o .
why don’t you pick out some nice italian girl with plenty of money ?
” i remembered the flit gun man with his grey wax hands and his grey wax face , his arms
“that wasn’t anything , ” i said .
“won’t you have a kirsch with me ?
" anyone can be a fisherman in may .
" no , they wouldn ' t .
the dolphin were cutting through the water below the flight of the fish and would be in the water ,
" we ' re none of us sober , " i said .
“you’re not a member , then ?
we heard their bells in the woods .
bludenz , that time to buy presents , and the cherry-pit taste of good kirsch , the fast-slipping rush of
already , so early in the morning , it was very hot on the bridge across the river .
then the fish came alive , with his death in him , and rose high out of the water showing
he stood up and looked around .
and i’m hurting bad .
and drove off .
' the maitre d ' hotel asked .
a while the girl said , “it will be lovely tonight but do you know what i am now ?
there is one other house where the delegate lives but it is back from the beach .
absolutely perfect , ” kate shouted from the dock .
” “not over five feet .
, the shock it was to find that these dead were women rather than men .
alvarito would have asked you if he wanted you .
' ' i have it ready , ' said the _gran maestro_ .
his bicycle and leave the track .
' what are we going to do ?
” “why don’t you try and go to sleep ?
he ain’t going to last like you and me , jerry .
george ducked and jabbed three times with the blade .
noise of the inhalations and exhalations of the accordion , and of the bells , the traps , and the
i have a boarding-school appetite .
he could not move .
” “no i guess not .
“sometimes .
“harold , ” his mother stood in the kitchen doorway , “harold , please don’t muss up the paper .
of the wall , looked up and down the street .
there was nothing to do about his father and he had thought it all through many times .
lots of them .
almost covered the stream .
so i like it , because it’s my country .
wait till you see where we ' re going after we leave venice .
in the front row of seats the substitute bull-fight critic of _el heraldo_ took a long drink of the warm
" " himself .
” he couldn’t hear me .
garbage pickers who pluck their prizes with long poles , as interested , as intelligent , and as accurate as
' but it ' s impossible to hunt them .
“what did i do wrong then ?
' she looked at him from the portrait and said nothing .
“it sounds easy , doesn’t it ?
the ash barely slanted toward them as it fell and his father nodded at juma and bent down to follow
' , to me .
“bring me some , ” said mr .
it is not france , he thought .
' ' you are very well liked in this city .
outside the villages there were fields with vines .
they were warming up .
with no surf they could hear the engine .
you couldn’t hear yourself talk for the singing and i ordered a gin and angostura and put it down against
” “i enjoyed very much , too , the wild animal photographs of george shiras three .
if i had not had these two months with the kids i would have been over there for it .
" " let us take the stuff home , " the boy said .
, " he said .
' did you cut in on his country ?
prize short-stories--will their authors write our best-sellers of to-morrow ?
instead , i walked down the street and had a beer at the bar at the next bal .
i was glad he was not there , because he would have been a great worry to me .
couldn ' t get his clothes .
not to lift to touch and hold , they danced and sang through the dark around the fire and to
bringing him in and i didn’t know how to consider him .
on the other hand , he was not angry at being beaten .
he could not hear his voice .
makes me nervous .
" " you ought to get married .
it is a vice .
i read the papers with the coffee and then smoked a cigarette .
the swampy second growth as nick and marjorie rowed along the shore .
alone , he did not know the somali proverb that says a brave man is always frightened three times by
" " mais vous êtes encore jeune , " said the porter .
robert cohn and bill were sitting at one of the tables .
alive .
" my god , " i said to him , " you go to spain .
in the morning at seven .
the other detective , not the one they called sergeant but the one handcuffed to the big prisoner , had
the lunch counter was on the shady side of the square and looked out on a red bricked court house
next day we came in from the zebra business grey and sweat-caked with dust that the car raised and the
” “a woman who doesn’t upset by an attack is no woman , ” said johnny .
” doc fischer said .
" i am a professional gambler but i like to gamble .
but it was still cold and they had a wonderful time eating and drinking and the city had seemed gay
” “not the horses either .
with the bull who could not see the colors of the capes , or the scarlet flannel of the muleta
we discuss all things .
fly , and he did not see wilson now and , aiming carefully , shot again with the buffalo’s huge
" " well , " said hogan , " they ' re not such fools .
meadows , and how we were drunk and talked about how you would describe that light on that paleness ,
have , and now it served as a warning and nothing more .
_the ladies ' home journal_ was one of the magazines received regularly at the officers ' s club in trieste
“can’t you put over what you can reach , wesley ?
” “can’t i come with you through the swamp ?
the fish just moved away slowly and the old man could not raise him an inch .
it was rubbery and bending against the thrust of the boatman ' s oar .
but his pain could drive him mad .
patted him on the back .
his own four paws .
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--no , it ain ' t just that .
you had to step over him to get to the table where two plain clothes policemen sat and examined everyone’s
“now you go outdoors and climb up on the ladder and put the bucket on the chimney and i’ll lock
our seats .
they were carrying sam cardinella .
” “nobody sent that first son of a bitch .
" make an awful row .
” “how do you like it ?
there were tram-cars in the towns and big advertisements for the belle jardinière and dubonnet and pernod on the walls
" oh , that dirty war .
just this little bit of coke won’t slow me .
one goya , long dead , and it is extremely doubtful if these animals , were they able to call
to burn at the edge and as it burned the man started to drop fast and i was watching him
he was a fat man , very brave , and a good of icer , although addicted to fantastic shows
can ' t do any harm .
“that’s the way with everything .
“i will ride on the outside .
“is it all right ?
the guides claimed they had seen another bull but karl had thought it was kongoni , or that they said
they weren ' t masterpieces , of course .
he dropped the towel from around his waist and stood on the scales .
it was he spoke and i believe we planned the entire campaign for the next day .
, before he reached the steer , turned , gathered himself and charged where the man had been , trying
that means he is tired and going with the current .
he was a company commander in the fifteenth brigade who had been buried by an airplane bomb which had killed
i would not kill an italian .
" he stopped and put his head under the sheet .
' here they make a little of everything in the metallurgic line .
glass of valpolicella .
stop when you heard a bull bugle) , and i knew what john would say .
“and the bull ?
he should not place himself in a position to lose .
kamau and m ' cola were both laughing at him .
rapidly he mixed some buckwheat flour with water and stirred it smooth , one cup of flour , one cup
“i’m a bullfighter , ” manuel said .
every move she makes , the colonel thought , is a triumph of the gallantry of the ageing machine .
can we reconcile the two ?
named largo caballero , ” said a short man with thick glasses who was sitting at the table when we
' you have arranged a plan of campaign ?
of the mountain beyond where we had seen the rhinos the night before .
, like the head of all the general staffs in the world , his glasses blinking in the sun like
he ought to know .
he thought in bull-fight terms .
you are a lovely host , jake .
the bridle caught in the horns .
but i can’t .
" where do you want to go ?
you cannot kill me because i have your pistol .
, even when it is only a buffalo , you feel a little quiet inside .
his eyes noted things and his body performed the necessary measures without thought .
wind and this tide .
' ' have it unwrapped and brought in here .
“i do not refuse to shake hands .
“we’ll have new orleans in bed .
now you ' re not talking rot .
] _num_ st soldier—i used to see her around the town .
i ' ve driven it all over europe .
it had been a dependence of the grand hotel--but now it was its own hotel and a very good one
” “awful , ” his sister said .
on the other hand , you have a map covered with plastic material , and on this you have three
, or when they flush they will come pouring at you , some rising steep , some skimming by your
when i found he was on board i decided i’d have to do away with him but then when everything
it was an hour before the first shark hit him .
” “come on , pancho , the first one said .
" you go now ?
” “you won’t be comfortable , ” nick said .
” “some business , ” i said .
in the morning the train was near paris , and after the american lady had come out from the wash-room
” the man was intent on his steering .
finally the old man woke .
well , they weren ' t having any of it .
it is no worse for me than for anyone else .
and the bull , the red sword hilt tight between his shoulders , his head going down and his legs
but we came to ask if we might have the vélos .
nick lay in the bed with his face in the pillow .
i sat at one of the tables and looked at the pictures on the wall .
no one person’s fault .
except jake here .
” the cook sat on in his chair .
their roots bulked above the ground and the branches were twisted .
some we come to later .
i think perhaps he did not want the man to have even a journalist ' s look into happiness .
since then he has killed more than a thousand bulls .
he had experienced anguish and sorrow .
do you mind if i sit here with you ?
for several minutes i had not listened to the american lady , who was talking to my wife .
but afterwards he cared nothing for his men .
he remembered very clearly the only two pieces of information his father had given him about that .
one of those women pictures would be out of place there .
he shot as though he had built-in radar .
they drank .
it was brett .
when you haven’t got the mobility .
coming toward us , from the direction of the huts , were two men and a boy .
” “you’re like fontan .
i walked up the stairs now , i felt much better .
when the old man finished talking the two men came closer and we shook hands .
only all day and all night .
there was no doorway leading from the room except into the kitchen .
they landed at cherbourg and came to paris .
" " fifteen years .
is the doctor a german ?
took the bolt out of the springfield and handed the rifle , boltless , to m ' cola without speaking
mangez !
but they can certainly crawl into a sack sometimes .
“you bet !
i ' ve been right over ninety-five per cent of the time and that ' s a hell of a
him to make his legs move .
we could try of course .
now there was nothing dark about the word and she was his daughter , truly , and he pitied her
it was awkward getting his thumb inside the fly reel frame .
” margot said bitterly .
' he ' s just gone on ahead , ' pop said .
” “i never heard of it .
frazer answered .
you have to run in water to your knees to get in range of the last cripple and you slip
“no , ” marione said .
the hungarian had stayed behind to replay the new discs .
he lay still .
, or , from the right by mortar .
' arnaldo spoke guardedly into the mouthpiece of the telephone .
peduzzi passed it back again .
” “why don’t you try behaving ?
' ' so now what ?
i could picture it .
' my wife asked .
' ' it wasn ' t hard to say , ' the colonel said .
horn .
” “he stays with the wine .
but they do not try to be smart and are never long-winded .
does it damage you ?
of white wine at the zinc of the bar before they started .
“but the nerve can regenerate and be as good as new .
president , and to the public of madrid , the most intelligent and generous of the world , " was
the heel of his right foot lifted gently as all of him leaned behind the two loads in the chambers
“i think we had better go .
ahead of his troops , and the titles of all such books should be generals usually die in bed ,
i dressed and went down-stairs and out into the cold early morning .
he was the one who had mr .
but they went through this fiction every day .
“i don’t believe it , ” george said .
i didn ' t mean to be rude .
what a fine , compact , and yet ready to be air-borne building , he thought .
left , and i tell you i felt pretty good steering , and it was a pretty night to cross
" " come on , " mike said .
and the streets of the town .
nigger fixing on a couple of mackerel ; passing the hook through their mouth , out the gills , slitting
the charlotada is over by _num_ .
she was not combing it for vanity , nor to do to the colonel what she knew it could and
well , this is what it’s going to be like , then .
we knew how those felt , waiting .
“it was probably bad busting it off , ” bill said .
it hit him again badly .
that night it came on to blow and it blew for a week .
” “you think he’ll be the president ?
“don’t be sore , ” john says .
" tomorrow is going to be a good day with this current , " he said .
” “i cannot say absolutely because the glass in the helmet make distort a little .
' ' that ' s what i do .
” “as i recall , the arab was standing holding the camel .
' they ' re marvellous , ' i said , lying .
still , i figured he had been out late and probably didn’t get up till around noon .
” no other tunes were as satisfactory , mr .
' ' all right , city boy .
“are you a doctor ?
the tank was burning black and greasy in the trees .
i called to the cocher to stop .
" " what ' s on your mind ?
what can you do ?
the street-light came on outside the window .
john said he didn’t want to waste time with people who had enough money to take a vacation anywhere in
i could see the line slant up .
pepé ?
“fly away somewhere .
“how old do you think i am ?
he only needed the feel of the trade wind and the drawing of the sail .
“don’t talk that way .
“huh !
perhaps not yet a member of the order , and experienced .
made the sign of the cross , and , rising on his toes , sighted along the dipping blade of
two officers holding this length of netting at alternate ends , or let us say one at each end ,
his mother went out of the room and he could hear her frying something downstairs while he washed , shaved
” “we stayed at the trois couronnes , ” said my wife .
' absolutely , ' i told him in english .
anyway there is going to be plenty of it from now on .
” “yes , signor maggiore , ” the adjutant answered .
" maybe not to you , " said doctor wilcox .
_num_ ’s you can find , ” nick adams said .
i was tired out and slipping into bitterness fast .
” and , after all , maybe she would have thought i was a tout instead of really trying to
i hope you ' re not the type of jerk who worries about what happens to him when there '
already i had had one of the diseases and had experienced the necessity of washing a three-inch bit of my
he looked at john asleep .
” “did you see anything else ?
his knife was still standing , blade stuck in the log .
because if you did not like them you would not publish them .
" carl asked .
the gypsy came running along the barrera toward manuel , taking the applause of the crowd .
he had his rod and his bag and his net all in one hand , and he was sweating .
the man would look at it and shake his head .
a boy and a girl show up .
you don’t know the fun it’s been to shoot with you .
" " do you think so ?
great brown mountains .
they ' re all right .
" i ' ll waken you in time .
' my god , mister gorton , ' said nigger , ' i didn ' t do nothing in there
" mike shouted , very drunk , from the other end of the table .
“good , ” he said and put out his hand .
' ' belmonte and pop .
really .
if ettore says so .
” nick said , remembering .
give her more for her money than when he had really loved .
” i had been there when he came in .
chapter xxxiv sleep softly , my true love , and when you wake , this will be over and i
“you hear him , horace ?
when he first thought about him it was always the eyes .
' he ' s over there , ' pop said , and we went over .
” “that’s quite simple .
he was a more miserable character than any that i know and as mean .
on the string of blue voodoo beads .
” “how late did they hold people ?
“i have some meat for all of us , and we can cook it in the room .
a man can ask .
bill and i go down on the morning of the _num_ th .
the restaurant was run by an anarchist syndicate and they sold you wine that was all stamped with the label
his clothcovered trench helmet .
to hell with them all !
' " ' no , ' said cohn .
' they started to walk , arm through arm , and as they went up the first bridge the wind
" couldn ' t you just be good to me and let me go ?
but i think i would rather have him attend you if it was the old days .
from the ground floor in order that they might not be stolen .
” “like it ?
and again , swinging with each arm alternately on the cord with all the strength of his arms and the
this increased cohn ' s distaste for boxing , but it gave him a certain satisfaction of some strange sort
" braddocks called to me from a table .
four days later and some did not get down , but we went up and we went back and we
' i ' m going to have a drink .
" we went along a side road that cut up over the hill and cut across the fields back to
probably the one we heard early this morning .
the edge of the forest not two miles from camp .
the broom was in the corner .
they must have taken it for the initials or slogan of some holland-american revolutionary organization perhaps resembling the f .
“you are nineteen ?
" they don ' t take any chances , those two .
, which was a pleasant , clean , well-kept place and as good as another to be dead in ,
then the good lion circled higher and higher and set his course for venice .
one was the bearded peasant in the high boots .
he leans forward on the wooden counter .
” “what did you think about ?
or a millionaire from the war and from after .
i’ll only be a minute .
in the middle of the room was a suitcase , a duffel bag , and two rucksacks .
” “why don’t you say you love me ?
to see what we each saw .
it must be stored in a new and unsuspected place and in one where it will not deteriorate .
the bull charged with the reflex , charged , and found not the flash of color but a white horse
“i’ll try one with the m- _num_ , ” i said .
there was only one favorable sign .
" " it sounds like a swell life , " i said .
in his mouth .
he was climbing down from the bus .
john came to the door of the dressing-room and poked his head in .
nonsense .
' ' what did we use to drink ?
' ' i ' ll have some coffee and hot rolls , and only feel them with my fingers .
i feel good .
” “oh , yes , ” i said .
through the empty streets with the cold wind and all the shops closed , trying to keep near the street
the sun melted the snow from the skis we were carrying and dried the wood .
it ' s fine now , he thought .
“soissons’s way the hell back .
and then instead of going on to arusha they turned left , he evidently figured that they had the gas
what the moors have done now is no worse than what the english did under wellington .
when i was twenty-one years old .
only i ' d a hell of a lot rather not talk about it .
” “ain’t she from there ?
” “i am an old client , too .
i do not mean for you to speak from family pride .
bugs stood up .
" " all right , " i said .
of a work of fiction she had just completed at the time .
the flow was less strong and as he rubbed the side of his hand against the planking of the skiff
' while m ' cola was skinning the head out and charo was butchering out the meat , a long
we were beaten .
you shouldn’t have to waste country but on a long trip you have to .
" you can stop the slaughter .
they neither one wanted to hit the other , for fear the other would come back and hit him .
shoot me , harry .
colour as his tail .
nick knew there were trout in each shadow .
there is no problem .
” a simple enquiry outside , the snow was higher than the window .
its open hold covered with canvas and lashed tight , the sails of the schooner filled and it moved out
door .
the hell with me .
i doubted if there was a dog in the world could trail him now in that heat .
to rest .
outside were cabs and taxis and a line of hotel runners .
" " _our_ saviour ?
get them off fast .
” “bullshit .
if you don’t mind i wish you’d sort of pull out .
much money .
well he used the vilest language of course when he was resisting the treatment but he apologized to me in
" i can ' t quote , " he said .
" " who ?
” “do you think there will be enough to make a shortcake ?
' ' don ' t you see you need to tell me things to purge your bitterness ?
, lowered them down into the water .
but horse-dung bores you .
" you ' re a good boy , " he said .
" aren ' t you going to stay and eat ?
enough , and he had seven new fighting suits made and this is the kind of thing he was :
it ' s got a wonderful idea .
you ' re dead .
' m ' uzuri , b ' wana , ' he said .
the other watched the old man with his slitted yellow eyes and then came in fast with his half circle
roger , who was sweating heavily in his heavy uniform , as suitable to the subtropics in summer as shorts
it was marly and his toes hated it as he uncurled and shoved hard against it to come up to
i ran down the aisle to my father .
ridge nobody ever dies the good lion the faithful bull get a seeing-eyed dog a man of the world summer
” “we don’t know each other well enough to ask personal questions , comrade , ” al said .
how simple it would be if i could make the line fast , he thought .
i ' ll settle for what i have , he thought , and they can go and hang themselves .
” “of course you didn’t .
the male fish always let the female fish feed first and the hooked fish , the female , made a
“why , then , do you not take up the use of grammar ?
” “un huh .
two hundred yards into the broken cactus .
looked as though the horn must have come through .
you can’t die if you don’t give up .
the stones felt good .
a small bird came toward the skiff from the north .
the banderillero was middle-aged , gray , cat-quick in spite of his years and , sitting at the table he
had been pressed down and where a broken stem of a weed was drying .
i went too far away , i guess .
he was convincing himself there was no need for him to go .
its western summit is called the masai “ngàje naài , ” the house of god .
nor bad and have the five sons that go to the five corners of the world ; wherever that is
" " she must have gone to bed .
talk about anything you like .
billiard cue that they used for explanation .
' ' wonderful .
" good-night , jake , " he said , and started back to the café .
the leader and hit him .
we are not serving anything any more .
it was plenty dark but i could tell good where we were .
then he went to sleep .
" here ' s a taxidermist ' s , " bill said .
whatever this was they wanted it very badly .
no one noticed us come in .
“really no choice though .
he dipped the sandwiches in the cold water .
” “and if i do it you’ll be happy and things will be like they were and you’ll love me
i told him i had scads of it .
and how does her black sweater feel ?
“you’re going good , ” zurito said .
it ' d mean i was a faggot .
' ' i think it is much worse than that .
i figured if i had just one good pic , i could get away with it .
the kind of a girl you want is the kind of a girl that’ll jig you because she can’t help
“the only name i can remember for him is splayzey .
” “i am very glad to see you , nicolo .
he stood looking very old and tired from the heat .
you got anything on your mind ?
" " sure , " i said , and shut it .
" i ' ll dance again for you some time .
on the grassy bank where it was damp i drove the mattock into the earth and loosened a chunk of
” “put some water in it , ” i said .
' here it is , ' the colonel said when he swung the door open .
the bottle was about empty .
face shining in the arc light .
then i had a date myself , and paula wasn ' t at her office .
“where’s eddy ?
je sais que monsieur travaille comme un sourd .
' that shows that he is industrious even if he has outlived his talents .
because it was a very cheerful place , and because really cheerful people are usually the bravest , and the
portrait .
were forced to the surface in their panic .
i thought you just wanted me to get up for fun .
she went over and sat in front of the mirror of the dressing table looking at herself with the hand
“i was just kidding him , ” he said .
wasn’t it just as dangerous for them to run back as to go forward ?
i expected to shoot at any minute and i wanted to slow up enough so my heart would not be
i heard him say a hundred and two .
cutting his forehead .
' you ' re also very beautiful and lovely and i love you .
' when we have so little time , richard .
he had destroyed his talent by not using it , by betrayals of himself and what he believed in ,
hogan had his two customers out in the barn doing exercises .
' asked mine .
” “please don’t talk that way .
the tracks swung back into high grass .
now the water deepened up his thighs sharply and coldly .
" " but we couldn ' t be sure till we got way out .
" yes , " says jack .
john had a couple of handlers with him .
if he wrote it he could get rid of it .
' ' we will walk as slowly as two people can walk .
and i could remember all the pictures .
make him pay for it .
“i don’t know , ” fontan said .
” the referee is talking to john and he says , “what could i do ?
as soon as i baited up and dropped in again i hooked another and brought him in the same way
' ' i knew you had hit him , and i knew he wasn ' t the same bull .
he came out unendingly and water poured from his sides .
what was there that you would like to ask ?
” “steve couldn’t have said that .
he had not even noticed the boy was awake .
tendalla .
sing , ” frankie said , and he smiled .
but maybe they will win this first one in a hurry , he thought , and i won’t have to
three of them would kill him for them .
” “but you see that’s the way i am .
' ' a no good job , ' the colonel said .
why do you dislike it , my colonel ?
" i can ' t drink these rotten brandies .
as the way he is , and then i’m all clear .
we killed him .
he had to hold it in the cup until it cooled enough to take it and then he just got
" he ' s headed north , " the old man said .
john , ” the hired girl said , speaking very fast .
the clearance was paid when we came in .
afraid they might have got into cover .
it means nothing to me and it was not a criticism .
' ' of course he feels badly , ' pop said .
“it isn’t far from london .
the old man was sweating now but from something else besides the sun .
' the shooter called to the boatman .
" it will be dark soon , " he said .
, the tank turrets open now as they came into the shelter of the ridge , had the straight-ahead stare
then we started south on the cape to cairo road , here well graded , smooth , and carefully cut
hogan came to the door and i said , “say , hogan , haven’t you got anything to shoot out
“i say that is a sound idea , ” the englishman said .
" " all right .
mind that any more .
” “you’ll feel worse when the old doctor probes for it , ” harry told him .
“you ain’t human , ” the nigger said .
" go over and say you ' re sorry , " john says into his ear .
" hello , gents !
” they were coming up on the key now .
” “they’ll be dead then .
kid lewis always had about three new dirty things jack couldn ' t do .
again , then again , then again , and the bullets , all of them hitting , had no effect
i tipped the concierge and read the message again .
it is the loveliest city in the world , next to our own , and i want to know some
" yes , sir , " the barman took the orders .
he wiped his hands on his trousers and stood up , then climbed the embankment to the rails .
would you prefer rum ?
it ' s the way i ' m made .
' mine ' ll hold me .
the lowest price .
then someone in the half-track saw the blood and the volkswagen in the ditch and the bodies .
“oh , it’s been gone a long time now .
and he went around the paddock putting his feet just so and quiet and careful and moving easy like he
" " i think it ' s all bull , myself , " he said .
right next to it was another saloon , also with gambling and a dining room , that was called the
he kept on talking in above normal tones and i looked up ' shut up ' in the dictionary while
i went on up the stairs carrying my phantom suitcase .
why don ' t i just throw myself on the mercy of the court ?
" they say his father was a fisherman .
the motor cars were gone from the square by the war monument .
' what did you do in civil life , jackson ?
i drank my glass and poured out another .
he wasn’t drunk .
he took a bearing on the tree and then came out onto the hillside and walked down to the lean-to
" i handed it to bill .
they said he hadn’t come .
just let me enjoy my triumph .
moi , je ne crois pas .
“look how he bit me .
" " what are you going to kill ole andreson for ?
by the time they ' d gone five rounds he hated jack ' s guts .
sir .
go light as hell .
“i’ll get my leather jacket , ” margot said .
" " grand .
would not be able to get them out of the trucks .
and i came right over it and there under water was a liner ; just lying there all under water
" " what about the pain ?
" said james .
' we haven ' t even ordered yet .
" " i hope you ' re not thinking of leaving ?
" " listen , " the clean-cut young man said from the table where he was writing , " let
the masai repeated it to pop .
' ' sure , but you can ' t make a mistake .
" " i can give you any kind of sandwiches , " george said .
much drinking .
i said to fontan , ' on va être malade !
" " congratulations , " i said .
then , too , he’s dead now .
the beer ten cents a bottle .
" this is true , true , true , and you know it .
" what ' s the matter ?
then i’ll get the boat day after tomorrow .
" " no , thank you , " nick said .
" she owns the place .
they stuck way out .
remember you had a lot of money on you when you picked that one .
but when he no longer was in love , when he was only lying , as to this woman ,
i have yesterday ' s paper and i will read the baseball .
” he was like a photographer arranging for a group picture .
went into the edge of the high reeds on the left shore of the lake where another stream made a
' ' i want to be the moon , too .
went out for a while .
i ' m getting rusty .
there is a porter with the two bags .
if none of the riders are caught the winner of the race is the one who has gained the most
" together we walked down the gravel path in the park in the dark , under the trees and then
harvey was just a little daunted .
nick felt the moment when the leader would break if the strain increased and let the line go .
she was as beautiful as always in the hard , morning light that came across the flooded square , and
when they came back to the ranch he’d been dead a week , frozen in the corral , and the
use his own boat and have him fixed .
' it ' s a boulevard , ' he said .
” “i am of those who like to stay late at the café , ” the older waiter said .
" we kissed good night and brett shivered .
“he said it was quite safe .
that was what frightened about that .
' ' i don ' t like to look at it much .
the old man pulled on him all that he could to bring him closer .
" just that one ?
all right , conscience , he said .
very happy .
" mike took a drink .
thanks for the drink , jim .
the natives live in harmony with it .
wheeler counted out eight francs and left them on the table .
“it’s business , ” said jack .
' we ' ll look for you when we see you .
believe me .
the door was shut and i knocked .
" " good-night , jack , " i said .
” “don’t come tomorrow ?
” “mais il y a très bonne chasse aussi en france , ” i said .
" i am a very reliable interpreter .
he stepped close and jammed the sharp peak of the muleta into the bull’s damp muzzle .
maybe it would and maybe i would have got well .
" " that ' s enough , " i said .
“and let’s not talk morbid even if i write morbid .
took her slowly right up to the edge of the mangroves .
' i ' m all right again .
she must have been really tired if i’m as tired as i am .
he could get others cheaply too .
, intrenching tools , ammunition boxes , star-shell pistols , their shells scattered about , medical kits , gas masks
woman that he retains ; except what he does for his fatherland or his motherland , however you get the
trouble .
“where’d you come from ?
” they talked , sitting their gaunt horses in the dark .
” nick and his sister watched him go in the door .
" they ' re stupid .
i know he ' s a bad one of some sort .
” “do ladies always have such a hard time having babies ?
that was when they shot the first fellow right in front of the window .
tell me what is joyce like ?
” “not very much .
“don’t you think i could take it , kid ?
it was a smooth-feeling ordinary pebble and he put it in his pocket and went inside the house and down
" when i go out there i want to be able to call my shots on the bull .
“perhaps .
” “good-night , nickie .
he knew all about bulls .
" " i went to notre dame with wayne b .
" " you follow them pretty close , hogan ?
" i said : " yes , football .
“how you feeling , boogie ?
' ' you know , ' p .
" he showed on the map how the attack had gone .
and emptying him neatly took out the liver , cut away the gall , and laying the liver on a
" he rowed slowly and steadily toward where the bird was circling .
inside , the café was crowded and very noisy .
" no , it ' s true , true , true , to jesus and mary true .
he held to his left and at the end , as he rushed toward the fence , keeping his knees
he had not analyzed it yet but he saw the man had very flat eyes and a mouth that was
' we ' ll give him something to write about .
was a little piece of dead ground where they could only hit you with a howitzer , only interdicting fires
' ' over the curve ?
we ate chicken pot pie and i drank a glass of milk and ate a piece of blueberry pie with
but i suppose some able jerk has his boy in groton now , or maybe canterbury , where the big
and there are many tricks .
setting them up on credit .
at all , sitting and talking , while he posed with it .
it was hot , but the town had a cool , fresh , early-morning smell and it was pleasant sitting
one small town , then another , another , then a big town , then start over again .
we started up the hill and i jumped a sable in some brush .
manuel came up to the barrera for a drink of water .
" " he said brett was a sadist just because she has a good , healthy stomach .
no trouble .
the old man dropped the line and put his foot on it and lifted the harpoon as high as he
” “don’t stall me .
lady ashley .
un français qui a apporté de l’absinthe , ” fontan said .
bull were one , romero way out over the bull , the right arm extended high up to where the
" " i beg your pardon ?
' ' there you have me , ' ettore said .
he still sounded like , had shot a fine bull kudu , but a masai walked down the centre of
, worn , wooded hills with trees like beeches and clusters of huts with fire smoking and cattle home driven
" " yes , that ' s so , all right .
i love to have people see us , but i don ' t want to see anybody .
” “you don’t get tired of walleyed pike either , ” nick said .
” “the good physician here .
the room was unstable unless i looked at some fixed point .
" i must tire you .
” “mangez !
, and feel them if you were lonely .
for him .
the little man looked across at us but did not seem to recognize us .
, and we had him put the back of the car down .
" " it would be too much for me .
but it was not worth it .
then she heard the sound of a big bird tossing and beating its wings on the ground .
the house was rebuilt in the same place out of lumber now and painted white and from its porch you
so he selected him for breeding .
the ragweed and the fireweed dusted the girl’s hair and made her sneeze .
he had seen many that weighed more than a thousand pounds and he had caught two of that size in
" like a wedding , " said the handler .
i think we killed more than a generation if you count the final moroccan campaign against abdel krim .
then he was sorry for the great fish that had nothing to eat and his determination to kill him never
' ' whatever that is .
for in madrid and he was already making excuses not to go to it .
the party’s over and you are with your hostess now .
” “oh , hell !
that is if you have a tailor here who can cut clothes .
droopy grinned .
" my father only gave me three shells a day because he said that would teach me to hunt and
" we had the drink and put brett into her taxi .
each line , as thick around as a big pencil , was looped onto a green-sapped stick so that any
it was a fall rain and the air coming in through the open door smelled fresh and like wet wood
“i’d like to .
he smelled the tar and oakum of the deck as he slept and he smelled the smell of africa that
even been able to keep him away from those two things yet .
' i guess the mountain shut off some if you were gone the other way trailing him .
" it ' s pretty good , " i said .
river , they always take you to the rotonde .
it was a forest of cork oaks , and the sun came through the trees in patches , and there
i have a wife waiting in bed for me .
where are you going , jake ?
he would get fifty dollars for this night’s work .
“that’s right , ” bill agreed .
he felt sick about saying good-bye like that .
but he was rough and harsh-spoken and difficult when he was drinking .
“just put it down against what i owe you .
" the significance of the particular day is not important , " doc fischer said .
” nick and his sister were lying on a browse bed under a lean-to that they had built together on
' ' i should say they are lesbians .
jack climbed up and bent down to go through the ropes and walcott came over from his corner and pushed
the bull-fight critic joked him about the number of malagueño expressions he used .
when the cars emptied , the onlookers were absorbed into the crowd .
the poor bloody twenty-eighth which was up on our right had been bogged down for some time and so there
it is worth it .
' ' you are , ' the colonel said .
" " oh , no , sir , " she laughed .
he took a full spoonful from the plate .
he shut the curtain .
” “i thought you knew , ” said enrique .
evil-smelling emptiness and the odd thing was that the hyena slipped lightly along the edge of it .
they probably only come to the salt every couple of days .
you could get a meal , then , all right .
“i was a little angry .
he was so good .
' he asked the waiter who had come in with his glass-eye and the menu .
the only thing i ever really liked to do with you i can’t do now .
" rather , " said brett .
we were dancing to the accordion and some one was playing the banjo .
” “of course not , ” said mr .
" the light is very bright and pleasant but the bar is unpolished , " the waiter said .
” “let’s think it out , ” nick adams told her .
they were the things i had known best and had been closest to and several were about the first war
isn ' t he an imposing lobster ?
well , i dislike it too .
there was another herd .
since once we were in the timber we could no longer see them , i thought it was important that
in this , the lower river .
pull off his boots and he’d get into a pair of sneakers and all these sweaters and we’d start out
there is nothing lovelier to eat than those fat iron-curtain ducks .
that you say all sorts of unjust things about me .
" the sleep was what i needed .
packard ?
the road ran up the hill into the pine trees .
' chapter xxxix the hall porter had telephoned , under the direction of the concierge , and it was the
they had been climbing steadily across a slope of the mountain but now the trail went down and from a
her legs drew up and she drew up from the waist and went quite rigid .
“i was thinking of colonel lawrence’s book .
” “there’s the two moor girls from ceuta at that corner table .
knocked me out .
it is not good for the mind .
' no good , ' m ' cola said .
he put down the lamp .
' through the dark came all the porters , the cook , the skinner , the boys , and the
' ' i know it , ' i said .
" " you were saying about sliding .
far away in paris , mascart had knocked danny frush cuckoo in the second round .
' but it ' s a good story .
" " i wanted to try this new drink .
that boy’s really making progress mr .
this macomber was an odd one though .
” he tossed the grasshopper up into the air and watched him sail away to a charcoal stump across the
time than should truly be allowed for its doing .
take picasso .
i was nervous about mike .
” “perversion , ” he said .
with the tone of command , ' evviva d ' annunzio ' , thus absolving all those who had not
” he wished now they had never taken it although it was the drink he loved best of almost any
" " this is a hell of a dull talk , " brett said .
“what’s your name , kid ?
' the first day most of them came over and dropped the christmas tree ornaments that confuse the other people
we left the car and tracked them but there was no bull track .
out , but here he had something that had hurt frightfully and just when he had felt it breaking him
" i want to go all by myself and shoot all by myself .
in the morning i came downstairs about eight o’clock and got some breakfast .
' ' a plantation , ' he said .
our people went to america because that was the place to go then .
“i guess i was pretty stewed last night , ” he started .
” “tear gas .
it felt cool as water and the breeze cooled my skin through the wet shirt .
_num_ d soldier—all right , george , we’ll have a round of the red .
but , thank god , they are not as intelligent as we who kill them ; although they are more
it ' s _my_ mother .
elliot cat in the rain out of season cross-country snow my old man big two-hearted river : part i big
or must a vehicle have wheels or be tracked ?
i saw the two lights on the point go down , and one of them moving off around the point
“they may shell us now , ” i said .
' you see how quickly you practise it ?
” “you see if i made really completely good sense i wouldn’t be here .
in a pursuit race , in bicycle racing , riders start at equal intervals to ride after one another .
all we see or hear is revolutions .
" " one , " the old man said .
the highway that rose and fell straight away ahead with banks of red dirt sliced cleanly away and the second-growth
" " he ' s a bohemian , " the lad who brought the gloves said .
she liked the deadly serious way he received any complaints .
hit , i mean .
' _ciao_ , andrea , ' she said .
“it’ll be all right for bait but it’s better with the ventral fin in .
i had only sipped my brandy and soda .
“when they get to the bottom of it they’ll find the pope there .
bill and i were out late , too .
' this is the place where the german shot the pigeons , ' the girl said .
i handed it to him .
he was on the defensive again .
in heroes , asked for a moment of silence for our glorious dead , he had stood stiffly to attention
” “leave the kid alone , ” solly freedman says .
” “where we ?
" " i am a veteran of the iritrea campaign , " said the adjutant stiffly .
” “you are in love with this girl now ?
another thing was that the drinks were wonderful .
over and over in a clashing of skis , feeling like a shot rabbit , then stuck , his legs
we had been up that morning since five o ' clock .
“there are only two places , and they are occupied , ” i said .
the bull did not move .
“you know this is a long sort of stupid business and we have to learn to pace ourselves .
mais qu’est-ce que monsieur va faire ?
” “oh , yes , i am .
go on forward now and fasten the hatch from the outside .
patches until you were in them , slid down , clung to vines , stumbled and climbed and slid again
' ' would you really like to fight ?
rolling country , simply to walk , and to be able to hunt , not knowing what we might see
il y a beaucoup de gibier et de vin .
the small ones thin out and stop before the big ones come .
walk all day long .
" two hundred pesetas .
" " oh , yes , i am .
" " i don ' t think you ought to work any more , " hogan says .
“well , we haven’t , ” nick told her .
' ' it is sole , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
jack got a good hand coming down through the crowd .
i ' ve only got to-night .
robert cohn in jail .
it was strange , too , wasn’t it , that when he fell in love with another woman , that
" they said you were here .
, i lifted the lug and slipped the bolt out .
across the plain it was dark , and we could see the mountains .
' ' the hell with my bad hand , ' the colonel said .
he ' s got the car just up the street .
an ax , but by the time we got back out to her the greeks had blown her open and
, beyond which the sun was setting at the time the rhino would be coming out of the forest ;
” “i have to go , ” mr .
" " where do you think you are ?
' when lilacs last in the door-yard bloomed .
canyon , that from above had been a narrow gash , opened to a forest-banked stream .
” “i wish you wouldn’t , ” she said .
floating i saw only the sky , and felt the drop and lift of the swells .
now is no time to think of what you do not have .
they were crossing the street " hello , men , " i said .
” “doctor going to cure me .
really been consummated until the husband has committed suicide .
naturally ask , and found he is being treated for i don’t know how to spell the word but it
his arms were spread wide and he had one leg drawn up .
the afternoon was with them .
“that was a good shot , ” wilson said .
" he went back into the other room for the light treatment and the massage .
' ' what other things ?
oh , come , wemedge .
” “the hell it’s comfortable .
some were grazing and others stood , their heads up , watching .
a clearing a hundred yards ahead , looking to me hard-hit and looking back , wide ears spread , big
he was too simple to wonder when he had attained humility .
' ' but i will love you , whatever that means , and you and i know what it means
" " better for you .
the rain can make all places strange , even places where you live .
we knew where he was and , as we went slowly forward , parting the high grass , we saw
you ' ll love it .
through duller country .
” “no , ” said paco .
“one time i went out with papa and he shot a jack-rabbit just a little bit and i shot it
" i ' ll bring the luck with me .
into the car and cranked up the glass of the side window as it was bitterly cold .
he used to help me load plenty of times .
" listen , jake , " he said , " are you really a catholic ?
" and you are quite sure that you love a girl ?
and him working harder up and down a patch of the road .
' ' about his next book , or about what it says in baedeker .
liz pushed him , she was so uncomfortable and cramped .
it was a folded , old u .
" " lawrence ' s book deals with arabia , i believe .
she is very intelligent , you know .
then , too , the roads are better now and there is no dust .
not as long as he keeps this up .
icebox .
into that impersonal state you shoot from .
” “the bastard !
but it was excited shooting , all of it , and i was not proud of it .
“get the anchor up .
, like a fat , plum-coloured , masai donkey with marvellous long , black , straight , back-slanting horns that
“yes , sir , ” the barman took the orders .
i don’t know what i expected .
there might be bad ones .
" where do you suppose he went ?
' ' did you think i was a snob because i come from an old family ?
“i’ve dropped the whole thing , ” she said , sitting down at the table .
you must have it .
i offered to put the dekes out with him .
but he certainly made the paper more interesting reading , didn’t he ?
never look at any part of the bird but the bill .
house where i was born and my mother and father ' s wedding-cake in a tin box hanging from one
and until i direct you otherwise , don ' t speak to me until you are spoken to .
you see i really am .
i glanced over .
, carefully starting the balloons with sticks , standing above the heads of the crowd to launch the balloons off
of glade beyond a small village where there was a mission station at the foot of a mountain .
' that ' s lovely .
closet , but unused .
the bull detached himself from the horse and charged the cape , and manuel , running sideways and holding the
them back up into the darkness .
” the girl did not say anything .
" what the hell do you argue with this kid for ?
” the girl looked across at the hills .
“have you seen a french comrade pass through here ?
very well , as long as either of us is alive and after .
garner moved close to joe as the wagon jolted .
if they won ' t take a fly i ' ll just flick it around .
if we _are_ going i ' ll be just as glad to rest my feet .
" " be yourself , " walcott says .
" " does he look badly ?
i was just standing up for the tricycle .
" " i go now for the sardines , " the boy said .
gritti ?
“he’s all bone , ” the boy said encouragingly .
" here ' s the beautiful lady with the beer .
' please tell me some picturesque .
the pack was heavy enough .
there wasn’t any answer .
' thank you .
“chrise , ” nick said , “geezus chrise , ” he said happily .
had been jacksnipe on the prairie , or when he saw shocks of corn , or when he saw a
old castle , with buildings close around it and a field of grain going right up to the walls and
but i don’t want anybody but you .
be good now fast before you hurt her .
on an italian liner ; whichever one is best then .
i wanted to get home .
no coffee .
on this kind it’s ninety-eight .
" it looks to me like a pub , " i said .
the prisoner saw him looking and stood still .
i ' m not hungry .
” “no , i insist .
they put a mystery in which is not there .
" here , take them , " she said .
" he ' s found fish , " he said aloud .
" " the second .
' i think we were rather bad boys .
but there ' s no use talking about it , is there ?
shouldn ' t i maybe distribute largess ?
he might have gone with us .
the hills made shadows on the water , which was flat calm and rather stagnant looking .
we all looked at him and m ' cola knelt and traced the curve of his horns with his finger
i wished that i had a michigan double-bitted axe , honed razor-sharp , to chop with instead of this sabring
he’ll have gone by and picked it up before dark .
we all ought to make sacrifices for literature .
the boatman lifted the combination shooting stool and shell box out of the boat and handed it to the shooter
then we were ordered to commit one regiment before the attack started .
so what happened to him ?
we went on perhaps five yards and another sable jumped .
" i just had an accident .
” “since the war .
f— your mother .
short stories have french settings .
" " he ' s nervous and crabby , " i said .
' ' you ' re so damned noble that sometimes you stink , ' the colonel said .
would you mind checking the tires please ?
but the good part’s still there and there isn’t any passable road into it .
” “just about like yesterday .
had blood and , climbing down , we saw it on a rock and then followed it in occasional drying
slung straight up and down from the left shoulder away from the game .
outside in the square the fiesta was going on .
“and for writing in my book .
he was speaking to belmonte .
” “those are funny names for indians .
” one of the stretcher-bearers came in .
you may think a rabbit moves fast when it first jumps and starts zig-zagging away , but the authority moved
they always picked the finest places to have the quarrels .
' as well as any place .
” when she goes , he thought , i’ll have all i want .
” “see if you can find the major , ” the adjutant said to one of the two runners .
they were hoisted on a block and tackle , their livers removed , their fins cut off and their hides
” he went to hang up the hose .
" asked madame .
" i know it , " manuel said .
it was a game you play , as some people used to play double canfield or any solitary card games
centre all dancing .
" one place is just as good as another to run over a skunk .
“well , jimmy , what do you make of that ?
crows .
“i held you next to my heart when you were a tiny baby .
i heard him say that .
he was not dead but was shot through both lungs .
along with these went gambling , an opium of the people if there ever was one , one of the
“he won’t win , ” george says very low , leaning over and buttoning the bottoms of his breeches .
it was off to the right in the forest and the tracks of the old bull led to it .
“conversation is going to be so difficult , ” margaret said .
' ' wait till you see one , ' the colonel said .
pop had let him have it and m ' cola had worn it ever since .
' to-night .
lips closed looking even more beautiful than when she was awake .
you ' ve still one on your licence .
” san siro was the swellest course i’d ever seen but the old man said it was a dog’s life
slap and thud of the dung falling .
but he knew he had attained it and he knew it was not disgraceful and it carried no loss of
” “get in and see .
he was a fine fish , bright silver now , barred with purple and as big around as a log
" i am a good gambler , really i would enjoy being rich .
just then it hit him as he had known it would since they had picked up the decoys .
neither do i go to mass .
' ' don ' t you want to come ?
he was very shy and quite young and the train men passed him on from one crew to another .
has a wonderful face though , the colonel thought .
maybe i’ll have to operate on this lady .
there was no doubt about the man the waiter had pointed out .
“no , sir , ” i said .
" no , " said the porter .
" " globos illuminados , " mike said .
he took another drink of the champagne .
that ' s what he wants to do .
' ' no , ' the _gran maestro_ answered .
" " this is a hot town , " said the other .
” “it sounded straight down in the campo .
we heard him grunt .
on that steep hillside .
i looked back at them and at the empty tables .
i’ve this damned cannon .
christ , i am opposed to the excessive butcher bill , he thought .
that bambini theory is as far as i ' ve thought it through .
“your mouth is bloody .
“you all ready ?
“do we look silly ?
he always felt this way coming home at the end of a trip .
roger looked up interestedly as he poured the milk into the cup .
so i am stand there and watch .
' i wish to serve you .
” “like how much better you can pick them if you don’t see the horses .
my father say one could well wish themselves dead if once they become a victim of that malady--i believe my
allied uniform affects him that way .
' ' how was it ?
" " i ' m serious .
' you are asking for the army or as my physician ?
in that you run for arlington , if they return the body .
chapter _num_ it was a warm spring night and i sat at a table on the terrace of the napolitain
he strode very loosely and with a slight lift , and i liked to watch him and to feel the
" schmidt , " she said .
swaying as though it had just jumped a road , they drew up close and he could see the plunging
he jumped almost as though to show me how big he was .
" well , " he says .
it hit him in the flank and from the way it hit you could tell he was a dead animal
“you look very happy this morning .
before except in the illustrations of a book at mrs .
while they were in our corner i watched him tie walcott up , get his right hand loose , turn
below that is the secret place .
” “i’m awfully glad that i love you .
the klaxon .
under their boots and looked once more at the tracks in the wet sand and that was the end of
that’s cubans all right .
i am a manager for this indian .
“they couldn’t .
" i hate his damned suffering .
" i ' m hernandez , " he said and put out his hand .
o’clock that night , if that train still left at five ; the cars were marked paris-rome , and cars
' you know , dick , ' he said .
pace easily with the car as they moved long-legged , smoothly , loosely , and with pride .
keep away from women and horses and , and-- " he stopped " --eagles , billy .
“you fight ?
“wait till i climb over and i’ll help you , ” nick said .
" " that ' s all .
i got mixed up .
" i thumbed my nose .
the crowd wanted him .
the crowd were wild about it .
to shoot exactly as much as when he first had gone with his father .
“you have it your own way .
“they haven’t got a cure for anything .
he shot the same way in the field when he was twelve .
" that ' s too much , " i said .
with her hair .
" tell him brett wants to come into---- " " oh , pipe down , mike , for christ '
hah !
they must really be rafted up out there , the colonel thought .
" " you were the only friend i had , and i loved brett so .
" i had eaten two helpings of chicken and french fried potatoes , three ears of sweet corn , some
" " we ' ll come back before we go away .
they had come by train from a bull-breeding ranch in castile , and had been unloaded off flat-cars at the
we were very happy , too , not to have to fight .
' ' good , ' she said .
while .
" but i ought to stay .
he was tired he felt they probably _were_ in the hills and he was missing his chance .
“come on , kid , ” he’d say , stepping up and down on his toes in front of the
' the _gran maestro_ came over and leaned forward attentively .
more difficult to break from the hook .
” “why didn’t you give the little presents when i was over there ?
' ' i ' m jackson , sir .
“can i bring you some coffee ?
” jack stands up and the sweat comes out all over his face .
“that’s it .
i said madame had packed them by mistake .
also i have no understanding of it .
" " anything you want me to think about it ?
' sleep well , my dearest lovely , and i will just tell it for nothing .
' _gran maestro_ , ' he said .
it was spring in the valley but the sun was very hot .
” “all that is real to me are the dead , ” she said .
traps we had set up .
' ' mummy would not mind .
of red .
" " and am poorer than the birds .
“it is necessary to be formal .
to the westward , making the sky , as you looked up , seem a pink dither of flickering passage
no i can’t leave this cage until my husband comes , she said .
' she talks like a gentle cat , though the poor cats cannot speak , the colonel thought .
road that went back into the country .
i lay there for a while .
i ain’t paid to get shot .
“only give him half a glass .
“will you get us out of here ?
everyone has been very nice .
the damp houses of the sea city .
flyer said .
i heard it bump once and it seemed like a year before i came up through to the top of
" " all right , " said the girl .
please don’t worry , daughter .
i like to hear them talk .
they were not there , and i went over to the dingo .
with two wooden forks at the end to pick them up with .
his mother knows it and it’s all right .
" asked the girl .
' ' nor bad dreams .
but we can ' t leave him unarmed .
" " tell them about your medals .
behind the table in the dugout that was battalion headquarters .
he was in bed when the manager of the burlesque troupe came into his room and after the manager had
in with a sleeve from the sergeant’s shirt .
we went back to our seats in the other car .
did he see you ?
” “you’re a rummy .
on berries around the swamp .
of times .
" " come in .
“you got an indian girl .
his home town , and he wanted to be the big , generous matador with a fellow townsman .
rotten painter .
the men ate seriously .
any man could do it .
brett came over with her wrap on .
dick put the three axes down on the little dock .
the ground was soft with pine needles and there was no dew .
” “it’s ours .
she liked you .
” “i am a good soldier .
it was one of the stories in " a sportsman ' s sketches .
you told me that , you know .
” “well , ” i told him , “the hell of it is that it usually is too early or
one booth advertised anis del toro .
“truly ?
“i got a lot to do .
the man called harry waved his good arm in reply .
" what about it ?
" the fish is my friend too , " he said aloud .
" that ' s what they are--cochons .
' ' you , ' she said .
it ' s awful when you can ' t slide .
you don’t have to put any name to it .
while nick walked through the little stretch of meadow alongside the stream , trout had jumped high out of water
the punishment of hunger , and that he is against something that he does not comprehend , is everything .
' when the rain ?
in the good weather there was always an artist with his easel .
he wore a derby hat and a black overcoat buttoned across the chest .
" you get your hands well old man .
' i ' d rather get another buff than rhino .
“to the room .
” “i’ll get all right .
“i don’t want you to sleep with any lousy pillow , ” she said .
i wonder what he made that lurch for , he thought .
oh , lord , don’t let them even catch a glimpse of it !
] _num_ st roman soldier—you see his girl ?
“why do we have to go ?
he had come up from deep down in the water as the dark cloud of blood had settled and dispersed
" " how old do you suppose he is ?
have you seen them ?
we have both taken many .
he said it with an air of superior knowledge that irritated both of us .
, ready to do battle for his lady love .
nothing was changed in the town except that the young girls had grown up .
he dipped the coffee pot half full , put some more chips under the grill onto the fire and put
i think it would be better if you didn’t come up to the line until you had those supplies .
” “let’s not even put the light on .
jack wasn’t ever what you would call a sprinter .
they were not even quartering on the scent .
me ' .
whoever gets his first can go on down after oryx .
elliot had a number of friends by now all of whom admired his poetry and mrs .
' it ' s on the side he ' s lying on , ' i said .
i wanted to start him again .
" i was up at henry ' s , " nick said , " and two fellows came in and
“i know what i’m talking about when i talk about that bird .
was increasing the pace a little .
“where were they in the woods ?
" " that was a fine girl you had at the dance , and then went off with that brett
over the side of the half-track .
' ' i ' m learning , ' the colonel said .
you ski the same ; controlled and good .
" " i ' ll give them a good show , " jack said .
” “hungry as hell .
' disgusting .
do you think it’s true ?
" " he is almost blind .
we’ll start to have it now .
brett came in the room , a glass in her hand , and sat on the bed .
" he said to tom .
nick was happy as he crawled inside the tent .
' ' i understand it now very well .
” “i’m very worried about him , and do you know that absolutely no one has come to see him
he’s been up there , too .
” “are you trying to insult me ?
“i’ve been asleep .
” “it’s very exciting , ” she said .
you ' re not a gangster .
” “oh , yes he was .
san fermin , ' " bill said .
there was a big sea running and waves broke and the wind blew the spray against the car .
it seems too easy a solution to me .
they were cold .
” “sure we will .
“let’s get really drunk .
but you get the orders , and you have to carry them out .
we trailed the man , moving slowly through the trees and stalking the lick carefully , up and into the
” the canary chirped and the feathers on his throats stood out , then he dropped his bill and pecked
mixed ways of writing she had been taught at various schools .
it looked like hair-oil and smelled like italian strega .
rhino trail that graded through the grassy hills with their abandoned orchard-looking trees , as smoothly and evenly as though
” the one blonde looked at the other and shook her head .
' now the memsahib and i would never laugh .
“then , while the one held paco by the arm ; paco , looking very ashamed to be spoken of
” “they’re not dangerous , are they ?
“let’s have a drink , ” he said .
” “and you’re not disappointed because of anything ?
” “did you like that manolita girl ?
' ' we ' ll go to sheridan first and then decide .
' is there water ?
good thing you didn ' t shoot her .
“wait a minute , ” she said , got a pen .
the exact distance and when the two young men came around the corner which was formed by the apse of
and a poke with the goad and get going again .
new drinks ?
take this and buy your horse some oats .
“you’ve got your speed back , ” his father said .
the colonel found the walk long , although it was a very short one and when the waiter , who
but now they were freshening as when the breeze rises .
he is hitting the wire leader with his spear , he thought .
' ' do you love me still on these water-worn , cold and old stones ?
it was just starting to get fall weather and it’s nice country there in jersey , up in the hills
the public , who wanted three times as much from belmonte , who was sick with a fistula , as
to terminate .
i wish i were one of these literary chaps .
behind the wooden counter is a hebrew wineseller .
they had brett seated on a wine-cask .
" bill ' s face was red .
it’s a long time .
' ' yes , ' he said feelingly .
' ' excellent , ' the colonel said .
for christ sake have yourself some fun .
it was funny about reactions like that .
my flat was just across the street , a little way down the boulevard st .
” “i should imagine he would be very interesting .
" he ' ll stay all night , " he said to his colleague .
wait till he was fifty .
maybe i can trade somebody out of one of these real down jackets that nobody ever sold that had one
“you wouldn’t draw , ” retana said .
“i see them together every day .
he ' s a baron .
” “we can’t fish then , ” said the young gentleman , and unjointed the rod , reeling the line
you aren’t making me any money in philadelphia , are you ?
men come of age before and it always moved him .
it was one of the white men .
i got in the front seat with the wanderobo-masai .
' ' you can ' t tell .
in the middle of this field we lost the trail completely and circled and hunted for nearly two hours before
see the curve before you drop down ?
he put one knee on the fish and cut strips of dark red meat longitudinally from the back of the
they ' ve named themselves enough in their memoirs .
" " why the hell should i be ?
when they were at the top of the hill they looked back and saw the lake in the moonlight .
and an officer from the brigade .
" " you know morgan and steinfelt , " john said .
" " you ' re talking through a sheet all right .
" " no , hombre .
stayed with us awhile .
" " because he came here the most times , " the old man said .
the iodine .
“we want the bill , ” i said .
you can’t go to everyone .
” “it’s just like i told you last night .
anyhow , his father was a great friend of my father .
but as i looked at the table and remembered the old days i felt badly about him and i felt
i know you ' re tired to-night .
over as they stroll out to feed .
it’s all wrong .
now lift high up and we’ll go over together in the wave .
after breakfast jack called up his wife on the long-distance .
" " i rather thought it would be good for him .
why did i have to make a one-night stand ?
i can ' t stand it any more .
“he means he writes a book like a writer .
had also fought in spain as a battalion commander where the colonel had known him when he , himself ,
do you know what he’d done ?
i ' m go ing to get a lit tle sleep .
" but why did you fight ?
he’s going to jump anyway .
would you come over with me to the dome ?
it’s just business .
you hang around cafés .
" " it would make a difference to you if anybody did it .
it would have been a great comfort to do it .
' ' i only want what you will tell me .
great many women in washington .
“another time .
” she looked up at the grouse still in the tree .
_hebrew wine-seller_--here you are , gentlemen .
hold up , legs .
the santé who replied with that phrase when asked if he had any last words to say .
" he smiled a beautiful italian smile and wrote something on the receipt stub , holding it so i could
help it .
the girl friend was now typing practically all of the manuscripts .
i wish he ' d sleep and i could sleep and dream about the lions , he thought .
you get a shell in , shoot , but it is too far , or you were behind , and
we were caught in the jam , dancing in one place in front of him .
' get up on somebody ' s shoulders to shoot .
“i saw a woodcock this morning , ” bill said .
' ' now you say thank you , ' the girl said and slipped them into his pocket as quickly
” she stood up with her shirt hanging down over her brown legs .
“charge straight , ” he said .
you couldn’t get out to her .
he clubbed at heads and heard the jaws chop and the shaking of the skiff as they took hold below
turner stood beside the bed .
“what importance is there to whether francis is any good at killing lions ?
not in a wishy-washy way or by giving you a little baby but really good for you so you’d write
its name was _el ordine militar , nobile y espirituoso de los caballeros de brusadelli_ .
” “i’ve paid every day for the rent of it .
out of that one ?
but now you know how they use it .
and now he was back in chicote’s and all the americans he would meet there now were the kind he
' yes , it is true .
short grass on hard ground where a blood spot was a dry , black blister on a grass blade ,
they were off the ground and sheltered now .
i know them , but i wish that he would get it open .
" " don ' t forget it , yet , " brett said .
' s left hand was uncramped .
used to quote it to myself at one time .
” “maybe the boy meant it for a joke , max , ” al said .
“pas moi .
” i translated to red .
the sergeant lifted the coffee cup and as he raised it to drink it it jerked out of his hand
length very carefully in my mind ; fishing very carefully under all the logs , all the turns of the
i definitely had the braggies , on beer , too .
the blood was hot on his knuckles , and he was on top of the bull .
“i’m sleepy now .
they’ve finished skinning out that head now .
all i could think was : the fool .
" what do you want me to do about it ?
she went right down and prayed for him .
” “we are catholique , ” i said .
” “good old jimmy , ” he said .
i ' m going right back down to the chapel and pray until it ' s finished .
" asked the sexton .
i sat down at the table .
" we shook hands .
i did not denounce for pleasure .
' ' i said it honestly , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
" and what a night !
you look extraordinarily well , yourself .
“so i am .
" " i am very truly sorry .
but did you ever read them ?
you are not a bandit and this has nothing to do with the cinema .
" " you wouldn ' t take a cigar ?
“listen to him cough .
“i don’t like this story very well , ” i said .
“mangez !
i know that conscience speaks in italics but sometimes you seem to speak in very boldfaced gothic script .
with a sense of humour .
” “did you get the knockout drops ?
" he can ' t be away from you .
” “no tell me .
and chunks for the open fireplace .
his car was parked at the end of the street where ours was also standing in the lee of a
” “i’m really all right , ” she said then , leaning over , away from the englishman .
then it spread like a cloud .
i waved to frankie , who’d thrown the bowline on board , and i headed her out of the slip
" it is a very big circle , " he said .
everybody knew him and they called him blindy which is a good name for a blind man in that part
they made a fire with driftwood .
' ' you _will_ need someone to interpret whatever they speak into swahili .
it blew dust through the screens into the house and sifted it into the books and over the pictures .
framed photographs and bull-fight posters .
“the giants are too big for the league .
' or careless or unkempt ?
' but , by god , i feel awfully good about to-morrow .
there was a big breeze blowing now and i was certain we had no chance of surprising him , our
fresh vegetables .
" " we ought to have gone last night .
“and this .
" i wish to present my fiancée , mademoiselle georgette leblanc , " i said .
” “you are quarrelling , ” the lady said .
i was trying .
' it is something else .
“can i help you with any of that ?
always will be won’t we ?
i ' d try to pull one down like this , he said , hearing the wings in the air
" he let the line slip through his fingers while he reached down with his left hand and made fast
“when have you got to go back to school ?
then all of a sudden i started to cry .
difference to my old man , if he won he wasn’t ever excited or anything , and now it was
they were strange shoulders , still powerful although very old , and the neck was still strong too and the
cheer up , boy , he said .
" when he sailed into the little harbour the lights of the terrace were out and he knew everyone was
not always .
barrera to be wiped , and put back in its case , he passed through into the callejon and leaned
" the tall waiter said .
it was impossible as well as forbidden .
” they went along down the creek .
come on in .
bataille_ .
that is certainly simple .
i’m with you on anything .
' painters ?
" " oh , shut it and go and get your hair cut .
ice cream .
the evans boy could have followed him here before .
” george was reading again .
we want to get to the crap game .
" " would you please please please please please please please stop talking ?
now coming toward the rear of the hotel , where the kitchen was , they crossed a plank bridge over
i am not really a good bull fighter .
not give a damn about it .
she is away for twenty minutes and now she is back , simply enamelled in that american female cruelty .
bite it off just like it was a grape !
' karl said .
” “how much money has he got ?
summer , i was unwilling to make the experiment .
fontan looked old and tired .
” “let’s eat in the hotel , ” john says .
“do i have to let her put her arm around my neck ?
there was no light as yet in the east across the grand canal , but his eyes could see how
it was a good thing to have in reserve .
frazer liked to see her and to hear her talk , but the mail , supposedly coming from a different
" " no , " said the girl , " i can ' t .
that’s one more thing you can watch .
” the mexican said at the door .
" how do you feel , fish ?
wheeler’s table .
“you’re not coming , ” wilson said .
" " let ' s not talk about how i am , " nick said .
books or in the films .
“but they were awfully close then .
out in the center of the ring , under the lights , manuel was kneeling , facing the bull ,
“i’ve read it in the paper .
" we kissed standing at the door .
but there must be pockets like this all over , that no one knows of , that the cars pass
" " he was , you know .
” “did you feel badly though ?
” “it’s better for him than not sleeping , ” hogan said .
' ' would it make you happier to be a three-star general ?
grey before daylight , with a tin cup of hot tea in my hand and my breakfast , on the
and to see the river .
it was like normandy only flatter .
john took a bottle off a low shelf in the corner and handed it to the down-state man .
“to the butterflies , ” onèsime drank .
put them in there .
frazer ' s mind , but the effect was all the same .
want the lovers , and drink being no anæsthetic she had to make another life .
the _pasta asciuta_ was good ; the wine tasted of alum , and we poured water in it .
" he hasn ' t got any passport .
i ' m going away from you , and then michael ' s coming back .
oh , i hope i will get to be one .
and the good guys went to chicote’s .
he turned his head on the cot to look toward her .
' ' the mirror bores me , ' she said .
“and i remember when he said it and i was a lovely piece then exactly as he said , and
' ' that ' s lovely , ' she said .
we’ve given him time , i think .
“you mustn’t , jim .
nick pushed under the browned under surface with a fresh pine chip .
“but i got to steer .
liz had good legs and always wore clean gingham aprons and jim noticed that her hair was always neat behind
" " i ' m satisfied , " cohn said .
" what have you for dessert ?
bags into the back of the car .
i saw a hawk hunting over a field and his mate too .
you get married and have five sons and call them all richard .
an inexact command in which details are not specified , or to have to do it in front of people
open .
they were trolling along the edge of the channel-bank where the bottom dropped off suddenly from sandy shallows to twelve
" " tired !
” rinaldi lay still in the sun breathing with dif iculty .
nick stopped on the bridge .
” “i’ll see you at the club tonight , ” he said to me very pleasantly .
we set the traps well beyond the cross roads so that we would not louse up the cross roads and
nothing was finished .
that isn ' t polite .
they killed general mcnair by mistake the day the valhalla express came over .
getting her .
window were dusty trees and an oiled road and flat fields of grapes , with gray-stone hills behind them .
the next day we were busy all morning packing and ending the summer .
' m ' cola could grin again now and the smile moved the chinese hairs at the corner of his
the husband of the woman who ran the bal musette drove a taxi and when he , harry , had
' you bastard , ' i said in english , and he chuckled and shook his head .
" i am still an old man .
” “sí , señor , ” said the mexican , who was named cayetano ruiz .
' that ' s it , ' she said .
but i never saw either of them again .
” “american flyers , ” i said .
he wouldn’t sleep at night and he’d get up in the morning feeling that way , you know , when
“and now the other side .
but anyway they couldn ' t have known they were quicksands and when she struck the captain must have ordered
each time he gave the bartender a good tip .
they sat down on the bed .
" i say , i have a thirst .
” “how big ?
not all i want but all there is .
you can ' t wear them .
nice stuffed dog ?
maybe they are both .
he loved green turtles and hawks-bills with their elegance and speed and their great value and he had a friendly
" i ' m fond of him .
in his room , alone , the matador who was ill lay face down on his bed with his mouth
i ' d like to have you around .
she sleeps as though she had not gone to sleep .
build like yours but you have an absolutely heaven-given ability to not have to go to the bathroom .
somebody else picked up the flit gun and threw it out the door after him .
he was angry .
" " what ' s it all about ?
side of the taxis when it got steep going up the hill and he could see that hill every night
she disliked such rooms .
that boy’s got cojones .
we crippled three others .
feeling her trembling as he held her .
lot of time to sit around because the work around a racing stable , for the jocks , that is
at the far end of the plateau boys had climbed into the trees .
" i told him everything exactly as you said and he said to tell you , truly , that he
" i knew they couldn ' t beat our lady , " she said .
he looked under the counter .
thought was a hell of a steeplechase .
he was flopping and bouncing worse than any dolphin on a gaff .
un roman , " fontan explained .
her attention always wandered .
“not too much , ” i said .
she hadn’t talked much last night .
cook .
i kept the stuff in the dining room and it was all gone .
" all for sport .
' ' shoot them yourself .
“for comrade fake santa claus , ” said baldy .
but when the strain showed the fish had turned to come toward the boat , the old man rose to
" " do you know if he belongs to the national geographic society ?
nick walked up the street beside the car-tracks and turned at the next arc-light down a side-street .
elephants that had come onto the elephant road from the heavy forest on the left of the trail .
he got the other one without no advice .
mobile maybe .
i listened to him snore for a long time and then i stopped listening to him snore and listened to
i suppose , though , it finally becomes a social defect to be unable to believe any marriage has not
he felt , though , that he might augment the lunch with his sausage and share it with the poler
i was never ashamed of the ribbons , though , and sometimes , after the cocktail hour , i would
i was walking from the woolf brothers’ saloon where , on christmas and thanksgiving day , a free turkey dinner
the air .
brett sat between mike and me at the barrera , and bill and cohn went up above .
” “but it’s idiotic .
“everything tastes of licorice .
“he has no friends .
sleep that made the difference between a boy and men .
" he said to manuel .
lion had been trotting when macomber first shot .
' ' that ' s good , ' the colonel said .
" what ' s the idea ?
i was sorry for him , but it was not a thing you could do anything about , because right
” i knew this was true and there was nothing else to say , only i wished i had never
“not of medicine , ” the grey-eyed man told him .
" don ' t you know about that ?
his face looked awful all the time .
before dark we followed droopy and two local guides up past the village and in a long climb to the
' ' he believes you should hunt kudu alone .
“it’s a bit too hot at noon .
' ' there is one green-head drake in the bag who is only wing-tipped .
his father said , “you better go to bed , nick .
but they’re still useful .
" " he ' s hard to describe .
to be taking a bearing of this against the peaks of three far blue hills on the horizon .
if i had time i could make good tankists too .
they were on it and over it and up the bank beyond and the road had turned north .
” “where are you going ?
” “it’s better than regal .
england , when we saw the first of them .
these troops in reserve were soldiers only in name and from the fact that they were in uniform .
“there was a boy from my province who became frightened during the bombardment , and he shot himself in the
” “it’s not light yet , ” she said .
“my god , hello , ” she said .
' you ' re god-damned right it ' s bad , ' the driver said and added , ' sir
on is that every day the buses will be going out to whatever track they’re running at , going right
as he lowered his head to hook , zurito sunk the point of the pic in the swelling hump of
' ' we cannot fail the honourable pacciardi , ' the bar-tender said .
“you better go see ole andreson .
you can ' t get water through a burberry .
" all right , " said mr .
i ' m now going to get into the large back seat of this god-damned , over-sized luxurious automobile .
the colonel thought .
” “i can stay up all night , ” the local warden said .
“a comrade with a blanket tied around his shoulders in the form of a bandoleer ?
game very distinctly .
” “i could put them in if you’ll tell me how .
there weren’t no more cars come and i walked in .
i unloaded the guns and stowed them below .
very good men with the small , dried , and excellent wisdom of unitarians ; men of letters ; quakers
and it was snow they tramped along in until they died that winter .
" " he ' s all right .
' ' i ' ll never teach you .
the young man unbuckled the leather shoulder holster and laid the big pistol by his leg .
" " i seen him last sunday didn ' t i ?
' ' it ' s so damned ugly and i dislike looking at it .
" you stop laughing , joe , " mrs .
he nodded his head .
" " been working for the common good ?
' shoot him , ' said pop .
the sun was coming over the hills at the head of the valley and shone on us while everything at
couldn’t i read to you ?
i try to recall it but i cannot .
” “a little wobbly .
' when do we start ?
’ “then he said , ‘everything’s all right .
but they know me there .
' ' should we go up and look at the picture and see if it is of any value ;
if the femoral artery emptied itself before you reached there they called the priest .
” “good , ” she said .
all about .
but i am only a girl from this town that loves you .
as long as a bull-fighter stays in his own terrain he is comparatively safe .
in the pack he found a big onion .
maybe some resorter’s kid .
“you can read and write , can’t you ?
braddocks asked .
doctor wilcox was short , dark and carried an indexed book .
they were raking the lawns and burning leaves in the road , and i stopped for a long time and
this boy brought the remains of st .
he ' s been a member for a great many years .
" lost money .
it was not pleasant .
that night after supper we were in the tent .
' of course you are , ' said pop .
' ' i called twice , richard , ' the girl said .
he had been contemptuous of those who wrecked .
m ' cola wore an old u .
“that son of a bitch !
' ' not if you wrote it , ' p .
the horns were curling out the back of the car , tied on to the loads .
this knowledge that you’re going mad for me .
, giving no sign of having noticed the stench , i handed them to garrick who promptly , without sign
" " just those i said .
he took him out softly and smoothly , and then stopped and , standing squarely in front of the bull
wilson had ducked to one side to get in a shoulder shot .
“take it .
when he had finished he stood up , took the saucer of oil and went into the small room of
his father looked down at him .
“if you can make it , there are trucks up the road where it forks for tortosa .
she held a big tortoise-shell cat pressed tight against her and swung down against her body .
brett came over soon after lunch .
saw her pretty pear-shaped breasts and the long , clean niggery legs and was studying her pleasant profile most profitably
you are getting something else with the newspaper , he thought .
” “well , ” he says , “like about the wife .
speak up .
” “what do you do for amusement ?
” he got the money out of the cash box , although then he always carried a hundred or more
“leave you ?
” “between chicago and detroit .
you got to cut the coleta .
" i ' ll fix it up if you want to do it .
table where the matador whose courage was gone sat with another matador who had renounced the sword to become a
lazare .
' and the hell with shaef .
“i’m going down .
in a hollow , and there was only the point of a spear in the sun , then they came
” “you might go good .
cold ones out of the ice box with frankie .
" let ' s go , " said brett .
" the sooner we get on the stream the better .
” the girl stood up and walked to the end of the station .
we touched glasses .
but i ' ll come back .
” “get some water .
i sat there steering and i looked at him and i thought , hell , he’s as well off dead
brett ' s hat was off .
shoot him again , " trudy said .
he held the middle of the road on his bicycle and we turned out for him .
" " he ain ' t got no money to get a divorce .
the only thing he ' s afraid of is another one of the same kind .
" cramp then if you want .
that’s the point , ” bill said .
as he lay on the floor with two bullets in his abdomen .
the shark was not an accident .
that is why we can make jokes and not be solemn .
how ' s that ?
one was on each side of baldy and he was nodding his head slowly .
he works nights .
on conversation .
i drank a coffee and after a while bill came over .
would not open and they would sail as cleanly as possible .
they came from a good place , without sewerage , and the colonel asked to have six opened .
he couldn’t .
' and i will .
i ' m getting awfully slow , he thought .
“i can just remember , ” nick said .
' but old hem might as well have a look at it to-night .
“this is a fight that would draw a lot more than the garden could hold .
" " happy , hell !
after lunch i went up to my room , read a while , and went to sleep .
' why do we have to get old ?
now , who had the most money of all , who had all the money there was , who had
what did you make it ?
" want to start now ?
come inside .
they seem blown tight enough to burst .
“they’re having plenty of trouble over there aren’t they , ” the man behind the counter said to him .
” “you can take the gun .
then to roger , “you don’t mind writing do you .
“come on , roll , i’ve got you covered .
” “isn’t there something i could do ?
" does cohn look bored ?
s sake !
“it’s sure got a hold on them , ” he had told nick adams .
” “maybe we won’t have to .
" fish , " the old man said .
he chewed it and noted its quality and its good taste .
across from us , at another table , sat a sailor .
“what are you reading ?
i couldn’t help it .
do you all go down ?
" he was still very polite , but he was surer of himself .
we got along damned well .
” “you look fine , ” steinfelt says .
“they greased it .
“i have terrific presentiments about things sometimes .
' we both watched , using the glasses guardedly .
” “look , littless .
“this is the last one , ” nick said .
they’re working all the time .
get a seeing-eyed dog “and what did we do then ?
" i ' ve never seen him do an awkward thing , " brett said .
let ' s get something else to eat .
” “you’re awful .
' ' we ' ll operate on that , ' the colonel said .
' ' i wish we could be married and have five sons , ' the colonel said .
" i finished shaving and put my face down into the bowl and washed it with cold water .
" " rather .
" we had a very fine room and in the fall the country was lovely .
the concierge was light , fast , sharp-faced , intelligent and polite , always , without subservience .
now i lay me that night we lay on the floor in the room and i listened to the silk-worms
and it had quite a success .
" were you in the army ?
" i got out of the car without a peso in my pocket and i didn ' t know where
” holding the cape in both hands so it would catch his eye .
” “i am very reliable , ” the interpreter said .
' ' hell , ' the colonel said .
" " i ' m not sure they ' ll come , " cohn said .
' this isn ' t where he wanted to go though , he says .
molo bring whiskey-soda .
i could kill one alone , without pop along , i would feel good about it for a long time
“did i know him ?
i did not like to wake him up , but i wanted to lock the office and shove off .
or they do not know what they want .
because you got in a jam .
" not at all .
highly seasoned .
“but now i’m going to get a little sleep .
pull the boat , fish .
get her away and get her away as soon as i can without hurting her .
” the porter asked him .
they are going to come in .
” “that’s wonderful , ” she said .
there was no applause .
it was a bright , cold day , the ground covered with a sleet that had frozen so that it
it is necessary to let them carry them since they have a concession .
' ' very good .
" " i never seen walcott , " i said .
it all right .
they’ve got food .
that about him having the lick in the morning ?
" " i ' m not too old , " manuel said .
in strasbourg for ?
” “who could have told evans ?
the cat was trying to make herself so compact that she would not be dripped on .
" let ' s drink beer .
one to worry about and no responsibility except to perform something you feel sure you can perform , and i
” “we are germans , ” i said proudly , “old south germans .
" don ' t you think it is very significant ?
” “but you’re always the heroine in the stories you write ?
“ah ha , ” the third porter said .
he had loved too much , demanded too much , and he wore it all out .
” “three hundred francs swiss .
” “i stayed here all the time you were in spain and you authorized me to pay these things as
mencken hates paris , i believe .
i told her about things once , and she wrote about them .
" " should we take him ?
in spite of her resolution not to cry , her eyes were wet .
then there had been a high squealing and smashing and a shot by the .
going lap , lap , lap with their tongues like big cats .
it’s fine .
it is easy to feel a heart beat under a black sweater knitted by someone in the family , and
' ' i am aware of that , ' the waiter said .
it was as silly for him to think that he could trail with his father as to think he could
" you ought to .
feeling the inside of the birds hot on his right hand he found the edible pans of the giblets and
“get away from that door , ” we heard someone say inside the door .
' you black chinaman .
you must get to know the values .
the attack was being made by an international brigade .
the grasshopper bottle swung against his chest .
” nick was still looking down at the little man , lying , his eyes closed in the firelight .
" here ' s another telegram for you , sir .
that’s a hell of a note .
as they came up , all these things of the house , and you didn ' t send any money
all the same size ; half-pound one ounce .
i looked to see who said it .
“cut it out , ” the guard said .
he poured on some tomato catchup .
i guess i’ll be reading about you in the papers .
the soldier had only one arm .
" red said they were waiting to tie in behind white .
he had flashes of the old greatness with his bulls , but they were not of value because he had
pick them out yourself .
pays cash .
i remember it so well that it is palpable .
' i learned that word , or those two words from you .
' it ' s been a bitter day , my colonel .
but what a diagnosis—and without the book .
they are probably the most beautiful of all the beautiful things she has with the longest honest lashes i have
not write them again because once i had them right i forgot them completely and each time i ever read
” “don’t the other waiters recognize him ?
“i want you to shake hands with mr .
” “well , you felt good about it just now , didn’t you ?
the stream was in nearly to soundings and as we came toward the edge you could see her running nearly
“the boy has it , ” wilson told her .
' he fought , yes .
today i ' ll work out where the schools of bonita and albacore are and maybe there will be a
i could have seen them on that clear white sand .
of riding on greasy , slippery asphalt and cobble stones in traffic in the rain , and how we had
i took another good drink of the juice as we lay and checked everything and looked up the road to
that was the first time i ever saw a german dog eating a roasted german kraut .
" " we can do that , " the boy said .
of the electric torch that shone on his red hands and on the dirty khaki of his tunic .
" " i mean that .
” heads up , swinging with the music , their right arms swinging free , they stepped out , crossing
he just sits there on the bed .
he’d hit him twice , hard , on the side of the jaw and when he didn’t go down he
do you mind telling me in plain language what happened ?
" a meal in spezia we came into spezia looking for a place to eat .
his cheeks .
' ' i thought you said we were condottieri .
" i ' ve promised to dance this with jacob , " she laughed .
“there is going to be some trouble here .
m ' cola hated it .
coming up from the south .
have read the _querschnitt_ , to be an admirer of joachim ringelnatz and to want to talk about rilke ,
it was cut by fences and the white of the road showed through the trunks of a double line of
" let him sleep , " the man whispered .
” he put on his muffler , his coat , and his hat .
the funny thing is he ' s nice , too .
the woman standing in the door of the wine-shop looked at us as we passed .
home is going to be wherever men are oppressed .
them got in to row .
i say , she is a piece .
" i ' m sorry you feel rotten .
” “it ain’t nothing , ” the man said .
damn , i wish i might walk around this town all my life .
he did not want to charge .
you have no cause for anxiety .
” “you’re shot worse , ” the nigger said .
room from becoming in any sense the club , this definite baptism and classification came as rather a blow to
pain killer bottles and the flies that buzz do not kill the sweetgrass smell , the smoke smell and that
' here !
he could see the big black hitching post for the gondolas and the later afternoon winter light on the wind-swept
but he’s pretty big for littless and me .
we settled down in the blind and waited there until it was dark and a light rain began to fall
i take a pillow which represents my good conscience and i put my arms around it and off i go
them as a matter of discipline .
beautiful lady who looked like the pictures of anna held on the inside of cigar boxes .
big as a five-peseta piece straight in back of the neck , between the sharp pitch of the bull '
gentlemen the sea change a way you ' ll never be the mother of a queen one reader writes homage
" how about jack ?
” “i’ll get my speed back .
fifty grand a simple enquiry ten indians a canary for one an alpine idyll a pursuit race today is friday
i took a taxi and we climbed up through the gardens , by the empty palace and the unfinished church
" he looked at us .
retirement the public were disappointed because no real man could work as close to the bulls as belmonte was supposed
he went out through the bead curtain .
we went in the house .
“where did the ham come from ?
“don’t make jokes so early in the day , ” the manager said .
now you enjoy that slowly , and then you can get drunk .
” “if it’s necessary .
” “she asked questions , ” roger said .
i’ll leave my bags here .
" wednesday , i think .
and give me a receipt with your name .
when it was almost too dark to shoot , i saw droopy stop and crouch .
” “i cook it , ” said john .
but i would like us to have such a writer and to read what he would write .
their speed had carried them much farther than we expected and then , almost dark now , we started for
" i ' ll eat some more for you .
' only the buildings .
” “that’s right , ” he said .
the red shaft of the banderillas tossed as he jumped .
i never even heard of them .
a little before the last of the light was gone he whispered to m ' cola that it was now
trimming , as the gondoliere started to scull , laying her partly on her side so that he would have
sing had hold of the roller we had across the stern to slide a big fish on board .
fuller flower .
” he looked out the door .
he knew he could not live .
" " i been away a long time , " i said .
amiens , up country and that sort of thing , but he didn’t seem to get any engagement .
it ' s a good town to walk in .
“so , you said that .
trail that went into the stream and treading on this , the bottom fairly firm under foot , i made
” he shut his eyes and opened them , moving the eyelashes against the sheet .
' " " did you understand it all ?
; the smell of dirty sweat and poverty and drunkenness at the café des amateurs and the whores at the
time .
i got up and went to the balcony and looked out at the dancing in the square .
” “don’t call me ‘signor maggiore .
it was not her fault that when he went to her he was already over .
the hell there isn ' t !
no one came out .
he has also read a little in some illustrated books he brought with him .
we found blood at once and it led off to the left , across the watercourse and up the hillside
“i’ve got to learn to put my hands right .
and any son of a bitch who has been hit solidly , as every man will be if he stays
” “with me now , ” jack said , “it don’t make any difference where i am .
" i just got out of the hospital , " manuel said .
“you’re beautiful .
bloody africa , bush close to the road that was impenetrable , solid , scrubby-looking undergrowth .
the table was there , washed bright green in the rain , but the cat was gone .
' please put it where it should be , ' she said .
" he leaned forward .
“why don’t you put me on next week ?
when weren’t you always a moralist ?
' don ' t you want to eat , b ' wana ?
' ' can ' t you do anything kindly ?
now who would join me in a glass of valpolicella ?
the sun was on the old man ' s left arm and shoulder and on his back .
i told the nigger to head her for the morro .
“have a scene ?
“no , ” said trudy .
” “as you wish .
' how much do i owe you ?
the shutters were up but the door was open .
” “forty , ” nick said .
" " what do you hear from the states ?
“you know you have a very red face , mr .
jack wasn ' t ever what you would call a sprinter .
johnson , ” said eddy , who’d waked up to have another bottle of beer— “mr .
” “he’s a beast .
“let’s go down to the station .
porter , ” mr .
” “clearly .
she sends him money .
shot from the stern , skittered on into speed to tumble end over end .
beside the fifth column , i wrote “the killers , ” “today is friday , ” “ten indians , ”
“they can talk , but i can’t understand them , ” i told him .
simple exchange of values .
" " want to go for a ride ?
my last and only and true love .
" it ' s come out well .
they ate that and the trout that were crisp outside and cooked well and very tender inside .
fuck off .
brakes as we passed .
by god , he was a big one .
and after it shut we went over to that other café .
" " right , " brett said .
' ' he was not , ' the colonel said .
let him take us out to armenonville .
" show irony and pity .
" " that ' s all right .
“you don’t have to go in , of course , ” he said .
' ' plenty .
he assures me he will be o k after this doctor finishes with him--do you think it right--i often heard
“you will finish up .
the razor’s a delusion , jimmy .
" why i felt that impulse to devil him i do not know .
" " three bottles , " madame fontan said .
” “not really good .
broke his heart , that he would be leaving before _num_ (that was sure) and he said , ' let
” “on our own two feet when the chips were down and for keeps , ” he remembered .
' ' i wanted to hear it from you yourself and to congratulate you .
the mohammedans and all religions were a joke .
” “i don’t want to move , ” the man said .
he looked out at the bull , planning his faena , his work with the red cloth that was to
the road was sandy .
it was all gone and i have never had it again .
hills like white elephants the hills across the valley of the ebro were long and white .
he had swallowed too big a gulp .
everything was possible once .
i was pleased when anything was that simple .
it was late afternoon now and the sky was heavy with clouds .
the outfit looked as though they had been showered by chunks and particles from an explosion in an abattoir and
i can wait as well as another .
" i fight where i can because i am an austrian and i know my duty .
on littless’s side .
” “what else have you got i haven’t read ?
” the other detective nodded .
they’d all be worse .
” we knew , from repeated questionings , that all germans coming through on this escape route were making for
were hunting insects and let the boy and girl come close as they moved sharply and delicately in the cedars
nick and his father got in the stern of the boat and the indians shoved it off and one of
she was happy .
” “oh , she carries the whore’s train when she walks and opens her carriage door and shows her to
_num_ st soldier—you better try it .
" my dear , i would do it if i would enjoy it .
not with my own true love .
sometimes the bottle is shaped art , sometimes economics , sometimes economic-religion .
' there are some fair english translations .
” “i don’t like to leave anything , ” the man said .
they are the best soldiers .
were very painful .
at the military school where he prepped for princeton , and played a very good end on the football team
but how is one to know about an american ?
and join organizations that do their thinking for them .
from baboons , but on meeting a native with a brass-bound musket it seemed odd that he should follow the
' ' naturally .
” we drove for two hours after it was dark and slept in mentone that night .
they came toward him .
up fish .
“i want to go with you , ” nick said .
there you are .
trigger in her .
“sort of foreshortening and telescoping the world the way youth does .
” “neither have i , ” ad said .
" then go in and take your chance like any man or bird or fish .
who can tell ?
” “but we’ve missed our early start and the early morning on the road .
" i will .
” the bell buzzed again .
" we got up from the table--they had never brought us a drink--and started across the street toward the select
it was all a lie both ways .
the bill was as big around as a baseball bat and slanted up , and as he grabbed the bait
he noticed how pleasant it was to have someone to talk to instead of speaking only to himself and to
“it would be swell , ” nick said .
what a word , he thought , good-bye .
i wonder if the mate was there with him .
in paris .
“you’re a fool , ” mr .
looking , scarred with a badly healed horn wound that the birds had pecked at , his tail thick ,
the voice i would not describe as a big one .
" where do you want to eat ?
” macomber said .
my christ , it ' s been a long time .
that ' s one of the things i don ' t know about fighting .
as he followed the flying fish .
” i said to the german .
” “oh , no , you won’t , doc .
the trout was feeding .
i shouldn ' t wonder if i were in love with her .
" " you don ' t remember anything about a date with me at the crillon ?
" when he said this he smiled , anxious that neither the bull-fight critic nor i would think he was
” then he called to the attendant who ran the machines .
he shut it carefully and well .
but you take the money just the same .
never been daunted in public .
not everyone passes every night with his wife though .
the speed of the line was cutting his hands badly but he had always known this would happen and he
" he asked john , turning around , his face all swollen .
all the systems of governments , the richness , the poverty , the martyrdom , the sacrifice and the venality
“where you go ?
” “we’re here now .
the fire was bright now , just at the edge of the trees .
we must stop terrorism .
he put his hands in the water again to soak them .
' he pointed to the logical place to defend .
clothes , “none of these things are horses , joe .
i would like to have a share in your sad trade .
he’s sleeping with some concierge .
' ' go to hell , ' the colonel said .
" " we ' ll be there , " bill said .
' ' god save us , ' said pop .
” “i did when you were all right .
but you had no time to care for wounded , since you knew that the attack was coming immediately ,
i sell frogs .
i’m different , ” he said .
on both sides .
olz looked back at the priest .
” “i was never so happy in my life .
i could not see the expression on his face because of the helmet .
you could not tell the original colour of the blood now , but i had a moment of hoping he
“just the same it isn’t always a good thing to say what you know , ” i said .
' little woman ' s giving us compliments , ' pop said .
" " splendid , " brett said .
' ' good night , ' he said .
" " it goes too fast .
" she turned to me .
there is no use to lie about these things or pretend you do not enjoy winning ; but this boy
and i didn’t get the real kick back again ever , even when they posted the numbers upon the board
juma had come up limping and bloody , the skin of his forehead hanging down over his left eye ,
birth ?
old man at the bridge an old man with steel rimmed spectacles and very dusty clothes sat by the side
how is the railroad business ?
i saw his face duck sideways in the light .
” “we can do it all over the country and all over the world .
" we might go up on the hill , " brett said .
you block him off at charlevoix and petoskey and st .
things left over from the failure of april .
let somebody else be kind .
didn’t i remember better today ?
it was still very dark and i could see pop ' s back shadowed against the fire .
" i won ' t touch you .
_el heraldo ' s_ second-string critic , drawing on his cigarette , his eyes on the bull , wrote :
' ' you walk like a deer in the forest and sometimes you walk as well as a wolf ,
" " it ' s the sort of thing i don ' t like to see .
but a chautauqua was something strange .
it is nothing .
i walked down the hill from the cathedral and up the street to the café on the square .
she ' s a swell girl .
“he wouldn’t get them in dishwater for anything .
’ ” “then the police had to take her away because she could not control herself , ” the waiter
‘the butterfly and the tank .
the money and the paybooks .
the trees and there was a big crowd around there , too , but the man at the door in
to hell with people .
" " well , " the man said , " if you don ' t want to you don '
it all amused her .
' ' you fought ?
our scent was being scattered in all directions around the blind as sure to frighten any animals as though we
i tell you , colonel , sir , a man who hasn ' t been checked out on this painting
big mistake to have come to vienna .
there are people to whom you could not say insulting things .
” “i wish he hadn’t killed that buck .
some one insisted on giving her a glass .
the long road of lombardy poplars that ran to the lake was in the moonlight .
let him get sick .
eat nothing .
“marie .
" where the hell is cohn ?
that covered the weak chin , you never thought about--it was always the eyes .
will you call when you are awake ?
you must be broken and worn out by waiting .
eddy laughed but billy tabeshaw looked very serious .
" he ' s good , " zurito said .
tiny .
we never had much of a chance to find out .
earth evenly as a man spreading manure in a garden .
, u .
” “listen , ” the little man said .
the sword-handler looked back , shook his head , and said something .
“the major wants you , ” the adjutant said .
you see , he was so busy all the time that we were living together , writing on this book
life of pleasant surrender .
keep the lines straight up and down and at their proper depths .
and try to put one in the blind without having it hit you .
they were all playing at gotterdammerung .
everything is much simpler in a hospital , including the jokes .
rolling meadow and , as we slowed , climbing in first gear , the whole pack came up again ,
hairs caught in the gold ornaments of his jacket from the close passes ; the bull standing hypnotized and the
the other prisoner’s face was white and he had a bruised bump on the side of his head .
we can have a lovely time .
the american lady’s bed was the one next to the window .
” “making a long trip ?
' they talked together .
" " i ' ll bet he wasn ' t better than you .
“how many corridas you had this year ?
they were talking .
in rain or snow it is much easier to come up close to animals and i was sure we were
" there was a man in the back yard of the next house doing something to one of the front
he knocked on the half-opened door .
“listen , does tea keep you awake ?
romero smiled and bowed .
' ' we should have fought in flanders in the old days .
he came out from the kitchen .
" " i ' ve no money , " mike said .
” “everything but work .
a distaste for everything that had happened to him in the war set in because of the lies he had
" " that ' s too bad you go away .
it is snobbery .
” he glared at nick , his face was white and his eyes almost out of sight under the cap
and held it there , submerged , for more than a minute watching the blood trail away and the steady
' chapter seven in the morning karl and his outfit started for the salt-lick and garrick , abdullah , m
it was really bad and the sun was only on the hillside now .
_num_ st soldier—the women stuck all right .
had been the crater was smoothly grassed .
” “you remember better all the time .
under his eyes and a stubble of beard , had just taken off a sweater that he wore and spread
' they ' ll bring their own vodka , duty free .
one of them nodded and smiled .
" " were they--were they---- " " were they what ?
all you could see would be a rush of black .
but the lumbermen might never come for them because a few logs were not worth the price of a crew
up away from the stream it was not so cold .
nice , dry , clean minds .
' just then the grand master came into the room .
he had never thought of her that way .
all in all , this finca vigía edition contains twenty-one stories that were not included in “the first forty-nine .
” “you got another shirt ?
indians ?
tiptoe to see and screaming steadily .
" you were only dead , " bill said .
” “no , ” said the major .
his good hand .
there were trees along both banks .
on those nights i tried to remember everything that had ever happened to me , starting with just before i
one , “the cat will be all right , i am sure .
“i’d say for anything you like , ” he said .
standing on the bridge the island looked dark , the houses were high against the sky , and the trees
" yes , he was out here , " jack says .
as soon as it gets to strength again they ' ll give you back your company .
they were scattered on the bed .
“how do you feel ?
through the woods .
“come on out , ” claude called .
i never liked to keep anything .
the neighbors who , at night , when some one lay drunk in the street , moaning and groaning in
please talk , i ' m taking care of you .
" you ' re too good to me .
" sitting out on the terraces of the lilas brett ordered a whiskey and soda , i took one ,
i think he figured maybe no one would come in if they saw him at the door .
but i don’t know how much .
would see them and watch them breaking branches and not have to shoot , and i would lie in the
there , where the old man had pointed , was a very big sable track , the hoof marks spread
" i ' m damned bad for a religious atmosphere , " brett said .
they were talking about this business we’ve got now and jesus hernandez , just ribbing him , you know ,
' m ' wendi !
” the young gentleman appeared not to hear peduzzi .
all he felt about salt lake city was that it was dean , but dull , and there were too
" " you ' re right there , old classmate , " bill said .
she was still a good-looking woman , he thought , and she had a pleasant body .
you know it ' s just what we did each day and how alaska looked to an englishman from africa
” “please let’s not talk .
“better than drowning , ” she said .
just exchange of values .
" and why shouldn ' t you be ?
me with my hat off , we headed down into the high meadow grass and across the deeply cut watercourse
motor-cars were stopped along the road and bedding and things from inside the farmhouse were spread in the field .
when he was in town their appeal to him was not very strong .
" potsdam .
" " well , let him not get superior and jewish .
pinin looked at the floor .
" " sometimes he comes here .
will you make all the promises again ?
" mike must have been in bad shape , " she said on the stairs .
" " it ' s the humidity , " bill said .
but the colonel could see the beautiful winter plumage on his breast and wings .
“geld , ” peduzzi said finally , taking hold of the young gentleman’s sleeve .
that the fishermen called the great well because there was a sudden deep of seven hundred fathoms where all sorts
' ' you hold up your attack two hours and you drink champagne whenever it is offered to you by
" yes , like algabeno .
' garrick , un-head-dressed and with abdullah , appeared and pop spoke with them .
' ' in the _querschnitt_ .
no , not especially odgar .
his sister was sitting on the moss beside him and she had her arm around his shoulders .
” but the other bull was moving steadily at the same gallop and he missed , throwing a spout of
only heard of him .
' ' i believe we share the same emotions , ' the colonel said .
" don ' t look like that , " she said .
” “i am not joking , ” said the manager .
if you’ll go upstairs with me i’ll give you a hundred francs .
he was right , too , although in obtaining his exact knowledge he had not fulfilled the complete spirit of
the consular services a miss .
“where do you get all that tape ?
“no , ” said bill .
' i ' m glad you ' re feeling better , ' pop said .
he wrapped them in oiled paper and buttoned them in the other pocket of his khaki shirt .
on this trip .
animals on a plain can see so far that they have confidence and feed very differently from animals in the
“it is only lessons i have learned .
i think the story business is bad .
, bearing down with all his weight , holding the bull off , the bull pushing and driving to get
” “let me send—” “no , ” said nick .
' she is very well .
they ' re getting much better .
would you give me just one ?
do you want a bag to carry them in ?
when the sun was up he sighted a tanker coming down the gulf and she stood up so high and
but you should hunt for a year .
” “i ought to get you home .
“f— yourself .
manuel knew it was over .
" " i want to get back .
” “well , let’s try and have a fine time .
the rifle was under his left leg and his head was on the good hard pillow his moccasins and the
' ' if it is not un-maidenly i think so too .
" " down is the best .
but there was plenty of it in nebraska along the platte .
" can i bring you some coffee ?
" " through the park .
looked a smooth grass-filled basin was very broken , tricky country with grass that was from waist-high to well above
he ' s going to give me two hundred pounds and then i ' m going to visit friends .
here to start again .
they start this grand hotel business , and in one year they ' re through .
' ' in nineteen-eighteen .
he could stand pain as well as any man , until it went on too long , and wore him
“oh , ” said the second porter .
any time thursday .
“mister francis ?
it’s better not to think about the others , ” he said .
for exceeding his authority or some such thing .
and he’d be jogging easy just behind me and after a little while i’d look around again and he’d begun
“i guess he don’t feel well .
“that’s one of those things you never know at the time .
" what times we had .
" it wasn ' t low , " he said .
if he missed anything he would get it out of the morning papers .
“what’s the matter , nick ?
at that milano place ?
' i kissed her good-bye and we whispered something .
but by that time , they were trading so far to the east that the architecture is pretty byzantine for
there ' s a farmer comes to see what ' s the matter , and we give him something to
it’s easier with an enameled cup .
" " they were ojibways , " nick said .
finished .
we could not find a table .
he sat there neither eating nor drinking .
" we can ' t get in , " i said .
she was intent on the rod all the time they trolled , even when she talked .
a man shouted from behind one of the boxes and slapped his hat against the planks , and the bull
i looked at p .
and then i saw one .
" one snatched the bottle away from the owner , who was himself about to give a demonstration .
he fought under the cork-oak trees and he fought in the good pasture by the river .
that’s all over .
i ' ve had scouts out here on both the hills but they ' ve seen nothing .
plastered houses painted brown below , the long green of the autobus in that round square , the purple flower
" " shut up .
the men on the fifties were shaking their hands over their heads like fighters .
“and then get some sandwiches .
, fresh tracks of four greater kudu bulls that had been on the salt the night before , as well
listen , jim , i got to get this kid .
" " they do have some rather awful things happen to them , " brett said .
” “look , ” said enrique .
don ' t you know you ' re not wanted ?
be careful , nickie , and let it blow over .
” “yes , ” said the american lady .
sorghum , and , driving easily , his son asleep on the seat by his side , the day’s run
" here she is , " mike said .
" " i can ' t sleep , either .
when they operated on him she prepared him for the operating table ; and they had a joke about friend
' he opened the breech and took out the two big · _num_ no .
“do what ?
he did not smile and he had always been david’s best friend and had taught him to hunt .
we could not make karl feel good and for a long time we could not feel good ourselves .
" certainly like to drink , " bill said .
it was a nice hotel , and the people at the desk were very cheerful , and we each had
i’ll cache everything and we can go in there through the timber all the way and pick a couple of
' ' it could be damned interesting .
' ' i slipped into the jargon of my _sale mètier_ .
” “it’s quite illegal , ” wilson said .
“i’m sorry i couldn’t help dump that stuff .
where we fail , where we would starve , he makes money .
frazer asked .
nick came in with the log through the kitchen and in passing knocked a pan off the kitchen table .
' ' yes , sir , ' the driver said .
” “fifty grand , ” jack says , “at two to one .
' ' you ' re fast .
" " that happens to everybody .
oaks along its bank and a sign at the bridge that said it was the senwannee (sic) river .
' thank you for stating it so exactly .
" it ' s rotten here in the hotel .
all during the fiesta you had the feeling , even when it was quiet , that you had to shout
when the bullets started to come by and the fiats right behind them and the bullets and the fiats .
but he said it in italian and it started , ' _anche io_ .
” “when did you see him last ?
” “get out of here , ” i told him .
way he could , and yet he found varied reasons why he did not have to go .
the rest was plaster walls and the windows of the neighbors .
the sun wasn’t up yet and they both felt hollow and empty in the early morning after the night of
after the meal , he left with the waiter in search for a place which did not exist in the
the door shut after them .
as i baited up , a trout shot up out of the white water into the falls and was carried
francis macomber lay on his cot with the mosquito bar over him and listened to the night noises it was
the chinky lights of the village , the mud houses all closed tight , and the smells of goats and
_ _num_ st soldier_--try some of the red .
we both knew him very well .
they came by in cars shooting at everybody they saw .
” “give blackie a drink , ” i said to frank .
the strange light the sun made in the water , now that the sun was higher , meant good weather
i know what he is doing .
see if i can remember .
like to talk about things that interest us both .
cohn came down , finally , and we all went out to the car .
” “we can get some more this evening .
the meadow was wet with dew and nick wanted to catch grasshoppers for bait before the sun dried the grass
" " do you think we should buy a terminal of the lottery with an eighty-five ?
on ne fait pas de mal .
' he added , ' under orders , of course .
we’d better get going .
shot , or that were eatable .
and i can write the stories , he said .
" " very beautiful , " he said .
he ' s wearing a sweater and an old pair of pants and boxing shoes .
everything on the menu is a dime except soup , and that is a nickel .
" but what about the eighty-seven of your great record ?
" said some one in the office .
i had been .
prisoner of war in kenya and was a most amiable man , young , full of juice , handsome ,
“no , ” i lied .
' ' as you wish , my colonel .
" that ' s truly what he said .
“frank washbum .
they are just extra beds that were not used afterwards for various reasons , or possibly to respect lord byron
and why had they always quarrelled when he was feeling best ?
this wind is off the mountains now and she makes it along pretty good .
“i don’t have time .
the invitation , and i thought that ' s a good piece of business , and i said to him
cut up the meat we rode home in the blowing dust , our faces grey with it , and the
win , lose , or draw .
the life of the mind .
“are you hungry ?
you want to watch that .
nick raised the rifle and the grouse looked at him .
" he ' d say .
“he went through here ’bout an hour and a half ago .
i ' m just your interpreter .
' ' i ' ll hunt them , pop .
” “i’ll dig up the back , ” fontan offered .
“think of that .
pursuing them with your hands or trying to hit them with a bat .
turner , the manager of the burlesque show , had refused a drink .
he loved the mountains in the autumn .
that you have not lost anything else ?
they were inside sitting at the bar .
from where they were we could cross the valley out of sight of its upper end and bending low ,
standing still now and spreading the red cloth of the muleta with the sword , pricking the point into the
” the boy mounted the bicycle which was undamaged and rode down to the estaminet .
what she would be doing and all that .
the big man saw he was sweating .
” “that’s not my fault , ” the waiter said .
' _please_ , good luck .
then sevastopol made me think of the boulevard sevastopol in paris , about riding a bicycle down it in the
” “it won’t make you happy .
" your friends morgan and steinfelt , " jack said .
” “yes , we take a beating , ” said macomber , still not looking at him .
she’s making a lot of money .
it was bent and he straightened it over his knee .
the trees of the left bank made short shadows on the current in the forenoon sun .
she had heard me whisper something but thought it was for her to come behind m ' cola .
" you should have married him , " the cook said .
his head turned down and as nick raised his rifle slowly , his sister whispered , “no , nickie .
first you could make up stories about something innocuous , like me , and then there could be all sorts
" ah , yes , " the major said .
' i can only stay a moment .
nick turned off the light and went out , hooking the screen door shut .
" " so long , mike , " bill said .
while they sat there his wife had reached forward and put her hand on wilson’s shoulder .
” “i only want a shower .
blue hills beyond .
mark and smuggled it out under a load of fresh pork so the infidel customs guards wouldn ' t check
to him breathing regularly .
it said it was the first notice that the five years were up and would he make arrangements for the
“did you put your shoes out ?
inside the closed double lip of his jaws all of his eight rows of teeth were slanted inwards .
he just knew it wasn ' t rock .
" there will be a fifth service at three-thirty .
i can go up to the house to-morrow morning .
, at eylau .
historical interest and because its omission would spoil the rhythm .
” “you don’t want to see him , ” i told the stranger .
, all of whom are his subjects .
the young gentleman took a drink of it and passed it to peduzzi again .
' ' we were just coming into town , ' pop said .
and prayed oh jesus christ get me out of here .
he hits the longest ball i have ever seen .
' he said to the waiter , who had swung the door wide so that the colonel , now entered
' ' _ciao_ , alvarito , and thank you very much .
then , there were draft dodgers , phonies who claimed that they were wounded if a piece of spent metal
, you fool !
the sail was patched with flour sacks and , furled , it looked like the flag of permanent defeat .
' ' you ' re perfectly correct .
it was dim and dark and the pillars went high up , and there were people praying , and it
so let’s not let it let us down .
" " thank you very much , " said the doctor waving a forceps in the air .
he was positively green .
felt it go .
macomber shot again and every one saw the bullet throw a spout of dirt beyond the trotting lion .
" i ' m going up the street and eat .
” “are you asking me ?
a short time after he contracted gonorrhea from a sales girl in a loop department store while riding in a
” “you go away ?
he threw another left hook and then turned away and walked towards the girl because he did not want to
“don’t think about the wine .
i stirred the ice around with a spoon in the brownish , cloudy mixture .
” “i’m sorry , ” she said .
it wasn’t loving .
we want you to enjoy yourself .
“they took mine early this morning .
brett leaned forward .
of dust moved out from the ambulances and blew away in the wind .
” he lies there , his eyes are open now .
“you’ll see why we hunt them .
you don’t have to answer if you don’t want to .
, a long time ago , and when they travelled through the hills in southern illinois they made these same
“i don’t feel like eating , ” said nick .
there was nothing in the note , only good luck and that they were starting .
it doesn ' t leak .
" " nope .
" said the doctor .
“that’s better , ” she said .
she put all her money into french war bonds .
” “why not let up on the bitchery just a little , margot , ” macomber said , cutting the
” “it would have been a great pleasure .
we passed the bull-ring , high and white and concrete-looking in the sun , and then came into the big
the innkeeper .
i sure as hell was , he thought .
“well , nickie , ” his father said , “was it a good day ?
my cook has learned to make it very well .
' not the moment for his ostrich plumes , ' pop said .
" perhaps just a little .
" " from washington , of course .
“big business , ” said frankie .
one of the sixty-four bottles dan had brought from the german trading station .
“good evening .
the bottle lovingly .
did not know , for , then , no one really knew , thought it had been shot out at
this was a real one .
you folks from miami ?
the mountains .
“you’ll like that wine , ” fontan said .
" i only needed time to wash .
to-night we will have a special dish of viennese dessert .
where they stood it was dark .
“i’m going down and get that kitty , ” the american wife said .
“do you think we’ll find buffalo ?
soaked with muddy water , wiping off glasses , and then getting the water out of the gun , wondering
there’s one shallow , pebbly part just after she comes out of the upper swamp , he thought .
his pistol made nick nervous .
“take the gun and the bags in the house , nick , and bring me a paper , ” he
_ _num_ d roman soldier_--you guys don ' t know what i ' m talking about .
” “listen , ” i said .
they say they know me .
although i am not a member .
" i won ' t do it .
she loved to fish with nick .
sitting up on gilford , and patting him with his hand .
he owed me over six hundred pesos and he wouldn’t pay me .
we went out to the café napolitain to have an apéritif and watch the evening crowd on the boulevard .
many fishermen were around the skiff looking at what was lashed beside it and one was in the water ,
bill reached over to the table under the window for the book that lay there , face down , where
" " it ' s a lie , " bill said .
" " as they were before , sir ?
i sat out in front of the café and then went for a walk in the town .
" " it doesn ' t bother me .
" he won ' t be back before five o ' clock .
" " been out to the races ?
but after all it’s their machine gun .
" " sure , " i said .
" i say not .
“back to the hotel , ” jack says .
as he jumped the bull ' s tail rose and he charged .
' _piga kongoni m ' uzuri .
” “spit it out .
” jack asked him .
the larger ones that fly making a noise somewhat similar to that produced by a rattlesnake rattling his rattlers ,
' by the grace of god .
rushed out .
do as i tell you .
up-to-date edition of the short stories of ernest hemingway .
" " no , i mean you don ' t have to stay if it ' s going to bother
” “let’s talk about it .
" do you want to know something , jake ?
" he laughed , then grinned and tapped his stomach .
“wonder where he got the knife ?
behind them were shelves stacked with supplies and goods .
" drink that , " said bill .
he looks smart , all right .
' ' i love you and your mother both very much .
" " yes , i do .
" " no , i wouldn ' t like that .
you can laugh if you want .
in that hospital a radio did not work very well until it was dusk .
' ' i won ' t take anything but a standing shot and i won ' t shoot unless i
i ' ve only seen one head killed over fifty in my life before .
can that be the time of day ?
" where is he shot ?
“let me buy the wine , ” the sexton said .
you ' re only a newspaper man .
“i must when i go back .
americans twice as large as myself , healthy , with clean hearts , sleep at night , never been wounded
” “for what ?
' stay over there against the wall if you want to watch it , ' the colonel had said to
but i don ' t write , daughter .
nothing had changed .
but with it frozen-up i suppose i really ought to pull out instead of staying here like a fool .
” “where have you been ?
" " i don ' t feel too good about it , " jack said .
it was very hot on the dam , so i put my worm-can in the shade with the bag ,
beaten me .
well , he said to himself , we ' re finished here and pretty soon there will be good light
" " talking , " he said .
” so his mother prayed for him and then they stood up and krebs kissed his mother and went out
they ate at a lunch counter in a town in the middle of the florida prairie .
attractive one .
” “don’t understand , ” she said .
the wagon stopped outside under the big elm and mrs .
" it would be better to gut the dolphin a little later to save the blood in the meat ,
no difficulty about treatments .
at the café suizo we had just sat down and ordered fundador when robert cohn came up .
' whatever that was .
but i love the girl better , a million times better , hear it ?
” “not in our lifetime , ” bill said .
but these other roving bullets , in their great bands , live in blue water and travel through all oceans
they are our brothers like the flying fish .
” the lieutenant of artillery said nothing .
' i should learn to read them , ' the barone said .
unless they were of your party , they spoiled it .
' ' you are a member now , ' the _gran maestro_ said .
as the trout’s back came up out of the water the minnows jumped wildly .
" right now i need the money badly .
” “and my grandfather lived with them too when he was a boy , didn’t he ?
" " that ' s too steep .
gallop ' em , yes .
having been blasted out of the front of the apartment house by direct hits by high explosive shells .
the lick where karl shot his bull , having failed in the hills , the big hills and the small
fisi , the hyena , hermaphroditic , self-eating devourer of the dead , trailer of calving cows , ham-stringer ,
he ' s in a beautiful mood , the shooter thought .
” “no , ” he said ; “one-half when you start to load and the other when you are finished
i saw the sweat come out on his face like somebody had squeezed it and a big drop went down
“what do you make it ?
but they were red and lively and he put them in a flat round tin with holes punched in the
" nick looked at the big man lying on the bed .
" " i ' m not interested in bull-fighters .
shoulder .
if he dresses out two-thirds of that at thirty cents a pound ?
” “i guess so , ” said nick .
himself off as .
righteous at all , at ever being righteous , stopping to whisper about it , both of us grinning at
that no one understood , and with the slight light places on the straps , where stars had been removed
he was at home , too , in all operations that did not involve more than a company and understood
” “but they haven’t taken it away .
if i can’t have long hair or any fun , i can have a cat .
the trucks were to bring in karl from his kudu camp where he seemed to be getting disgusted , or
" " why should it ?
i ' ve talked myself all out to jake .
“all i say ain’t no buildings like that on no florida keys .
" haven ' t we had a splendid party ?
is come three and three .
it’s too late now .
so , now , they had founded the order of brusadelli ; noble , military and religious , and there
hairy and shoddy the felt covering was in his hand .
holding the blade he reached forward and punched the handle through the ice .
then i lashed the wrench to the grains pole again and i watched through the water glass and pounded on
” “we’ll come back before we go away .
especially all night .
were several game trails that went into them .
" hazel and ethel , " alice said .
maybe much more .
everyone in the gondola looked cold and the colonel thought , i wish i could issue these wind-proof coats to
“don’t talk that way and don’t think that way .
but i will guard anything for you that you wish .
“what should we drink ?
there was snow , or something , rain or fog , all the times and the roads had been mined
in war .
eddy and billy tabeshaw leaned on their cant-hooks and looked at the doctor .
than two hundred dollars and sometimes less than that .
“let’s see the rest of it .
it’s all in the price of the room .
wild , panic-stricken , despairing fight that soon exhausted her , and all the time the male had stayed with
so we went back to the camp , down the hill in the dark , edging down on our shoes
" " up-stairs in his room .
uncle george sat in the stern of the camp rowboat .
he said i’d never be able to tell it from regal .
the whole thing and in eleven minutes i will wake the live girl up and we will go out on
worked beautifully and when one station stopped you could go farther west and pick up another .
" the three of us , jack brennan , soldier bartlett , and i were in handley ' s .
two indians were sitting down at the end of the bench and one standing up against the wall .
him as he ran .
“i was only taking care of animals .
good .
” “i’d a damn sight rather be in town with the wife .
” “tanks .
“no , americans , ” i said .
“you get out of here , ” she said quickly and kindly .
knew just what he had to do and not jerking and standing up on his legs and getting wild eyed
“you got to quit , ” he said .
but , boy , you can still shoot .
" he ain ' t hard to hit .
he’s such a good boy and works hard all the time and never run around or make any trouble .
there was much material : a field kitchen , it must have come over when things were going well ;
been withered almost as small as the major’s , before it had taken a machine course , and after was
humour , was the hyena , the classic hyena , that hit too far back while running , would circle
book and i make you any drinks you want while you read the paper and _life_ and _time_ and _newsweek_
last night she was , perhaps , a little-- " she put her head on one hand and rocked it
the peasants were in the outlying wine-shops .
in the restaurant you could see your breath .
” “how would i not ?
i ran the steel tape around the curve of one horn , m ' cola holding it down .
but now he was passing the house where the poor beat-up old boy had lived with his great , sad
” “no sir , ” said the chef .
bare ground had been varnished with ice .
' ' that ' s a damned dismal anecdote .
tin cup to mix the flour with water to make a batter .
eighty-five pounds .
pedro romero had the greatness .
" what did she say ?
he stepped close and jammed the sharp peak of the muleta into the bull ' s damp muzzle .
about , than to have it bright and shining and nothing to say , or smooth and well-oiled in the
he had gotten rid of many things by writing them .
" he said brett was a sadist , " mike said .
they’ll be the very best .
he goes everywhere in baedeker , and he has no taste in either food or wine .
” mr .
" what about a cuadrilla ?
that was the last day before the fiesta .
" " come on , let ' s have another drink , " mike said .
” “wouldn’t you like some more broth ?
the _gran maestro_ smiled and , still bowing , said , ' we are dining in the bar at the
“sure , ” the man said .
the indian who was rowing them was working very hard , but the other boat moved further ahead in the
” “you talk like an old man yourself .
he turned the skillet upside down on the grill , drank the coffee , sweetened and yellow brown with the
” after he had it i asked him how he felt .
i looked back and his bait was trolling nice , just bouncing along on the swell and the two teasers
as he could get it .
“i hate them , ” his sister said .
' ' well , i know that now truly , ' the night porter who was really only a boy
” the girl wore a one-piece dress .
he expected the feeling he had had about the lion to come back but it did not .
i am perfectly happy .
" i had been there when he came in .
” “you fight ?
, and caused the death of antonio garcia , novillero , april _num_ , _num_ .
nick eased downstream with the rushes .
the pot on .
they both went out on the screen porch and shut the kitchen door .
“you willing to part with another example of that courtesy ?
“hazel and ethel , ” alice said .
the gong rang and we pushed him out .
her hand was steady enough to lift it after that first sip .
it ' s wilson-harris .
” “good , ” said nick .
when i was a girl it seemed so simple .
” the flyer asked him .
” “come in back of the post office , ” mr .
, camera and all .
i knew it would happen when he went to new york .
not counting possibles .
' go to camp ?
' you don ' t have to worry about that .
the old man still had two drinks of water in the bottle and he used half of one after he
.
i no see him four weeks now .
' ' tell me about the town .
“it is my country , ” she said .
we had sent him after meat while we had gone into a new country .
” “i don’t give a damn about the truck .
it was after five when we struck off across the maize field and down to the stream , crossing where
two-hearted river : part ii the undefeated in another country hills like white elephants the killers che ti dice la
earth , the puffs of shrapnel , the rolling louds of smoke and dust lit by the yellow flash and
he was a general now again and he was happy .
" is that all ?
” he kissed her breasts and she said , “be awfully careful when they’re so cold .
it must have been left from the days before the motor-buses .
it was the weight of the fish and he let the line slip down , down , down , unrolling
home afterward .
you have anything to say in your defence except to put your head back ?
he started to get to his feet and commenced to cough .
odor of the crushed fronds .
belmonte looked ahead , his face wan and yellow , his long wolf jaw out .
” “i didn’t see any kid around here yesterday .
" " where did you go with him ?
m ' cola handed me the shotgun and i shook my head .
take repair kit and extra sweaters and pyjamas in our rucksacks and not give a damn about school or anything
bloody military medals ?
so many young men get their likes and dislikes from mencken .
" " hell , " i said , " all that makes a difference is if they got dough .
" sportsman is the best .
i might as well , he thought .
three !
to hell with brett .
they ' re bigger than european partridges .
“a lady bear ain’t safe today .
' must have been two of them .
" " it ' s odd .
“don’t get wet , ” he said .
motor car too .
i don’t mind it .
bushes while we watched them and the light failed .
oh , darling , please understand !
browning .
i hoped brett would be on the train .
the handgrips in the big flapped pouch , the magazines in the narrow webbed pockets .
“come on back , claude , ” i said .
" always , " he said in english , and laughed .
” “i won’t talk about trudy .
he must have hit him five inches below the belt .
we call ’em the white eskimos now .
' you can leave the key at the office .
they look like tank men when they get in .
" " i won ' t have to quit , " manuel said .
” “see you then .
, that it is as important and has always been as important as all the things that are in fashion
we were giving him the usual sodium pentothal before the shock treatment and i’ve always noticed that boy has an
but i would have given plenty not to have seen him in there .
that was his native town and so it gave him pleasure to mention it and he smiled .
he’s like a saint .
“i wouldn’t mind bird-shot any .
go see your friend , or maybe it ' s your mother .
he had found a way of crawling that hurt little .
" that ' s all right , " doctor wilcox said .
go as far as you can in the car and then use it for a base and hunt on from
" you ' re an extraordinarily beautiful girl .
there was a wind high up in the branches .
hear the noise of skin and flesh ripping on the big fish when he rammed the harpoon down onto the
“an industrial accident , ” the doctor said .
“look at him now , ” zurito said .
“but now i am reformed out of the war .
i remember the snakes burning in the fire in the back-yard .
it is impressive .
" " low as hell .
the bar was cool .
” we smoked skilfully in the dark .
” johnson asked me .
" the papers said they never saw a better faena , " manuel said .
i was crazy .
” “two , ” she said .
dick had three axes under his arm .
it was fine .
” “why did you change ?
the tall one with the small mustache who was an architect and speaks english ?
' later pop said , ' i thought he ' d do well off by himself with no one to
kids and bums .
what sort of team did berlitz have last fall ?
he went to south america and worked in a bank .
compton started the motor and got in .
now he was proving it again .
just rest and try to get your hands in shape to defend what is left of him .
” “we don’t like to hear him in there with the dead .
' then , daughter , the next sections of the valhalla express dropped everything in the world on the krauts
“i got these eyebrows burnt off when i was shaving .
' ' where should we meet ?
” al asked his friend .
” “you bastid , ” i said .
pinin was flushed and moved differently than he had moved when he brought in the wood for the fire .
i’m going to drive all day .
the guards who had been holding him up both dropped him .
” “in london , ” helena said .
sacrament .
he wanted to shake hands with brett , too .
he was a very discouraged-looking old man and after pop and dan had talked with him he went off ,
the car was outside .
" he just gets on my nerves .
it was all a pleasant business .
“what do you do here nights ?
let us utilize the product of the vine .
you knew my fiancé who was in the police and went to barcelona ?
" no , you won ' t , " i said .
’ “‘but i did , ’ she said .
i had never seen such quick disinterested friendliness , nor such fine-looking people .
' ' and if we were such a thing as married would you practise your trade in the home ?
yes , we , said maera .
we had been all that morning in the place the middle-aged frenchman had walked out of .
he ain’t with the others .
“the fucking jackpot , ” red said .
she ran well , almost too well for a girl , and when roger forced the pace just a little
they sat leaning forward , their elbows on the counter .
they kissed for a long time , standing straight , and kissing true , in the cold of the open
i know the place very well .
maybe we hanged him .
wheeler said .
' s in the sologne the day before and he had a _fermée_ , you know , they put up
they went on eating .
what have we done to have that happen to us ?
they brought what paybooks there were and i put them in a canvas bag with the others .
" " not really , " brett said .
he looked up at the light on the ceiling and he was completely desperate at the remembrance of his loss
" " castrate me .
" " all they did was pick willard at toledo .
it was always hard for me to look at him but i was looking at him carefully because i knew
' ' _ciao_ , my colonel .
we’ve had an extremely interesting case .
” helena called from the bathroom .
“the firestones are indian .
gloomy little village , and started to climb again .
“why we didn’t stop when they started shooting ?
” “from washington , of course .
the silk-worms eating .
in the orchard bush they found a herd of impala , and leaving the car they stalked one old ram
he must have his mouth shut tight on the wire .
poor karl .
" get to work , old man , " he said .
say what you can truly do each day and then do it .
his pyjamas were laid on the bed .
they seemed a fitting enough sight in the mountains where one was accustomed to their presence and looked less incongruous
all there was to see was the two smacks off to the westward headed in , and way back the
she was thinking about him hard and then jim came out .
” the volkswagen driver had no control of his vehicle after red shot .
don ' t try and fool me on paris .
the bone of his nose showing and one ear torn and had taken the rifle from david without speaking and
he was , too , but by ten o’clock he knew the day would be as bad or worse than
" did i talk out loud just then ?
“what about the jews ?
we came walking down the cut to get into the staff car that would take us to madrid .
i took half a dozen exposures and used the cinema while they all dragged the kudu to where there seemed
" she had been looking into my eyes all the time .
if i didn’t feel bad i wouldn’t talk that way .
but big friend .
wine-seller—i’ll tell you , gentlemen , i wasn’t out there .
' other salt good ?
' we must act decently and make karl feel good .
" " how odd .
' ' i can hold a decision .
' ' you really like to do this , what you do now , this silliness of kudu ?
“how do you think he likes it out there ?
“you order her , ” said macomber coldly .
there was fireweed and brush in the clearing and the old cabins of the logging camp .
" " you can have the squirrel .
i can always borrow two dollars and a half .
out beyond where the headlands of the concha almost met to form the harbor there was a white line of
the strain will shorten his circle each time .
" who cares ?
“what’s all the damn guns for ?
there had been a great killing at the last of the offensive and someone , to clear the river bank
out at _num_ miles an hour with plenty of gas—” manuel , leaning against the barrera , watching the bull
" al asked his friend .
we hunted the ridges until dark but never saw them again nor did karl find them the next day when
corrals and came running through the streets in the morning on their way to the ring .
" " that ' s a good idea .
appearance of danger in order to give a fake emotional feeling , while the bull-fighter was really safe .
hand resting on the gunwale .
all went up in the air and stayed all around me .
you can hear all of them i know .
nick was embarrassed .
' but it ' s not good enough .
“yes , ” said george .
“how many of my unfortunate compatriots could your boat accommodate ?
, and threw a cloud of dirt over him .
“i wouldn’t miss something like today for anything .
he saw one fall , then heard another shot .
' ' she knows we ' re here .
but please never look at me nor think of me like that .
the meadow , to the stream .
“i got in pretty bad shape along early last spring and at night it bothers me .
“get down here behind the angle of the bar , ” i said .
done everything in my power to prevent you from being certified as one .
wind blew and elliot drank white wine and mrs .
