what train ?
so help me god , as i dissemble not !
o my mother , mother !
this same shall go .
sir , i am too old to learn .
hang him , he ' ll be made an example .
enter malcolm and macduff .
where is green ?
moral ?
ay , edward will use women honourably .
and for the day confin ' d to fast in fires , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i warrant you , madam , we will make that sure .
that cannot be ; the noise of thy cross-bow will scare the herd , and so my shoot is lost
enter worcester [and vernon] .
feel , feel your pow ' r quickly ; so distribution should undo excess , and each man have enough
thanks , gentle norfolk .
; your goodness , since you provoke me , shall be most notorious .
ay , beauty ' s princely majesty is such confounds the tongue and makes the senses rough .
cold news , lord somerset ; but god ' s will be done !
now bid me run , and i will strive with things impossible , yea , get the better of them
' and ' where lies your grief ?
exeunt [dogberry and verges] .
then what i have to do will want true colour- tears perchance for blood .
where his codpiece seems as massy as his club ?
i mind to tell him plainly what i think .
nay , it makes nothing , sir .
therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me .
last night , i hear , they lay at stony stratford , and at northampton they do rest to-night ;
him that great supremacy , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
let me find him , fortune !
i grant i am a woman , but withal a woman well reputed , cato ' s daughter .
o , my son , my son !
of our flight , determin ' d of- how i must climb her window , the ladder made of cords
he that knows better how to tame a shrew , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
gregory ; the rest were ragged , old , and beggarly ; yet , as they are , here are
my ancient incantations are too weak , and hell too strong for me to buckle with .
enter othello , iago , and gentlemen .
-in pain .
i could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment .
, must grant it you .
you must first go yourself to hazard ere you have them .
dost thou think , though i am caparison ' d like a man , i have a doublet and hose
i have lived long enough .
to fight on edward ' s party for the crown ; and for his meed , poor lord , he
orleans flourish .
love , my pow ' r rain ' d honour , more on you than any , so your hand
awake !
' reg .
away , unpeaceable dog , or i ' ll spurn thee hence .
s bow ' r , with ravishing division , to her lute .
we cannot misuse him enough .
love me or love me not , i like the cap ; and it i will have , or i
down .
wilt thou have music ?
what is the focative case , william ?
i speak to thee , my heart !
if not that , i am queen , you bow like subjects , yet that , by you depos '
first serving-man .
tigers ; thinking it harder for our mistress to devise imposition enough than for us to undergo any difficulty imposed
where is she , sir ?
why , here ' s no crab ; and therefore look not sour .
marry , so it doth appear by the wrongs i suffer and the blows i bear .
arviragus .
farewell , bastard .
redeem me ?
what man dare , i dare .
fashion in my sequent protestation : be thou true , and i will see thee .
we ' ll learn our freeness of a son-in-law ; pardon ' s the word to all .
a maiden never bold , of spirit so still and quiet that her motion blush ' d at herself ;
hours between our after-supper and bed-time ?
rome and the righteous heavens be my judge how i have lov ' d and honoured saturnine !
pride , three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turned , in process of the seasons have i seen , three
fidele , sir .
those which i heav ' d to head !
coal-black is better than another hue in that it scorns to bear another hue ; for all the water in
not leave me .
she hears herself .
i tell thee i am as well in my wits as any man in illyria .
go with me .
anjou and maine are given to the french ; paris is lost ; the state of normandy stands on a
stain to thy countrymen , thou hear ' st thy doom .
o , ' tis most sweet when in one line two crafts directly meet .
to heave the traitor somerset from hence , and fight against that monstrous rebel cade , who since i heard
' but i am very sorry , good horatio , that to laertes i forgot myself , for by the
friendly lord .
do so , farewell , both .
well , if ever i do see the merry days of desolation that i have seen , some shall see
i will not swear these are my hands .
the prince draws it out and finds it to he a bottle of sack .
me what strange effect would they work in mild aspect !
but what care i ?
, then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on black monday last at six o '
[he draws , and is charmed from moving] miranda .
by heaven , these scroyles of angiers flout you , kings , and stand securely on their battlements as in
i do beseech you , sir , trouble yourself no further .
stay , my lord legate ; you shall first receive the sum of money which i promised should be delivered
, and grievously hath caesar answer ' d it .
portia ' s house enter bassanio , portia , gratiano , nerissa , and all their trains portia .
constable .
he dies ; we lose ; i break my warlike word .
soul shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance that shall fly with them ; for many a thousand widows
a stone .
good hearts , what ado here is to bring you together !
re-enter emilia .
your heart , or your chaste treasure open to his unmast ' red importunity .
seyton-i am sick at heart , when i behold- seyton , i say !
thy hand ?
proper deformity seems not in the fiend so horrid as in woman .
a spinster ; unless the bookish theoric , wherein the toged consuls can propose as masterly as he .
i will seek out falstaff .
come near the house , i pray you .
smith .
by the kind gods , ' tis most ignobly done page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
go home with it , and please your wife withal ; and soon at supper-time i ' ll visit you
who was here ?
' s coat to emblaze the honour that thy master got .
yourself , sweet lady ; for you gave the fire .
by the mass , i could anger her to th ' heart .
he shall be whipt through the army with this rhyme in ' s forehead .
dam treason : charles the emperor , under pretence to see the queen his aunt- for ' twas indeed his
peace , cousin percy ; you will make him mad .
wherefore is that ?
sprawl ' st thou ?
[unmuffling] if , tullus , not yet thou know ' st me , and , seeing me , dost not
peasant , unless thou give me crowns , brave crowns ; or mangled shalt thou be by this my sword
thou factious duke of york , descend my throne and kneel for grace and mercy at my feet ; i
mount her pitch whom thou in triumph long .
bless thee , bully doctor !
[aside to gregory] is the law of our side if i say ay ?
marry many .
exit servant with peter queen .
is ' a not approved in the height a villain , that hath slandered , scorned , dishonoured my kinswoman
my sighs or tears i blast or drown king edward ' s fruit , true heir to th ' english
, gifts of rich value .
some ore among a mineral of metals base , shows itself pure .
enter hermia hermia .
mates , maid !
how long have you been in this place of constable ?
reverenc ' d for their lawful king .
he lay couched in the ominous horse , hath now this dread and black complexion smear ' d with heraldry
it waves me forth again .
be thou the trumpet of our wrath and sullen presage of your own decay .
should ravish doters with a false aspect ; and therefore is she born to make black fair .
i remember of such a time : being my sworn servant , the duke retain ' d him his .
dromio , keep the gate .
is proclamation made that who finds edward shall have a high reward , and he his life ?
pretty !
else , farewell talbot , france , and england ' s honour .
ha , who comes here ?
let him come when he will ; i will deny thee nothing .
txt of all the under fiends .
hector was gone ; but helen was not up .
sir , speed you .
we have spent , when we have chid the hasty-footed time for parting us- o , is all forgot ?
txt virgilia .
o , he hath murd ' red his master !
of lath , scaring the ladies like a crowkeeper ; nor no without-book prologue , faintly spoke after the prompter
help to give him strength to make a more requital to your love !
our fatherless distress was left unmoan ' d ; your widow-dolour likewise be unwept !
it .
there- my blessing with thee !
no epilogue , i pray you ; for your play needs no excuse .
an unquestionable spirit , which you have not ; a beard neglected , which you have not ; but i
of late , when i cried ' ho !
to mingle friendship far is mingling bloods .
sleeping , still my care hath been to have her match ' d ; and having now provided a gentleman
ay , my continent of beauty .
with your worship .
[gives bassanio a letter] bassanio .
lords , officers , sheriff , vintner , chamberlain , drawers , two carriers , travellers , and attendants .
the people ' s ears , there nought hath pass ' d but even with law against the wilful sons
but not by him !
that ' only ' came well in .
for shame , my lord of winchester , relent ; what , shall a child instruct you what to do
master robert shallow , choose what office thou wilt in the land , ' tis thine .
that drop of blood that ' s calm proclaims me bastard ; cries cuckold to my father ; brands the
no , i will not , for it boots thee not .
thou ' rt a gentleman .
you kill me to deny it .
persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter to this detested groom .
a show of eight kings , the last with a glass in his hand ; banquo ' s ghost following
i see you ' re angry .
of her liking .
think you i can a resolution fetch from flow ' ry tenderness ?
nay , by ' r lady , i am not such a fool to think what i list ; nor
you are moved , prince ; let us depart , i pray , lest your displeasure should enlarge itself to
lucius , marcus , and the others descend all .
pick ' d the lock and ta ' en the treasure of her honour .
were not you here but even now , disguis ' d ?
bur .
electronic and machine readable copies may be page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
give me thy torch , boy .
i cannot speak to her , yet she urg ' d conference .
well , i ' ll set you forth .
stand close ; this is the same athenian .
what say you of kent ?
enter warwick , clarence , oxford , somerset , and french soldiers , silent all warwick .
hang , cur ; hang , you whoreson , insolent noisemaker ; we are less afraid to be drown '
, upon this spotted and inconstant man .
' tis a commodity will lose the gloss with lying ; the longer kept , the less worth .
no sleep close up that deadly eye of thine , unless it be while some tormenting dream affrights thee with
what , should i hurt her , strike her , kill her dead ?
and thought they margaret was hero ?
the emperor ' s guard !
then fairly i bespoke the officer to go in person with me to my house .
he is vex ' d at something .
' s dead .
cadwal , i cannot sing .
my noble father , three times to-day i holp him to his horse , three times bestrid him , thrice
yet but three ?
are not you a strumpet ?
may ' t please your highness sit .
why , my cheese , my digestion , why hast thou not served thyself in to my table so many
himself is subject to his birth .
grandam , we can ; for my good uncle gloucester told me the king , provok ' d to it
why then should i be consul ?
do it at once , or thy precedent services are all but accidents unpurpos ' d .
no , but the loss of his own royal person .
and that i ' ll prove on better men than somerset , were growing time once ripened to my will
, did call me brother .
victors made ; and now our cowards , like fragments in hard voyages , became the life o ' th
fail not our feast .
do come .
soilure , with such a hell of pain and world of charge ; and you as well to keep her
give me the ocular proof ; or , by the worth of man ' s eternal soul , thou hadst
timon .
is ' t night ' s predominance , or the day ' s shame , that darkness does the face
for thee , fond boy , if i may ever know thou dost but sigh that thou no more shalt
thy garments are not spotted with our blood , nor thou within the compass of my curse .
all places yield to him ere he sits down , and the nobility of rome are his ; the senators
make up vows .
diomed .
bless thy five wits !
eros , wouldst thou be window ' d in great rome and see thy master thus with pleach ' d
mind of honour that , had he twenty heads to tender down on twenty bloody blocks , he ' d
txt that will be thaw ' d from the true quality with that which melteth fools- i mean sweet words
hang ye , gorbellied knaves , are ye undone ?
what would you with her , if that i be she ?
txt sebastian .
be that you seem , truly your country ' s friend , and temp ' rately proceed to what you
' d do break the clouds , as did the wives of jewry at herod ' s bloody-hunting slaughtermen .
it be , ' tis with false sorrow ' s eye , which for things true weeps things imaginary .
against my brother lucius ?
by your leave , gods , this is a roman ' s part .
exeunt antony , cleopatra , and enobarbus soldier .
by my life , this is my lady ' s hand : these be her very c ' s ,
cowards stand aloof at bay .
>> scene : rome , the conspirators ' camp near sardis , and the plains of philippi .
' tis a quick lie , sir ; ' twill away again from me to you .
ne ' er mother rejoic ' d deliverance more .
but come , my lord ; and with a heavy heart , thinking on them , go i unto the
there ' s never a one of you but trusts a knave that mightily deceives you .
but their pleasures must be fulfill ' d , and i attend with patience .
right ; as ' twere a man assur ' d of a- lafeu .
throw richer than that which four successive kings in denmark ' s crown have worn .
they have dealt with me like thieves of mercy ; but they knew what they did : i am to
one , lady , if you knew his pure heart ' s truth , you would quickly learn to know
txt pray god the duke of york excuse himself !
what masque ?
i bring consuming sorrow to thine age .
i do beseech you page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
now sways it this way , like a mighty sea forc ' d by the tide to combat with the
txt _num_ the tragedy of romeo and juliet by william shakespeare dramatis personae chorus .
' let one attend him with a silver basin full of rose-water and bestrew ' d with flowers ; another
strong as a tower in hope , i cry amen .
<exit <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library ,
like a school broke up , each hurries toward his home and sporting-place .
lavinia , wert thou thus surpris ' d , sweet girl , ravish ' d and wrong ' d as
enter ghost and hamlet .
they ' re busy within ; you were best knock louder .
all my pretty ones ?
stands a sheep-cote fenc ' d about with olive trees ?
service in garden where leeks did grow , wearing leeks in their monmouth caps ; which your majesty know to
ye rude slaves , leave your gaping .
out ; for , by this heaven , now at our sorrows pale , say what thou canst , i
scene wherein we play in .
feste , the jester , my lord ; a fool that the lady olivia ' s father took much delight
wrath-kindled gentlemen , be rul ' d by me ; let ' s purge this choler without letting blood- this
his conscience , wearing the crown of france , till satisfied that fair queen isabel , his grandmother , was
master , mean you so ?
' s force in stirring love .
if any plague hang over us , ' tis he .
i told you : lord angelo , belike thinking me remiss in mine office , awakens me with this unwonted
indeed you shall not .
, with the great seal , and a cardinal ' s hat ; then two priests , bearing each silver
i am dubb ' d ; i have it on my shoulder .
sword is an oath , and oaths must have their course .
us the lie .
but , sirrah , you shall buy this sport as dear as all the metal in your shop will answer
could she here deny the story that is printed in her blood ?
go , cleomenes ; yourself , assisted with your honour ' d friends , bring them to our embracement .
done , whose answer would be death , drawn on with torture .
i ' ll find romeo to comfort you .
exeunt the end <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world
mustard was naught .
] o , hardness to dissemble !
i hope he is much grown since last i saw him .
have you sent to bottom ' s house ?
why should he call her whore ?
do as thou wilt , for i have done with thee .
in my school-days , when i had lost one shaft , i shot his fellow of the self-same flight the
you know to-morrow is the wedding-day .
o no , he lives , but is took prisoner , and lord scales with him , and lord hungerford
no matter for that .
thine !
third bandit .
retreat .
gentle my lord , turn back .
a naked new-born babe striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubin horsed upon the sightless couriers of the
what you will , to you it doth belong , your self to pardon of self-doing crime .
alack , what trouble was i then to you !
i am hush ' d until our city be afire , and then i ' ll speak a little .
sake , have one bout with you ; he cannot by the duello avoid it ; but he has promis
this needs must be a practice .
[aside] o knowledge ill-inhabited , worse than jove in a thatch ' d house !
will your grace command me any service to the world ' s end ?
whither should they come ?
i would be glad to receive some instructions from my fellow partner .
to go fetch a chain , promising to bring it to the porpentine , where balthazar and i did dine
bring him forth .
carriage of the article design ' d , his fell to hamlet .
speedily , with strong and mighty preparation .
i have had my labour for my travail , ill thought on of her and ill thought on of you
[exeunt quickly and robin] this news distracts me .
[aside] he hath ta ' en th ' infection .
when everything is ended , then you come .
if i do grow great , i ' ll grow less ; for i ' ll purge , and leave
why do the emperor ' s trumpets flourish thus ?
most royal majesty , i crave no more than hath your highness offer ' d , nor will you tender
you have many opportunities to cut him off .
i had almost forgot t ' entreat your grace but in a small request , and yet of moment too
[herald presents another paper] edward the duke of york , the earl of suffolk , sir richard kikely , davy
i will hear cassius and compare their reasons , when severally we hear them rendered .
to who ?
' and since , methinks , i would not grow so fast , because sweet flow ' rs are slow
have at it with you .
i do invite you to-morrow morning to my house to breakfast ; after , we ' ll a-birding together ;
come , let us to the castle .
[lies down] come , thou gentle day .
for monsieur malvolio , let me alone with him ; if i do not gull him into a nayword ,
good people , bring a rescue or two .
then i am paid ; and once again i do receive thee honest .
i have dogg ' d him like his murderer .
possess her ; for i have heard my grandsire say full oft extremity of griefs would make men mad ;
nay , cadwal , we must lay his head to th ' east ; my father hath a reason for
a word , my lord .
i could match this beginning with an old tale .
a second time i kill my husband dead when second husband kisses me in bed .
god give you good night !
say you ne ' er had done ' t- harp on that still- but by our putting on ; and
i think ' tis no unwelcome news to you .
i am here already , sir .
good even , good father .
so please your majesty that we may wake the king ?
blest fig ' s-end !
somerset comes with th ' queen : go , bid her hide him quickly from the duke .
youth , beauty , wisdom , courage , all that happiness and prime can happy call .
how shall they credit a poor unlearned virgin , when the schools , embowell ' d of their doctrine ,
[to the fool] come away .
caesar ' s house .
if i had a thunderbolt in mine eye , i can tell who should down .
for he ' s honourable , and , doubling that , most holy .
what says she , fair one ?
when i think , i must speak .
yet your good will must have that thanks from rome after the measure as you intended well .
how lies their battle ?
of my finding him , and relish it with good observance .
is ' t a lusty yeoman ?
saw sitting by me on the turf , praising the proud disdainful shepherdess that was his mistress .
lie- othello .
majesty !
god send ' em good shipping !
i shall report , for most it caught me , the celestial habits- methinks i so should term them- and
say to her we have measur ' d many miles to tread a measure with her on this grass .
what does his lordship mean ?
well said , hermione .
to approve my youth further , i will not .
why should he not ?
satisfy me so .
we do no otherwise than we are will ' d .
call some knight to arms that hath a stomach ; and such a one that dare maintain i know not
no , i warrant you ; i will not adventure my discretion so weakly .
common as any the most vulgar thing to sense , why should we in our peevish opposition take it to
king !
txt and treacherously hast thou vanquish ' d him , for hand to hand he would have vanquish ' d
of bays , and golden vizards on their faces ; branches of bays or palm in their hands .
i ' ll pheeze you , in faith .
what is ' t , ophelia , he hath said to you ?
fair flesh , to be cut off and taken in what part of your body pleaseth me .
i will write .
[trumpet within .
it is but weakness to bear the matter thus- mere weakness .
yet do i not use my horse for my mistress , or any such proverb so little kin to the
look to your wife ; observe her well with cassio ; wear your eye thus , not jealous nor secure
the dozen white louses do become an old coat well ; it agrees well , passant ; it is a
i thank you for your pains and courtesy .
my loving lord , dumain is mortified .
, he not took ' t , or did it from his teeth .
music !
' prospero .
a most incivil one .
or rather , bottomless ; that as fast as you pour affection in , it runs out .
orbed continent the fire that severs day from night .
which in the time of henry nam ' d the fifth was in the mouth of every sucking babe :
my bounty is as boundless as the sea , my love as deep ; the more i give to thee
d thy beauty ' s image and thy virtue .
where your lady is and claim her with a loving kiss .
this jealousy is for a precious creature ; as she ' s rare , must it be great ; and
drops full salt , under my burden groan ' d ; which rais ' d in me an undergoing stomach
gravestone daily ; make thine epitaph , that death in me at others ' lives may laugh .
at the duke ' s oak we meet .
marcus , even thou hast struck upon my crest , and with these boys mine honour thou hast wounded .
[to sicinius] you shall stay too .
books under his arm .
that ' s all i reck .
could deal kingdoms to my friends and ne ' er be weary .
my daughter tells us all .
he thinks , being twenty times of better fortune , he is twenty men to one .
gertrude , do not drink .
hector , deiphobus , helenus , antenor , and all the gallantry of troy .
the court jester sir oliver martext , a vicar corin , shepherd silvius , " william , a country fellow
why art thou not at windsor with him , thomas ?
o princely buckingham , i ' ll kiss thy hand in sign of league and amity with thee .
his likings to take the safest occasion by the front to bring you in again .
come , manage me your caliver .
your speech is passion ; but pray you stir no embers up .
my edward ; young york he is but boot , because both they match ' d not the high perfection
us ?
you think i ' ll weep .
here , take this too ; [gives the ring] it is a basilisk unto mine eye , kills me to
she had suborned some to swear false allegations to o ' erthrow his state ?
and shows much more his own conceiving .
, are the holes where eyes should be , which pitifully disaster the cheeks .
[aside] i must obey .
then sigh not so , but let them go , and be you blithe and bonny , converting all your
which- for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise- this sword of mine shall give them instant way where they
of trees , have with my knife carved in roman letters ' let not your sorrow die , though i
and make a sop of him .
groan ?
go , take it to the fire ; for thou set ' st on thy wife .
those that are good manners at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the behaviour of the country
so good night , with lullaby .
wast thou not charg ' d at peril- corn .
what , i do bring good news ?
hard fate !
why , what a devil ' s name , tailor , call ' st thou this ?
there stands your friend for the devil ; have at the very eye of that proverb with ' a pox
i must wait on myself , must i ?
obey .
never fleer and jest at me i speak not like a dotard nor a fool , as under privilege of
bear this , bear all .
never to be infected with delight , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o god , that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains !
o , take the sense , sweet , of my innocence !
air !
i am greater than a king ; for when i was a king , my flatterers were then but subjects
slower method- is not the causer of the timeless deaths of these plantagenets , henry and edward , as blameful
if your diligence be not speedy , i shall be there afore you .
i shall serve you , sir , truly , however else .
much upon this it is ; [to boyet] and might not you forestall our sport , to make us thus
txt i am their mother ; who shall bar me from them ?
txt second watch .
what sum owes he the jew ?
help her .
sin from my lips ?
and so , perhaps , he doth .
will you along ?
list , list !
- stay awhile !
i thank your majesty and her , my lord ; these words , these looks , infuse new life in
allay the burning quality of that fell poison which assaileth him .
, that he would please to alter the king ' s course , and break the foresaid peace .
no , good worcester , no !
alarums] either be patient and entreat me fair , or with the clamorous report of war thus will i drown
on us thou canst not enter but by death ; for , i protest , we are well fortified ,
and whether we shall meet again i know not .
i would thou couldst !
, of all the days of the year , upon that day ; for i had then laid wormwood to
thy companion .
lov ' d mall , meg , and marian , and margery , but none of us car ' d
here , master doctor , in perplexity and doubtful dilemma .
a truth ' s a truth-the rogues are marvellous poor .
away with him , away with him !
sacred and sweet was all i saw in her .
nature is a paradise to what we fear of death .
but yet the pity of it , iago !
o my christian ducats !
they say he made a good end .
come , my gracious lord , shall i be your playfellow ?
lords , with one cheerful voice welcome my love .
why , he had none .
then ' tis most like the sovereignty will fall upon macbeth .
brutus speaks .
but how the fear of us may cement their divisions , and bind up the petty difference we yet not
what , all a-foot ?
let one spirit of the first-born cain reign in all bosoms , that , each heart being set on bloody
so will i turn her virtue into pitch , and out of her own goodness make the net that shall
no more !
perish the man whose mind is backward now !
dangerous shot , a sign of dignity , a breath , a bubble , a queen in jest , only
ay , sir , by mistress overdone ' s means ; but as she spit in his face , so
mistaking his purpose , it would make a great gap in your own honour and shake in pieces the heart
spirit , what ' s new to speak , what now to register , that may express my love ,
was bound by a solemn oath ?
is not a dukedom , sir , a goodly gift ?
i do not know what kind of my obedience i should tender ; more than my all is nothing ,
i wot that henry is no soldier .
the gods preserve our noble tribunes !
where lies your text ?
he can come no other way but by this hedge-corner .
exeunt countess and gentlemen helena .
this same coxcomb that we have i ' th ' wind , tokens and letters which she did re-send ;
know , worthy pompey , that what they do delay they not deny .
as much to you at home ; and so farewell !
by him beneath ; so ever step , exampl ' d by the first pace that is sick of his
part o ' th ' isle .
this by calpurnia ' s dream is signified .
why , what a caterwauling dost thou keep !
exit enter catesby catesby .
if to do were as easy as to know what were good to do , chapels had been churches ,
i did never see such pitiful rascals .
good cheer , antonio !
my brother jaques he keeps at school , and report speaks goldenly of his profit .
traitors and bawds , how earnestly are you set a work , and how ill requited !
ay , and in a brooch of lead .
such a smile ; the smile mocking the sigh that it would fly from so divine a temple to commix
ophelia , walk you here .
as false , by heaven , as heaven itself is true .
i am content , so thou wilt have it so .
was the hope drunk wherein you dress ' d yourself ?
my liberty .
if you will now unite in your complaints and force them with a constancy , the cardinal cannot stand under
shames on my bare head , steep ' d me in poverty to the very lips , given to captivity
[dies] gloucester .
and , my gracious duke , this man hath bewitch ' d the bosom of my child .
pound i could run as fast as thou canst .
with that which we lovers entitle ' affected .
magnanimous in the enterprise , and go on ; i will grace the attempt for a worthy exploit .
he is now as valiant as hercules that only tells a lie , and swears it .
thine .
this may prove food to my displeasure .
these earthly godfathers of heaven ' s lights that give a name to every fixed star have no more profit
it is an accustomed action with her , to seem thus washing her hands .
exit buckingham york .
such length in grief .
the one of them imports the death of cassio to be undertook by roderigo .
well , thou wilt be horribly chid to-morrow when thou comest to thy father .
look , look !
you a good turn .
enter on the walls , la pucelle , charles , reignier , alencon , and soldiers pucelle .
i pray you go with me .
i come , graymalkin .
king ' s subjects .
arm , arm , my lord ; the foe vaunts in the field .
bring her to try wi ' th ' maincourse .
the thane of cawdor lives , a prosperous gentleman ; and to be king stands not within the prospect of
thy friends suspect for traitors while thou liv ' st , and take deep traitors for thy dearest friends !
thought on .
me confessing to this man , how don john your brother incensed me to slander the lady hero ; how
o iago , the pity of it , iago !
of christendom .
she to change our loves .
like mine , and bid him speak to me of patience .
well , i ' ll end the song .
i stand on sudden haste .
enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber ; thou hast no figures nor no fantasies , which busy care draws in
, you shall find , i warrant you , that there is no tiddle-taddle nor pibble-pabble in pompey ' s
the parliament house alarum .
not with bassanio in his ship .
nay , follow him , gentlemen ; see the issue of his search .
who can be bound by any solemn vow to do a murd ' rous deed , to rob a man
exit duke .
i will bring thee where mistress anne page is , at a a farm-house , a-feasting ; and thou shalt
they fight .
lead me on .
of ; therefore i will not speak what i know .
pour down thy weather-how goes all in france ?
it shows my earnestness of affection- shallow .
i like thy counsel ; well hast thou advis ' d ; and that thou mayst perceive how well i
food for his rage , repasture for his den .
no , my lord , nor likely to be slain ; for they have won the bridge , killing all
the good humour is to steal at a minute ' s rest .
speak ' pardon ' as ' tis current in our land ; the chopping french we do not understand .
for thy revenge wrench up thy power to th ' highest .
sweet rest his soul !
what does he mean ?
i will buy me a son-in-law in a fair , and toll for this .
alack , where are you ?
base slave , thy words are blunt , and so art thou .
set on toward swinstead ; to my litter straight ; weakness possesseth me , and i am faint .
, when wheat is green , when hawthorn buds appear .
to make my small elves coats ; and some keep back the clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders at
dost thou call me fool , boy ?
the rialto ; a beggar , that was us ' d to come so smug upon the mart .
sir , march is wasted fifteen days .
caesar ' s better parts shall be crown ' d in brutus .
man is free but that his negligence , his folly , fear , among the infinite doings of the world
txt enter messenger .
you do extend these thoughts of horror further than you shall find cause in caesar .
only i have left to say , more is thy due than more than all can pay .
[presents a letter] bassanio .
txt you need it not .
which time of the contract and limit of the solemnity her brother frederick was wreck ' d at sea ,
lives upon succession , for ever hous ' d where it gets possession .
excellently done , if god did all .
could equal them .
she had a prophesying fear of what hath come to pass ; for when she saw- which never shall be
mind ' s sake ; i ' d such a courage to do him good .
mistress , how mean you that ?
[a dance] the iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve .
thee for a hen !
humour than advis ' d respect .
there is a plot against my life , my crown ; all ' s true that is mistrusted .
this ungenitur ' d agent will unpeople the province with continency ; sparrows must not build in his house-eaves because
enter prince escalus , with his train .
is he not thine own ?
the maid is fair , o ' th ' youngest for a bride , and i have bred her at
he ' s a cat still .
cease to be ere one can say ' it lightens .
lucetta !
i do , my lord , and mean accordingly .
that opportunity , which then they had to take from ' s , to resume we have again .
and by his treason stand ' st not thou attainted , corrupted , and exempt from ancient gentry ?
go , take hence that traitor from our sight , for by his death we do perceive his guilt ;
sign of blind cupid .
thou wilt not hear me now : thou shalt not then .
you have here , lady , and of your choice , these reverend fathers-men of singular integrity and learning ,
hardly will he endure your sight as yet , i fear ; then , till the fury of his highness
and if words will not , then our weapons shall .
our fairies .
all men , i hope , live so .
love , and be friends , as two such men should be ; for i have seen more years ,
exit edgar .
flavius !
unbuckle , unbuckle .
first give me trust the count he is my husband , and what to your sworn counsel i have spoken
i hear not of him in the court .
my matter hath no voice , lady , but to your own most pregnant and vouchsafed car .
i talk not of your soul ; our compell ' d sins stand more for number than for accompt .
if for my sake thou wilt o ' ertake us hence a mile or twain i ' th ' way
enter peto prince .
why should a dog , a horse , a rat , have life , and thou no breath at all
' d acquaintance ; hie thee , go .
nay , master page , be not impatient .
than for strength and safety of our country .
my lord , i will not .
end of stealing them .
cup us till the world go round , cup us till the world go round !
but , sir , sir- hear me , sir thomas .
when first this order was ordain ' d , my lords , knights of the garter were of noble birth
methinks thy voice is alter ' d , and thou speak ' st in better phrase and matter than thou
speak to her , hamlet .
what his reputation is with the duke , what his valour , honesty , expertness in wars ; or whether
get thee away , and take thy beagles with thee .
what in the world he is that names me traitor , villain-like he lies .
i cannot come to cressid but by pandar ; and he ' s as tetchy to be woo ' d
good corporal , be patient here .
and so , god keep your worship !
thanks , good egeus ; what ' s the news with thee ?
, my ten thousand ducats are yours ; so is your diamond too .
' undo that prayer by crying out as loud ' o , bless my brother !
god shield i should disturb devotion !
and young ; which elder days shall ripen , and confirm to more approved service and desert .
faith , sir , we were carousing till the second cock ; and drink , sir , is a great
no , indeed , he is not .
[to nerissa] thou mayst , i warrant .
txt enter duke in his own habit , and friar peter duke .
txt and heir apparent to the english crown .
very wisely threat before you sting .
' silvia , this night i will enfranchise thee .
at least , the whisper goes so .
she sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies , more like an empress than duke humphrey ' s
why stay we , then ?
clifford , that cruel child-killer .
s face , change the complexion of her maid-pale peace to scarlet indignation , and bedew her pastures ' grass
' and well said too ; for who shall go about to cozen fortune , and be honourable without the
please you , i ' ll write your ladyship another .
' signior martino and his wife and daughters ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
kneel to the duke before he pass the abbey .
i did nothing .
a careless force and forceless care as if that luck , in very spite of cunning , bade him win
a daniel still say i , a second daniel !
that which thou departest , and that fresh blood which youngly thou bestow ' st , thou mayst call thine
fie , fie upon thee , strumpet !
enter duncan , malcolm , donalbain , lennox , and attendants .
i will unbolt to you .
my lord northumberland , see them dispatch ' d .
citizens by rushing in their houses , bearing thence page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
re-enter hastings hastings .
all fast ?
do not you chide ; i have a thing for you .
he said ' twas folly , for one poor grain or two , to leave unburnt and still to nose
marry , i will ; let them play it .
a contagious breath .
of thunder ' s crack or lightning flash , advanc ' d above pale envy ' s threat ' ning
no , forsooth ; he hath but a little whey face , with a little yellow beard , a cain-colour
all power from the people , and to pluck from them their tribunes for ever .
what is the matter , ho ?
by yea and no , sir .
no quips now , pistol .
all ' s oblique ; there ' s nothing level in our cursed natures but direct villainy .
grandam , this would have been a biting jest .
' tis some odd humour pricks him to this fashion ; yet oftentimes lie goes but mean-apparell ' d .
and loving woo ?
to look , and practise by myself .
then broke i from the officers that led me , and with my nails digg ' d stones out of
now , darting parthia , art thou struck , and now pleas ' d fortune does of marcus crassus '
rest you merry !
speak , romans , speak ; and if you say we shall , lo , hand in hand , lucius
the conference was sadly borne ; they have the truth of this from hero ; they seem to pity the
stay on thy peril ; i alone will go .
of our despis ' d nobility , our issues , whom , if he live , will scarce be gentlemen-
gold were as good as twenty orators , and will , no doubt , tempt him to anything .
hence !
that we , the sons and children of this isle , were born to see so sad an hour as
are we not brothers ?
upon my parents , his all noble .
your grace has given a precedent of wisdom above all princes , in committing freely your scruple to the voice
i ' ll bear thee hence ; and let them fight that will , for i have murdered where i
to kill , i grant , is sin ' s extremest gust ; but , in defence , by mercy
where art thou now ?
txt i think you are all mated or stark mad .
what says my lord ?
i will not reason what is meant hereby , because i will be guiltless from the meaning .
lieutenant , is it you whose voice i hear ?
a speedier course than ling ' ring languishment must we pursue , and i have found the path .
thus , in this strange and sad habiliment , i will encounter with andronicus , and say i am revenge
a street .
we are not thieves , but men that much do want .
ay , my lord , an ' t please you .
go , stand within ; let me alone with him .
how many be commanded that command !
why , do not your courtier ' s hands sweat ?
txt under the veil of wildness ; which , no doubt , grew like the summer grass , fastest by
my conscience , thou art fetter ' d more than my shanks and wrists ; you good gods , give
medlars when they laugh alone .
be merry , be merry .
must he lose the name of king ?
law make curtsy to their will ; hooking both right and wrong to th ' appetite , to follow as
yet every mother breeds not sons alike : [to chiron] do thou entreat her show a woman ' s pity
it cannot be but that my master is abus ' d .
we ' ll borrow place of him .
would i were satisfied !
o , torture me no more !
an i do not , call me villain and baffle me .
thou not farther than my thoughts canst move , and i am still with them , and they with thee
it , sir , again .
the grave of arthur , whom they say is kill ' d to-night on your suggestion .
this weak impress of love is as a figure trenched in ice , which with an hour ' s heat
poison ' d then .
i cried ' hum , ' and ' well , go to !
vail your regard upon a wrong ' d- i would fain have said a maid !
_num_ weary with toil , i haste me to my bed , the dear respose for limbs with travel tired
truly ; never find such another master .
every night he comes with musics of all sorts , and songs compos ' d to her unworthiness .
dash it like a christmas comedy .
so long could i stand by , a looker-on .
it is the very error of the moon ; she comes more nearer earth than she was wont and makes
i never had honest man about me , i .
why , my horse , my love- my horse !
master constable , you go not the way to examine .
callet .
but will you , then ?
, till she be married ; and fools are as like husbands as pilchers are to herrings- the husband '
then should i spur though mounted on the wind , in winged speed no motion shall i know , then
perchance you think too much of so much pains ?
my gracious lords , to add to your laments , wherewith you now bedew king henry ' s hearse ,
cheerly , cheerly , my hearts !
hand un-feeling ; but all in vain are these mean obsequies ; and to survey his dead and earthy image
- though in her cradle , yet now promises upon this land a thousand blessings , which time shall bring
they are of norway , sir .
when was my lord so much ungently temper ' d to stop his ears against admonishment ?
the more fool , madonna , to mourn for your brother ' s soul being in heaven .
contents .
her , i am a jew .
and thane of cawdor too .
hold you his hands whilst i do set it on .
i ' d have it come to question .
i am one , sir , that comes to tell you your daughter and the moor are now making the
i would i had been there .
honest bardolph , welcome ; if thou want ' st anything and wilt not call , beshrew thy heart .
puts apparel on my tattered loving , to show me worthy of thy sweet respect , then may i dare
d in maiden blood .
there ' s mischief in this man .
let me entreat you .
you are deceiv ' d : your brother gloucester hates you .
will you withdraw ?
mistake no more ; i am not licio .
i am even the natural fool of fortune .
exceeding ill .
he goes hence frowning ; but it honours us that we have given him cause .
which way do you judge my wit would fly ?
name is at last gasp .
naples , supposing that they saw the king ' s ship wreck ' d , and his great person perish
in form and moving how express and admirable !
i ' ll enter .
added feathers to the learned ' s wing , and given grace a double majesty .
now i do frown on thee with all my heart ; and if mine eyes can wound , now let
tongue , none else to me , nor i to none alive , that my steeled sense or changes right
why , the end is , he hath lost a ship .
if the world were feverous and did tremble .
that ' s not amiss ; but yet keep time in all .
then see thou thump thy master well .
unnecessarily as this gonzalo ; i myself could make a chough of as deep chat .
let loose , and our air shakes them passing scornfully ; big mars seems bankrupt in their beggar ' d
hark , ventidius .
my lord , the mayor of london comes to greet you .
husband , i ' ll dine above with you to-day , and shrive you of a thousand idle pranks .
this is the prison .
o , when degree is shak ' d , which is the ladder of all high designs , the enterprise
below their heads- this yellow slave will knit and break religions , bless th ' accurs ' d , make
i will tell you the beginning , and , if it please your ladyships , you may see the end
milan and naples have moe widows in them of this business ' making , than we bring men to comfort
you did know how much you were my conqueror , and that my sword , made weak by my affection
' tis very true ; thou didst it excellent .
burgundy and all his friends .
tamora .
own blood did sir walter see on holmedon ' s plains .
upon a gath ' red lily almost withered .
i saw him not .
brach may stand by th ' fire and stink .
a most intelligencing bawd !
yet edmund was belov ' d .
the cares i give i have , though given away ; they tend the crown , yet still with me
so the son of the female is the shadow of the male .
enter falstaff and colville , meeting page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[he kills another , then exton strikes him down] that hand shall burn in never-quenching fire that staggers thus my
i can add colours to the chameleon , change shapes with protheus for advantages , and set the murderous machiavel
that ' s a deed thou ' t die for .
s suit ; which was , that he , in lieu o ' th ' premises , of homage ,
now , when the bridegroom in the morning comes to rouse thee from thy bed , there art thou dead
there ' s comfort yet ; they are assailable .
but know that i have to-night wooed margaret , the lady hero ' s gentlewoman , by the name of
to whisper and conspire against my youth ?
sir , he din ' d with her there , at the porpentine .
; with gentle conference , soft and affable .
here ' s a strange alteration !
nay , my choler is ended .
rosalind , you will bestow her on orlando here ?
to me .
enter arthur arthur .
pray you , sir , deliver me this paper .
till then , fair hope must hinder life ' s decay .
not privy to those faults , yet by reputing of his high descent- as next the king he was successive
by your leave , i bid my very friends and countrymen , sweet portia , welcome .
perchance ?
very well mended .
fall and cease !
txt and sat at good men ' s feasts , and wip ' d our eyes of drops that sacred
too late ?
excuse not silence so , for ' t lies in thee , to make him much outlive a gilded tomb
to the time .
exit isabella guarded do you not smile at this , lord angelo ?
ah , warwick , why hast thou withdrawn thyself ?
he be alive .
rich honesty dwells like a miser , sir , in a poor house ; as your pearl in your foul
i will swear to the prince thou art as honest a true fellow as any is in bohemia .
take all the swift advantage of the hours ; you shall have letters from me to my son in your
some villain mountaineers ?
still better , and worse .
then say at once what is it thou requests .
master shallow , god keep you !
blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained ; and in him that escapes it were not sin to think that
you wrong me more , sir , in denying it .
ten hoops ; and i will make it felony to drink small beer .
and unfriended , often prove rough and unhospitable .
exit imogen into the cave this youth , howe ' er distress ' d , appears he hath had good
fierce blaze of riot cannot last , for violent fires soon burn out themselves ; small showers last long ,
; or else i shall seek my wit in my shoulders .
did ever raven sing so like a lark that gives sweet tidings of the sun ' s uprise ?
, thou art a coward , which hoxes honesty behind , restraining from course requir ' d ; or else
when i call to mind your gracious favours done to me , undeserving as i am , my duty pricks
these , my lord , are such allow ' d infirmities that honesty is never free of .
fair margaret knows that suffolk doth not flatter , face , or feign .
be it your charge , my lord , to see perform ' d the tenour of our word .
roses , and a thousand fragrant posies .
i have done the state some service , and they know ' t .
and if the boy have not a woman ' s gift to rain a shower of commanded tears , an
worth thy pains , for i can sing and speak to him in many sorts of music , that will
thou must tell that knowest .
abhorred slave , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
speak thou now .
if he do , sure he cannot weep ' t back again .
dismay not , princes , at this accident , nor grieve that rouen is so recovered .
thou dost then wrong me , as that slaughterer doth which giveth many wounds when one will kill .
let this barnardine be this morning executed , and his head borne to angelo .
the tenour of them doth but signify my health and happy being at your court .
' d else .
away , then !
o , in this love , you love your child so ill that you run mad , seeing that she
him do as gallant service .
o , the charity of a penny cord !
why dost thou seek me out ?
hither ?
how likes gremio these quick-witted folks ?
henry doth claim the crown from john of gaunt , the fourth son : york claims it from the third
but , gentle friend , for love and courtesy lie further off , in human modesty ; such separation as
sport myself ; so many days my ewes have been with young ; so many weeks ere the poor fools
francisco , a soldier reynaldo , servant to polonius .
go to ; ' homo ' is a common name to all men .
now will he be swing ' d for reading my letter .
if ' twere no other- iago .
use a more spacious ceremony to the noble lords ; you have restrain ' d yourself within the list of
by so much fills their hearts with deadly hate .
alack , alack , that heaven should practise stratagems upon so soft a subject as myself !
if brutus will vouchsafe that antony may safely come to him and be resolved how caesar hath deserved to lie
gaoler , look to him .
' s a steward .
enter fortinbras and english ambassadors , with drum , colours , and attendants .
whose flint bosom my condemned lord is doom ' d a prisoner by proud bolingbroke .
your eyes do make no coaches ; in your tears there is no certain princess that appears ; you '
enter clarence , guarded , and brakenbury brother , good day .
you suffer for a pad conscience .
leave working .
watch so nightly toils the subject of the land , and why such daily cast of brazen cannon and foreign
the time is troublesome .
philomela was , forc ' d in the ruthless , vast , and gloomy woods ?
viola .
as hell , sir topas .
them , would call their brothers fools .
five shillings to one on ' t with any man that knows the statutes , he may stay him !
see what a grace was seated on this brow ; hyperion ' s curls ; the front of jove himself
you see , her eyes are open .
nay , send in time .
of our ladies in france .
he his bells .
good ancient , you are welcome .
o sir , fly this place !
i stood upon the hatches in the storm ; and when the dusky sky began to rob my earnest-gaping sight
where is it , taken from us it is .
' item : she doth talk in her sleep .
if there be any pody in the house , and in the chambers , and in the coffers , and
a pound of that same merchant ' s flesh is thine .
that will i , pompey .
_num_ being your slave what should i do but tend , upon the hours , and times of your desire
i ' ll do my best to woo your lady .
[falls down] clown .
nay , i am sure she does .
a servingman , proud in heart and mind ; that curl ' d my hair , wore gloves in my
second servant .
i ' ll tell thee how beatrice prais ' d thy wit the other day .
you look not well , signior antonio ; you have too much respect upon the world ; they lose it
look , sir , i bleed .
old mantuan , old mantuan !
, nobleman of venice , brother of brabantio lodovico , nobleman of venice , kinsman of brabantio roderigo , rejected
ay , celia ; we stay ' d her for your sake , else had she with her father rang
rebuke .
how will you live ?
to pray for her ?
here comes a pair of very strange beasts which in all tongues are call ' d fools .
his affects is born , not by might mast ' red , but by special grace .
my eyes are then no eyes , nor i berowne .
' falsehood hast thou forged hooks , whereto the judgment of my heart is tied ?
the kindred of him hath been flesh ' d upon us ; and he is bred out of that bloody
is paris lost ?
what warlike voice , and to what end , is this ?
enter lear in a chair carried by servants .
the vault , if i departed not and left him there .
of your philosophy you make no use , if you give place to accidental evils .
his prayers are full of false hypocrisy ; ours of true zeal and deep integrity .
a long flourish .
you are abus ' d beyond the mark of thought , and the high gods , to do you justice
draw , if you be men .
calpurnia !
o , i die for food !
when thou shalt bring me word she loves my son , i ' ll tell thee on the instant thou
exit lewis .
if one be , so are they all ; for every grise of fortune is smooth ' d by that
be assur ' d we go to use our hands and not our tongues .
good my sovereign , take up the english short , and let them know of what a monarchy you are
for none neither .
[aside] perish , base prince , ignoble duke of york !
that made the engine , or those that with the fineness of their souls by reason guide his execution .
i spy comfort ; i cry bail .
as the indifferent children of the earth .
vouches ?
which of these is he ?
blessing may soon return to this our suffering country under a hand accursed !
minion , your dear lies dead , and your unblest fate hies .
to weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain , and therewithal to win me , if you please , without
the more that henry was unfortunate .
o lord , sir , who do you mean ?
good enobarbus !
nay , i shall ne ' er be ware of mine own wit till i break my shins against it
unseeming to confess receipt of that which hath so faithfully been paid .
put on .
and i , tough signior , as an appertinent title to your old time , which we may name tough
fair lovely maid , once more good day to thee .
of your estate .
if you come slack of former services , you shall do well ; the fault of it i ' ll
not a mouse shall disturb this hallowed house .
ay , so i think .
he that rides at high speed and with his pistol kills a sparrow flying .
away betimes , before his forces join , and take the great-grown traitor unawares .
my banishers , stand i before thee here .
sir , as i have a soul , she is an angel ; our king has all the indies in
now , trust me , were it not against our laws , against my crown , my oath , my
kent !
my valour ' s poison ' d with only suff ' ring stain by him ; for him shall fly
she was belov ' d , she lov ' d ; she is , and doth ; but still sweet
[aside] then poor cordelia !
he cannot thrive , unless her prayers , whom heaven delights to hear and loves to grant , reprieve him
' run barefoot up and down , threat ' ning the flames with bisson rheum ; a clout upon that
one dead that is willing to be so .
when i think your highness wrong ' d .
get thee gone ; buy thou a rope , and bring it home to me .
regan , i bleed apace .
not her that chides , sir , at any hand , i pray .
i am sorry , cymbeline , that i am to pronounce augustus caesar- caesar , that hath moe kings his
wherefore is charles impatient with his friend ?
swart , like my shoe ; but her face nothing like so clean kept ; for why , she sweats
o cromwell , the king has gone beyond me .
o detestable villain !
i have your own letter that induced me to the semblance i put on , with the which i doubt
the court of justice enter the duke , the magnificoes , antonio , bassanio , gratiano , salerio , and
who bare my letter , then , to romeo ?
many an ounce- he dropt it for his country ; and what is left , to lose it by his
wert a poet , i might have some hope thou didst feign .
this foolish , dreaming , superstitious girl makes all these bodements .
good master vernon , i am bound to you that you on my behalf would pluck a flower .
how do you , malvolio ?
good sir- lear .
o fool !
marry , sir , i am helping you to mar that which god made , a poor unworthy brother of
faith , sir john , ' tis more than time that i were there , and you too ; but
of their tongues hath into bondage brought my too diligent ear ; for several virtues have i lik ' d
to the warm sun !
out of their burrows , like conies after rain , and revel an with him .
make up to clifton ; i ' ll to sir nicholas gawsey .
fear me not , man ; i will not break away .
he shows in this he loves his own barn better than he loves our house .
from my succession wipe me , father ; i am heir to my affection .
be sworn , he wore none but a dishclout of jaquenetta ' s , and that ' a wears next
the hollow ground .
and less ' ned be that small , god , i beseech him !
what , to kiss in private ?
else but mad ?
i show it most of all when i show justice ; for then i pity those i do not know
and now , dear maid , be you as free to us .
but all the charms of love , salt cleopatra , soften thy wan ' d lip !
never saw i wretches so quake .
storm still .
i ' ll beat thee- but i should infect my hands .
that the resolute acting of our blood could have attain ' d th ' effect of your own purpose whether
thought and affliction , passion , hell itself , she turns to favour and to prettiness .
] o , you are well tuned now !
with valentine julia , a lady of verona , beloved of proteus silvia , the duke ' s daughter ,
read .
fire that ' s closest kept burns most of all .
his sword her husband ' s limbs , the instant burst of clamour that she made (unless things mortal move
i ' ll tell you what-i think it is our way , if we will keep in favour with the
not mine : my gloves are on .
quoniam he seemeth in minority , ergo i come with this apology .
i could not stir him .
my lord that ' s gone made himself much sport out of him .
paris and troilus , you have both said well ; and on the cause and question now in hand page
to wrong my friend , i shall be much forsworn ; and ev ' n that pow ' r which
_num_ unthrifty loveliness why dost thou spend , upon thy self thy beauty ' s legacy ?
i may " ; she that , being anger ' d , her revenge being nigh , bade her wrong
a good lenten answer .
these miseries are more than may be borne .
life for an hour and a quarter .
i pray thee , good horatio , wait upon him .
' mountain .
speechless complainer , i will learn thy thought ; in thy dumb action will i be as perfect as begging
exeunt titus ' sons , with alarbus tamora .
why , lady !
say that again .
it is your uncle .
before page ' s house enter sir hugh evans and simple evans .
' n , extended or contracted all proportions to a most hideous object .
methinks you are too much o ' late i ' th ' frown .
i stood and heard them , but they did say their prayers and address ' d them again to sleep
my lord bassanio , since you have found antonio , we two will leave you ; but at dinner-time ,
the tribunes do attend you .
now o ' er the one half-world nature seems dead , and wicked dreams abuse the curtain ' d sleep
yesternight by catesby was it sent me ; the precedent was full as long a-doing ; and yet within these
exit act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene xiii .
now for this night let ' s harbour here in york ; and when the morning sun shall raise his
txt wait in your royal walks , your board , your bed !
[to richard] think upon vaughan , and with guilty fear let fall thy lance .
, often touching , will where gold ; and no man that hath a name by falsehood and corruption doth
profit of the land .
i tax not you , you elements , with unkindness .
who was samson ' s love , my dear moth ?
what though care kill ' d a cat , thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care .
and how out of count ?
wouldst be seiz ' d by the leopard ; wert thou a leopard , thou wert german to the lion
that is my true humour .
music [within] .
take good cominius with thee awhile ; determine on some course more than a wild exposture to each chance that
page to gardiner a crier queen katharine , wife to king henry , afterwards divorced anne bullen , her maid
sweet kate , embrace her for her beauty ' s sake .
, may put you in mind- one , two , three .
i , by the honour of my marriage-bed , after young arthur , claim this land for mine ; and
sweat for duty , not for meed !
our hands , and to confine yourself to asher house , my lord of winchester ' s , till you
exeunt prince , poins , peto , and bardolph falstaff .
no , fair princess ; he is the general challenger .
enter warwick and surrey warwick .
most happy !
that ever i should call thee cast-away !
o these encounters so glib of tongue that give a coasting welcome ere it comes , and wide unclasp the
i can find out no rhyme to ' lady ' but ' baby ' --an innocent rhyme ; for '
the outward watch , whereto my finger , like a dial ' s point , is pointing still , in
unto a sail it makes the course of thoughts to fetch about , startles and frights consideration , makes sound
the prince ' s espials have informed me how the english , in the suburbs close intrench ' d ,
part , fools !
i will not sleep , hortensio , till i see her ; and therefore let me be thus bold with
receive no sust ' nance , fetter him , till he be brought unto the empress ' face for testimony
txt he presently , as greatness knows itself , steps me a little higher than his vow made to my
what is that word honour ?
, so were i a man , the worst about you .
first , a very excellent good-conceited thing ; after , a wonderful sweet air , with admirable rich words to
as easy might i from my self depart , as from my soul which in thy breast doth lie :
peace even with the same austerity and garb as he controll ' d the war ; but one of these-
now is he turn ' d orthography ; his words are a very fantastical banquet-- just so many strange dishes
is it come to this ?
give me leave .
then ' tis but reason that i be releas ' d from giving aid which late i promised .
there is more in it .
i say , if he would incline to the people , there was never a worthier man .
there ' s his chamber , his house , his castle , his standing-bed and truckle-bed ; ' tis painted
it is no matter , his name ' s cinna .
poor knight ; when slanders do not live in tongues , nor cutpurses come not to throngs ; when usurers
well i love lucentio .
fear not .
he ' s a villain and a traitor .
briefly , sir .
prince ' s word , when thou didst make him master of thy bed , to do him all the
what says the married woman ?
doll .
dismal conflict , till that bellona ' s bridegroom , lapp ' d in proof , confronted him with self-comparisons
but stay , o spite !
a mankind witch !
remove nor choke the strong conception that i do groan withal .
good night , good brother .
exit act iv .
your father ' s sickness is a maim to us .
madam , yond young fellow swears he will speak with you .
mocks and mows , and carrying out the table prospero .
we will have these things set down by lawful counsel , and straight away for britain , lest the bargain
mark his condition , and th ' event , then tell me if this might be a brother .
; small have continual plodders ever won , save base authority from others ' books .
suffolk lord talbot , afterwards earl of shrewsbury john talbot , his son edmund mortimer , earl of march sir
; it cannot be .
forth , my sword ; he dies .
yet this before my father ' s majestypage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and shall these labours and these honours die ?
but since you have made the days and nights as one , to wear your gentle limbs in my affairs
txt achilles .
ay , good fool .
o , let him marry a woman that cannot go , sweet isis , i beseech thee !
none , but to lose your eyes .
many a man has good horns and knows no end of them .
i prithee go and get me some repast ; i care not what , so it be wholesome food .
how will my mother for a father ' s death take on with me , and ne ' er be
ay , and i ' ll give them him without a fee .
our foe was princely ; and though you took his life , as being our foe , yet bury him
like her ?
and to conclude : the shepherd ' s homely curds , his cold thin drink out of his leather bottle
nor do not saw the air too much with your hand , thus , but use all gently ; for
which the gods have given you ?
poor soul , thy face is much abus ' d with tears .
txt good friend petruchio !
well , let it be .
till i shall see you in your soldier ' s dress , which will become you both , farewell .
it is no matter .
, figures , shapes , objects , ideas , apprehensions , motions , revolutions .
txt of the dreamer merlin and his prophecies , and of a dragon and a finless fish , a clip-wing
welcome , jack .
another part of the wood enter oberon oberon .
for heaven !
being but heavy , i will bear the light .
then if i would speak that- sicinius .
i kiss ' d thee ere i kill ' d thee .
for it .
drink thou ; increase the reels .
come , hang them on this line .
if aught of woe or wonder , cease your search .
- we trifle time ; i pray thee pursue sentence .
enter hero and two gentlewomen , margaret and ursula .
gifts fairer ; for where an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities , there commendations go with pity-they are virtues and
say not treasonous .
what do you say ?
nay , if i turn mine eyes upon myself , i find myself a traitor with the rest ; for
looks it not like the king ?
the duke of exeter doth love thee well .
txt glend .
you , when i say so , she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world .
lips which should that harvest reap , at the wood ' s boldness by thee blushing stand .
the head is not more native to the heart , the hand more instrumental to the mouth , than is
we know not where you left them all alive ; but , out alas !
boy , thou hast look ' d thyself into my grace , and art mine own .
o fair affliction , peace !
where is my page ?
believe me , thou talkest of an admirable conceited fellow .
romeo , come forth ; come forth , thou fearful man .
neither , fair saint , if either thee dislike .
do but look up .
friend , we understand not one another : i am to courtly , and thou art too cunning .
as his .
doth she hold her own well ?
is balthazar .
i thank thee for that humour .
dost thou think i ' ll fear thee as i fear thy father ?
fact .
well , was it fit for a servant to use his master so ; being , perhaps , for aught
: wherein i spake of most disastrous chances , of moving accidents by flood and field , of hair-breadth '
none , sir , none .
but who comes with our brother marcus here ?
let me but stand- i will not hurt your hearth .
enter macbeth , lady macbeth , ross , lennox , lords , and attendants .
methinks there is much reason in his sayings .
from ireland thus comes york to claim his right and pluck the crown from feeble henry ' s head :
-and , diomed , stand fast and wear a castle on thy head .
his roguish madness allows itself to anything .
lay hand upon him .
down page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
before an alehouse on a heath enter hostess and sly sly .
lust and rank thoughts , hers , hers ; revenges , hers ; ambitions , covetings , change of prides
to do ' t , or no , is certain to me a break-neck .
and never come mischance between us twain !
why , go to bed and sleep .
dispute it like a man .
but to prove to you that helen loves him : she came and puts me her white hand to his
, even to the eyes of richard gave him defiance .
exeunt some attendants .
how low am i , thou painted maypole ?
if that rebellion came like itself , in base and abject routs , led on by bloody youth , guarded
why , what a ruthless thing is this in him , for the rebellion of a codpiece to take away
not such a wife .
yet , heaven bear witness , and if i have a conscience , let it sink me even as the
him continue in his courses till thou know ' st what they are .
ye elves of hills , brooks , standing lakes , and groves ; and ye that on the sands with
[tearing the letter] go , wind , to wind , there turn and change together .
my stripes impress ' d upon him , that must bear my beating to his grave- shall join to thrust
telling me of the fashion ?
gives not the hawthorn bush a sweeter shade to shepherds looking on their silly sheep , than doth a rich
' tis her breathing that perfumes the chamber thus .
will you stay no longer ; nor will you not that i go with you ?
a proper squire !
britain .
i neither know it nor can learn of him ben .
my uncle is return ' d .
clammer your tongues , and not a word more .
you knew i was at your back , and spoke it on purpose to try my patience .
come , stir , stir , stir !
go forth , agrippa , and begin the fight .
enter lorenzo jessica .
put your bonnet to his right use .
am about thrift .
where is my love ?
thou hadst but power over his mortal body , his soul thou canst not have ; therefore , be gone
you say not right , old man leon .
heaven will direct it .
that will i .
love have touch ' d you , nought remains but so : ' redime te captum quam queas minimo .
aptly sings the good .
let them lay by their helmets and their spears , and both return back to their chairs again .
an chud ha ' bin zwagger ' d out of my life , ' twould not ha ' bin zo
the matter being afoot , keep your instruction and hold you ever to our special drift ; though sometimes you
i am poison ' d .
the lady stirs .
if you would conjure in her , you must make a circle ; if conjure up love in her in
nor on the beasts themselves , the birds , and fishes ; you must eat men .
i think the best way were to entertain him with hope , till the wicked fire of lust have melted
within this bosom never ent ' red yet the dreadful motion of a murderous thought and you have slander '
i am misanthropos , and hate mankind .
i had forgot- three months ; you told me so .
let it be so , and let andronicus make this his latest farewell to their souls .
i give thee not this to suggest thee from thy master thou talk ' st of ; serve him still
but in all i was six thousand strong , and that the french were almost ten to one , before
dissemble deeply their affections ; and therefore , if you say no more than this , that like a father
villages , nothing taken but paid for , none of the french upbraided or abused in disdainful language ; for
a vine , whose weakness , married to thy stronger state , makes me with thy strength to communicate .
, which wholly depends on your abode .
jove ' s thunder , so surpris ' d my sense that i was nothing .
exit speed i must go send some better messenger .
, attending you here at milford haven ; with your ships , they are in readiness .
what if it should be so ?
it too .
tell me , and i ' ll requite it with sweet rehearsal of my morning ' s dream .
a fine volley of words , gentlemen , and quickly shot off .
i will my lord , with all convenient haste .
if it be now , ' tis not to come ' , if it be not to come , it
that ' s not my fault ; he ' s master of my state .
whip your information and beat the messenger who bids beware of what is to be dreaded .
, being sick , have in some measure made me well ; and as the wretch whose fever-weak ' ned
victors wear at the olympian games .
great floods have flown from simple sources , and great seas have dried when miracles have by the greatest been
why , if you have a stomach , to ' t , monsieur .
wat ' ry beams ; her whip , of cricket ' s bone ; the lash , of film ;
or do i dream ?
for the hire of their breath only !
o noble caesar !
we will meet ; and there we may rehearse most obscenely and courageously .
had i but serv ' d my god with half the zeal i serv ' d my king , he
o , what pity is it that he had not so trimm ' d and dress ' d his land
if i confess much , you will play the tyrant .
nay , but who is it ?
i have night ' s cloak to hide me from their sight ; and but thou love me , let
gazing .
not the world ' s mass of vanity could make me .
if once i find thee ranging , hortensio will be quit with thee by changing .
i take all and your several visitations so kind to heart ' tis not enough to give ; methinks i
florizel and autolycus exchange garments fortunate mistress- let my prophecy come home to ye !
, like to pitch , defile nobility , i banish her my bed and company and give her as a
wilt thou go along ?
thou art pinch ' d for ' t now , sebastian .
you shall judge .
in that last article .
let ' s hence and hear how the dispatch is made , and in what fashion , more than his
but he carries some stain of it ; he is melancholy without cause and merry against the hair ; he
swoons rather ; for so bad a prayer as his was never yet for sleep .
i will go tell him of fair hermia ' s flight ; then to the wood will he to-morrow night
there ' s half a dozen sweets .
you lie .
let me see the writing .
stand back , thou manifest conspirator , thou that contrived ' st to murder our dead lord ; thou that
brave troilus , the prince of chivalry !
battlements .
master , this prisoner freely give i thee ; and thou that art his mate make boot of this ;
or dive into the bottom of the deep , where fadom line could never touch the ground , and pluck
nay , i will do as my cousin shallow says ; i pray you pardon me ; he ' s
this is enough to be the decay of lust and late-walking through the realm .
for this relief much thanks .
youth in us ; we are the sons of women , master page .
well , he in time may come to clear himself ; but at this instant he is sick , my
to lie in watch there , and to think on him ?
what , will you murder me ?
hullo !
' s fool , reading the challenge , subscrib ' d for cupid and challeng ' d him at the
revenge ; nor no ill luck stirring but what lights o ' my shoulders ; no sighs but o '
call ' t not a plot .
that joy ; or in the night , imagining some fear , how easy is a bush suppos ' d
lead me to the revolts of england here .
may one be pardon ' d and retain th ' offence ?
arise , black vengeance , from thy hollow hell !
such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh .
' no man must know .
the gates made fast !
was ever book containing such vile matter so fairly bound ?
i think it is not meet mark antony , so well beloved of caesar , should outlive caesar .
no worse man than sir toby to look to me !
he can write and read and cast accompt .
let them not live to taste this land ' s increase that would with treason wound this fair land '
she ' ll not be hit with cupid ' s arrow .
i will about it straight ; no longer staying but to give the mother notice of my affair .
[to kent] you are o ' th ' commission , sit you too .
i would i had the power to say so to my husband .
exit alexas charmian .
he ' s speaking now , or murmuring ' where ' s my serpent of old nile ?
merchant , and the merchant , have just our theme of woe ; but for the miracle , i mean
wipe thine eyes .
in a fiery gulf than flatter him in a bower .
had i been any god of power , i would have sunk the sea within the earth or ere it
and his big manly voice , turning again toward childish treble , pipes and whistles in his sound .
now call we our high court of parliament ; and let us choose such limbs of noble counsel , that
the palace enter three or four petitioners , peter , the armourer ' s man , being one first petitioner
gloucester than from true evidence , of good esteem , he be approv ' d in practice culpable .
unmannerd dog !
i will cut his troat in de park ; and i will teach a scurvy jack-a-nape priest to meddle or
though the nature of our quarrel yet never brook ' d parle , know now , upon advice , it
great happiness !
i leave your honours .
all ' s one to him .
i ' ll tell you what , my cousin buckingham- buckingham .
power to dismiss itself .
what is this maid with whom thou wast at play ?
go in ; and tell my lady i am gone , having displeas ' d my father , to laurence
if ' twere not she , i cannot tell who told me .
his son imperial lord .
to cinna ; trust not trebonius ; mark well metellus cimber ; decius brutus loves thee not ; thou hast
make not , sir , your loss your sport .
neither , my lord .
would not this , sir , and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my fortunes turn turk with
heavy !
is no addition to her wit , nor no great argument of her folly , for i will be horribly
enter tamora alone , to the moor tamora .
-come , give me an instrument .
i have supp ' d full with horrors ; direness , familiar to my slaughterous thoughts , cannot once start
hark thee hither , mistress doll .
mark antony put me to some impatience .
when were you wont to be so full of songs , sirrah ?
turn thee benvolio !
d to death with melancholy .
ay , good my lord , and leave us to our fortune .
[aside] now , what a thing it is to be an ass !
this rest might yet have balm ' d thy broken senses , which , if convenience will not allow ,
a ring , stand round .
great pity , yet it is necessary .
under captain gower , my liege .
between the camps enter caesar and his army caesar .
god save the king !
come in , woman .
and those that leave their valiant bones in france , dying like men , though buried in your dunghills ,
no , not a syllable : i do pronounce him in that very shape he shall appear in proof .
there is no slander in an allow ' d fool , though he do nothing but rail ; nor no
many a wart is richer .
he looks well on ' t .
perchance he ' s hurt i ' th ' battle .
silence that fellow .
before the boar ' s head tavern , eastcheap enter corporal nym and lieutenant bardolph bardolph .
good lord , how you take it !
come , soldiers , show what cruelty ye can , that this my death may never be forgot- great men
' tis well blown , lads .
it were a better death than die with mocks , which is as bad as die with tickling .
park .
that you have wrong ' d me doth appear in this : you have condemn ' d and noted lucius
no , none that thou hast wit enough to make .
either there is a civil strife in heaven , or else the world too saucy with the gods incenses them
had been hither sent on the debating a marriage ' twixt the duke of orleans and our daughter mary .
mislike me not for my complexion , the shadowed livery of the burnish ' d sun , to whom i
notable pirate , thou salt-water thief !
i am near to th ' place where they should meet , if pisanio have mapp ' d it truly
a third of mine own life , or that for which i live ; who once again i tender to
by this leek , i will most horribly revenge- i eat and eat , i swear- fluellen .
but in the wind and tempest of her frown distinction , with a broad and powerful fan , puffing at
knowledge at the court of guard .
to plead for love deserves more fee than hate .
death is my son-in-law , death is my heir ; my daughter he hath wedded .
therefore be patient , take no note of him .
and live .
- no more a soldier .
these injuries the king now bears will be revenged home ; there ' s part of a power already footed
father , by your leave : will you with free and unconstrained soul give me this maid your daughter ?
enter salisbury welcome , my lord .
of quality and respect as doth import you .
speak , or thy silence on the instant is thy condemnation and thy death .
thou hast a lady far more beautiful than any woman in this waning age .
nay , take me with thee , good sweet exeter .
only to the plain form of marriage , and you shall recount their particular duties afterwards .
once be necessary , i ' ll not sleep neither .
let me love him for that ; and do you love him because i do .
we ' ll yoke together , like a double shadow to henry ' s body , and supply his place
lucentio is your name ?
[to lucentio] but do you hear , sir ?
- you houseless poverty- nay , get thee in .
o , thou thinkest to serve me last , that i may longest keep thy sorrow in my breast .
a day ' s work in him .
in thy tale .
to him and to his substitutes .
well- what benefactors are they ?
sword , hold thy temper ; heart , be wrathful still : priests pray for enemies , but princes kill
' tis not the trial of a woman ' s war , the bitter clamour of two eager tongues ,
you shall not find , though you be therein curious , the least cause for what you seem to fear
thou art a banish ' d man , and here art come before the expiration of thy time , in
enter edgar , armed , at the third sound , a trumpet before him .
see , noble charles , the beacon of our friend ; the burning torch in yonder turret stands .
you are both , i ' good truth , as rheumatic as two dry toasts ; you cannot one bear
well run , thisby .
you ' ll say they are persian attire ; but let them be chang ' d .
thou ' rt by no means valiant ; for thou dost fear the soft and tender fork of a poor
he that is well hang ' d in this world needs to fear no colours .
hither shall he come ; and he and i will watch thy waking , and that very night shall romeo
for me , and , to requite you further , i will bestow some precepts of this virgin , worthy
and how fare you ?
but canst thou guess that he doth aim at it ?
people , what is amiss in them , you gods , make suitable for destruction .
the prison enter duke , disguised as before , claudio , and provost duke .
, where they shall know our mind .
louder the music there !
though that the queen on special cause is here , her army is mov ' d on .
i say farewell .
do their gay vestments his affections bait ?
the french king ' s camp enter constance , arthur , and salisbury constance .
good margaret , stay .
nay , good my lord - ham .
well , the voice goes , madam ; for after the stout earl northumberland arrested him at york and brought
thy best of rest is sleep , and that thou oft provok ' st ; yet grossly fear ' st
be swift like lightning in the execution , and let thy blows , doubly redoubled , fall like amazing thunder
exit catesby i must be married to my brother ' s daughter , or else my kingdom stands on brittle
[draws] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, wherever they are gone , that youth is surely in their company .
there be some women , silvius , had they mark ' d him in parcels as i did , would
master brook , thou shalt know i will predominate over the peasant , and thou shalt lie with his wife
shall we go prove what ' s to be done ?
is he dead ?
beget a generation of still-breeding thoughts , and these same thoughts people this little world , in humours like the
y ' are very welcome .
my dearest madam , let not your hate encounter with my love , for loving where you do ; but
they love not poison that do poison need , nor do i thee .
you yourself know how easy is it to be such an offender .
why , there it goes !
but i see you have some religion in you , that you fear .
i will show myself highly fed and lowly taught .
devil or devil ' s dam , i ' ll conjure thee ; blood will i draw on thee-thou art
txt and now may seem as wise as virtuous by spying and avoiding fortune ' s malice , for few
i am that flower- dumain .
, or wring redress from you .
' tis not the difference of a year or two makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate : i
the fancy out-work nature .
i thank you , and will stay upon your leisure .
' t shall go hard but i will delve one yard below their mines and blow them at the moon
and for the proffer of my lord your master , i have inform ' d his highness so at large
exit simple quickly .
henceforth ne ' er look on me .
now will it best avail your majesty to cross the seas and to be crown ' d in france :
exeunt attendants i am afeard the life of helen , lady , was foully snatch ' d .
i thank you , general , but cannot make my heart consent to take a bribe to pay my sword
enter cleopatra enobarbus .
let proof speak .
till then i ' ll sweat and seek about for eases , and at that time bequeath you my diseases
is it honest in deed and word ?
enter a gentleman with a bloody knife .
grace grow where those drops fall !
txt he that a fool doth very wisely hit doth very foolishly , although he smart , not to seem
if thou ' lt bear a part , thou shalt hear ; ' tis in three parts .
if i had a thousand sons , the first humane principle i would teach them should be to forswear thin
give not me counsel , nor let no comforter delight mine ear but such a one whose wrongs do suit
i have in equal balance justly weigh ' d what wrongs our arms may do , what wrongs we suffer
noble king , and wet his grave with my repentant tears- i will with all expedient duty see you .
] and thy dear judgment out !
said i for this the girl was like to him !
come , york and richard , warwick and the rest ; i stabb ' d your fathers ' bosoms :
a serpent ' s tooth it is to have a thankless child !
indirectly to the jew ' s house .
i may truly say it is a novelty to the world .
your daughter-in-law had been alive at this hour , and your son here at home , more advanc ' d
, it would not seem too dear , howe ' er repented after .
is not my lord seen yet ?
say thou wilt course ; thy greyhounds are as swift as breathed stags ; ay , fleeter than the roe
pray ye , sir ?
ha , sir john , said i well ?
this hand of mine is yet a maiden and an innocent hand , not painted with the crimson spots of
sum he pays .
my father , poorly led ?
he that hath miss ' d the princess is a thing too bad for bad report ; and he that
have set their marks on him , and all their ministers attend on him .
my hair doth stand an end to hear her curses .
' ll do ' t .
give pardon to my speech .
england , bound in with the triumphant sea , whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege of wat '
and so they shall .
[they lay hands on york , who struggles] clifford .
another lord .
i mean the business is not ended , as fearing to hear of it hereafter .
drink , and pray for me , i pray you ; for i think i have taken my last draught
his skull , or paunch him with a stake , or cut his wezand with thy knife .
what should this be ?
for goodness ' sake , consider what you do ; how you may hurt yourself , ay , utterly grow
of what complexion ?
pucelle join ' d , a holy prophetess new risen up , is come with a great power to raise
mercutio , thou consortest with romeo .
such a one is a natural philosopher .
by heaven , she is a dainty one .
our watch , sir , have indeed comprehended two aspicious persons , and we would have them this morning examined
some men there are love not a gaping pig ; some that are mad if they behold a cat ;
lord cloten , upon my lady ' s missing , came to me with his sword drawn , foam '
i will bid thee draw , as we do the minstrel--draw to pleasure us .
it cannot hold ; no reason can sound his state in safety .
ah me !
no , sir .
art thou not asham ' d ?
, by my so potent art .
then troilus should have too much .
speak to th ' mariners ; fall to ' t yarely , or we run ourselves aground ; bestir ,
you do yourselves much wrong ; you bate too much of your own merits .
remaining now in gallia ?
well , let it not be doubted but he ' ll come , and in this shape .
i grant ; as there may between the lists and the velvet .
bawd ; he doth oftener ask forgiveness .
prospero .
] what , look you pale ?
gentleman , god save thee .
all ' s not offence that indiscretion finds and dotage terms so .
i am an ass , i am a woman ' s man , and besides myself .
go before such villains !
revel in the entrails of my lambs .
why , foolish boy , the king is left behind , and in my loyal bosom lies his power .
[aside] and make me die a good old man !
beyond all manner of so much i love you .
will you be married , motley ?
good day , sir .
faintness of my master ' s heart .
if thou dost as this instructs thee , thou dost make thy way to noble fortunes .
i will tell you ; if you ' ll bestow a small- of what you have little- patience awhile ,
ll leave him to the officer .
and yet , to satisfy this good old man , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
to me , blood-thirsty lord and for that cause i train ' d thee to my house .
, i will your very faithful feeder be , and buy it with your gold right suddenly .
i take my leave with many thousand thanks .
unto my mother ' s prayers i bend my knee .
i saw the wound , i saw it with mine eyes , (god save the mark !
and by thy guess how nigh is clarence now ?
hold , hold , my heart !
shall i vent to her that thou art coming ?
adieu , uncle .
then our office may during his power go sleep .
i play ' d the fool , it was my negligence , not weighing well the end ; if ever
[to lodovico and gratiano .
the gods defend her !
to the conflicting elements expos ' d , answer mere nature- bid them flatter thee .
it fell upon a little western flower , before milk-white , now purple with love ' s wound , and
[within] i what ho , my liege , for god ' s sake , let me in .
you are a friend , and therein the wiser .
of your person it would scarcely allay .
let me , if not by birth , have lands by wit ; all with me ' s meet that
well , i will arm me , being thus forewarn ' d .
now we never saw your face .
and when was he wont to wash his face ?
nor was ' t much thou wouldst have poison ' d good camillo ' s honour , to have him
o heaven , that such companions thou ' ldst unfold , and put in every honest hand a whip to
the revellers are ent ' ring , brother .
it is mine ancient .
wherefore do you come ?
o peace , paulina !
look upon my brother .
that hath abundance of charge too , god knows what .
come , come , you ' re drunk .
sound !
till either death hath clos ' d these eyes of mine or fortune given me measure of revenge .
and , partly , seeing you are beautified with goodly shape , and by your own report a linguist ,
that ' s not so good now .
render we no grace ; but while ' tis spoke each turn away her face .
fitzwater , thou art damn ' d to hell for this .
[he kills her] weeke weeke !
but that ' s all one ; they ' ll find linen enough on every hedge .
do good sometime accounted dangerous folly .
which when i saw rehears ' d , i must confess , made mine eyes water ; but more merry
false of heart , light of ear , bloody of hand ; hog in sloth , fox in stealth ,
an injury till it were full ripe .
with millstones .
tell valeria we are fit to bid her welcome .
[derby rises] but for my brother not a man would speak ; nor i , ungracious , speak unto myself
gold , silver , and base lead .
, proves valueless ; you are forsworn , forsworn ; you came in arms to spill mine enemies ' blood
your enemies and his find something in him .
sweet is the country , because full of riches ; the people liberal valiant , active , wealthy ; which
why , because you have been so lewd and so much engraffed to falstaff .
enter , on the walls , the mayor of york and his brethren mayor .
thou wert dignified enough , even to the point of envy , if ' twere made comparative for your virtues
varro !
thus the bowl should run , and not unluckily against the bias .
txt and then when poisoned hours had bound me up from mine own knowledge .
the french king ' s palace enter at one door , king henry , exeter , bedford , gloucester ,
strong necessities , but let determin ' d things to destiny hold unbewail ' d their way .
in prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage , and like a hermit overpass ' d thy days .
, was sleeping by a virgin hand disarmed .
master ford , her husband , will be from home .
exit maria .
txt say i will come .
touch ' d , they would not thread the gates .
the knave will stick by thee , i can assure thee that .
i ' ll crop to make a garland for my head .
believe ' t , my lord and i have made an end : i have no more to reckon ,
, burn him up ; let your close fire predominate his smoke , and be no turncoats .
how if , when i am laid into the tomb , i wake before the time that romeo come to
no , truly , not ; although , until last night , i have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow leon
conceit , more rich in matter than in words , brags of his substance , not of ornament .
the perdition of th ' athversary hath been very great , reasonable great ; marry , for my part ,
he will to his egyptian dish again ; then shall the sighs of octavia blow the fire up in caesar
four-and-twenty pound .
would not this ill do well ?
here ' s mine .
us twain .
and that is my petition , noble lord ; for though he seem with forged quaint conceit to set a
i ' ll ride home to-morrow , sir toby .
my lords can ye endure to hear this arrogance ?
' tis their fresh supplies .
three times to-day my foot-cloth horse did stumble , and started when he look ' d upon the tower ,
cassio .
the people when he shall stand for his place .
curan , a courtier .
and duncan ' s horses-a thing most strange and certain- beauteous and swift , the minions of their race ,
i will be with you , niece , by and by .
book both my wilfulness and errors down , and on just proof surmise , accumulate , bring me within the
who worship dirty gods .
march on , my fellows ; make good this ostentation , and you shall divide in all with us .
[aside] as much as an apple doth an oyster , and all one .
shepherd .
true , sir ; she was the wife of caius marcellus .
i beat him , and charg ' d him with a thousand marks in gold , and that i did
within my soul there doth conduce a fight of this strange nature , that a thing inseparate divides more wider
why ' heart ' s ease ' ' , pet .
in nothing am i chang ' d but in my garments .
know what they would .
i am answer ' d , sir .
and shall i stand , and thou sit in my throne ?
i fear thou art another counterfeit ; and yet , in faith , thou bearest thee like a king .
have it thus set down ; for you yourself , sir , should be old as i am if ,
enter antony , and scarus wounded scarus .
have your daughter to my wife , i ' ll leave her houses three or four as good within rich
what , sweeting , all amort ?
have you forgot me , sir ?
no , let me speak ; and let me rail so high that the false huswife fortune break her wheel
you shall see his fall to-night ; for indeed he is not for your lordship ' s respect .
what ' s your will , father ?
fear you not that : if we can make our peace upon such large terms and so absolute as our
king philip , determine what we shall do straight .
welcome , sir walter blunt , and would to god you were of our determination !
fault , and not my brother .
' the thrice three muses mourning for the death of learning , late deceas ' d in beggary .
they were given me by claudio ; he receiv ' d them of him that brought them .
o , ' tis true !
for me ; almost no grave allow ' d me .
right !
honour now or never !
they have made him drink alms-drink .
methinks no body should be sad but i ; yet , i remember , when i was in france ,
poor child is a prisoner .
re-enter cassio ; with him montano and gentlemen ; servants following with wine .
can oxford that did ever fence the right now buckler falsehood with a pedigree ?
ay , with a twink .
and to cut off all strife : here sit we down ; take you your instrument , play you the
here is a letter ; read it at your leisure ; it comes from padua , from bellario ; there
here i lay , and thus i bore my point .
they stumble that run fast .
an ' a be proud with me i ' ll pheeze his pride .
o monstrous arrogance !
two of my brother ' s men bound ?
throw my heart against the flint and hardness of my fault , which , being dried with grief , will
philario .
leave him to my displeasure .
there is gold for you ; sell me your good report .
how some men creep in skittish fortune ' s-hall , whiles others play the idiots in her eyes !
still pour in the waters of my love , and lack not to lose still .
my lord , a prize , a prize !
i beg but leave to air this jewel .
' greensleeves .
you say he din ' d at home : the goldsmith here denies that saying .
txt southampton .
for ever unvenerable be thy hands , if thou tak ' st up the princess by that forced baseness which
txt the remnant northward lying off from trent .
mortality .
love , lend me patience to forbear awhile .
wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods ?
be heedful ; hence , and watch .
write to me very shortly , and you shall understand from me her mind .
i should not thus be led along , mail ' d up in shame , with papers on my back
ye lie , hostess .
' tis very pregnant , the jewel that we find , we stoop and take ' t , because we
there is no better way than that they spoke of .
why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
we shall find this friar a notable fellow .
let it be cast , and paid .
pray you examine him upon that point .
i will tell you why .
thy lord , thersites .
thus yields the cedar to the axe ' s edge , whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle ,
after his death , of all he dies possess ' d of .
only but to raise up him .
] glamis , and thane of cawdor !
the general cause ?
wonder how his grace should glean it , since his addiction was to courses vain , his companies unletter '
advise the duke where you are going , to a most festinate preparation .
where ' s mounsieur mustardseed ?
so thou apprehend ' st it take it for thy labour .
a second daniel , a daniel , jew !
the day serves well for them now .
now , trust me , ' tis an office of great worth , and you an officer fit for the
what see you in those papers , that you lose so much complexion ?
give the world assurance of a man .
people , and in the power of us the tribunes , we , ev ' n from this instant ,
age , thou art shamed !
before the boar ' s head tavern enter pistol , hostess , nym , bardolph , and boy hostess .
no , i am no such thing ; i am a man as other men are .
women ' s gentle brain could not drop forth such giant-rude invention , such ethiope words , blacker in their
but woe is me !
odd posts ; and here , travel tainted as i am , have , in my pure and immaculate valour
[ariel plays the tune on a tabor and pipe] stephano .
the air bites shrewdly ; it is very cold .
i would not deny you ; but , by this good day , i yield upon great persuasion , and
astonish these fell-lurking curs .
collars of esses .
you are the singer .
robin .
' lack , good youth !
txt where heart doth hop .
the dragon wing of night o ' erspreads the earth and , stickler-like , the armies separates .
i am heinously unprovided .
but in that crystal scales let there be weigh ' d your lady ' s love against some other maid
let not thy discreet heart think it .
a nuncio ' s of more grave aspect .
, above him in birth , alike conversant in general services , and more remarkable in single oppositions .
look when he fawns , he bites ; and when he bites , his venom tooth will rankle to the
[juno descends in her car] approach , rich ceres , her to entertain .
welcome to paris .
o illiterate loiterer .
i never heard so musical a discord , such sweet thunder .
to tell he longs to see his son were strong ; but let him say so then , and let
txt helen , wife to menelaus andromache , wife to hector cassandra , daughter to priam , a prophetess cressida
o heavy burthen !
dost thou lie so low ?
every day thou daffest me with some device , iago ; and rather , as it seems to me now
my parts , my title , and my perfect soul shall manifest me rightly .
thou rememb ' rest since once i sat upon a promontory , and heard a mermaid on a dolphin '
plant some other in the throne to the disgrace and downfall of your house ; and in this resolution here
scene _num_ king john ' s palace enter king john , queen elinor , pembroke , essex , salisbury ,
and wherefore not ships ?
you shall have her , master brook ; master brook , you shall cuckold ford .
enter a groom of the stable groom .
yet , on my conscience , there are verier knaves desire to live , for all he be a roman
it ; and at the other door peter , his man , with a drum and sandbag , and prentices
he must die to-morrow .
appear unto our state , but to recover of us , by strong hand and terms compulsatory , those foresaid
dismiss your attendant there ; look it be done .
lord , how art thou chang ' d !
up from my cabin , my sea-gown scarf ' d about me , in the dark grop ' d i
d , told our intents before ; which once disclos ' d , the ladies did change favours ; and
shall wear the english crown and be true king indeed ; thou but the shadow .
he ' s married to octavia .
frequent been with unknown minds , and given to time your own dear-purchased right , page _num_ complete works of
as roses , whose fair flow ' r being once display ' d doth fall that very hour .
by gar , you are de coward , de jack dog , john ape .
he will do all in all as hastings doth .
if you be well pleas ' d with this , and hold your fortune for your bliss , turn to
thee nor knows thee !
a rotten carcass of a butt , not rigg ' d , nor tackle , sail , nor mast ;
god rest you merry , sir .
my liege , the wound that bred this meeting here cannot be cur ' d by words ; therefore be
is he not like thee ?
lord card ' nal , if thou think ' st on heaven ' s bliss , page _num_ complete works
[flourish] caesar .
therefore , lay bare your bosom .
this is trebonius .
that cannot choose but amaze him .
i will have this .
do thy worst ; this deed of thine is no more worthy heaven than thou wast worthy her .
you look ' d upon or hand of man hath done ; therefore i keep it lonely , apart .
my lord , you are unjust , and more than so : in wrongful quarrel you have slain your son
o lord , i cannot speak to him for weeping ; my tears will choke me , if i ope
a present to his lady .
crack a fusty nut with no kernel .
i pant for life .
i now profess myself the winner of her honour , together with your ring ; and not the wronger of
well , stand aside .
one more , one more ; be thus when thou art dead , and i will kill thee , and
that fire-drake did i hit three times on the head , and three times was his nose discharged against me
to bed ?
i ' ll tell thee what : thou ' rt damn ' d as black-nay , nothing is so black-
dreams are toys ; yet , for this once , yea , superstitiously , i will be squar ' d
you take my part from me , sir .
and will have no attorney but myself ; and therefore let me have him home with me .
do you doubt that ?
where is he wounded ?
marry , will i ; and you shall help to put him i ' th ' ground .
turn .
sirrah costard .
thou art preparing fire for us ; look thee , here ' s water to quench it .
then take him up , and manage well the jest : carry him gently to my fairest chamber , and
monsieur the challenger , the princess calls for you .
bedford brought in sick in a chair .
faints .
your physician , your most obedient counsellor ; yet that dares less appear so , in comforting your evils ,
ral excrement- each thing ' s a thief .
strain that haunted us in our familiar paths .
; those that do die of it do seldom or never recover .
" " " " williams , " " " " " nym , " " " " " bardolph ,
you have the honey still , but these the gall ; so to be valiant is no praise at all
a sailor ' s wife had chestnuts in her lap , and mounch ' d , and mounch ' d
beseech you , sir , remember since you ow ' d no more to time than i do now .
[the ladies-in-waiting mask] enter king , longaville , dumain , berowne , and attendants here comes navarre .
txt we ' ll leave a proof , by that which we will do , wives may be merry and
will turn your hidden worthiness into your eye that you might see your shadow .
folly , in wisdom hatch ' d , hath wisdom ' s warrant and the help of school , and
in the wars ; and that may you be bold to say in your foolery .
at a winter ' s fire , authorized by her grandam .
if thou hadst been born blind , thou mightst as well have known all our names as thus to name
roman , these three lead on this preparation whither ' tis bent .
_num_ tired with all these for restful death i cry , as to behold desert a beggar born , and
let me stand here till thou remember it .
she loves me ; consent with both that we may enjoy each other .
do not go forth today .
consider how it stands upon my credit .
have you a soul or sense ?
' his garments ' !
he is the bluntest wooer in christendom .
if you had won it , certainly you had .
i have seen him in france ; we had very many there could behold the sun with as firm eyes
i hope it is not so low with him as he made it seem in the trial of his several
re-enter marcius , bleeding , assaulted by the enemy first soldier .
sixteen at least , my lord .
you must not think that we are made of stuff so flat and dull that we can let our beard
nothing i ' ll bear from thee but nakedness , thou detestable town !
i know him not ; yet i wrong him to call him poor ; they say the jealous wittolly knave
ah , whither shall i fly to scape their hands ?
this it says : ' when from my finger you can get this ring , and are by me with
the feast is ready which the careful titus hath ordain ' d to an honourable end , for peace ,
an ' t please your grace , here my commission stays ; and sir john stanley is appointed now to
this will i do , and soon return again .
near the camp of cominius enter cominius , as it were in retire , with soldiers cominius .
and i do not- exit fabian .
a witch and straightway give thy soul to him thou serv ' st .
that you might excuse his broken promise , and to give this napkin , dy ' d in his blood
nay , but to live in the rank sweat of an enseamed bed , stew ' d in corruption ,
how now , sir proteus !
but if they will not , throw away that spirit , and i shall find you empty of that fault
then music is even as the flourish when true subjects bow to a new-crowned monarch ; such it is as
no ; master slender is let the boys leave to play .
a plague of all cowards , i say , and a vengeance too !
proud lord , thou liest .
bring him away ; mine ' s not an idle cause .
do not say ' banishment .
i ' ll buy him of you .
by heaven , thy madness shall be paid by weight till our scale turn the beam .
have lost it .
- sir , your most dear daughter- lear .
in courtesy , in all reason , we must stay the time .
here ' s such a coil !
why comes he not himself ?
] now begin ; for look where beatrice like a lapwing runs close by the ground , to hear our
therefore i will depart unkiss ' d .
niece , will you look to those things i told you of ?
the gods be good to us !
for my little cure , let me alone .
o , he sends you for a picture ?
' tis mad idolatry to make the service greater than the god-i and the will dotes that is attributive to
what , can the devil speak true ?
i take thee , rosalind , for wife .
o , i am yours , and all that i possess .
before shylock ' s house enter shylock and launcelot shylock .
convey them with safe conduct .
ah , that deceit should steal such gentle shape , and with a virtuous vizor hide deep vice !
come , let ' s be gone .
her ; thence , a prosperous south-wind friendly , we have cross ' d , to execute the charge my
a room of state in timon ' s house hautboys playing loud music .
if he say so , may his pernicious soul rot half a grain a day !
a braggart , a rogue , a villain , that fights by the book of arithmetic !
why , sir , cobble you .
lords , give us leave ; i ' ll try this widow ' s wit .
txt now let him speak ; ' tis charity to show .
a constant will to publish our daughters ' several dowers , that future strife may be prevented now .
have we no wine here ?
no life to ours !
there ' s for thy pains .
o , my pardon !
; the commons haply rise to save his life ; and yet we have but trivial argument , more than
let me lick thy shoe .
upon you .
but such as wink and will not use them .
had i so lavish of my presence been , so common-hackney ' d in the eyes of men , so
some certain treason .
and all of them that thus dishonour her .
yea , sir .
- company !
and me , my lord , grant me the combat too .
will give me .
item , sauce .
yet i must remember you , my lord , we were the first and dearest of your friends .
mere lees is left this vault to brag of .
scurvy jack-dog priest !
woe in remembrance of a shroud .
no , our suit is that you reconcile them : while the volsces may say ' this mercy we have
two dozen odd ; battles thrice six i have seen and heard of ; for your voices have done many
if she had been blest , she would never have loved the moor .
zounds , ye fat paunch , an ye call me coward , by the lord , i ' ll stab
to the selfsame tune and words .
and so am i for no woman .
o desdemon !
fairer life .
, when that mine eye is famished for a look , or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother
i every day expect an embassage from my redeemer to redeem me hence ; and more at peace my soul
all france will be replete with mirth and joy when they shall hear how we have play ' d the
mind so venomously that burning shame detains him from cordelia .
you know the character to be your brother ' s ?
to derby , hastings , buckingham ; and tell them ' tis the queen and her allies that stir the
with angel-like perfection , yet hath sir proteus , for that ' s his name , made use and fair
my babes were destin ' d to a fairer death , if grace had bless ' d thee with a
what is the matter , masters ?
home , i break , and you , my gentle creditors , lose .
glose ; more are men ' s ends mark ' d than their lives before .
lady , he finds the joys of heaven here on earth ; and if on earth he do not merit
what says your grace ?
, of slender reputation , put forth their sons to seek preferment out : some to the wars , to
argal , he that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life .
sees the body .
what the declin ' d is , he shall as soon read in the eyes of others as feel in
state ' s charge .
i have writ my name without the help of any hand at all .
re-enter falstaff falstaff .
ay , and much better blood than his or thine .
gentle offer of the perilous time .
then list to me .
well , let us see honest master page .
for i will touch thee but with reverent hands ; i kiss these fingers for eternal peace , and lay
opens the letter and reads .
i speak to thee plain soldier .
the man grows mad .
he hath no eyes , the dust hath blinded them .
of that , is that which it contains , and that is this , and this with thee remains .
sir , she is mortal ; but by immortal providence she ' s mine .
hark , greek : as much as i do cressid love , so much by weight hate i her diomed
enter salisbury salisbury .
and went : our soldiers ' , like the night-owl ' s lazy flight or like an idle thresher with
o , help me here !
who hath reliev ' d you ?
thy roman yoke ; but must my sons be slaughtered in the streets for valiant doings in their country '
i cannot read them now .
welcome , my lord ; welcome , dread queen ; welcome , ye warlike goths ; welcome , lucius ;
where have you been all this while ?
make me , that nothing have , with nothing griev ' d , and thou with all pleas ' d
are you companion to the count rousillon ?
enter a second messenger second messenger .
boblibindo chicurmurco .
passage through the flinty ribs of this hard world , my ragged prison walls ; and , for they cannot
as when the golden sun salutes the morn , and , having gilt the ocean with his beams , gallops
patroclus will give me anything for the intelligence of this whore ; the parrot will not do more for an
send after the duke , and appeal to him .
will you , fair sister , go with the princes or stay here with us ?
yet he would be king on ' t .
sooty bosom of such a thing as thou- to fear , not to delight .
i will not trust you , i ; nor longer stay in your curst company .
will not your honours bear me company ?
good friend , go to him , for by this light of heaven , i know not how i lost
i prithee , let thy wife attend on her , and bring them after in the best advantage .
; this land of such dear souls , this dear dear land , dear for her reputation through the world
] my lord , i take my leave .
in good truth , the poet makes a most excellent description of it : fortune is an excellent moral .
romeo opens the tomb .
txt thy flatterers ?
this island ' s mine , by sycorax my mother , which thou tak ' st from me .
re-enter dolabella dolabella .
compound sweet ; forgoing simple savour , pitiful thrivers in their gazing spent ?
sir , with all my heart .
art thou of blood and honour ?
the rugged pyrrhus , like th ' hyrcanian beast- ' ' tis not so ; it begins with pyrrhus :
txt that quicken even with blowing .
, darnel , and all the idle weeds that grow in our sustaining corn .
ha , ' tis he indeed .
goodly things as you !
saying ' cousin toby , my fortunes having cast me on your niece give me this prerogative of speech '
trifles , and return again , as from a voyage , rich with merchandise .
what would you undertake to show yourself your father ' s son in deed more than in words ?
' feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods .
never harm nor spell nor charm come our lovely lady nigh .
, your bounty , virtue , fair humility ; indeed , left nothing fitting for your purpose untouch ' d
expire before their fashions .
when last the young orlando parted from you , he left a promise to return again within an hour ;
you will catch cold , and curse me .
when i am alone , why , then i am tranio ; but in all places else your master lucentio
lick the sweet which is their poison .
why , now thou hast thy wish ; wouldst have me weep ?
if well , he stepp ' d before me , happily , for my example .
that would be ten days ' wonder at the least .
your pardon for too much loving you .
it ; makes it apprehensive , quick , forgetive , full of nimble , fiery , and delectable shapes ;
why , so you are , my thrice-renowned lord .
, with sir john in it , and make you merry with fair katherine of france ; where , for
we ' ll wait upon your grace till after supper , and afterward determine our proceedings .
, taken sir john colville of the dale , a most furious knight and valorous enemy .
if it be confessed , it is not redressed ; is not that so , master page ?
i may chance have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me because i have railed so long
the spirit that i have seen may be a devil ; and the devil hath power t ' assume a
page .
all things , stay for me .
but come in ; let me commend thee first to those that shall say yea to thy desires .
is not thy master with him ?
how should i bestow him ?
more than to us page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the daughter of a king , our wife , and one of us too much belov ' d .
i will speak to thee .
a kind of conquest caesar made here ; but made not here his brag of ' came , and saw
could i find out the woman ' s part in me !
fourth henry , prince of wales , afterwards henry prince john of lancaster prince humphrey of gloucester thomas , duke
we ' ll have a speech straight .
in honour he requir ' d ; with such a kind of love as might become a lady like me
txt the air , i am one that am nourish ' d by my victuals , and would fain have
i ' ll not believe ' t .
txt it that says i love not you .
what to sorrow for .
i ' ll dive into the burning lake below and pull her out of acheron by the heels .
can you cut off a man ' s head ?
think but upon the wrong he did us all , and that will quickly dry thy melting tears .
faith , nothing but an empty box , sir , which in my lord ' s behalf i come to
urge it thou .
by his authority he remains here , which he thinks is a patent for his sauciness ; and indeed he
pox on ' t , i ' ll not meddle with him .
it will not let you eat , nor talk , nor sleep , and , could it work so much
while one with moderate haste might tell a hundred .
ay , and glad we ' scap ' d so well .
small curs are not regarded when they grin , but great men tremble when the lion roars , and humphrey
this child was prisoner to the womb , and is by law and process of great nature thence freed and
enter sir andrew aguecheek .
[embracing him] posthumus .
what i think i utter , and spend my malice in my breath .
world .
even he , your wife , this lady , and myself , are suitors to you .
what mean , your graces ?
you ever-gentle gods , take my breath from me ; let not my worser spirit tempt me again to die
exit [edgar] .
what has he sent ?
the packet , cromwell , gave ' t you the king ?
portotartarossa .
that i may not be so , nor thou belied , bear thine eyes straight , though thy proud heart
by nursing them , my lord .
executed .
you shall no more be stomachers to my heart .
how now , my hardy stout resolved mates !
my lord , you do discomfort all the host .
i ' ll be sworn they are true .
fulvia thy wife first came into the field .
and i ' ll swear to the prince thou art a tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt
exit enter valentine duke .
in time win upon power and throw forth greater themes for insurrection ' s arguing .
[reads] ' so it is ' - costard .
thy master now lies thinking on his bed of thee and me , and sighs , and takes my glove
no want of conscience hold it that i call , her love , for whose dear love i rise and
it is a thing i made , which hath the king five times redeem ' d from death .
claudio !
i ' ll put it to the issue .
give me an egg , nuncle , and i ' ll give thee two crowns .
half-blooded fellow , yes .
that ' s i , an ' t like your grace .
me , complexions that lik ' d me , and breaths that i defied not ; and , i am
of lancaster - uncle to the king edmund langley , duke of york - uncle to the king henry ,
a man that all his time hath founded his good fortunes on your love , shared dangers with you- othello
yea , but a little charge will trench him here and on this north side win this cape of land
as long as heaven and nature lengthens it .
i ' ll hear no more .
is not angiers lost ?
such war of white and red within her cheeks !
] knock , knock !
if we and caius marcius chance to meet , ' tis sworn between us we shall ever strike till one
the forest enter rosalind and celia rosalind .
somewhither would she have thee go with her .
sooth , la , i ' ll help .
i have sold all my trumpery ; not a counterfeit stone , not a ribbon , glass , pomander ,
these are the whole contents ; and , good my lord , by that you love the dearest in this
o , belike it is the bishop of carlisle .
hilloa , loa !
let him look to his bond .
here breathless lies the king .
how sweet a plant have you untimely cropp ' d !
god , and not we , hath safely fought to-day .
[aside] and me , when he approacheth to your presence .
what is ' t thou canst demand ?
meet him .
had worn it out .
why , how dost thou , man ?
txt serving-men , younger sons to younger brothers , revolted tapsters , and ostlers trade-fall ' n ; the cankers
and he first took exceptions at this badge , pronouncing that the paleness of this flower bewray ' d the
the fleeces that i graze .
office , is the point of my petition .
the thicket is beset ; he cannot ' scape .
' clown .
" who ' s within ?
this candle burns not clear .
indeed , la , without an oath , i ' ll make an end on ' t !
would make the world away : let those whom nature hath not made for store , page _num_ complete works
remainder of a dear account since last i went to france to fetch his queen : now swallow down that
wilt thou be lord of the whole world ?
gallows and knock are too powerful on the highway ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
antipholus ofephesus .
legions are by antony .
good gentlemen , give him a further edge and drive his purpose on to these delights .
heads , and they have bought out their services ; and now my whole charge consists of ancients , corporals
who is within there ?
my master knows not of your being here , and hath threat ' ned to put me into everlasting liberty
now does he feel his secret murthers sticking on his hands , now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach ; those
heaviness , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
ay , hal .
well , if i be serv ' d such another trick , i ' ll have my brains ta '
slice , i say !
the inner court of the count ' s palace enter clown and parolles parolles .
why , she defies me , like turk to christian .
by heaven , thou shalt rule no more o ' er him whom heaven created for thy ruler .
and does not toby take you a blow o ' the lips then ?
hath not a jew eyes ?
every offence is not a hate at first .
thy frank election make ; thou hast power to choose , and they none to forsake .
the other did not so .
whether your grace be worthy , yea or no , dispute not that ; york is the worthier .
' s that to me ?
cade .
rush on his host as doth the melted snow upon the valleys , whose low vassal seat the alps doth
france hath in thee found out a nest of hollow bosoms , which he fills with treacherous crowns ; and
wilt thou know th ' effect of what i wrote ?
i will not meet with you to-morrow night .
i will go meet them ; and , my lord aeneas , we met by chance ; you did not
in this the antique and well-noted face of plain old form is much disfigured ; and like a shifted wind
what , thyself ?
' they fly , leaving their clothes behind soldier .
away , i say ; i charge ye bear her hence .
alas , he faints !
i last that knows it ?
o that our night of woe might have remembered my deepest sense , how hard true sorrow hits , and
, and ceremony of it .
[aside] i do not like her .
if antony be free and healthful- why so tart a favour to trumpet such good tidings ?
if he should do so , he leaves his back unarm ' d , the french and welsh baying at
every man has his fault , and honesty is his .
o lord , sir , they would know whether the three worthies shall come in or no ?
virtue itself turns vice , being misapplied , and vice sometime ' s by action dignified .
this field achiev ' d and city , we render you the tenth ; to be ta ' en forth
commend me to his grace ; and if he speak of buckingham , pray tell him you met him half
her to be my motive and helper to a husband .
tubal .
you minion , you , are these your customers ?
' tis thereabouts ; for , to yourself , what you do know , you must , and cannot say
a plague upon them !
, that shall be scoured in his rancorous heart that slanders me with murder ' s crimson badge .
the duke that here was at the wrestling ?
wherefore base ?
softly , my masters !
think , and die .
find in my heart that i had not a hard heart , for truly i love none .
i should take possession of the bride , end ere i do begin .
look how we labour .
sir , the contempts thereof are as touching me .
come , come , you have been too rough , something too rough ; page _num_ complete works of william
pompey , good night .
' tis time i were chok ' d with a piece of toasted cheese .
upon my knees , what doth your speech import ?
how yet resolves the governor of the town ?
draw , benvolio ; beat down their weapons .
to thy sound .
make misfortune live ?
your native coast .
art thou a churchman ?
spend a sad and bloody hour ; as by discharge of their artillery and shape of likelihood the news was
thy sister ' s sister .
shall prefer and undertake my troth .
to him i am near at home , and that , by great injunctions , i am bound to enter
this to be true i do engage my life .
and therefore is he idle ?
play fast and loose with faith ?
i prithee vent thy folly somewhere else .
green boy shall have no sun to ripe the bloom that promiseth a mighty fruit .
but as well ?
am willing to keep in ; therefore it charges me in manners the rather to express myself .
thou hast kill ' d my child .
a bawd of eleven years ' continuance , may it please your honour .
fight it out .
now the devil- imogen .
macbeth shall never vanquish ' d be until great birnam wood to high dunsinane hill shall come against him .
, his honour and the greatness of his name shall be , and make new nations ; he shall flourish
the sea-coast enter antigonus with the child , and a mariner antigonus .
well , good night .
my wrath shall far exceed the love i ever bore my daughter or thyself .
how needless was it then to ask the question !
did you say with cassio ?
txt enjoys it ; but in gross brain little wots what watch the king keeps to maintain the peace whose
observe , observe , he ' s moody .
; but where unbruised youth with unstuff ' d brain doth couch his limbs , there golden sleep doth reign
we john cade , so term ' d of our supposed father- dick .
well , an you be not turn ' d turk , there ' s no more sailing by the star
is this the man you speak of ?
rome ' s imperious lord ; receive them then , the tribute that i owe , mine honour ' s
well , thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off me : scurvy , old , filthy , scurvy
two props of virtue for a christian prince , to stay him from the fall of vanity ; and ,
i am stuff ' d , cousin ; i cannot smell .
but o poor gloucester !
exeunt [all but juliet and nurse] .
mercury , lose all the serpentine craft of thy caduceus , if ye take not that little little less-than-little wit
all happiness unto my lord the king !
then speak again-not all thy former tale , but this one word , whether thy tale be true .
it is the shameful work of hubert ' s hand ; the practice and the purpose of the king ;
' moth .
d dotant as you seem to be ?
is this true , pistol ?
i am none of these , my lord ; i beseech your pardon .
say again , where didst thou leave these varlets ?
to poison my friend polixenes ; which had been done but that the good mind of camillo tardied my swift
still live they , and for ever let them last !
if then thou be son to me , here lies the point : why , being son to me ,
choughs and rooks brought forth the secret ' st man of blood .
thou art perjur ' d too , and sooth ' st up greatness .
hell is murky .
pray you , sit down ; for now we sit to chat as well as eat .
this fault in us i find , the error of our eye directs our mind .
nay , in all confidence , he ' s not for rhodes .
my lord , ' tis nothing .
these lovers into your favor .
or had you tongues to cry against the rectorship of judgment ?
same two gaolers queen , wife to cymbeline imogen , daughter to cymbeline by a former queen helen , a
mark ' d you not how that the guilty kindred of the queen look ' d pale when they did
why have you left the chamber ?
snatching .
; and ' a would about and about , and come you in and come you in .
you shall have-an fool ' s-head of your own .
no , boy , not so ; i ' ll teach thee another course .
the evil that men do lives after them , the good is oft interred with their bones ; so let
rhyme .
who knocks so loud at door ?
txt with bran and water .
; i ' ll answer the coinage .
neither a borrower nor a lender be ; for loan oft loses both itself and friend , and borrowing dulls
o lady , weep no more , lest i give cause to be suspected of more tenderness than doth become
and a rich fellow enough , go to !
to make a recordation to my soul of every syllable that here was spoke .
the hours come back !
another part of the forest enter amiens , jaques , and others song amiens .
-odours savours sweet ; so hath thy breath , my dearest thisby dear .
but whatsoever i have merited , either in my mind or in my means , meed , i am sure
let king cophetua know the truth thereof .
come , shall i make you two friends ?
alas , sir , are you here ?
txt bassanio .
will you give thanks , sweet kate , or else shall i ?
the taverns , and asking every one for sir john falstaff .
heat me these irons hot ; and look thou stand within the arras .
come , i have learn ' d that fearful commenting is leaden servitor to dull delay ; delay leads impotent
my arm is sore ; best play with mardian .
shall i go win my daughter to thy will ?
he on the ground , my speech of insultment ended on his dead body , and when my lust hath
if you poison us , do we not die ?
well said , master parson .
dost pay .
txt the end <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world
i thought he slept , and put my clouted brogues from off my feet , whose rudeness answer ' d
wrong thee ?
tied .
txt our dreadful marches to delightful measures .
what , shall we be merry ?
your reason .
i never hurt you .
[to ferdinand] follow me .
thy lover , artemidorus .
look , what i will not , that i cannot do .
watch to-night , pray to-morrow .
commonwealth affairs .
three or four wenches where i stood cried , " alas , good soul !
o ' er , i ' ll weep and sigh ; and leaving so his service , follow you ,
york is too far gone with grief , or else he never would compare between- king richard .
here clarence comes .
txt only , in this disguise , i think ' t no sin to cozen him that would unjustly win
thanks , dear my lord .
[aside] must thou needs stand for a villain in thine own work ?
o , may such purple tears be always shed from those that wish the downfall of our house !
th ' hast spoken right ; ' tis true .
vanity , having vainly fear ' d too little .
there is nothing but roguery to be found in villanous man .
what dost thou with thy best apparel on ?
and now be it known to you my full intent : not far , one muliteus , my countryman- his
well said , master silence .
i ' ll put another question to thee .
what eve , what serpent , hath suggested the to make a second fall of cursed man ?
exeunt [don pedro , claudio , and leonato] .
on tuesday last a falcon towering in her pride of place was by a mousing owl hawk ' d at
either renew the fight or tear the lions out of england ' s coat ; renounce your soil , give
at home ; the emperor ' s coming in behalf of france to order peace between them ; and omit
she hath no tongue to call , nor hands to wash ; and so let ' s leave her to
an ague .
most welcome home !
in hope it shall not , most freely i confess myself and toby set this device against malvolio here ,
so he had need , for ' tis threadbare .
ransom he will give you two hundred crowns .
they are fairly welcome .
good then , casca .
what is the matter , that being pass ' d for consul with full voice , i am so dishonour
so part we sadly in this troublous world , to meet with joy in sweet jerusalem .
look thou but sweet , and i am proof against their enmity .
were you the doctor , and i knew you not ?
- daffodils , that come before the swallow dares , and take the winds of march with beauty ; violets
let me cut the cable ; and when we are put off , fall to their throats .
the same , my lord , and your poor servant ever .
chosen for the prince ' s watch .
traffic through the world , vincentio , come of the bentivolii ; vincentio ' s son , brought up in
i am a rogue if i drunk to-day .
reasons .
i thank you ; you shall hear from me anon ; go not away .
me thus with his speechless hand .
in what ?
i ' ll starve ere i ' ll rob a foot further .
my brother , are you so fond of your young prince as we do seem to be of ours ?
friend or enemy .
i had rather , forsooth , go before you like a man than follow him like a dwarf .
look i so pale , lord dorset , as the rest ?
the officers .
appear , that love is merchandized , whose rich esteeming , the owner ' s tongue doth publish every where
, and then , from hour to hour , we rot and rot ; and thereby hangs a tale .
' d the lives of those that he did lead to fight against that great magician , damn ' d
' s fortune to have her or no .
an your ladyship will have it as it ought to be , you must allow vox .
lest rest and lying still might make them look too near unto my state .
, resign ' d the crown to henry the fourth , whose heir my father was , and i am
exit lysander .
granted less , aufidius ?
let ' s speak to him .
o blessed breeding sun , draw from the earth rotten humidity ; below thy sister ' s orb infect the
i beseech you pardon me , my lord , if i be mistaken ; for my duty cannot be silent
txt lord , how it looks about !
of speaking first .
when i was young , as yet i am not old , i do remember how my father said a
time , with his fairer hand , offering the fortunes of his former days , the former man may make
if i put any tricks upon ' em , sir , they shall be jades ' tricks , which are
and the french king charles , for eighteen months concluded by consent .
our men .
your town , being no further enemy to you than the constraint of hospitable zeal in the relief of this
your lordship is right welcome back to denmark .
to be on the worst side , were it worse than the name of rebellion can tell how to make
nay , ladies , fear not : by all the laws of war y ' are privileg ' d .
peace be amongst them , if they turn to us ; else ruin combat with their palaces !
nominate tender .
see , caesar !
kinsman .
how do you , women ?
welcome home , grumio !
among them know you one vincentio ?
and many fly to him .
show me a murderer , i ' ll deal with him .
my lord the king , the king !
o , yes , i heard them all , and more too ; for some of them had in them
o , do de , do de , do de .
no , god ' s my judge , the clerk will ne ' er wear hair on ' s face
the demi-atlas of this earth , the arm and burgonet of men .
now this ill-wresting world is grown so bad , mad slanderers by mad ears believed be .
in my mind ' s eye , horatio .
what pledge will please him best .
oft , how long ago , and when he hath and is again to cope your wife .
then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair .
' tis aufidius , who , hearing of our marcius ' banishment , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
, shake he his weapon at us and pass by .
i need no more weight than mine own bowels .
thrice he walk ' d by their oppress ' d and fear-surprised eyes , within his truncheon ' s length
andromache .
he ' s gone into smithfield to buy your worship horse .
no , none by me .
they are not near my conscience ; their defeat does by their own insinuation grow .
go you and maintain talk with the duke , that my charity be not of him perceived .
e ' en as apemantus does now : hate a lord with my heart .
you might do much .
sebastian is thy name ?
[aside to the secretary] a word with you .
' s an end .
thy head , had grac ' d the tender temples of my child ; and both the princes had been
then fiery expedition be my wing , jove ' s mercury , and herald for a king !
ah , tutor , look where bloody clifford comes !
txt this boy , that cannot tell what he would have but kneels and holds up hands for fellowship ,
to foot us .
have i a tongue to doom my brother ' s death , and shall that tongue give pardon to a
is this well spoken ?
should i have wish ' d a thing , it had been he .
peace , chewet , peace !
proclaim a pardon to the soldiers fled that in submission will return to us .
they look into the beauty of thy mind , and that in guess they measure by thy deeds , then
before orleans here an alarum again , and talbot pursueth the dauphin and driveth him .
here is the guess of their true strength and forces by diligent discovery ; but your haste is now urg
jaquenetta , a country wench lords , attendants , etc .
the cross blue lightning seem ' d to open the breast of heaven , i did present myself even in
is supper ready , the house trimm ' d , rushes strew ' d , cobwebs swept , the serving-men
your brother cannot live .
lords , ladies , officers , soldiers , sailors , messengers , attendants .
] come what come may , time and the hour runs through the roughest day .
tell you- but let it be .
however god or fortune cast my lot , there lives or dies , true to king richard ' s throne
nay , like enough , for i stay dinner there .
i am lost in it , my lord .
may be the amorous count solicits her in the unlawful purpose .
we ' ll tip thy horns with gold , and all europa shall rejoice at thee , as once europa
you , madam , shall with us .
and you , my noble prince , with other princes that may best be spar ' d , shall wait
enter the bastard and peter of pomfret now !
be not afraid that i your hand should take ; i ' ll never do you wrong for your own
fire , sometimes plue and sometimes red ; but his nose is executed and his fire ' s out .
the temple garden enter the earls of somerset , suffolk , and warwick ; richard plantagenet , vernon , and
no , i warrant your grace , you shall not entreat him to a second , that have so mightily
enter two vergers , with short silver wands ; next them , two scribes , in the habit of doctors
o bloody times !
you have some stain of soldier in you ; let me ask you a question .
upon them shall the causes of their death appear , unto our shame perpetual .
a trembling contribution !
these eyes , like lamps whose wasting oil is spent , wax dim , as drawing to their exigent ;
in what , my dear lord ?
nor shall proud lancaster usurp my right , nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist , nor wear the
my lord , we must entreat the time alone .
' ll give thee leave to play till doomsday .
valiant i am .
faith , ' twas strange , ' twas passing strange ; ' twas pitiful , ' twas wondrous pitiful .
hark how the villain would close now , after his treasonable abuses !
debatement , my sisterly remorse confutes mine honour , and i did yield to him .
thy pains , fitzwater , shall not be forgot ; right noble is thy merit , well i wot .
is at our pleasure to fail ; and then will they adventure upon the exploit themselves ; which they shall
then , forester , my friend , where is the bush that we must stand and play the murderer in
if any where i have them , ' tis by the sea-side , browsing of ivy .
there may be matter in it .
follow the knave , and take this drab away .
greyhound in the leash , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' tis time to give ' em physic , their diseases are grown so catching .
no , faith , is ' t not , kate ; but thy speaking of my tongue , and i
are fair .
i would these garments were come .
what , to hide me from the radiant sun and solace i ' th ' dungeon by a snuff ?
you come in faint for want of meat , depart reeling with too much drink ; sorry that you have
which of you all will now deny to dance ?
' sblood , i ' ll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot again for all the coin in
there ' s an old woman , a fat woman , gone up into his chamber ; i ' ll
call forth an officer .
-come , draw this curtain and let ' s see your picture .
so they must , or do your honour injury .
and dissolutely .
no doubt , my lord .
exeunt troilus , aeneas .
bid my lieutenant peto meet me at town ' s end .
less , out of the great respect they bear to beauty , but leave their flocks and , under your
do you withdraw yourself a little while , he will recover straight .
gift , and yet enrich ' d it too .
txt but not till i am dead .
what did you enact ?
inform ' d them ?
if yet your gentle souls fly in the air and be not fix ' d in doom perpetual , hover
she knapp ' d ' em o ' th ' coxcombs with a stick and cried ' down , wantons
i would to god thou and i knew where a commodity of good names were to be bought .
c ' est assez pour une fois : allons-nous a diner .
fourth citizen .
, having been supple and courteous to the people , bonneted , without any further deed to have them at
model to thy inward greatness , like little body with a mighty heart , what mightst thou do that honour
he spake of her as dian had hot dreams and she alone were cold ; whereat i , wretch ,
well , sweet jack , have a care of thyself .
go fetch him hither ; let me look upon him .
rest !
go to ; perchance some single vantages you took when my indisposition put you back , and that unaptness made
mark antony , here , take you caesar ' s body .
but value dwells not in particular will : it holds his estimate and dignity as well wherein ' tis precious
; thou hast me , if thou hast me , at the worst ; and thou shalt wear me ,
your answer , sir , is enigmatical ; but , for my will , my will is , your good
stay , gentle margaret , and hear me speak .
' cymbeline .
he kneels .
a great deal of discoveries ; but when you find him out , you have him ever after .
an hundred thousand crowns than bolingbroke ' s return to england ; adding withal , how blest this land would
, did sit alone , whistling to th ' air ; which , but for vacancy , page _num_ complete
saint dennis to saint cupid !
exeunt [all but montague , his wife , and benvolio] .
' ' tis not alone my inky cloak , good mother , nor customary suits of solemn black , nor
good angels keep it from us !
complain unto the duke of this indignity .
take thy lute , wench .
ay , sir , all this is so .
if i do lose thee , i do lose a thing that none but fools would keep .
or how ?
since what i am to say must be but that which contradicts my accusation , and the testimony on my
then at my suit look graciously on him ; lose not so noble a friend on vain suppose , nor
if henry were recall ' d to life again , these news would cause him once more yield the ghost
[sound still with the shouts] sicinius .
go ; and we ' ll have a posset for ' t soon at night , in faith , at
marcus , attend him in his ecstasy , that hath more scars of sorrow in his heart than foemen '
conference , as he hath used of old .
conjure him .
leave me , i say .
wherefore blush you now ?
the power of caesar , and his power unto octavia .
but , gentle lady anne , to leave this keen encounter of our wits , and fall something into a
what with me ?
, and a whole book full of these quondam carpet-mongers , whose names yet run smoothly in the even road
then shall he mourn (if ever love had interest in his liver) and wish he had not so accused her--
txt look , here comes a lover of mine , and a lover of hers .
speak , sir !
and i with all unwillingness will go .
why , man , i saw bassanio under sail ; with him is gratiano gone along ; and in their
nor i , by pluto ; but that that likes not you pleases me best .
this object kills me .
nay , my lords , ceremony was but devis ' d at first to set a gloss on faint deeds
crystal eyes) but the defendant doth that plea deny , and says in him thy fair appearance lies .
good my lord , how does your honour for this many a day ?
with many holiday and lady terms he questioned me , amongst the rest demanded my prisoners in your majesty '
let fancy still my sense in lethe steep ; if it be thus to dream , still let me sleep
your fellow tranio here , to save my life , puts my apparel and my count ' nance on ,
give us .
be ' t their comfort we are coming thither .
this man so complete , who was enroll ' d ' mongst wonders , and when we , almost with
to whom i will retail my conquest won , and she shall be sole victoress , caesar ' s caesar
wherefore write you not what monsters her accuse ?
own will shall have desire to drink .
where did you buy it ?
i have long lov ' d her , and , i protest to you , bestowed much on her ;
badly , i fear .
from isidore : he humbly prays your speedy payment- caphis .
and , to kill the marvel , shall be so ever .
that judge hath made me guardian to this boy , under whose warrant i impeach thy wrong , and by
john lays you plots ; the times conspire with you ; for he that steeps his safety in true blood
look , he has spied us .
hang nothing but a calf ' s-skin , most sweet lout .
why , so can i , or so can any man ; but will they come when you do call
love thyself last ; cherish those hearts that hate thee ; corruption wins not more than honesty .
, disguising what they are .
question your grace the late ambassadors with what great state he heard their embassy , how well supplied with noble
marry , i saw your niece do more favours to the count ' s servingman than ever she bestow '
o short-liv ' d pride !
enter caliban caliban .
he would not suffer me to bring him to the haven ; left these notes of what commands i should
take him aside .
' d to their gates .
my mother greets me kindly ; is she well ?
soil perhaps to my behaviors ; but let not therefore my good friends be grieved- among which number , cassius
what , cardinal , is your priesthood grown peremptory ?
i ' faith , that we will ; and i will tell your worship more of the wart the next
lies before ' em .
pray be counsell ' d ; i have a heart as little apt as yours , but yet a brain
they ravish ' d her , and cut away her tongue ; and they , ' twas they , that
here ' s the smell of the blood still .
the forest is not three leagues off ; if we recover that , we are sure enough .
and , by my soul , this pale and angry rose , as cognizance of my blood-drinking hate , will
spirits , which by mine art i have from their confines call ' d to enact my present fancies .
what , a feast , a feast ?
thy self out-going in thy noon : unlooked on diest unless thou get a son .
o that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill !
re-enter posthumus , and seconds the britons ; they rescue cymbeline , and exeunt .
thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown when thou gav ' st thy golden one away .
i have no other but a woman ' s reason : i think him so , because i think him
[to the page] .
s revenue .
swearing by his honour , for he never had any ; or if he had , he had sworn it
o dear father , it is thy business that i go about .
exit servant .
thou wert accus ' d by the ass .
canst thou blame him ?
beloved of me- and that my deeds shall prove .
too bitter is thy jest .
what have i done that thou dar ' st wag thy tongue in noise so rude against me ?
' twill be deliver ' d back on good condition .
than nature was ever conduct of .
you are merry , so am i ; ha !
enter troilus how now , young man !
amends to his posterity , at our importance hither is he come to spread his colours , boy , in
tell me , andronicus , doth this motion please thee ?
; but if we haply scape- as well we may , if not through your neglect- we shall to london
sigh to th ' winds , whose pity , sighing back again , did us but loving wrong .
o griffith , sick to death !
come , my sweet wife , my dearest mother , and my friends of noble touch ; when i am
had i it written , i would tear the word .
[aside] the late queen ' s gentlewoman , a knight ' s daughter , to be her mistress ' mistress
where bide ?
why , that ' s ' noddy .
the bow is bent and drawn ; make from the shaft .
a noble boy !
to consent .
hear , me , my lord .
and truly not the morning sun of heaven better becomes the grey cheeks of the east , nor that full
exeunt orlando and adam oliver .
though valour becomes thee well enough .
shallow ' s orchard enter falstaff , shallow , silence , bardolph , the page , and davy shallow .
is yonder the man ?
i ' ll hence to london on a serious matter ; ere ye come there , be sure to hear
and therewithal the best ; or let her beauty look through a casement to allure false hearts , and be
one man .
why , i must die ; and if i do not by thy hand , thou art no servant of
yonder is a most reverend gentleman , who , belike having received wrong by some person , is at most
widow .
let me the curtains draw .
well said , my lord .
i will say of it it tutors nature .
hear the noble antony .
well , of sufferance comes ease .
i rather think you have not sought her help , of whose soft grace for the like loss i have
enter sir john falstaff , bardolph , nym , and pistol falstaff .
now were not i a little pot and soon hot , my very lips might freeze to my teeth ,
to be whipt .
i tell you , madam , were the whole frame here , it is of such a spacious lofty pitch
o , be thou my charon , and give me swift transportance to these fields where i may wallow in
we shall , noble captain .
or i , i promise thee .
, and ' tis not convenient you should be cozened .
, sweet flattery , then she loves but me alone .
argus were her eunuch and her guard .
thy element ' s below !
' tis strange , my theseus , that these lovers speak of .
beloved of valentine lucetta , waiting-woman to julia servants musicians <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare
you should have said that as his worthy deeds did claim no less than what he stood for , so
thou shalt not live to brag what we have offer ' d .
smell out , ' a may spy into .
breaker of proverbs .
you have deserved nobly of your country , and you have not deserved nobly .
any man that can write may answer a letter .
ay , and hector ' s a greyhound .
like enough ; and thy father ' s shadow .
but that thy face is visard-like , unchanging , made impudent with use of evil deeds , i would assay
why should calamity be fun of words ?
' anon he finds him , striking too short at greeks .
as our roman actors do , with untired spirits and formal constancy .
' tis not so much worth ; but i hope i was perfect .
another part of the forest enter the empress ' sons , demetrius and chiron , with lavinia , her hands
o , what cause have i- thine being but a moiety of my moan- to overgo thy woes and drown
them flying .
and shins .
his judgment with the disposition of natures .
am i that name , iago ?
txt yet , for your part , it not appears to me , either from the king or in the
to call myself !
o , yes , and went between us very oft .
and we here dispatch you , good cornelius , and you , voltemand , for bearers of this greeting to
alas , it is my vice , my fault !
loathed part of nature should burn itself out .
re-enter orlando with adam duke senior .
indeed , my lord , it is a most absolute and excellent horse .
but what is this ?
txt visit her face too roughly .
what other would you expect ?
if you would not so , you pity not the state , nor the remembrance of his most sovereign name
but what likelihood is in that ?
i ' ll entreat for thee .
why dost thou quiver , man ?
speak ' st thou in sober meanings ?
sicinius .
you may light on a husband that hath no beard .
there ' s much example for ' t ; the fellow that sits next him now , parts bread with
me conserves of beef .
why , methinks , by him , this creature ' s no such thing .
if speaking truth in this fine age were not thought flattery , such attribution should the douglas have as not
now , most noble brutus , the gods today stand friendly that we may , lovers in peace , lead
my lords , if not for any parts in him- though his right arm might purchase his own time ,
in fright .
who ' s there that knocks ?
on me , whose all not equals edward ' s moiety ?
capon , the which if i do not carve most curiously , say my knife ' s naught .
upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts we had conceiv ' d against him .
how near is he , mistress page ?
and smiles in such a sort as if he mock ' d himself and scorn ' d his spirit that
, i will go with thee to thy uncle ' s .
, and , in this rage , with some great kinsman ' s bone as with a club dash out
a third is like the former .
txt i am content that he shall take the odds of his great name and estimation , and will to
the pleasant ' st angling is to see the fish cut with her golden oars the silver stream and greedily
but here it is .
why , did you not provoke me ?
but hush , no more .
and , to add greater honours to his age than man could give him , he died fearing god .
enter iden , with cade ' s head iden .
plebeians .
is not lead a metal heavy , dull , and slow ?
nay , but it is not so .
it is the noble duke of gloucester .
if it be so , we need no grave to bury honesty ; there ' s not a grain of
this shall ye do , so help you righteous god !
her name is portia- nothing undervalu ' d to cato ' s daughter , brutus ' portia .
and take my heart with thee .
out of warrant .
mercutio , kinsman to the prince and friend to romeo .
did these bones cost no more the breeding but to play at loggets with ' em ?
i told my lord of westmoreland , the time misord ' red doth , in common sense , crowd us
txt the pride of kingly sway from out my heart ; with mine own tears i wash away my balm
chill pick your teeth , zir .
to last told him my pilgrimage .
cesario , thou know ' st no less but all ; i have unclasp ' d to thee the book
blush and weep , and thou must look pale and wonder .
woman , commend me to her ; i will not fail her .
show me which way .
if i myself , there is no hour so fit as caesar ' s death ' s hour , nor
pray , your news .
go you and tell my daughter i would speak with her .
to know thy meaning .
could not this make thee know the hate i bare thee made me leave thee so ?
i will revenge his wrong to lady bona , and replant henry in his former state .
backs- to mortal views !
i pray you , do .
if i may be bold , tell me , i beseech you , which is the readiest way to the
who sued to me for him ?
and sold .
even so much .
find me here .
art thou gone too ?
thanks , you the valiant of this warlike isle , that so approve the moor !
nay , you need nor fear us , lorenzo ; launcelot and i are out ; he tells me flatly
txt among this princely heap , if any here , by false intelligence or wrong surmise , hold me a
fare you well , sir .
tilting one at other ' s breast , in opposition bloody .
i am bound to serve .
to me , for every one of these letters are in my name .
the little strength that i have , i would it were with you .
noble captain , come .
a man can no more separate age and covetousness than ' a can part young limbs and lechery ; but
come , balthasar , we ' ll hear that song again .
no more o ' that !
fortune made his sword ; by which the world ' s best garden he achieved , and of it left
go you before me , sirrah ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he never saw three and twenty .
now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this sun of york ; and all the clouds
again this apparition come , he may approve our eyes and speak to it .
thy wish was father , harry , to that thought .
now tell me , madam , do you love your children ?
why , you bald-pated lying rascal , you must be hooded , must you ?
and quick berowne hath plighted faith to me .
they say there ' s grain enough !
our foster nurse of nature is repose , the which he lacks .
nail into his head .
i think he is ; but a greater soldier than he you wot on .
[giving them money] nay , put out all your hands .
but it chances the stealth of our most mutual entertainment , with character too gross , is writ on juliet
thou canst not fear us , pompey , with thy sails ; we ' ll speak with thee at sea
this is the greatest error of all the rest ; the man should be put into the lantern .
i have deserv ' d no better entertainment in being coriolanus .
the land is burning ; percy stands on high ; and either they or we must lower lie .
how hast thou lost thy breath ?
mean you to enjoy him ?
yea , good master snare ; i have ent ' red him and all .
o romeo , romeo !
all these you may avoid but the lie direct ; and you may avoid that too with an if .
txt cardinal .
for whom ?
txt susan and she (god rest all christian souls !
here was a caesar !
he might have worn himself , and the rod he might have bestowed on you , who , as i
seen , and my imaginations are as foul as vulcan ' s stithy .
that i should murder her ?
so , on my soul , he did , for aught he knew .
me on the side where still i am .
yet i profess curing it by counsel .
come , go ; i will dispatch the horsemen straight ; within six hours they will be at his aid
this bloody field to book our dead , and then to bury them ; to sort our nobles from our
i will not tarry ; no , nor ever more upon this business my appearance make in any of their
we must not stint our necessary actions in the fear to cope malicious censurers , which ever as rav '
come , you virtuous ass , you bashful fool , must you be blushing ?
subtlety , sleeping or waking , ' tis no matter how , so he be dead ; for that is
out , vile jelly !
] how all occasions do inform against me and spur my dull revenge !
' tis certain she is fled .
exit .
seem to chide ' em .
upon thy heart , whereto i speak , thou liest .
on wednesday next , harry , you shall set forward ; on thursday we ourselves will march .
by this at dunsmore , marching hitherward .
fetch forth the stocks !
their chains fetter ' d the kingly lion and made the forest tremble when they roar ' d .
i bar confusion ; ' tis i must make conclusion of these most strange events .
do not think so .
her , unlock her closet , take forth paper , fold it , write upon ' t , read it
enter hero , and margaret and ursula .
what ' s thy offence , claudio ?
not a whit .
i guess not .
our time does call upon ' s .
of my word , i have written to effect ; there ' s not a god left unsolicited .
indeed the short and the long is , i serve the jew , and have a desire , as my
his fall .
soothsayer .
ay , and wall too .
you cowardly rascal , nature disclaims in thee ; a tailor made thee .
which one unworthier may attain , and die with grieving .
dues !
but to the purpose , and so to the venture .
i brought my master news of juliet ' s death ; and then in post he came from mantua to
yes , the fashion is the fashion .
was first .
by my troth , we that have good wits have much to answer for : we shall be flouting ;
bubble till it o ' errun the stew : laws for all faults , but faults so countenanc ' d
here had we now our country ' s honor roof ' d , were the graced person of our banquo
the forum .
is fantastical ; nor the courtier ' s , which is proud ; nor the soldier ' s , which
what is the end of study , let me know .
innocent- anything possible .
all the gentlewomen here have forgiven me .
o rosalind !
cassius , be not deceived ; if i have veil ' d my look , i turn the trouble of
him and all his apparel into an eel-skin ; the case of a treble hautboy was a mansion for him
all .
and yet methinks i do not like this tune .
by ' r lady , sir , and some dogs will catch well .
it stands under thee , indeed .
that change the mind , soul-killing witches that deform the body , disguised cheaters , prating mountebanks , and many
that thought is bounty ' s foe ; being free itself , it thinks all others so .
enter york green .
txt on thursday next be married to this county .
' tis better using france than trusting france .
like a dull actor now i have forgot my part and i am out , even to a full disgrace
say , woman , didst thou so ?
thou troublest me ; i am not in the vein .
i ' ll bury thee in a triumphant grave .
but men are men ; the best sometimes forget .
that he did but see the flatness of my misery ; yet with eyes of pity , not revenge !
but soft !
therefore bring forth the soldiers of our prize ; for , whilst our pinnace anchors in the downs , here
enter hamlet , rosencrantz , [guildenstern , ] and others .
cannot tell who ' s your friend .
shall know that justice lives in saturninus ' health ; whom , if she sleep , he ' ll so
shall packhorses , and hollow pamper ' d jades of asia , which cannot go but thirty mile a day
our fraughtage , sir , i have convey ' d aboard ; and i have bought the oil , the
in time will find their fit rewards .
and his love-kindling fire did quickly steep in a cold valley-fountain of that ground : which borrowed from this holy
richard ' s victims lords , gentlemen , and attendants ; priest , scrivener , page , bishops , aldermen
recount our dreams .
we hope to find you our friend ; and therefore give you our voices heartily .
o , make an end of what i have begun .
o , what authority and show of truth can cunning sin cover itself withal !
thou then wouldst kill me .
enter time , the chorus time .
you have been a boggler ever .
but can you affection the oman ?
and little los on one part and on th ' other ?
now fair befall thee , good petruchio !
when thou wast in thy gilt and thy perfume , they mock ' d thee for too much curiosity ;
a monument enter cleopatra and her maids aloft , with charmian and iras cleopatra .
maid !
kings , to these two princes , if you marry them .
his country with his tears , tears of true joy for his return to rome .
what envy reach you ?
mardian .
i burn , i pine , i perish , tranio , if i achieve not this young modest girl .
' my dangerous cousin , let your mother in .
' s feather .
what , wilt thou flout me thus unto my face , being forbid ?
the folly of this island !
he did ; and from my finger snatch ' d that ring .
remember it , my lord !
such temperate order in so fierce a cause , doth want example ; who hath read or heard of any
judge .
i remember the first time ever caesar put it on ; ' twas on a summer ' s evening ,
he will be talking .
are insinewed to this action , acquitted by a true substantial form , and present execution of our wills to
txt to execute the like upon thyself ; and so , have at thee !
king did i call thee ?
txt lear .
sir , you say well , and well you do conceive ; and since you do profess to be a
scape being drunk for want of wine .
he abuse the countenance of the king , alack , what mischiefs might he set abroach in shadow of such
of no kindred ; besides , possess ' d with the glanders and like to mose in the chine ,
if you can bring tincture or lustre in her lip , her eye , heat outwardly or breath within ,
golden face the meadows green ; gilding pale streams with heavenly alchemy : anon permit the basest clouds to ride
i might as yet have been a spreading flower , fresh to myself , if i had self-applied love to
or have we some strange indian with the great tool come to court , the women so besiege us ?
we have now no thought in us but france , save those to god , that run before our business
by this hand , i am .
am your better , traitors as ye are ; and thou usurp ' st my father ' s right and
against whom comest thou ?
great the slaughter is here made by th ' roman ; great the answer be britons must take .
o , god help me !
nay , had i power , i should pour the sweet milk of concord into hell , page _num_ complete
as i intend , clifford , to thrive to-day , it grieves my soul to leave thee unassail ' d
to mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle he prettily and aptly taunts himself .
o learned judge !
it was the nightingale , and not the lark , that pierc ' d the fearful hollow of thine ear
i should rejoice now at this happy news ; and now my sight fails , and my brain is giddy
good morrow , brother bedford .
takes : proud of subjection , noble by the sway , what rounds , what bounds , what course ,
that pretty welsh which thou pourest down from these swelling heavens i am too perfect in ; and , but
ducats to have it ban ' d ?
i blame not her : she could say little less ; she had the wrong .
fashion of your garments .
so so , now sit ; and look you eat no more than will preserve just so much strength in
he hath a drug of mine .
you need not to have prick ' d me ; there are other men fitter to go out than i
exit act iii .
coupled in bonds of perpetuity , two talbots , winged through the lither sky , in thy despite shall scape
marry , that can hero !
i am a simple maid , and therein wealthiest that i protest i simply am a maid .
have you , i , say , an answer of such fitness for all questions ?
losing of this day ?
o traitors villains !
no , let me know , and knowing what i am , i know what she shall be .
what vane ?
snare .
re-enter attendants with aaron a roman .
affrighted much , i did in time collect myself , and thought this was so and no slumber .
d ?
enter friar [laurence] , with lanthorn , crow , and spade .
sons , kinsmen , thanes , and you whose places are the nearest , know we will establish our estate
are they so follow ' d ?
arriv ' d for fruitful lombardy , the pleasant garden of great italy , and by my father ' s
her mother ' s , i have heard .
[gives a paper] king henry .
our wishes on the way may prove effects .
it will but skin and film the ulcerous place , whiles rank corruption , mining all within , infects unseen
in the unshrinking station where he fought , but like a man he died .
why tell you me of moderation ?
i have heard your grace hath ta ' en great pains to qualify his rigorous course ; but since he
cudgell ' d scars , and swear i got them in the gallia wars .
richard , being infected , died .
[sheathing his sword] i shall have my noble ?
o , pardon me for bringing these ill news , since you did leave it for my office , sir
descend !
, be ready , as your lives shall answer it , at coventry , upon saint lambert ' s day
why , then , be sad ; but entertain no more of it , good brothers , than a joint
great-grandfather .
i come with gracious offers from the king , if you vouchsafe me hearing and respect .
lady , you know no rules of charity , which renders good for bad , blessings for curses .
why do you weep ?
go charge agrippa plant those that have revolted in the vant , that antony may seem to spend his fury
have you no song , forester , for this purpose ?
they vanish ' d strangely .
i charge you , o women , for the love you bear to men , to like as much of
why , my lord of york commends the plot and the general course of the action .
ay , for if edward repossess the crown , ' tis like that richmond with the rest shall down .
first varro ' s servant .
in worth dispraise sir valentine .
ay , and twenty such .
i prithee , strato , stay thou by thy lord .
it is the best horse of europe .
please your highness , note this dangerous conception in this point : not friended by his wish , to your
; an eye like mars , to threaten and command ; a station like the herald mercury new lighted on
how dost thou know that , constable ?
well , peace be with you , sir .
moor , i ' ll pour this pestilence into his ear , that she repeals him for her body '
' tis meet so , daughter ; but lest you do repent as that the sin hath brought you to
where dost thou hide thy head ?
there ' s a poor piece of gold for thee .
earth , yield me roots .
general of the french .
come , camillo , and take her by the hand whose worth and honesty is richly noted , and here
by the lord , horatio , this three years i have taken note of it , the age is grown
i rather tell thee what is to be fear ' d than what i fear , for always i am
is there more ?
your officer , iago , can inform you- while i spare speech , which something now offends me- of all
when you are dead , you should be such a one as you are now , for you are cold
sir , mine own company .
see , our best elders .
i left him well .
what beg ' st thou , then ?
within this three hours will fair juliet wake .
better be with the dead , whom we , to gain our peace , have sent to peace , than
lords , take your places ; and , i pray you all , proceed no straiter ' gainst our uncle
the people .
go get him surgeons .
had i thy youtli and cause , i would not stay .
, a loyal , just , and upright gentleman .
my sleep , by good saint alban , who said ' simpcox , come , come , offer at my
look ye how they change !
alas , the day !
there is no vice so simple but assumes some mark of virtue on his outward parts .
enter kent , [disguised] .
things : alas why fearing of time ' s tyranny , might i not then say ' now i love
whence has he that ?
is antony or we in fault for this ?
what company discover you abroad ?
[eating a root] apemantus .
mother dead !
he may show what outward courage he will ; but i believe , as cold a night as ' tis
my former speeches have but hit your thoughts , which can interpret farther ; only i say thing ' s
i mean , your voice for crowning of the king .
burial .
being at greenwich , after your highness had reprov ' d the duke about sir william bulmer- king .
hark how our steeds for present service neigh !
then let no man but i do execution on my flesh and blood .
well said .
" tis dinner time ' quoth i ; ' my gold !
captain of our fairy band , helena is here at hand , and the youth mistook by me pleading for
his coin , ships , legions , may be a coward ' s whose ministers would prevail under the service
i tell you ' tis not very well .
those opposed eyes which , like the meteors of a troubled heaven , all of one nature , of one
ll swear , terribly swear , into strong shudders and to heavenly agues , th ' immortal gods that hear
to this effect , before you were new-crown ' d , we breath ' d our counsel ; but it
say what .
i have long dreamt of such a kind of man , so surfeit-swell ' d , so old , and
i shall desire you of more acquaintance , good master cobweb .
tell me not , friar , that thou hear ' st of this , unless thou tell me how i
they love me well ; yet i have much to do to keep them from uncivil outrages .
let your wedding be to-morrow .
and from my soul too ; else beshrew them both .
sir , i should be glad to hear such news as this once every hour .
do you not come your tardy son to chide , that , laps ' d in time and passion ,
bully sir john !
why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth , and start so often when thou sit ' st alone
enter king john , elinor , arthur , the bastard , hubert , and lords king john .
to be worst , the lowest and most dejected thing of fortune , stands still in esperance , lives not
tears do scald like molten lead .
very true ; and so i hope he came by ' t .
to my use it might unused stay from hands of falsehood , in sure wards of trust !
but hark , a voice !
would you ' d pardon me .
of them have borne against the old kind king , or something deeper , whereof , perchance , these are
if your more ponderous and settled project may suffer alteration , on mine honour , i ' ll point you
and gave him graceful posture .
why , how now , stephano !
art thou mad ?
will you grant with me that ferdinand is drown ' d ?
' moon .
what said the wench , when he rose again ?
front .
of love : what drugs , what charms , what conjuration , and what mighty magic- for such proceeding i
why , be so still ; here ' s nobody will steal that from thee .
and let patient octavia plough thy visage up with her prepared nails .
wherefore should you do this ?
i am !
no , my complete master ; but to jig off a tune at the tongue ' s end , canary
how near is our master ?
what care i what curious eye doth quote deformities ?
' s nervy arm doth lie , which , being advanc ' d , declines , and then men die
put on , to have prov ' d most royally ; and for his passage the soldiers ' music and
sa , sa , sa , sa !
the house of lepidus enter enobarbus and lepidus lepidus .
and wherefore are you gentle , strong , and valiant ?
and yet you will stand to it ; you will not pocket up wrong .
i ' ll show your grace the strangest sight- king .
itself , my wife , and all the world , are not with me esteem ' d above thy life
but then are we in order when we are most out of order .
call him to long peace .
bidding you could so stand up .
but , hark thee ; i will go to her alone ; how shall i best convey the ladder thither
it is the only thing for a qualm .
the very opener and intelligencer between the grace , the sanctities of heaven , and our dull workings .
if , in the course and process of this time , you can report , and prove it too against
if he had so offended , he would have weigh ' d thy brother by himself , and not have
enter edward , george , richard , warwick , norfolk , montague , and soldiers edward .
' tis so with me .
, our strength as weak , our weakness past compare , that seeming to be most which we indeed least
, for so fools have ; and they that are most galled with my folly , they most must laugh
hector .
for myself , i ' ll put my fortunes to your service , which are here by this discovery lost
not sure , though hoping of this good success , i ask ' d his blessing , and from first
where ' s my son edmund ?
' tis such another fitchew !
say i , her sovereign , am her subject low .
fie , fie , fie , sir john !
good lady , make yourself mirth with your particular fancy , and leave me out on ' t .
to warrant in our native place !
he ' s in yellow stockings .
why , this is kindly done .
the pow ' r that i have on you is to spare you ; the malice towards you to forgive
will your lordship lend me a thousand pound to furnish me forth ?
gore , since you have shore with shears his thread of silk .
my lord , the army of great buckingham- king richard .
at our last encounter the duke of buckingham came from his trial .
' zounds !
a play there is , my lord , some ten words long , which is as brief as i have
go thou with him , and when it is thy hap to find another that is like to thee ,
] put up your swords .
see , lord and father , how we have perform ' d our roman rites : alarbus ' limbs are
my lord of salisbury , we have stay ' d ten days and hardly kept our countrymen together , and
you gentle romans- all .
' tis hard ; almost impossible .
' tis love you cavil at ; i am not love .
it hath struck .
what manner of man is he ?
a goodly medicine for my aching bones !
if you affect him , sister , here i swear i ' ll plead for you myself but you shall
if e ' er your grace had speech with man so poor , hear me one word .
there ' s his period , to sheath his knife in us .
that honourable day shall never be seen .
aedile , with the plebeians sicinius .
she may live unscarr ' d of bleeding slaughter , i will confess she was not edward ' s daughter
but seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion is ?
come , side by side together live and die ; and soul with soul from france to heaven fly .
upon my blessing i command thee go .
: when lofty trees i see barren of leaves , which erst from heat did canopy the herd and summer
wars hath not wasted it , for warr ' d he hath not , but basely yielded upon compromise that
i was now a coward on instinct .
indeed i never shall be satisfied with romeo till i behold him- dead- is my poor heart so for a
the deer was , as you know , sanguis , in blood ; ripe as the pomewater , who now
i was prick ' d well enough before , an you could have let me alone .
imogen ' s bedchamber in cymbeline ' s palace ; a trunk in one corner enter imogen in her bed
by heaven , it is the same i gave the doctor !
i would they were a-bed .
breadth of a pair of indentures ?
the portrait of a blinking idiot presenting me a schedule !
so that , in these ten thousand they have lost , there are but sixteen hundred mercenaries ; the rest
what , wench !
and she told me in a sweet verbal brief it did concern your highness with herself .
by long and vehement suit i was seduc ' d to make room for him in my husband ' s
txt admits no orifex for a point as subtle as ariachne ' s broken woof to enter .
she shall , she shall .
' tis not fit thus to obey him .
txt or else reproach be talbot ' s greatest fame !
what good is this to england and himself !
that you do love me , i am nothing jealous ; what you would work me to , i have
sweet bodements , good !
why did you leave me here alone , my lords ?
in most uneven and distracted manner .
and thou shouldst tow me after .
exeunt plebeians brutus .
your flashes of merriment that were wont to set the table on a roar ?
look to the drawbridge there !
very many , men and women too .
he ' s one o ' th ' soundest judgments in troy , whosoever , and a proper man of
the wind .
soon burnt ; carded his state ; mingled his royalty with cap ' ring fools ; had his great name
moved have broken with the king , who hath so far given ear to our complaint-of his great grace and
then set down the coffin and titus speaks titus .
petruchio .
what should i see then ?
; and hitherto doth love on fortune tend , for who not needs shall never lack a friend , and
when i desir ' d him to come home to dinner , he ask ' d me for a thousand
he hath been us ' d ever to conquer , and to have his worth of contradiction ; being once
perdita .
title to as much love as she finds .
ware pencils , ho !
come your ways !
[leaps in after laertes .
d , despis ' d !
we thank you , lords .
haste me to know ' t , that i , with wings as swift as meditation or the thoughts of
force perforce , the age will pour it in- shall never leak , though it do work as strong as
mercuries .
fetch malvolio hither ; and yet , alas , now i remember me , they say , poor gentleman ,
then enter macbeth .
read o ' er this ; [giving him papers] and after , this ; and then to breakfast with what
know you not , master , to some kind of men their graces serve them but as enemies ?
why have those banish ' d and forbidden legs dar ' d once to touch a dust of england '
, compare with caesars , and with cannibals , and troiant greeks ?
a shrewd knave , and an unhappy .
pray , sit ; more welcome are ye to my fortunes than my fortunes to me .
now sits the wind fair , and we will aboard .
' s almost slain , and roderigo dead .
them so .
drop in the dust , but i will lift the downtrod mortimer as high in the air as this unthankful
tribunes , and me , a poor competitor .
' tis wonder that thy life and wits at once had not concluded all .
[aside] it goes on , i see , as my soul prompts it .
here , here , here he comes .
may this be possible ?
why , we are still handling our ewes ; and their fells , you know , are greasy .
i saw him once .
txt second senator .
manent benedick and claudio .
thus hath the course of justice whirl ' d about and left thee but a very prey to time ,
on her !
do not so .
you worthy tribunes- sicinius .
who knows the lord protector ' s mind herein ?
yes , surely .
my own knee ?
lepidus flatters both , of both is flatter ' d ; but he neither loves , nor either cares for
who knocks so hard ?
and learning , in truth i know not .
corn .
of the sea was my sister drown ' d .
you nimble lightnings , dart your blinding flames into her scornful eyes !
while it doth study to have what it would , it doth forget to do the thing it should ;
i shall receive money a thursday .
timon will to the woods , where he shall find page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
his grace not being warn ' d thereof before , he fears , my lord , you mean no good
not in love neither ?
enter soldiers how say you , madam ?
troy , yet upon his basis , had been down , and the great hector ' s sword had lack
by my life , that promises moe thousands : honour ' s train is longer than his foreskirt .
by my life , she will do as i do .
if all the year were playing holidays , to sport would be as tedious as to work ; but when
ring to eye her .
you ' ll nothing , madam , to my lord by me ?
where ' s troilus ?
signet and your name ; but they do shake their heads , and i am here no richer in return
here i am , thou particular fellow .
' the boy replied ' an angel is not evil ; i should have fear ' d her had she
spare your oaths ; i ' ll trust to your conditions .
txt is ' t not your trick ?
blessed are they that have been my friends ; and woe to my lord chief justice !
the worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold .
may follow fawning .
is this the king we sent to for his ransom ?
o , alas !
i keep within my house fit to instruct her youth .
' to julia ' - say , from whom ?
usurper , openly , and vows to crown himself in westminster .
gracious henry , comfort !
in aid whereof we of the spiritualty will raise your highness such a mighty sum as never did the clergy
one that blood hath the victory .
enter a citizen page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
madam , if ' t please the queen to send the babe , i know not what i shall incur
here in the streets , desperate of shame and state , in private brabble did we apprehend him .
is not the lady constance in this troop ?
i will go on the slightest errand now to the antipodes that you can devise to send me on ;
pluck but his name out of his heart , and turn him going .
the soul and body rive not more in parting than greatness going off .
by whom ?
with thought of such affections , step forth mine advocate ; at your request my father will grant precious things
we think not so , my lord .
they are , my lord .
all days are nights to see till i see thee , and nights bright days when dreams do show thee
come , proceed .
madam , it is , so you stand pleas ' d withal .
upon ' s ; without the which this story were most impertinent .
faith , sir , few of any wit in such matters ; as they are chosen , they are glad
i would fain prove so .
still you keep o ' th ' windy side of the law .
] this judgement of the heavens , that makes us tremble touches us not with pity .
txt and i resign my gage .
my lord , you nod ; you do not mind the play .
the one is murder , and rape is the other ' s name ; and therefore bind them , gentle
to our sport , away .
the sea was calm all boats alike show ' d mastership in floating ; fortune ' s blows , when
where shall we meet i ' the morning ?
no disgrace shall fall you for refusing him at sea , being prepar ' d for land .
harry the fourth .
enter petruchio , katherina , vincentio , grumio , and attendants petruchio .
shall i not then be stifled in the vault , to whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in ,
then you live about her waist , or in the middle of her favours ?
page] trust me , i thought on her ; she ' ll fit it .
so make the choice of thy own time , for i , thy resolv ' d patient , on thee
thus hulling in the wild sea of my conscience , i did steer toward this remedy , whereupon we are
exit host .
i prithee , speak to me as to thy thinkings , as thou dost ruminate , and give thy worst
in heaven .
txt to good or bad .
stand against anointed majesty !
is now transported , gentles , to southampton ; there is the play-house now , there must you sit ,
but when your carters or your waiting-vassals have done a drunken slaughter and defac ' d the precious image of
this is her very guise , and , upon my life , fast asleep .
the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers are in love too .
why , fare thee well .
good george , be not angry .
come , poor remains of friends , rest on this rock .
the] steward .
sir , to satisfy you in what i have said , stand by and mark the manner of his teaching
the lord abergavenny buckingham .
' tis more , ' tis more !
[the drum begins to march] king edward .
exeunt all but falstaff falstaff .
yond island carrions , desperate of their bones , ill-favouredly become the morning field ; their ragged curtains poorly are
he fear ' d is chanced .
o , ' tis pregnant , pregnant !
i do betray myself with blushing .
lady macbeth .
when expect you them ?
look where he goes even now out at the portal !
will you abide with him , whiles i go tell my lord the emperor how i have govern ' d
rich enough to be petruchio ' s wife , as wealth is burden of my wooing dance , be she
doth lear walk thus ?
' d up- about a prophecy which says that g of edward ' s heirs the murderer shall be .
the more thou dam ' st it up , the more it burns .
god will , that let your king perform ; and what he will , i humbly yield unto .
and since that time it is eleven years , for then she could stand high-lone ; nay , by th
he and myself have travail ' d in the great show ' r of your gifts , and sweetly felt
over thy wounds now do i prophesy (which like dumb mouths do ope their ruby lips to beg the voice
[brutus and sicinius go aside] enter volumnia , virgilia , and valeria how now , my as fair as noble
his looks are full of peaceful majesty ; his head by nature fram ' d to wear a crown ,
what sneaking fellow comes yonder ?
victorious talbot !
, let villainy itself forswear ' t .
why does my blood thus muster to my heart , making both it unable for itself and dispossessing all my
good as my word ; but speciously for master fenton .
and one as great as you are ?
life is as tedious as a twice-told tale vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man ; and bitter shame
i may say so when i please .
and thee ; he was the author , thou the instrument .
reputation is an idle and most false imposition ; oft got without merit and lost without deserving .
this action , sir , even by your own .
how , my love ?
note if your lady strain his entertainment with any strong or vehement importunity ; much will be seen in that
, and ' twill out at the key-hole ; stop that , ' twill fly with the smoke out at
ever at the best , hearing well of your lordship .
i know from whence this same device proceeds .
not a penny , not a penny ; you are too impatient to bear crosses .
where goes cesario ?
my point and period will be throughly wrought , or well or ill , as this day ' s battle
there end thy brave , and turn thy face in peace ; we grant thou canst outscold us .
out , must fetch him in he papers .
say , whither ?
we did , my lord , weeping and commenting upon the sobbing deer .
, to bear up against what should ensue .
i ' ll follow you ; i ' ll lead you about a round , through bog , through bush
clarence !
watch .
i am tame , sir ; pronounce .
keep stephen langton , chosen archbishop of canterbury , from that holy see ?
thy very beadsmen learn to bend their bows of double-fatal yew against thy state ; yea , distaff-women manage rusty
deliver him , titus .
why , madam ?
i confess , i confess treason .
' this third , dull lead , with warning all as blunt : ' who chooseth me must give and
i shall split all in pleasure of my spleen .
[music .
i ' ll in , i ' ll in ; follow your friend ' s counsel ; i ' ll
sir , i entreat you home with me to dinner .
the duke of lancaster ' s palace enter john of gaunt with the duchess of gloucester gaunt .
there shalt thou know thy charge .
a mighty and a fearful head they are , if promises be kept oil every hand , as ever off
txt to haste unto your coronation , a letter was deliver ' d to my hands , writ to your
god gi ' go-den .
so are the horses of the enemy , in general journey-bated and brought low .
_num_ how oft when thou , my music , music play ' st , upon that blessed wood whose motion
txt as soft as dove ' s down and as white as it , or ethiopian ' s tooth ,
tell him so yourself , and see how be will take it at your hands .
few words to fair faith : troilus shall be such to cressid as what envy can say worst shall be
is that my prize ?
' and even here brake off and came away .
enter constables [dogberry and verges , with the watch , leading] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he ran this way , and leapt this orchard wall .
north .
cousin , of many men i do not bear these crossings .
let the world see his nobleness well acted , which your death will never let come forth .
you have , as it appears to me , practis ' d upon the easy yielding spirit of this woman
i am a man that from my first have been inclin ' d to thrift , and my estate deserves
edmund , enkindle all the sparks of nature to quit this horrid act .
i know this face full well .
well , come , my kate ; we will unto your father ' s even in these honest mean habiliments
that at her hands which the king ' s king forbids .
thou chid ' st me oft for loving rosaline .
why , here ' s a girl !
here is one : ' two boys , an old man (twice a boy) , a lane , preserv '
' d to do a deed of shame , this murder had not come into my mind ; but ,
, a weeder-out of his proud adversaries , a liberal rewarder of his friends ; to royalize his blood i
my father watches .
o , that we then could come by caesar ' s spirit , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
but he , my lord , is gone to ravenspurgh , to offer service to the duke of hereford ;
i pray the gods she may , with all my heart .
[advancing from his cave] poet .
they met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together .
and when it hath the thing it hunteth most , ' tis won as towns with fire- so won ,
exeunt duke , train , and le beau celia .
the blood of youth burns not with such excess as gravity ' s revolt to wantonness .
i ' ll none of him .
your head .
go , let him have a table by himself ; for he does neither affect company nor is he fit
and thy place shall be honourable .
the loss of such a lord includes all harms .
do but encave yourself and mark the fleers , the gibes , and notable scorns , that dwell in every
the whole army stood agaz ' d on him .
the park enter berowne , with a paper his band , alone berowne .
has the king found his heir ?
the moon , methinks , looks with a wat ' ry eye ; and when she weeps , weeps every
his better doth not breathe upon the earth .
it boots thee not to be compassionate ; after our sentence plaining comes too late .
she ' s tickled now ; her fume needs no spurs , she ' ll gallop far enough to her
' are as pregnant in as art and practice hath enriched any that we remember .
i know she is not ; for this match made up her presence would have interrupted much .
cry within , " fly , fly , fly !
let be call ' d before us that gentleman of buckingham ' s .
but she receiv ' d my dog ?
my honest lads , i will tell you what i am about .
madam , to you as many and as good !
venture in the rebels ' fight , his wonders and his praises do contend which should be thine or his
the mystery of things , as if we were god ' s spies ; and we ' ll wear out
this foul egyptian hath betrayed me .
there ' s something more would out of thee : what say ' st ?
for these my present friends , as they are to me nothing , so in nothing bless them , and
such bugs and goblins in my life- that , on the supervise , no leisure bated , no , not
i think it would be the death of the king ' s disease .
maiden , no remedy .
out upon you !
care for us !
she ' s dead , deceas ' d ; she ' s dead !
they are laid ; and our revolted wives share damnation together .
shoe untied , and every thing about you demonstrating a careless desolation .
advantage of some brief discourse with desdemona alone .
false or fear ' d thy faith .
o , for my beads !
by my troth , sir toby , you must come in earlier o ' nights ; your cousin , my
a love so vile a lout as he .
i had my father ' s signet in my purse , which was the model of that danish seal ;
good honest men !
the good old man would fain that all were well , so ' twere not long of him ; but
election for the empire with these our late-deceased emperor ' s sons : be candidatus then , and put it
the gates of angiers , duke .
obedience , fail in children !
things strange , but this sore night hath trifled former knowings .
keep comfort to you , and this morning see you do appear before them ; if they shall chance ,
i will hold friends with you , lady .
not he ; the queen .
his huge legs and peep about to find ourselves dishonorable graves .
murder indeed , that bloody sin , i tortur ' d above the felon or what trespass else .
yield to our mercy , proud plantagenet .
o noble fool !
i will not fight with a pole , like a northern man ; i ' ll slash ; i '
that have at times made moan to me ; therefore he hates me .
i hope i dream ; for so i thought i was a cave-keeper , and cook to honest creatures .
this is the place .
and most terrible .
nay , my lord , that cannot be ; you are a councillor , and by that virtue no man
farewell , dear father .
what does this knave here ?
see , sons , what things you are !
there is no hope that ever i will stay if the first hour i shrink and run away .
i was the other day talking on the sea bank with certain venetians , and thither comes the bauble ,
pray god my news be worth a welcome , lord .
in such a night as this !
o , ' tis a tender place !
the same dagger for myself , when it shall please my country to need my death .
if ever you prove false one to another , since i have taken such pains to bring you together ,
' daylight and champain discovers not more .
carry that which i would have refus ' d , to praise his faith , which i would have disprais
laura , to his lady , was but a kitchen wench (marry , she had a better love to berhyme
not worthy yet to wear .
, some abram , some bald , but that our wits are so diversely colour ' d ; and truly
nay , nay , to th ' purpose .
mark me , and do the like .
if it be so- as ' tis- poor lady , she were better love a dream .
and let this world no longer be a stage to feed contention in a ling ' ring act ; but
hath sorrow struck so many blows upon this face of mine and made no deeper wounds ?
hark , how they shout !
' d for the truce of winchester and gloucester ; and if thou be not then created york , i
[draws aside the curtains .
if all else fail , myself have power to die .
let her consider his frailty , and then judge of my merit .
how satisfied , my lord ?
is not tomorrow , boy , the ides of march ?
farewell , good king ; when i am dead and gone , may honourable peace attend thy throne !
[sings] the ousel cock , so black of hue , with orange-tawny bill , the throstle with his note so
marry , ' tis time .
and most known to youth and liberty .
ll not wish thee to her .
amaz ' d , my lord ?
i know not ; but i am sure ' tis safer to avoid what ' s grown than question how
diana , daughter to the widow violenta , neighbour and friend to the widow mariana , neighbour and friend to
what can mine own praise to mine own self bring : and what is ' t but mine own when
come , sir , i am for you .
[gives the warrant] when you have done , repair to crosby place .
intoxicates in his prains , did , in his ales and his angers , look you , kill his best
so , but since i am near slain , kill me outright with looks , and rid my pain .
to satisfy your highness , and the entreaties of our most gracious mistress .
than with him !
ay , four , in buckram suits .
to answer that , i should confess to you .
txt chape of his dagger .
bardolph hath brought word .
see , see , my beauty will be sav ' d by merit .
god b ' wi ' , you .
[alonso , sebastian etc .
anne is a good girl , and i wish- re-enter rugby rugby .
and that hereafter ages may behold what ruin happened in revenge of him , within their chiefest temple i '
why , whither , adam , wouldst thou have me go ?
[alarum far off] hark you far off !
none , my lord , but that the world ' s grown honest .
if there be more , more woful , hold it in ; for i am almost ready to dissolve ,
foot hast caught wouldst thou disgorge into the general world .
let them go .
you use this dalliance to excuse your breach of promise to the porpentine ; i should have chid you for
alas , poor lady !
[to tranio] signior lucentio , this is the ' pointed day that katherine and petruchio should be married , and
field of battle between sandal castle and wakefield alarum .
music of his own vain tongue doth ravish like enchanting harmony ; a man of complements , whom right and
it fear or sin to speak a truth .
let me see ; ay , give it me , it ' s mine ; sweet ornament that decks a
cousin of exeter , frowns , words , and threats , shall be the war that henry means to use
what adam dost thou mean ?
the bier at door , and a demand who is ' t shall die , i ' d say '
canst thou bring me to the party ?
was never widow had so dear a loss .
o , how have you deceiv ' d me !
or mons , the hill .
farewell , dear sister ; farewell , my lord of gloucester .
false : we have given thee faces .
to very rags , to split the cars of the groundlings , who (for the most part) are capable of
no ; he ' ll say ' twas done cowardly , when he wakes .
come , patroclus , i ' ll speak with nobody .
a field near frogmore enter sir hugh evans and simple evans .
verges , a headborough .
, and is page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
let all the number of the stars give light to thy fair way !
henry the fifth , thy ghost i invocate : prosper this realm , keep it from civil broils , combat
ay , but she ' s come to beg : warwick , to give .
the trumpets .
o , well flown , bird !
so , fare thee well .
by heaven , methinks it were an easy leap to pluck bright honour from the pale-fac ' d moon ,
install ' d ; that she , poor wretch , for grief can speak no more ; whiles warwick tells
o god , i could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space , were
but it is certain that when he makes water his urine is congeal ' d ice ; that i know
sir , i invite your highness and your train to my poor cell , where you shall take your rest
how might one do , sir , to lose it to her own liking ?
what beast wast then that made you break this enterprise to me ?
swear against abjects ; put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes , whose proof nor yells of mothers
i have many cnemies in orsino ' s court , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
sirrah young gamester , your father were a fool to give thee all , and in his waning age set
the gods are witness , nev ' r did poor steward wear a truer grief for his undone lord than
why , that was when three crabbed months had sour ' d themselves to death , ere i could make
there shall i try , in my oration , how the people take the cruel issue of these bloody men
no , i do not know you ; nor i am not sent to you by my lady , to
[aside] if i talk to him , with his innocent prate he will awake my mercy , which lies dead
lover !
dogs !
and i , my royal sovereign .
there ' s one did laugh in ' s sleep , and one cried , " murther !
the devil it is that ' s thy master .
no greater heart in thee ?
my excellent good friends !
a cavern .
who stays it still withal ?
how now , good woman , how dost thou ?
[to silvius] as you love phebe , meet ; - and as i love no woman , i ' ll
' twas aeneas ' tale to dido , and thereabout of it especially where he speaks of priam ' s
how dost , my boy ?
fie , daughter !
; i must carry her word quickly .
enter sir toby and clown aguecheek .
ev ' n as soon as thou canst , for thou hast to pull at a smack o ' th
a title to phoebe , to luna , to the moon .
; for i have need of many orisons to move the heavens to smile upon my state , which ,
he pours it out : plutus , the god of gold , is but his steward ; no meed but
but , being wrought , perplex ' d in the extreme ; of one whose hand , like the base
music , wit , and oracle .
i talk not of his majesty .
look thou be true ; do not give dalliance too much the rein ; the strongest oaths are straw to
not within , sir .
let lucius and titinius guard our door .
ay , marry , now my soul hath elbow-room ; it would not out at windows nor at doors .
surnamed bolingbroke , duke of hereford , son of john of gaunt , afterwards king henry iv duke of aumerle
ay , and thou , his cupbearer- whom i from meaner form have bench ' d and rear ' d
well , sir , by this you cannot get my land : your tale must be how he employ '
i say my daughter is my flesh and my blood .
the leaders , having charge from you to stand , will not go off until they hear you speak .
good my brother troilus , tell you the lady what she is to do and haste her to the purpose
yes , there is remedy enough , my lord .
show the inside of your purse to the outside of his hand , and no more ado .
the armourers , and honour ' s thought reigns solely in the breast of every man ; they sell the
is she with posthumus ?
with blood ; but you are more inhuman , more inexorable- o , ten times more- than tigers of hyrcania
show those things you found about her , those secret things- all but what she has with her .
so mak ' st thou faith an enemy to faith ; and like .
else but fair posterity- should hold some counsel in such a business .
txt wear it on both sides , like leather jerkin .
i will devise matter enough out of this shallow to keep prince harry in continual laughter the wearing out of
ah , rome !
you men of kent- dick .
bastard .
alas , sir , how fell you besides your five wits ?
with others .
o hero !
musicians , o , musicians , ' heart ' s ease , ' ' heart ' s ease ' !
lo , he is tilting straight !
yes , my lord ; but yet i cannot help you .
madam , there is at the gate a young gentleman much desires to speak with you .
[thunder] alas , the storm is come again !
circumstance to accuse thy cursed self .
of his language .
[oswald falls .
most common trespasses are punish ' d with .
how old art thou , francis ?
some time i shall sleep out , the rest i ' ll whistle .
your neck , sir , is pen , book , and counters ; so the acquittance follows .
noble tribunes , it is the humane way ; the other course will prove too bloody , and the end
txt soul to-morrow , rivers that died at pomfret !
prithee , who is ' t that thou mean ' st ?
' d from such a noble rate ; but my chief care is to come fairly off from the great
there- but i shall grieve you to report the rest .
out , you green-sickness carrion i out , you baggage !
exit valentine even as one heat another heat expels or as one nail by strength drives out another , so
no man so potent breathes upon the ground but i will beard him .
abode be lingered here by some accident ; wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of cassio .
who knows not that ?
but , lest the devil that guides him should aid him , i will search impossible places .
kind sister , thanks ; we ' ll enter all together .
this is for all : i would not , in plain terms , from this time forth have you so
what news , my love ?
see this business .
was this inserted to make interest good ?
or lose our ventures .
here ' s mistress quickly , sir , to speak with you falstaff .
since you are strangers , and come here by chance , we ' ll not be nice ; take hands
the prince of wales stepp ' d forth before the king and , nephew , challeng ' d you to
how fares my brother ?
believe me , love , it was the nightingale .
redeem from broking pawn the blemish ' d crown , wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre ' s
come on , and bid us welcome to your sheep-shearing , as your good flock shall prosper .
thou hast serv ' d me with much faith .
borderers .
example of others .
what say ' st thou , my fair flower-de-luce ?
garland to the last two , who likewise observe the same order ; at which , as it were by
d the britons , was the romans ' bane .
let our just censures attend the true event , and put we on industrious soldiership .
or who should study to prefer a peace , if holy churchmen take delight in broils ?
when he wak ' d , of force she must be ey ' d .
[to baptista] i pray you , sir , is it your will to make a stale of me amongst these
too light for such a swain as you to catch ; and yet as heavy as my weight should be
out of that i ' ll work myself a former fortune .
and yet , good humphrey , is the hour to come that e ' er i prov ' d thee
when honour ' s at the stake .
ah , soldier !
that i am at war ' twixt will and will not .
let him appear .
no ; but she is an earthly paragon .
make your answer before him .
what countryman , what name , what parentage ?
ay , and you hear him cog , see him dissemble , know his gross patchery , love him ,
enter friar [laurence] and the county [paris] , with musicians .
then edgar was abus ' d .
listen , fair madam : let it be your glory to see her tears ; but be your heart to
speak suddenly , be brief .
he shall conceal it whiles you are willing it shall come to note , what time we will our celebration
fright our native peace with self-borne arms .
my uncle ' s will in this respect is mine .
i am undone ; there is no living , none , if bertram be away .
do , i swear it shall be romeo , whom you know i hate , rather than paris .
we had lik ' d to have had our two noses snapp ' d off with two old men without
o , boys , this story the world may read in me ; my body ' s mark ' d
what shall i do ?
thou art a murderer .
burghers on the flood , or as it were the pageants of the sea- do overpeer the petty traffickers ,
or craft may get him .
of what is writ .
i know not what to say ; but give me your hands .
ventidius lately buried his father , by whose death he ' s stepp ' d into a great estate .
come , warwick , come , good warwick , go with me ; i have great matters to impart to
witness this army of such mass and charge , led by a delicate and tender prince , whose spirit ,
in the court of rome .
weasel .
ulysses .
toward ludlow then , for we ' ll not stay behind .
] he takes her by the palm ; ay , well said , whisper .
go , villain , fetch a surgeon .
they kneel , they kiss the earth ; forswear themselves as often as they speak .
sir john , there ' s one master brook below would fain speak with you , and be acquainted with
came he right now to sing a raven ' s note , whose dismal tune bereft my vital pow '
and then ?
and your fair princess- goddess !
that ' s a brave god , and bears celestial liquor .
this ' tis to feel a tale , not to hear a tale .
more praise upon deceased i , than niggard truth would willingly impart : o lest your true love may seem
when i do weep , they humbly at my feet receive my tears , and seem to weep with me
come , clarence , come .
he that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven and fire us hence like foxes .
if a bloody coxcomb be a hurt , you have hurt me ; i think you set nothing by a
enter cominius cominius .
thee my disease .
, you stockfish- o for breath to utter what is like thee !
so says my master antony .
now , by my life , old fools are babes again , and must be us ' d with checks
txt in sight of both our battles we may meet ; and either end in peace- which god so frame
i could .
le jour est perdu , tout est perdu !
why then , good morrow to you all , my lords .
let us confess , and turn it to a jest .
txt ay , let the county take you in your bed !
txt which i disdaining scorn ' d , and craved death rather than i would be so vile esteem '
there ' s gold for thee .
that which upholdeth him that thee upholds , his honour .
i am not worthy of the wealth i owe , nor dare i say ' tis mine , and yet
d your vanquisher .
exit ariel] sebastian .
yes .
will you indeed ?
thou , eunuch mardian !
their faces even from darkness .
i did swear patience .
nay , let us share thy thoughts as thou dost ours .
a thousand times good night !
' this was lofty .
she took them , read them in my presence , and now and then an ample tear trill ' d
if she sustain him and his hundred knights , when i have show ' d th ' unfitness- enter [oswald
then thou dwell ' st with daws too ?
he will steal , sir , an egg out of a cloister ; for rapes and ravishments he parallels nessus
art thou contented , jew ?
come hither , captain .
indeed , my lord , i think it be two o ' clock .
his very hair is of the dissembling colour .
o , death ' s a great disguiser ; and you may add to it .
say thou to harry of england : though we seem ' d dead we did but sleep ; advantage is
let them be clapp ' d up close , and kept asunder .
i advise youpage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i think ' twill serve , if he can thereto frame his spirit .
go to , kneel .
hark , good mine host : to-night at heme ' s oak , just ' twixt twelve and one ,
whom best i love i cross ; to make my gift , the more delay ' d , delighted .
welcome , my little tiny thief and welcome indeed too .
i marry her !
your fair discourse hath been as sugar , making the hard way sweet and delectable .
how , how , how , how , choplogic ?
for me , by this pale queen of night i swear , i am so far from granting thy request
st , fin ' st wear-a ?
[to the painter] you have work for me ; there ' s payment ; hence !
hewgh !
i could make him swear the shes of italy should not betray mine interest and his honour ; or have
with mind ; and doth enlarge his rising with the blood of fair king richard , scrap ' d from
i must needs after him , madam , with my letter .
thou and eyeless night have done me shame .
all gallia shake .
alas , what noise ?
name them .
we ' ll be friends first .
' st to kill him .
he is not with himself ; let us withdraw .
better it is to die , better to starve , than crave the hire which first we do deserve .
would the duke that is absent have done this ?
put in now , titus .
is this true ?
well , i perceive i must be fain to bear with you .
tongue nor heart cannot conceive nor name thee .
of a commonweal .
in athens .
save what is had , or must from you be took .
their firm proposed natures .
small annexment , petty consequence , attends the boist ' rous ruin .
for me , three thousand ducats .
and why not queen ?
but that the merit of service is seldom attributed to the true and exact performer , i would have that
met by sir thomas lovell gardiner .
mark ' d ye his words ?
the draff .
by my troth , the fool has an excellent breast .
so infinitely endear ' d- timon .
ear as howling after music .
peace , good pintpot .
your heart is full of something that does take your mind from feasting .
gods , what lies i have heard !
paris is dirt to him ; and , i warrant , helen , to change , would give an eye
prithee hold thy peace .
he keeps his tides well .
when you durst do it , then you were a man , and , to be more than what you
you shall try but one fall .
born to bear ?
' fabian .
exeunt troilus and aeneas pandarus .
exeunt marching ; after the which a peal of ordnance are shot off .
good my lord , hear me .
a million of beating may come to a great matter .
see thee more ; which now doth that i would not have it do- make blind itself with foolish tenderness
it is no boast , being ask ' d , to say we are .
been better have been born a dog than answer my waked wrath !
i fear it is too choleric a meat .
the king ' s attorney , on the contrary , urg ' d on the examinations , proofs , confessions
now for conspiracy : i know not how it tastes , though it be dish ' d for me to
o thou fond many , with what loud applause didst thou beat heaven with blessing bolingbroke before he was what
enemies ; and when they from thy bosom pluck a flower , guard it , i pray thee , with
of york archbishop .
no , not a whit ; i find you passing gentle .
the heat is past ; follow no further now .
what will count rousillon do then ?
so please you , let me now be left alone , and let the nurse this night sit up with
sir thurio , fear not but that she will love you now valentine is banish ' d from her sight
, as my master follow ' d , as my great patron thought on in my prayers- lear .
two stars keep not their motion in one sphere , nor can one england brook a double reign of harry
[to the painter] if , where thou art , two villians shall not be , come not near him .
give thy thoughts no tongue , nor any unproportion ' d thought his act .
am i not wise ?
did they not sometime cry ' all hail !
you know no more than others !
swain .
who hath got the right anne ?
a sickness caught of me , and yet i well ?
have you no modesty , no maiden shame , no touch of bashfulness ?
exeunt cloten and first lord that such a crafty devil as is his mother should yield the world this ass
temper ' d , you should not have the eminence of him , but be as ajax .
exit enter corin and touchstone corin .
why then , it is like , if there come a hot june , and this civil buffeting hold ,
my breathing ; no tears but o ' my shedding !
; but , being moody , give him line and scope till that his passions , like a whale on
o , then we bring forth weeds when our quick minds lie still , and our ills told us page
; the mariners all under hatches stowed , who , with a charm join ' d to their suff '
at antium lives he ?
i ' ll give thee a wind .
your husband , he is gone to save far off , whilst others come to make him lose at home
what raging of the sea , shaking of earth , commotion in the winds !
best of my flesh , forgive my tyranny ; but do not say , for that , ' forgive our
to me ; he is afraid of me , and i of him .
thou wast a spirit too delicate to act her earthy and abhorr ' d commands , refusing her grand hests
then , good my lords , bear witness to his oath .
what do you think of me ?
[coming forward] sweet masters , be patient ; for your father ' s remembrance , be at accord .
i have no tongue but one ; gentle , my lord , let me intreat you speak the former language
a hall in the castle .
such as give their money out of hope they may believe may here find truth too .
[to lord say] farewell , my lord , trust not the kentish rebels .
here , here !
txt these griefs , these woes , these sorrows make me old .
i know myself now , and i feel within me a peace above all earthly dignities , a still and
o , you have , i know , petition ' d all the gods for my prosperity !
i prithee grieve to make me merry , york .
' d my woe .
which some suppose the soul ' s frail dwelling-house , doth by the idle comments that it makes foretell the
her maidenhead ere they have it .
what angel shall bless this unworthy husband ?
master brook , i will not lie to you ; i was at her house the hour she appointed me
this is it that makes me bridle passion and bear with mildness my misfortune ' s cross ; ay ,
i had rather be a kitten and cry mew than one of these same metre ballet-mongers .
how dost thou , chuck ?
nay , nay , sweet emperor , we must all be friends .
- must edward fall , which peril heaven forfend .
the cap plays in the right hand , thus ; but tell him my uses cry to me , i
dignity , which princes , would they , may not disannul , my soul should sue as advocate for thee
methought he bore him in the thickest troop as doth a lion in a herd of neat ; or as
sometime the flood prevails , and then the wind ; now one the better , then another best ; both
might i but live to see thee in my touch , i ' ld say i had eyes again !
then two judges .
not a false gallop .
look , he meditates .
leather ; the man , sir , that , when gentlemen are tired , gives them a sob , and
answer , as i call you .
' his meanest garment ' !
if to either , thou dost ill .
would i had been by to have help ' d the old man !
no , no , i am but shadow of myself .
now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
good master brook , i desire more acquaintance of you .
with all what we intend ; and she shall file our engines with advice that will not suffer you to
speak truth ; y ' are honest men .
the duke , i say to thee again , would eat mutton on fridays .
here is two more call ' d than your number .
o my good lord , believe not all ; or if you must believe , page _num_ complete works of
[to polonius] my lord , you play ' d once i ' th ' university , you say ?
i did inquire it , and have my learning from some true reports that drew their swords with you .
here is my hand the deed is worthy doing .
i saw bassanio and antonio part .
exeunt re-enter king richard , ratcliff , attendants , and forces king richard .
' d in jest .
my lord , the enemy is pass ' d the marsh .
if that her breath will mist or stain the stone , why , then she lives .
thy father ' s moral parts mayst thou inherit too !
it did always seem so to us ; but now , in the division of the kingdom , it appears
i did but smile till now .
feeble .
the assault that angelo hath made to you , fortune hath convey ' d to my understanding ; and ,
then enter two or three citizens , below scales .
laertes king !
as trifles .
you are condemn ' d ; our general has sworn you out of reprieve and pardon .
it smites me beneath the fall i have .
now , by thy looks i guess thy message .
brave son , derived from honorable loins !
my lord , ' tis but a base ignoble mind that mounts no higher than a bird can soar .
a good lustre of conceit in a turf of earth ; fire enough for a flint , pearl enough for
i will but teach them to sing and restore them to the owner .
you know my mind .
d , and lay new platforms to endamage them .
what noise is this ?
practise to deceive , yet , to avoid deceit , i mean to learn ; for it shall strew the
a light , a light !
methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak his powerful sound within an organ weak ; and what impossibility would
which make such wanton gambols with the wind upon supposed fairness often known to be the dowry of a second
thou subtle , perjur ' d , false , disloyal man , think ' st thou i am so shallow
the enmity and discord which of late sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke to merchants , our well-dealing
my tales of love were wont to weary you ; i know you joy not in a love-discourse .
is that an answer ?
by your patience , no .
in bodily health , sir .
caesar ' s .
i speak of africa and golden joys .
, honest as either , to purge him of that humour that presses him from sleep .
i owe him little duty and less love , and take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending .
exit baptista page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
but , o , how much is the good duke deceiv ' d in angelo !
' the heathen philosopher , when he had a desire to eat a grape , would open his lips when
which their keepers call a lightning before death .
motley ' s the only wear .
the sheep ; the other two concludes it : o , u .
then .
good morrow , gentle lady .
this touches me in reputation .
go , take it up unto thy master ' s use .
i false !
which is the duke ' s own person ?
, deserve not worse than wretched clarence did , and yet go current from suspicion !
one word more , one word this tiger-footed rage , when it shall find the harm of unscann ' d
such a one , they all confess , there is indeed ; which they would have your grace find out
the other , that she ' s in earth , from whence god send her quickly !
' bianca .
, and so scape hanging .
to thee ?
had servants true about me that bare eyes to see alike mine honour as their profits , their own particular
he that ears my land spares my team , and gives me leave to in the crop .
courageous bedford , let us now persuade you .
and you all know security is mortals ' chiefest enemy .
pardon me , dear rosalind .
if i do find it-well .
you to sempronius .
(within) my lord , my lord !
with weary task fordone .
exeunt all but hamlet .
madam , o good empress !
, and others .
' sorted and consorted , contrary to thy established proclaimed edict and continent canon ; which , with , o
god ' s blessing of your good heart !
cleopatra- cleopatra .
husband , let ' s follow to see the end of this ado .
your loss is , as yourself , great ; and you bear it as answering to the weight .
all three now marry in an instant .
alas , a crimson river of warm blood , like to a bubbling fountain stirr ' d with wind ,
fall greeks ; fail fame ; honour or go or stay ; my major vow lies here , this i
portia , go in awhile , and by and by thy bosom shall partake the secrets of my heart .
enter trinculo lo , now , lo !
must i bouge ?
place .
my lord , i warrant you we will play our part as he shall think by our true diligence he
it hath not appeared .
but what ' s his offence ?
up , cousin , up ; your heart is up , i know , [touching his own head] thus high
advocate ' s the court-word for a pheasant ; say you have none .
i expect my revenge .
the first male child , to him that did but yesterday suspire , there was not such a gracious creature
why , this will lug your priests and servants from your sides , pluck stout men ' s pillows from
dear love , adieu !
my victories , all my honours to you , upon his good returns .
but goes thy heart with this ?
there are fairer things than polecats , sure .
[edmund is borne off .
battles and to bruising arms .
brutus .
i must embrace thee .
i hope i have your good will , father page .
from my lord to my lady .
what is that peace to me ?
i am sorry for ' t ; the man is a proper man , of mine honour ; unless i
thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend as closely to conceal what we impart .
was i , in sooth ?
will be true .
bring us the letters ; call the messenger .
god ' s body !
which made me down to throw my books , and fly- causeless , perhaps .
white-beards have arm ' d their thin and hairless scalps against thy majesty ; boys , with women ' s
[exit francis .
txt and make it but a shadow , as i am .
i once did lend my body for his wealth , which , but for him that had your husband '
the turk , that two and fifty kingdoms hath , writes not so tedious a style as this .
these are the forgeries of jealousy ; and never , since the middle summer ' s spring , met we
yet read the gamut of hortensio .
the dram of e ' il doth all the noble substance often dout to his own scandal .
in a retreat he outruns any lackey : marry , in coming on he has the cramp .
his spirits hear me , and yet i needs must curse .
, and let his very breath whom thou ' lt observe blow off thy cap ; praise his most vicious
you know me by my habit .
how like a deer strucken by many princes dost thou here lie !
one that will play the devil , sir , with you , an ' a may catch your hide and
her father ' - [lets the paper fall] king henry .
within the bloody house of life , and on the winking of authority page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
to move wild laughter in the throat of death ?
exit cupid first lord .
it ' s monstrous labour when i wash my brain and it grows fouler .
now is a time to storm ; why art thou still ?
quail and shake the orb , he was as rattling thunder .
hang all the husbands that cannot do that feat , you ' ll leave yourself hardly one subject .
all that belongs to this .
you i would be trebled twenty times myself , a thousand times more fair , ten thousand times more rich
some of those seven are dried by nature ' s course , some of those branches by the destinies cut
friar , it cannot be .
duties and pour our treasures into foreign laps , or else break out in peevish jealousies , throwing restraint upon
you are one of those would have him wed again .
where thou shalt live till we can find a time to blaze your marriage , reconcile your friends , beg
besides , all french and france exclaims on thee , doubting thy birth and lawful progeny .
give place .
will you play upon this pipe ?
if our father would sleep till i wak ' d him , you should enjoy half his revenue for ever
of cynthia ' s brow ; nor that is not the lark whose notes do beat the vaulty heaven so
no farther halting !
there ' s such divinity doth hedge a king that treason can but peep to what it would , acts
our preparation stands in expectation of them .
>> _num_ the taming of the shrew by william shakespeare dramatis personae persons in the induction a lord christopher sly
well said , my noble scot .
of princely parentage , of fair demesnes , youthful , and nobly train ' d , stuff ' d ,
[aside] ay , and as good as saturninus may .
all sight-holes , every loop from whence the eye of reason may pry in upon us .
what hast thou given ?
either our brags were crack ' d of kitchen trulls , or his description prov ' d us unspeaking sots
how sour sweet music is when time is broke and no proportion kept !
please myself .
foes , whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep to take the one the other , by some
he doth nothing but roast malt-worms .
but till that time i do receive your offer ' d love like love , and will not wrong it
third messenger .
an if my face were but as fair as yours , my favour were as great : be witness this
, and brought him hither to use as you think needful of the man .
then all too late comes counsel to be heard where will doth mutiny with wit ' s regard .
you shall not seal to such a bond for me ; i ' ll rather dwell in my necessity .
i cry you mercy then ; i took you for that cunning whore of venice that married with othello .
o thou touch of hearts !
might ' st thou perceive austerely in his eye that he did plead in earnest ?
cannot deal but with the very hand of stern injustice and confused wrong .
a space whose ev ' ry cubit seems to cry out ' how shall that claribel measure us back to
no more than what he thinks he is .
confess it , say withal if you are bound to us or no .
o rose of may !
if so , i pray thee breathe it in mine ear , as ending anthem of my endless dolour .
thou sheer , immaculate , and silver fountain , from whence this stream through muddy passages hath held his current
another ' s enterprise ; but more in troilus thousand-fold i see than in the glass of pandar ' s
fain would i go to meet the archbishop , but many thousand reasons hold me back .
i know it well , sir ; you always end ere you begin .
the king hath happily received , macbeth , the news of thy success ; and when he reads thy personal
come hither , good volumnius , list a word .
ho !
so ' tis reported , sir .
were it toad , or adder , spider , ' twould move me sooner .
looks he no for supply ?
not too fast !
[enter a gentleman .
here burns my candle out ; ay , here it dies , which , whiles it lasted , gave king
if the english had any apprehension , they would run away .
proud , for grief is proud , and makes his owner stoop .
frederick .
the best news is that we have safely found our king and company ; the next , our ship- which
what , are you hurt , lieutenant ?
i know you well , sir , and you know me ; your name , i think , is adrian
how dost , my lord ?
friar , advise him ; i leave him to your hand .
and i was going to your lodging , cassio .
another lawyer plantagenet .
if th ' event o ' th ' journey prove as successful to the queen- o , be ' t
how now , thersites !
then is there the county palatine .
[exit hermia] helena , adieu ; as you on him , demetrius dote on you .
my brother gloucester ' s voice ?
faith , niece , you tax signior benedick too much ; but he ' ll be meet with you ,
then senseless ilium , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
no remedy .
o , a stool and a cushion for the sexton .
ne ' er may i look on day nor sleep on night but she tells to your highness simple truth
o , i have heard him speak of that same brother ; and he did render him the most unnatural
nor i in yours page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
it hath made me mad .
for a mirth , to sit and keep the turn of tippling with a slave , to reel the streets
happily met , my lady and my wife !
flourish of cornets portia .
which i ' ll not call a creature of thy place , lest barbarism , making me the precedent ,
holds it true , sir , that the duke of cornwall was so slain ?
sirrah , your brother is legitimate : your father ' s wife did after wedlock bear him , and if
how now , whither bear you this ?
what fairies haunt this ground ?
you shall be soon dispatch ' d with fair conditions .
light !
is thaw ' d ; which like a waxen image ' gainst a fire bears no impression of the thing
txt enter host page .
from a fifth , the prince of morocco , who brings word the prince his master will be here to-night
that were some love , but little policy .
' tis well said again ; and ' tis a kind of good deed to say well ; and yet
ay , ay , he told his mind upon mine ear .
england , blush for shame ; for your own ladies and pale-visag ' d maids , like amazons , come
the patch is kind enough , but a huge feeder , snail-slow in profit , and he sleeps by day
to fierce and bloody inclination .
[a noise within] queen .
i have not kept my square ; but that to come shall all be done by th ' rule .
and must i go to him ?
lie down , good sirs .
txt seal ' d up the doors , and would not let us forth , so that my speed to
of her chastity , and wash their hands in bassianus ' blood .
i ' faith , i ' faith ; and both in a tune , like two gipsies on a horse
well , so its stands ; and thus , i fear , at last hume ' s knavery will be
e ' en such as you speak to me .
offer who but to-day hammer ' d of this design , but durst not tempt a minister of honour ,
him , but let him , like an engine not portable , lie under this report : bring action hither
o sweet sir john !
let me be blessed for the peace i make against this proud protector with my sword !
o brave iago , honest and just , that hast such noble sense of thy friend ' s wrong !
why , no ; the day had broke before we parted .
pray your pardon .
flute , the bellows-mender !
no , sir john ; you do not know me , sir john .
king , i do forgive thee , unnatural though thou art .
- [to ophelia] read on this book , that show of such an exercise may colour your loneliness .
there is a thing within my bosom tells me that no conditions of our peace can stand .
' d to the inheritance of fortinbras , had he been vanquisher , as , by the same comart and
madam , it is .
i will possess you of that ship and treasure .
how shalt thou hope for mercy , rend ' ring none ?
for even now i put myself to thy direction and unspeak mine own detraction ; here abjure the taints and
enter coriolanus , menenius , all the gentry , cominius , titus lartius , and other senators coriolanus .
[the lion tears thisby ' s mantle , and exit] theseus .
it stands your grace upon to do him right .
mov ' d !
thou draw ' st a counterfeit best in all athens .
how have you known the miseries of your father ?
nay , ' a rubs himself with civet .
no , no , i will not , having breath to cry .
good madam , hear me .
then the conceit of this inconstant stay , sets you most rich in youth before my sight , where wasteful
lawful king .
balth .
his wife that ' s dead did trespasses to caesar ; his brother warr ' d upon him ; although
idle old man , that still would manage those authorities that he hath given away !
what trash is rome , what rubbish , and what offal , when it serves for the base matter to
helen was not up , was she ?
lie they upon thy hand , and be undone by ' em !
lascivious grace , in whom all ill well shows , kill me with spites yet we must not be foes
and what said the gallant ?
sir , we have known together in orleans .
the brain of this foolish-compounded clay , man , is not able to invent anything that intends to laughter ,
prince , as thou art true , for blood of ours shed blood of montague .
i will frown as i pass by , and let them take it as they list .
' ry , where a priest attends , straight marry her .
it first did help to wound itself .
if i once stir , or do but lift this arm , the best of you shall sink in my
all trial , all obedience ; and so am i for phebe .
what a hero hadst thou been if half thy outward graces had been plac ' d about thy thoughts and
lofty and sour to them that lov ' d him not , but to those men that sought him sweet
(within) mother , mother , mother !
to answer by the method : in the first of his heart .
to him will i .
the dam will wake ; and if she wind ye once , she ' s with the lion deeply still
go not my horse the better , i must become a borrower of the night for a dark hour or
txt since you will buckle fortune on my back , to bear her burden , whe ' er i will
hermione , how thou lov ' st us show in our brother ' s welcome ; let what is dear
marry , thus much i have learnt : he rather means to lodge you in the field , like one
not be iago .
where is he gone ?
their bare hands .
husband , and never be bassanio so for me ; but god sort all !
at southam i did leave him with his forces , and do expect him here some two hours hence .
he did so .
his plumes and take away his train , if dauphin and the rest will be but rul ' d .
nay , fear not , man , we are alone ; here ' s none but thee and i .
your grace may enter now .
what , are the brothers parted ?
then wish me better ; i will give you leave .
table .
i fail not of my cunning .
be master of it .
to spare when you shall find page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
francis .
o paradox !
- hold me not , let me go .
' shallow .
my name .
into it far before thy time ?
why , to keep one ' s eyes of either side ' s nose , that what a man cannot
a vanished sight .
, yet hath a woman ' s kindness overrul ' d ; and therefore tell her i return great thanks
, french and florentine <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by
' tis very much .
in that day ' s feats , when he might act the woman in the scene , he prov '
you lords and heads o ' th ' state , perfidiously he has betray ' d your business and given
king lewis and lady bona , hear me speak before you answer warwick .
on ' s brows , menenius , he comes the third time home with the oaken garland .
why have you stol ' n upon us thus ?
why then , another time i ' ll hear thee .
is it so brave a lass ?
when i have most need to employ a friend and most assured that he is a friend , deep ,
let ' s have no more of this ; let ' s to our affairs .
what need you five-and-twenty , ten , or five , to follow in a house where twice so many have
young ferdinand , whom they suppose is drown ' d , and his and mine lov ' d darling .
not take it .
how willingly i will both hear and grant you your requests .
[to viola] there ' s no remedy , sir : he will fight with you for ' s oath sake
a man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but as a drunken sleep ; careless , reckless , and fearless
knocking within .
the world aside and bid it pass ?
am dead .
sir- i thank her- that .
if hamlet from himself be taken away , and when he ' s not himself does wrong laertes , then
i hope it be not gone to tell my lord that i kiss aught but he .
is he , think you ?
now , montague , sit fast ; i seek for thee , that warwick ' s bones may keep thine
re-enter gentlewoman , with valeria and an usher valeria .
time travels in divers paces with divers persons .
o father , maine is lost- that maine which by main force warwick did win , and would have kept
if it mar nothing neither , the treason and you go in peace away together .
will you follow , gentlemen ?
to hell .
you ' ll be gone , sir knave , and do as i command you .
nestor !
for my daughters , richard , they shall be praying nuns , not weeping queens ; and therefore level not
daub the walls of a jakes with him .
can a weak empty vessel bear such a huge full hogs-head ?
heard , but not intentively .
here ' s the challenge ; read it .
give him the cup .
, his appetite , his sleep , and downright languish ' d .
say , what news with thee ?
good captain peesel , be quiet ; ' tis very late , i ' faith ; i beseek you now
, as i speak true ; so speaking as i think , i die , i die .
bear with me ; i am hungry for revenge , and now i cloy me with beholding it .
o , an you will have me live , play ' heart ' s ease .
my heart weeps to see him so little of his great self .
knew me .
zounds , i am afraid of this gunpowder percy , though he be dead .
enter cassius and titinius .
posterity , await for wretched years , when at their mothers ' moist ' ned eyes babes shall suck ,
farewell , kind lord .
so , there goes our protector in a rage .
ones and millions .
o hated potion , hence !
and with that blood will make ' em one day groan fort .
he ' s a very jealousy man ; she leads a very frampold life with him , good heart .
not having that which having makes them short .
as he was to me- might liquid tears , or heart-offending groans , or blood-consuming sighs , recall his life
god knows i had as lief be none as one .
the king shall do it .
a bliss in proof and proved , a very woe , before a joy proposed behind a dream .
for once , upon a raw and gusty day , the troubled tiber chafing with her shores , caesar said
king henry ' s issue , richmond , comforts thee .
of sheep .
since mine own doors refuse to entertain me , i ' ll knock elsewhere , to see if they '
that young swain that you saw here but erewhile , that little cares for buying any thing .
come , come , do you think i do not know you by your excellent wit ?
helen ?
lo , this is all- nay , yet depart not so ; though this be all , do not so
this lapwing runs away with the shell on his head .
green , indeed , is the colour of lovers ; but to have a love of that colour , methinks
now my double-horn ' d spartan !
who governs here ?
so shall you bind me to your highness ' service .
if it were done when ' tis done , then ' twere well it were done quickly .
don pedro is approach ' d .
[aside] ' twere false , if i should speak it ; for i am sure she is not buried .
this is the hole where aaron bid us hide him .
- come , will you go ?
base muleteers of france !
earl of cambridge , then deriv ' d from famous edmund langley , duke of york , marrying my sister
of our fears .
within this three mile may you see it coming ; i say , a moving grove .
, and is provided by project gutenberg etext of illinois benedictine college with permission .
' true !
i will not .
and so am i : my name is walter whitmore .
of punishment , by thy sweet grace ' s officer , antony dull , a man of good repute ,
why , lady , love hath twenty pair of eyes .
how chance my brother troilus went not ?
my noble father , i do perceive here a divided duty .
do you know a man if you see him ?
top-proud fellow- whom from the flow of gan i name not , but from sincere motions , by intelligence ,
i never shall endure her .
mourn not , except thou sorrow for my good ; only give order for my funeral .
by her a week ; if she deny to wed , i ' ll crave the day when i shall
] time , thou anticipatest my dread exploits .
i understand her signs .
sometime ' t appears like a lord ; sometime like a lawyer ; sometime like a philosopher , with two
come , you and i must walk a turn together ; i have news to tell you ; come ,
for the one or the other plays the rogue with my great toe .
have brought thee up to yonder troops and here again , that i may rest assured whether yond troops are
i am , my lord , a wretched florentine , derived from the ancient capilet .
great perplexity ; yet did not this cruel-hearted cur shed one tear .
still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind ; says suum , mun , hey , no , nonny .
nay , keep your way , little gallant ; you were wont to be a follower , but now you
spot of all thy sex ; most monster-like , be shown for poor ' st diminutives , for doits ,
and strange it is that nature must compel us to lament our most persisted deeds .
her favour turns the fashion of the days ; for native blood is counted painting now ; and therefore red
quickly , sir ; i long .
i could find in my heart to beat him- stephano .
have i in conquest stretch ' d mine arm so far to be afeard to tell greybeards the truth ?
o brother montague , give me thy hand .
, his lobbies fill with tendance , rain sacrificial whisperings in his ear , make sacred even his stirrup ,
this pernicious slave , forsooth , took on him as a conjurer , and gazing in mine eyes , feeling
partly to save your life , for i was told you were in a consumption .
to bear him to my bower in fairy land .
but , leaving this , what is your grace ' s pleasure ?
no harm , i trust , is done ?
thus comes the english with full power upon us ; and more than carefully it us concerns to answer royally
ramm ' d me in with foul shirts and smocks , socks , foul stockings , greasy napkins , that
and when i love thee not , chaos is come again .
longer i shall give worse payment .
issue of the elder son succeed before the younger , i am king .
i know ' t .
, would obey it on all cause .
go in with me .
the king our master to this last costly treaty , th ' interview that swallowed so much treasure and like
but we do lance diseases in our bodies .
woo ' t thou fight well ?
i will help you to ' t .
to weep is to make less the depth of grief .
gracious , my lord , you know your father ' s temper .
never at quiet !
force her hence .
occasions , noble gloucester , of some poise , wherein we must have use of your advice .
i am advised to give her music a mornings ; they say it will penetrate .
i , an old turtle , will wing me to some wither ' d bough , and there my mate
to-day the lords you talk ' d of are beheaded .
i thank thee for that gird , good tranio .
s lap .
what love could press lysander from my side ?
younger than you , here in verona , ladies of esteem , are made already mothers .
i did that i did not this seven year before- i blush ' d to hear his monstrous devices .
ay , let her rot , and perish , and be damned tonight , for she shall not live .
txt now , therefore , would i have thee to my tutor- for long agone i have forgot to court
a golden slumber , whiles hounds and horns and sweet melodious birds be unto us as is a nurse '
nay , i ' ll speak that which you will wonder at .
portia ' s house enter portia with her waiting-woman , nerissa portia .
let ' s do so .
" page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
in his bosom !
is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn , or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue which
there must be conclusions .
of much less value is my company than your good words .
go thou .
to sleep- perchance to dream : ay , there ' s the rub !
we are enow yet living in the field to smother up the english in our throngs , if any order
thou hast , sebastian , done good feature shame .
not bear the knife myself .
put forth thy hand , reach at the glorious gold .
hortensius .
indeed a horse , and all other jades you may call beasts .
what is thy excellence in a galliard , knight ?
ay , timon , and have cause .
th ' world .
[unmasks .
now , sir , a new link to the bucket must needs be had ; and , sir , do
this field shall hold me , and so hold your vow : nor god , nor i , delights in
i ' ll to my brother .
exeunt brakenbury and keeper second murderer .
yet i wish , sir- i mean , for your particular- you had not join ' d in commission with
no , pardon ; ' tis a secret must be lock ' d within the teeth and the lips ;
we fairly hope , have lost their quality ; and that this day shall change all griefs and quarrels into
o buckingham , take heed of yonder dog !
i did dislike the cut of a certain courtier ' s beard ; he sent me word , if i
' tis impossible- strange that his power should be .
[to sir toby] he is as horribly conceited of him ; and pants and looks pale , as if a
i must cast it up .
, she married .
txt service that charges for download time or for membership .
what is your parentage ?
think not i love him , though i ask for him ; ' tis but a peevish boy ; yet
a mere satiety of commendations ; if i should pay you for ' t as ' tis extoll ' d
for three months- well .
if that be fair whereon my false eyes dote , what means the world to say it is not so
tell me but this ; have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief spotted with strawberries in your wife ' s
in that than in reputation .
i see you stand like greyhounds in the slips , straining upon the start .
which henry the fifth had gotten ?
sessa !
it is my lord of berkeley , as i guess .
melt their sweets page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
sir , you have well deserv ' d ; if you do keep your promises in love but justly as
weary his soldiers , doing himself offense , whilst we lying still are full of rest , defense , and
you say true .
how runs the stream ?
will you be prick ' d in number of our friends , or shall we on , and not depend
call the clotpoll back .
tell truth and shame the devil .
protect this course , and put it on by your allowance ; which if you should , the fault would
but get you to smithfield , and gather head , and thither i will send you matthew goffe ; fight
gentlemen , rise ; his highness is well .
o brave hector !
fore me , this fellow speaks !
party .
they cannot .
' tis nothing less : conceit is still deriv ' d from some forefather grief ; mine is not so
exit page parolles .
i see it feelingly .
is this an hour for temporal affairs , ha ?
their hats .
the ancient proverb will be well effected : ' a staff is quickly found to beat a dog .
i am desperate of my fortunes if they check me here .
d in fire , to make a shaking fever in your walls , they shoot but calm words folded up
if he had been as you , and you as he , you would have slipp ' d like him
lease ; but for thy world enjoying but this land , is it not more than shame to shame it
how say you , madam ?
those that can pity here may , if they think it well , let fall a tear : the subject
there are other troyans that thou dream ' st not of , the which for sport sake are content to
to your lordship to furnish him , nothing doubting your present assistance therein .
back my ring .
let us condole the knight ; for , lambkins , we will live .
servants than thyself domestic officers- thine enemy .
the one is filling still , never complete ; the other , at high wish .
who is ' t that calls ?
' poor turlygod !
impute it not a crime to me or my swift passage that i slide o ' er sixteen years ,
' and in a postscript here , he says ' alone .
exit exeter .
heaven is here , where juliet lives ; and every cat and dog and little mouse , every unworthy thing
go , speak not to me ; even now be gone .
o westmoreland , thou art a summer bird , which ever in the haunch of winter sings the lifting up
i have words page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
unworthy to be call ' d her servant .
give you good night .
known whether for east or west .
marry , sir , by a rule as plain as the plain bald pate of father time himself .
good even to my ghostly confessor .
txt and do not call them bastards .
why , very well then- escalus .
prove but our marriage lawful , by my life and kingly dignity , we are contented to wear our moral
tear-falling pity dwells not in this eye .
good sir , be a man ; think every bearded fellow that ' s but yoked may draw with you
exeunt servants mrs .
this is the forest of arden .
romeo , doff thy name ; and for that name , which is no part of thee , take all
heaven be my witness , you do , if you suspect me in any dishonesty .
a most manly wit , margaret : it will not hurt a woman .
but that we enter , as into our dukedom ?
here comes my sister , reading ; stand aside .
my father had a mole upon his brow .
good enobarbus , make yourself my guest whilst you abide here .
i am thy grandam , richard : call me so .
you had but that opinion of yourself which every noble roman bears of you .
he hath been out nine years , and away he shall again .
go to , sir ; tell me , do you know madam silvia ?
baptista ' s house enter lucentio as cambio , hortensio as licio , and bianca lucentio .
i know it will please them .
by my faith , you have great reason to be sad .
i , having been acquainted with the smell before , knew it was crab , and goes me to the
yet him for this , my love no whit disdaineth , suns of the world may stain , when heaven
so are a number more .
aeneas , call my brother troilus to me , and signify this loving interview to the expecters of our troyan
this is not strange , ulysses .
a grandsire phrase , i ' ll be a candle-holder and look on ; the game was ne ' er
txt a sweet athenian lady is in love with a disdainful youth ; anoint his eyes ; but do it
all gone , and not one friend to take his fortune by the arm and go along with him ?
tribunes , i thank you ; and this suit i make , that you create our emperor ' s eldest
lo , yonder , and titinius mourning it .
i crave the law , the penalty and forfeit of my bond .
he is coming .
open the door , or i will break it open .
my liege , old gaunt commends him to your majesty .
that you , being supreme magistrates , thus contumeliously should break the peace !
there in our letters do not well agree ; mine speak of seventy senators that died by their proscriptions ,
if but as well i other accents borrow , that can my speech defuse , my good intent may carry
, tell me thou lov ' st elsewhere ; but in my sight , dear heart forbear to glance thine
open thy gate of mercy , gracious god !
house , command her followers , take and give back affairs and their dispatch with such a smooth , discreet
ah , so much interest have i in thy sorrow as i had title in thy noble husband !
' hermione .
so that eternal love in love ' s fresh case , weighs not the dust and injury of age ,
it no form delivers to the heart of bird , of flower , or shape which it doth latch ,
to a cruel war i sent him , from whence he return ' d his brows bound with oak .
shall not determinate page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
gentle northumberland , if thy offences were upon record , would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
[drum ; trumpets sound ; a piece goes off [within] .
hath he not twit our sovereign lady here with ignominious words , though clerkly couch ' d , as if
many a time and oft have you climb ' d up to walls and battlements , to towers and windows
are these the breed of wits so wondered at ?
and yours , most noble bardolph !
do account myself well paid .
i will leave you now to your gossiplike humour .
shall catch your royal fleet far off .
cambio , and attendants baptista .
every wink of an eye some new grace will be born .
live a little ; comfort a little ; cheer thyself a little .
and come yourselves and bring messala with you immediately to us .
o antony !
poor birds they are not set for .
[aside] or rather , of stealing a cade of herrings .
this counter-caster , he , in good time , must his lieutenant be , and i- god bless the mark
he ' s quoted for a most perfidious slave , with all the spots o ' th ' world tax
what of him ?
fie , fie , unreverend tongue , to call her bad whose sovereignty so oft thou hast preferr ' d
a rush will be a beam to hang thee on ; or wouldst thou drown thyself , put but a
for now , this fearful night , there is no stir or walking in the streets , and the complexion
have we not lost most part of all the towns , by treason , falsehood , and by treachery ,
the freezing hours away ?
my love , her mistress , is a gracious moon ; she , an attending star , scarce seen a
bring me but to the very brim of it , and i ' ll repair the misery thou dost bear
why , so i did .
the water swells a man ; and what a thing should i have been when had been swell ' d
, in despite of brooded watchful day , i would into thy bosom pour my thoughts .
derision ?
had i the pow ' r that some say dian had , thy temples should be planted presently with horns
what good could they pretend ?
by my sweet soul , i mean setting thee at liberty , enfreedoming thy person ; thou wert immured ,
txt horse , if i did not think thou hadst been an ignis fatuus or a ball of wildfire ,
o gentle pandar , from cupid ' s shoulder pluck his painted wings , and fly with me to cressid
you are welcome all .
if any one relieves or pities him , for the offence he dies .
an if they live , i hope i need not fear .
seek ' st , as base as strange .
go call the people , [exit aedile] in whose name myself attach thee as a traitorous innovator , a foe
fly , fly , fly !
and ever among so merrily .
o death , made proud with pure and princely beauty !
' veal ' quoth the dutchman .
" and then kiss me hard , as if he pluck ' d up kisses by the roots , that
the better , given me by so holy a man .
for his possessions , although by confiscation they are ours , we do instate and widow you withal to buy
i would , that i might thank you as you call me .
enter host , shallow , slender , and page host .
up .
his own are out- let him be judge how deep i am in love .
of his quick wit and his queasy stomach , he shall fall in love with beatrice .
' o thoughts of men accurs ' d !
- clear up , fair queen , that cloudy countenance ; though chance of war hath wrought this change of
do you think i am so far deceived in him ?
demetrius , here ' s the son of lucius ; he hath some message to deliver us .
[music] ' tis time ; descend ; be stone no more ; approach ; strike all that look upon with
name and noble estimate .
whom thou wast sworn to cherish and defend .
a plague upon you both !
desolate , desolate , will i hence and die ; the last leave of thee takes my weeping eye .
a madman ' s epistles are no gospels , so it skills not much when they are deliver ' d
i like this place , and willingly could waste my time in it .
deny it , if thou canst .
did york ' s dread curse prevail so much with heaven that henry ' s death , my lovely edward
most barbarous intimation !
where be my horses ?
both- fair ladies , you ; and even that falsehood , in itself a sin , thus purifies itself and
slave of nature and the son of hell , thou slander of thy heavy mother ' s womb , thou
but all ' s too weak ; for brave macbeth -well he deserves that name- disdaining fortune , with his
let me know of you whither you are bound .
what a long night is this !
it is a common thingpage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[reads] ' imprimis , a loose-bodied gown ' - grumio .
we shall lose our time , and all be turn ' d to barnacles , or to apes with foreheads
the wrathful skies gallow the very wanderers of the dark and make them keep their caves .
mark him .
edgar i nothing am .
exit with the body scene ii .
a reply , at least if you make a care of happy holding her .
the world will be thy widow and still weep , that thou no form of thee hast left behind ,
exeunt still , ' tis strange he thus should steal upon us .
how dost thou ?
i expect .
exit gonzalo .
, the christian .
' d in favours ; so am i , that have this golden chance , and know not why .
and , in our maiden council , rated them at courtship , pleasant jest , and courtesy , as bombast
my lord , he hath importun ' d me with love in honourable fashion .
dighton and forrest , who i did suborn to do this piece of ruthless butchery , albeit they were flesh
our knocking has awaked him ; here he comes .
you say you are a better soldier : let it appear so , make your vaunting true , and it
you look like romans , and not o ' th ' court of britain .
fie , brother , fie !
possess us , possess us ; tell us something of him .
of his quick objects hath the mind no part , nor his own vision holds what it doth catch :
parts [them] .
death , that hath ta ' en her hence to make me wail , ties up my tongue and will
[tucket] agamemnon .
then gather strength and march unto him straight ; let him perceive how ill we brook his treason .
i will plague them all , even to roaring .
off by him for whom these shames ye underwent ?
scene iv .
] though well we may not pass upon his life without the form of justice , yet our power shall
shall within this hour , on a dissension of a doit , break out to bitterest enmity ; so fellest
these proclamations , so forcing faults upon hermione , i little like .
sir toby , i must be round with you .
no , not tonight .
i prithee to our rock .
come , lieutenant pistol ; come , bardolph .
i cry ' a rope , a rope !
of my state ; as at that time through all the signories it was the first , and prospero the
soft seizure the cygnet ' s down is harsh , and spirit of sense hard as the palm of ploughman
upon my life , by some device or other the villain is o ' erraught of all my money .
come , leave your drinking and fall to blows .
great glamis !
speak , winchester ; for boiling choler chokes the hollow passage of my poison ' d voice , by sight
come , come , you know i gave it you even now .
, speak then to me , who neither beg nor fear your favors nor your hate .
a grievous burden was thy birth to me ; tetchy and wayward was thy infancy ; thy school-days frightful ,
all the infections that the sun sucks up from bogs , fens , flats , on prosper fall , and
lords , i protest my soul is full of woe that blood should sprinkle me to make me grow .
' o heart , ' as the goodly saying is , o heart , heavy heart , why sigh '
i am the prince of wales ; and think not , percy , to share with me in glory any
enter lucianus .
marry with a king , a bachelor , and a handsome stripling too .
for lo !
damsel of france , i think i have you fast .
i will go .
kills himself .
our hope in him is dead .
i will seek him , sir , presently ; convey the business as i shall find means , and acquaint
a good digestion to you all ; and once more i show ' r a welcome on ye ; welcome
er with the pale cast of thought , and enterprises of great pith and moment with this regard their currents
for me , the ransom of my bold attempt shall be this cold corpse on the earth ' s cold
how would you be if he , which is the top of judgment , should but judge you as you
txt princess of france .
whate ' er the course , the end is the renown .
here comes himself to guide you .
look you , here comes my mistress ' page .
enter marcus go , gentle marcus , to thy nephew lucius ; thou shalt inquire him out among the goths
what say you to it ?
ruin ' d pillars , out of pity , taken a load would sink a navy-too much honour .
on either hand thee there are squadrons pitch ' d to wall thee from the liberty of flight , and
] the prince killeth percy .
give him no breath , but now make boot of his distraction .
toadstool , learn me the proclamation .
sake .
what danger , near the heart of it .
she made me vow that i should neither sell , nor give , nor lose it .
france spreads his banners in our noiseless land , with plumed helm thy state begins to threat , whiles thou
both too , and women ' s sons .
the rest look like a chidden train : calpurnia ' s cheek is pale , and cicero looks with such
seat , and never will i undertake the thing wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting .
i have done nothing but in care of thee , of thee , my dear one , thee , my
txt seemeth their conference ; their conceits have wings , fleeter than arrows , bullets , wind , thought ,
i beseech you ; that in his reprieve , longer or shorter , he may be so fitted that his
shepherds give a grosser name , but our cold maids do dead men ' s fingers call them .
well then , france shall rue .
you shortly shall hear more .
then , england ' s messenger , return in post and tell false edward , thy supposed king , that
we are convented upon a pleasing treaty , and have hearts inclinable to honour and advance the theme of our
madam , your majesty is too much sad .
be amiss ; and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet of paper , although the sheet were
i do embrace thee as i would embrace the christian prince , king henry , were he here .
come , you transgressing slave , away .
ay , but the mustard is too hot a little .
he is touch ' d to th ' noble heart .
the abbey at bury st .
very well ; you being then , if you be rememb ' red , cracking the stones of the foresaid
txt from forth day ' s path and titan ' s fiery wheels .
thou hast .
name , that freely rend ' red me these news for true .
they hate us youth .
to have an open ear , a quick eye , and a nimble hand , is necessary for a cut-purse
olivia ' s house enter sir toby and sir andrew sir toby .
pray now , no more .
good man .
consider further , that when he speaks not like a citizen , you find him like a soldier ; do
i have more cause .
forth .
ah , what sharp stings are in her mildest words !
, and mine ' s as high .
, had not our hap been bad .
my doe with the black scut !
captain i ' ll be no more ; but i will eat , and drink , and sleep as soft
exit caesar .
our very eyes are sometimes , like our judgments , blind .
i heard not of it before .
master brook , i will be thrown into etna , as i have been into thames , ere i will
did you call , sir ?
that diamond upon your finger , say how came it yours ?
she doth well .
second citizen .
re-enter marcius , cursing marcius .
no , my lord ; [aside] nor crop the ears of them .
spring that might become your time of day- and yours , and yours , that wear upon your virgin branches
' what think you of this man that takes me for the general ?
give me mine angle- we ' ll to th ' river .
[reads] ' inprimis : she can milk .
young prince ; and then our arms , like to a muzzled bear , save in aspect , hath all
to do than to confess she does .
txt and george , of clarence ; warwick , as ourself , shall do and undo as him pleaseth best
know ' st thou not , bertram , what she has done for me ?
the lady again in welsh .
so that there be not too much hair there , but in a semicircle or a half-moon made with a
you are ambitious for poor knaves ' caps and legs ; you wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing
my lord of burgundy , what say you to the lady ?
who ' s this ?
yea , or to paint himself ?
thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow as seek to quench the fire of love with words .
you that are honest , by being what you are , make them best seen and known .
virtuous .
my love , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, to cull the plots of best advantages .
now i begin : imprimis , we came down a foul hill , my master riding behind my mistress- curtis
corse till he that died to-day , ' this must be so .
good day at once .
who waits there ?
good madam , pardon me .
circuit is elysium and all that poets feign of bliss and joy .
' con tutto il cuore ben trovato ' may i say .
now , warwick , tell me , even upon thy conscience , is edward your true king ?
' tis pity he is not honest .
that ' s twice .
go , play , boy , play ; thy mother plays , and i play too ; but so disgrac
what , with me ?
, hear sweet discourse , converse with noblemen , and be in eye of every exercise worthy his youth and
this brat is none of mine ; it is the issue of polixenes .
this is the very coinage of your brain .
how i would make him fawn , and beg , and seek , and wait the season , and observe
' strings most ponderous and substantial things !
under the canopy ?
if partially affined , or leagued in office , thou dost deliver more or less than truth , thou art
sweet beatrice , wouldst thou come when i call ' d thee ?
_num_ if thou survive my well-contented day , when that churl death my bones with dust shall cover and shalt
i pray you , commend me to mistress squash , your mother , and to master peascod , your father
thou shalt have cause to fear before i leave thee .
exit leontes .
[enter trumpets and kettledrums .
the love i bore your queen- lo , fool again !
in debating which was best , we shall part with neither .
so did your son ; he was so suff ' red ; so came i a widow ; and never
be engag ' d in wales , there without ransom to lie forfeited ; disgrac ' d me in my
camillo ' s flight , added to their familiarity- which was as gross as ever touch ' d conjecture ,
enter richard , in pomp , as king ; buckingham , catesby , ratcliff , lovel , a page ,
of buckingham duke of norfolk earl of surrey , his son earl rivers , brother to king edward ' s
enter don pedro , claudio , benedick , and leonato .
a gilt nutmeg .
faith , we may put up our pipes and be gone .
away , be gone ; the sport is at the best .
the cedar shows , that keeps his leaves in spite of any storm , even to affright thee with the
it is my father ' s will i should take on me the hostess-ship o ' th ' day .
food , hurt with the same weapons , subject to the same diseases , healed by the same means ,
' tis strange : a threepence bow ' d would hire me , old as i am , to queen
it shall , it must !
by the mass , lad , thou sayest true ; it is like we shall have good trading that way
presume not on thy heart when mine is slain , thou gav ' st me thine not to give back
a plain near mortimer ' s cross in herefordshire a march .
whistle boy .
the day was yours by accident ; had it gone with us , we should not , when the blood
he ' s very near the truth in this .
i do here walk before thee like a sow that hath overwhelm ' d all her litter but one .
to-morrow then i judge a happy day .
[aside to cardinal] cardinal , i am with you .
' here comes one of my master ' s kinsmen .
him forward , as a man sorely tainted , to his answer , he fell sick suddenly , and grew
caesar ' s is not ; but near him thy angel becomes a fear , as being o ' erpow
pray you , sir , use the carp as you may ; for he looks like a poor , decayed
chiron , we hunt not , we , with horse nor hound , but hope to pluck a dainty doe
well , i ' ll break in ; go borrow me a crow .
lovedst him better than ever thou lovedst cassius .
st further than he is caesar .
nothing but bonfires .
their preparation is to-day by sea ; we please them not by land .
no use of metal , corn , or wine , or oil ; no occupation ; all men idle ,
a loyal and obedient subject is page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
still he mends ; but this is not the best .
exit the battle continues ; the britons fly ; cymbeline is taken .
happy me .
therefore , thou gaudy gold , hard food for midas , i will none of thee ; nor none of
a lean cheek , which you have not ; a blue eye and sunken , which you have not ;
justice , both on her and hers , have laid most heavy hand .
yet heavens have glory for this victory !
stand debted to this gentleman .
exeunt caesar and octavia enter soothsayer antony .
that they have in france , or should or should not bar us in our claim ; and god forbid
txt and majesty might never yet endure the moody frontier of a servant brow .
if i dream not , thou art aemilia .
and devours up all the fry it finds .
shall give a holiness , a purity , to the yet unbegotten sin of times , and prove a deadly
well have given us bloody argument .
, and i am sure margery your wife is my mother .
cambio , hie you home , and bid bianca make her ready straight ; and , if you will ,
[reads] ' hermione , queen to the worthy leontes , king of sicilia , thou art here accused and arraigned
what sport to-night ?
it must not be ; there is no power in venice can alter a decree established ; ' twill be
yea , marry , let ' s see bullcalf .
god ' s secret judgment !
thy father bears the type of king of naples , of both the sicils and jerusalem , yet not so
so , fare you well at once , for brutus ' tongue hath almost ended his life ' s history
and give king henry leave to speak .
little , was not like madness .
why , all the boys in venice follow him , crying , his stones , his daughter , and his
powers that the queen hath rais ' d in gallia have arriv ' d our coast and , as we
the main descry stands on the hourly thought .
coz , farewell .
well , as time shall try .
, here is my butt and very sea-mark of my utmost sail .
re-enter paulina paulina .
come , thick night , and pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell that my keen knife see not
now will ye stoop ?
[aside] drawn in the flattering table of her eye , hang ' d in the frowning wrinkle of her brow
to be thought of him ?
but , o , methinks , how slow this old moon wanes !
if not achilles , sir , what is your name ?
who scapes the lurking serpent ' s mortal sting ?
take away this villain ; shut him up .
of putting on .
march : i am the son of henry the fifth , who made the dauphin and the french to stoop
[nodding] ay .
that ' s good !
give me your blessing ; truth will come to light ; murder cannot be hid long ; a man '
proper loins , do curse the gout , serpigo , and the rheum , for ending thee no sooner .
red , and fall on my side so , against your will .
renew thy strength ; i had rather thou shouldst live while nature will than die ere i hear more .
now , master shallow , you ' ll complain of me to the king ?
, whom i so much thirst to see .
' demand of him of what strength they are a-foot .
a foolish heart that i leave here behind .
that murd ' red our emperor ' s brother ; and they it were that ravished our sister .
of blood ; whose guiltless drops are every one a woe , a sore complaint , ' gainst him whose
how far is it , my lord , to berkeley now ?
tongues ; i am less proud to hear you tell my worth than you much willing to be counted wise
since then my office hath so far prevail ' d that face to face and royal eye to eye you
alack the heavy day , that i have worn so many winters out , and know not now what name
is ' t not drown ' d i ' th ' last rain , ha ?
her doors lock ' d ?
is he ready to come abroad ?
i have bobb ' d his brain more than he has beat my bones .
that greekish whoremasterly villain with the sleeve back to the dissembling luxurious drab of a sleeve-less errand .
' well , my conscience , hanging about the neck of my heart , says very wisely to me '
o woeful sympathy !
rise , grumio , rise ; we will compound this quarrel .
txt lieutenant .
who knew of your intent and coming hither ?
txt warwick .
i ' ll go another way to work with him ; i ' ll have an action of battery against
in me this shameful sport .
we will not meddle with him till he come ; for his presence must be the whip of the other
thereafter as they be- a score of good ewes may be worth ten pounds .
it is a peerless kinsman .
a thousand pound , hal ?
, no customed event , but they will pluck away his natural cause and call them meteors , prodigies ,
then if thou hast a heart of wreak in thee , that wilt revenge thine own particular wrongs and stop
the need i have of thee thine own goodness hath made .
[falls in] enter the emperor and aaron the moor saturninus .
he ' ll make your paris louvre shake for it , were it the mistress court of mighty europe ;
have approved their virtues .
aaron is gone , and my compassionate heart will not permit mine eyes once to behold the thing whereat it
statilius show ' d the torchlight , but , my lord , he came not back .
seas and with his troops doth march amain to london ; and many giddy people flock to him .
i will deliver her .
may not be without much shame retold or spoken of .
_num_ - _num_ by world library , inc .
exeter .
this entertainment may a free face put on ; derive a liberty from heartiness , from bounty , fertile bosom
and why not death rather than living torment ?
thy woes will make them sharp and pierce like mine .
i may quarter , coz .
as heart can think .
well , be honest , be honest ; and god bless your expedition !
so humbly take my leave .
this is clean kam .
on my face ; each cheek a river running from a fount with brinish current downward flowed apace .
i am not able to stand .
i am not mad ; too well , too well i feel the different plague of each calamity .
there is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man ; a tun of man is
am i the first that have been perjur ' d so ?
and even with this i lost fair england ' s view , and bid mine eyes be packing with my
let him that is a true-born gentleman and stands upon the honour of his birth , if he suppose that
marry , the son of my grandfather .
it murd ' rous to th ' senses ?
enter antony , with a messenger and attendants cleopatra .
and what offence it is to flout his friends .
but if you swear by that that not , you are not forsworn ; no more was this knight ,
light .
s use their treasure .
each new morn new widows howl , new orphans cry , new sorrows strike heaven on the face , that
this damn ' d witch sycorax , for mischiefs manifold , and sorceries terrible to enter human hearing , from
banish me !
i know not ; ' tis put to lott ' ry .
in an odd angle of the isle , and sitting , his arms in this sad knot .
you ' ll not bear a letter for me , you rogue !
sir topas the curate , who comes to visit malvolio the lunatic .
i will hope of better deeds to-morrow .
i will send him hither to you presently .
enter rutland and his tutor rutland .
the majesty of buried denmark did sometimes march ?
prepare for dinner .
he does , and does so much that proof is call ' d impossibility .
well kissed !
trodden paths , our very petticoats will catch them .
himself was lost ; prospero his dukedom in a poor isle ; and all of us ourselves when no man
he ' s strange and peevish .
d to be together , though absent ; shook hands , as over a vast ; and embrac ' d
, and make a show of love to proud duke humphrey , and when i spy advantage , claim the
our old ling and our isbels o ' th ' country are nothing like your old ling and your isbels
i guess at it .
, i do not relish well their loud applause and aves vehement ; nor do i think the man of
where we please to have it grow .
but these are all lies : men have died from time to time , and worms have eaten them ,
tell him the emperor and the empress too feast at my house , and he shall feast with them .
of fiends , do , with his smirch ' d complexion , all fell feats enlink ' d to waste
these quicksands , lepidus , keep off them , for you sink .
no , no , it cannot be ; and yet my heart will not confess he owes the malady that
there is no staff more reverent than one tipp ' d with horn .
i will cut thy throat one time or other , in fair terms ; that is the humour of it
ah for our father , for our dear lord clarence !
several bastardy if he do break the smallest particle of any promise that hath pass ' d from him .
the lady speaks in welsh .
this way the romans must or for britons slay us , or receive us for barbarous and unnatural revolts during
tide ; for after i saw him fumble with the sheets , and play with flowers , and smile upon
i know not ' seems .
this news is mortal to the queen .
you told us of some suit .
no , do thy worst , blind cupid !
in love .
alas , poor soul !
exit fastolfe and now , my lord protector , view the letter sent from our uncle duke of burgundy .
burn house !
strengthened .
the duke himself , or any of my brothers of the state , cannot but feel this wrong as '
let me hear agrippa further speak .
' sblood , an arrant traitor as any ' s in the universal world , or in france , or
a most poor man , made tame to fortune ' s blows , who , by the art of known
see , see what show ' rs arise , blown with the windy tempest of my heart upon thy wounds
yes , if this present quality of war- indeed the instant action , a cause on foot- lives so in
lysander ' s love , that would not let him bide- fair helena , who more engilds the night than
pardon me , god , i knew not what i did .
some say a sore ; but not a sore till now made sore with shooting .
well , keep me company but two years moe , thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue
take heed , take heed , for such die miserable .
vexation almost stops my breath , that sund ' red friends greet in the hour of death .
all this my sister is , or else should be .
convey !
long ago .
if thou wouldst , there shouldst thou find one heinous article , containing the deposing of a king and cracking
how now , fellow ?
there ' s one yonder arrested and carried to prison was worth five thousand of you all .
i am a votary : i have vow ' d to jaquenetta to hold the plough for her sweet love
what else may hap to time i will commit ; only shape thou silence to my wit .
o , that is entertainment my bosom likes not , nor my brows !
' for the heavens , rouse up a brave mind ' says the fiend ' and run .
that eye that told you so look ' d but asquint .
one way , and safely ; and the end was ever to do well .
zounds , ' tis even now at my elbow , persuading me not to kill the duke .
no , i will do nothing at thy bidding ; make thy requests to thy friend .
but , an you will not wed , i ' ll pardon you .
his daughter , and the heir of ' s kingdom , whom he purpos ' d to his wife '
would he not be a comfort to our travel ?
hear , you that are king , though he do wear the crown , have caus ' d him by
who would give a bird the he , though he cry ' cuckoo ' never so ?
i have serv ' d prince florizel , and in my time wore three-pile ; but now i am out
the broken bosoms that to me belong have emptied all their fountains in my well , and mine i pour
edmund , i hear that you have shown your father a childlike office .
while you , sweet dear , prove mistress of my heart .
is ' t come to this ?
make me to see ' t ; or at the least so prove it , page _num_ complete works of
, according to the which thou shalt discourse to young octavius of the state of things .
' eyes .
it might be yours or hers , for aught i know .
] is gilliams with the packet gone ?
by this hand , they are scoundrels and subtractors that say so of him .
here , you maid !
but indeed , if you find him not within this month , you shall nose him as you go up
d of my exchange ; but love is blind , and lovers cannot see the pretty follies that themselves commit
i make you both protectors of this land , while i myself will lead a private life and in devotion
what man of good temper would endure this tempest of exclamation ?
and come again to me ; who , on my life , did perish with the infant .
but i bethink me what a weary way from ravenspurgh to cotswold will be found in ross and willoughby ,
[they draw] aaron .
well , is this captain in the duke of florence ' s camp ?
must i give way and room to your rash choler ?
it stands upright , like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul !
, but now in arms you strengthen it with yours .
a daniel come to judgment !
upon them !
my messenger he hath whipt with rods ; dares me to personal combat , caesar to antony .
soon moved to be moody , and as soon moody to be moved .
lucilius , do you the like , and let no man come to our tent till we have done our
most mighty duke , behold a man much wrong ' d .
and may not young men die as well as old ?
thou drunken slave !
o ' ertake ye you ' ll part away disgrac ' d .
my hopes abroad .
lead off this ground ; and let ' s make further search for my poor son .
what stars do spangle heaven with such beauty as those two eyes become that heavenly face ?
that here come sacrifices for the field .
my lady and mistress .
madman and beggar too .
cymbeline ' s tent enter cymbeline , belarius , guiderius , arviragus , pisanio , lords , officers , and
what ' s he that speaks for edmund earl of gloucester ?
comfort seem ' d to come discomfort swells .
my lord , i ' ll tell my lady you will come .
i do protest i never injur ' d thee , but love thee better than thou canst devise till thou
beshrew my heart , but i pity the man .
txt macbeth .
tis that miracle and queen of gems that nature pranks her in attracts my soul .
fate , hear me what i say : i reck not though thou end my life to-day .
' tis the way to call hers (exquisite) in question more .
to whose hands have you sent the lunatic king ?
fears .
she hangs about his neck .
he sups tonight with a harlotry , and thither will i go to him .
we must not .
i do not like des toys .
, or else the law of athens yields you up- which by no means we may extenuate- to death ,
even daughter , welcome in no less degree .
if it be no more , portia is brutus ' harlot , not his wife .
farewell , my friend .
insteeped , and takes him by the beard , kisses the gashes that bloodily did yawn upon his face ,
in england !
calchas .
it will not be accepted , on my life .
that false villain page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
we shall obey , were she ten times our mother .
txt valeria .
how like eve ' s apple doth thy beauty grow , if thy sweet virtue answer not thy show .
quarrel !
you break jests as braggards do their blades , which god be thanked hurt not .
i had rather walk here , i thank you .
he cannot , sir ; he ' s out at elbow .
keep out , che vore ye , or ise try whether your costard or my ballow be the harder .
upon him .
exit helena go thou toward home , where i will never come whilst i can shake my sword or hear
tell us this : have you anything to take to ?
come , i have found you out a stand most fit , where you may have such vantage on the
fool i say !
you know since pentecost the sum is due , and since i have not much importun ' d you ;
in rome .
expiate .
and so suppose am i ; for in his grave assure thyself my love is buried .
boyet , prepare ; i will away to-night .
the letters to of many our contriving friends in rome petition us at home .
gregory , remember thy swashing blow .
on this ; so had you saved the noble imogen to repent , and struck me , wretch more worth
[aside] though i am not naturally honest , i am so sometimes by chance .
he ' ll go , he says , and sowl the porter of rome gates by th ' ears ;
welcome to rome .
oppress ' d with wrongs , and therefore full of fears ; a widow , husbandless , subject to fears
i warrant you , with pure love and troubled brain , he hath ta ' en his bow and arrows
come , come , return ; return , thou wandering lord ; charles and the rest will take thee in
indeed , because you are a banish ' d man , therefore , above the rest , we parley to
peace , you ungracious clamours !
he hath releas ' d him , isabel , from the world .
o what excuse will my poor beast then find , when swift extremity can seem but slow ?
they are at it , hark !
is dead .
you may , indeed , say so ; for ' twas that hand that gave away my heart .
is she not down so late , or up so early ?
a sentence !
a one as leaves a gentleman and makes a god of such a cullion .
ay , hamlet .
if i did love you in my master ' s flame , with such a suff ' ring , such
the like to you , kind varro .
my blood to be disdain ' d of all than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any .
is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive performance ?
sergeant .
him , stand in assured loss .
to the crown .
you do advance your cunning more and more .
that lie shall lie so heavy on my sword that it shall render vengeance and revenge till thou the lie-giver
i will not sing .
then crush this herb into lysander ' s eye ; whose liquor hath this virtuous property , to take from
no longer shall you gaze on ' t , lest your fancy may think anon it moves .
who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting ?
txt but minister such assistance as i shall give you direction .
it to in change promis ' d to wear it in his cap ; i promis ' d to strike
a sennet .
your ignorance .
[here they fight] talbot .
exit enter demetrius and helena , running helena .
too early seen unknown , and known too late !
and wilt thou have me ?
have i not heard these islanders shout out ' vive le roi !
which had you rather- that the most just law now took your brother ' s life ; or , to
pluck off a little ; i would not be a young count in your way for more than blushing comes
is not that a brave man ?
i hope i may choose , sir .
prosper you , sweet sir !
advance thy name and honourable family , lavinia will i make my emperess , rome ' s royal mistress ,
the messengers of venice stay the meat .
upon my back , to defend my belly ; upon my wit , to defend my wiles ; upon my
to popularity ; that , being dally swallowed by men ' s eyes , they surfeited with honey and began
day , by night , waking and in my dreams , in courtly company or at my beads , with
wind did seem to glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool , and what they undid did .
that is a step on which i must fall down , or else o ' erleap , for in my
- so be my grave my peace as here i give her father ' s heart from her !
but wherefore , villain , didst thou kill my cousin ?
of beef ere thou sleep in thy sheath , i beseech god on my knees thou mayst be turn '
the english camp enter gloucester , bedford , exeter , erpingham , with all his host ; salisbury and westmoreland
we are not ourselves when nature , being oppress ' d , commands the mind to suffer with the body
and our king .
here lies the water ; good .
embowell ' d will i see thee by-and-by ; till then in blood by noble percy lie .
enter clarence and somerset but see where somerset and clarence comes .
' right and strength o ' th ' commons ' be it either for death , for fine , or
he knew his man .
nay , come , i pray thee speak .
txt autolycus .
now , sweet queen .
she comes of errands , does she ?
i would i knew in what particular action to try him .
[to lucentio] you may go walk and give me leave awhile ; my lessons make no music in three parts
nay , i ' ll watch you for that ; and that ' s one of the chiefest of them
then enter anne bullen , and divers other ladies and gentlemen , as guests , at one door ; at
he forges .
that ' s the way ; for women are light at midnight .
all there is thine .
good morrow , sir .
no , i ' ll nothing ; for if i should be brib ' d too , there would be
txt whilst i have gold , i ' ll be his steward still .
merely , my lord .
thou hast thine own form .
edmund is dead , my lord .
you speak it out of fear and cold heart .
i prithee recount some of them .
so i will , sir .
lady !
' and then i prescripts gave her , that she should lock herself from his resort , admit no messengers
the more we stay , the stronger grows our foe .
of anything when blood is their argument ?
the count claudio shall marry the daughter of leonato .
she a fair divided excellence , whose fulness of perfection lies in him .
txt good command , by heaven .
or have i dream ' d till now ?
txt behold , the french amaz ' d vouchsafe a parle ; and now , instead of bullets wrapp '
o my brother- good gentleman !
, your father , i fall into charybdis , your mother ; well , you are gone both ways .
enter portia and nerissa portia .
no , thou proud dream , that play ' st so subtly with a king ' s repose .
which do not be entreated to , but weigh what it is worth embrac ' d .
to th ' wars , my boy , to th ' wars !
look with thine ears .
aright .
-thou protector of this damned strumpet , talk ' st thou to me of ifs ?
txt cressida .
sedition , which we ourselves have plough ' d for , sow ' d , and scatter ' d ,
enter aumerle duchess .
then comes , dropping after all , apemantus , discontentedly , like himself ventidius .
well held out , i ' faith !
half your suit never name to us : you have half our power .
betray ' d i am .
_num_ then let not winter ' s ragged hand deface , in thee thy summer ere thou be distilled :
sing , siren , for thyself , and i will dote ; spread o ' er the silver waves thy
her life is safest only in her birth .
i know you what you are ; and , like a sister , am most loath to call your faults
here is a man-but ' tis before his face ; i will be silent .
in her train there is a gentle lady ; when tongues speak sweetly , then they name her name ,
my lord and brother , god save you .
exit diana .
what wouldst thou beg , laertes , that shall not be my offer , not thy asking ?
but thieves unworthy of a thing so stol ' n that in their country did them that disgrace we fear
good addition to th ' fairness of my power .
so it is said , my noble lord ; but therefore came not my friend nor i .
seek him , titinius , whilst i go to meet the noble brutus , thrusting this report into his ears
' d his grace would fain have done , the severals and unhidden passages of his true tides to some
all your studies make me a curse like this .
- i will go .
conquest to attend on us .
mistress page mistress anne page , her daughter mistress quickly , servant to doctor caius servants to page , ford
stephano is my name , and i bring word my mistress will before the break of day be here at
here , at your service .
enter bertram how now , my lord , is ' t not after midnight ?
do you not know i am a woman ?
you prince of wales ?
, fore noble lucius present yourself , desire his service , tell him wherein you ' re happy- which will
that can hardly be , master shallow .
well , give them their charge , neighbour dogberry .
twenty adieus , my frozen muscovits .
what should we speak of when we are old as you ?
fits , per styga , per manes vehor .
painter .
so looks the pent-up lion o ' er the wretch that trembles under his devouring paws ; and so he
be a woman of the world .
your wisdom yet , from one that so imperfectly conceits , would take no notice , nor build yourself a
this green plot shall be our stage , this hawthorn brake our tiring-house ; and we will do it in
mammering on .
of him that makes it ; then , if sickly ears , deaf ' d with the clamours of their
to be married ; now , on the sunday following shall bianca be bride to you , if you make
and you have rung it lustily , my lords- somewhat too early for new-married ladies .
and let us swear our resolution .
let me pocket up my pedlar ' s excrement .
' old men forget ; yet all shall be forgot , but he ' ll remember , with advantages ,
and so our scene must to the battle fly ; where- o for pity !
i leave an arrant knave with your worship , which i beseech your worship to correct yourself , for the
but fare you well ; i have some business .
here comes the king- enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession] , king , queen , laertes , with
' tis not possible .
to what , my love , shall i compare thine eyne ?
go to ; well said , well said .
his leather skin and horns to wear .
what , hast not thou full often struck a doe , and borne her cleanly by the keeper ' s
what , do i love her , that i desire to hear her speak again , and feast upon her
the quarrel toucheth none but us alone ; betwixt ourselves let us decide it then .
] o true apothecary !
i will repeal thee or , be well assur ' d , adventure to be banished myself ; and banished
coronation ?
to do thus [falling on his sword] i learn ' d of thee .
i cannot get a service , no !
[reads] ' if love make me forsworn , how shall i swear to love ?
then give me leave to go .
to your own bents dispose you ; you ' ll be found , be you beneath the sky .
to understand you have prevail ' d , i am no further your enemy- she is not worth our debate
i frown the while , and perchance wind up my watch , or play with my- some rich jewel .
whiles !
what mean you ?
but what say you to thursday ?
txt as slept within the shadow of your power , have wander ' d with our travers ' d arms
then , to answer every man directly and briefly , wisely and truly : wisely i say , i am
i will discuss the humour of this love to page .
contrive .
by your renouncement an immortal spirit , and to be talk ' d with in sincerity , as with a
say- what , is horatio there ?
of a fault doth make the fault the worse by th ' excuse , as patches set upon a little
o sweet mistress , speak !
marry , amen !
madam , as thereto sworn by your command , which my love makes religion to obey , i tell you
richard might create a perfect guess that great northumberland , then false to him , would of that seed grow
tut , fear not me .
[reads] ' an if we miss to meet him handsomely , sweet huntsman- bassianus ' tis we mean- do thou
blest be you bees that make these locks of counsel !
look , here comes a walking fire .
dispatch ; from antony win cleopatra .
how now , gentleman ?
how deep ?
drive the prince of wales from such a field as this , where stain ' d nobility lies trodden on
my lady ' s dead !
given him the revolt , and none serve with him but constrained things whose hearts are absent too .
they were young and handsome , and of the best breed in the north .
txt menenius .
husband and the wife .
say , if my father render fair return , it is against my will ; for i desire nothing but
that by proscription and bills of outlawry octavius , antony , and lepidus have put to death an hundred senators
as fair as any comer i have look ' d on yet for my affection .
exeunt evans , page , and caius mrs .
i am changed ; i ' ll go sell all my land .
i do but keep the peace .
and here will talbot mount or make his grave .
i ' ll to the mart , and there for dromio stay ; if any ship put out , then
, roussi , and fauconbridge , foix , lestrake , bouciqualt , and charolois ; high dukes , great princes
for the fair kindness you have show ' d me here , and part being prompted by your present trouble
as dicers ' oaths .
' a shall answer it .
exeunt silvia and thurio valentine .
i have no words .
since thus thou wilt appear , freedom lives hence , and banishment is here .
' tis gold which buys admittance ; oft it doth-yea , and makes diana ' s rangers false themselves ,
my sword , i say !
by thee .
doth this man serve god ?
exit above gratiano .
mine ears against your suits are stronger than your gates against my force .
alas the day , how loath you are to offend daylight !
he must fight singly to-morrow with hector , and is so prophetically proud of an heroical cudgelling that he raves
pardon .
canst thou tell that ?
laid ; fly away , fly away , breath , i am slain by a fair cruel maid .
lord , let me never have a cause to sigh till i be brought to such a silly pass !
than this : that nothing do i see in you- though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge- that i
most holy and religious fear it is to keep those many many bodies safe that live and feed upon your
i will construe to them whence you come ; who you are and what you would are out of my
then wisely , good sir , weigh our sorrow with our comfort .
what ' s to say ?
troy there in his helm .
this is some monster of the isle with four legs , who hath got , as i take it ,
for this one night ; which , part of it , i ' ll waste with such discourse as ,
army , cheering up the soldiers .
it : he hath a lady wiser , fairer , truer , than ever greek did couple in his arms
by heaven , i saw my handkerchief in ' s hand .
why should he stay whom love doth press to go ?
a proof of strength she could not publish more , unless she said ' my mind is now turn '
york , if thou meanest well i greet thee well .
i pray you see him presently discharg ' d , for he is bound to sea , and stays but
escalus , prince of verona .
that ' s false to ' s bed , is it ?
now , tybalt , take the ' villain ' back again that late thou gavest me ; for mercutio '
look to it well , and say you are well warn ' d .
madam , the care i have had to even your content i wish might be found in the calendar of
what was the last cry for ?
though in pure truth it was corrupt and naught- convey ' d himself as th ' heir to th '
learning , so wide of his own respect .
o coward conscience , how dost thou afflict me !
what weathercock ?
not live ' quoth he ' after my flame lacks oil , to be the snuff of younger spirits ,
wish me partaker in thy happiness when thou dost meet good hap ; and in thy danger , if ever
ay , sir ; i , a lost mutton , gave your letter to her , a lac ' d
his word is more than the miraculous harp .
; he hath confess ' d himself to morgan , whom he supposes to be a friar , from the
ah , countrymen !
enter shylock page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
in savage sensuality .
yes , in good sooth , the vice is of a great kindred ; it is well allied ; but
your prince and country .
sir , i obey the mandate , and will return to venice .
ling ' ring dram that should not work maliciously like poison .
we but offend him .
i ' ll speak in a monstrous little voice : ' thisne , thisne !
_num_ let those who are in favour with their stars , of public honour and proud titles boast , whilst
cleopatra ' s palace enter cleopatra , charmian , iras , and alexas cleopatra .
fairy queen .
look that my staves be sound , and not too heavy .
blemish , became the accents of the valiant ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i know you are more clement than vile men , who of their broken debtors take a third , a
look when i serve him so , he takes it ill .
never was a war did cease , ere bloody hands were wash ' d , with such a peace .
good doctor pinch , you are a conjurer : establish him in his true sense again , and i will
a most ridiculous monster , to make a wonder of a poor drunkard !
me , and after bite me ; then like hedgehogs which lie tumbling in my barefoot way , and mount
while doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look .
he ' ll then instruct us of this body .
gower , " " " " " fluellen , " " " " " macmorris , " " " "
enter helena hermia .
below .
- come , come , sweet emperor ; come , andronicus .
the sun will not be seen to-day ; the sky doth frown and lour upon our army .
all men of hair ; they call themselves saltiers , and they have dance which the wenches say is a
as stand not in their liking below their cobbled shoes .
when i would pray and think , i think and pray to several subjects .
good luck , an ' t be thy will !
may be some error , but no madness , yet doth this accident and flood of fortune so far exceed
and what these sorrows could not thence exhale thy beauty hath , and made them blind with weeping .
even here undone !
i had appointed ; and yet it was page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
stay we now ?
circle of this forest .
and raise some special officers of night .
vouchsafe to wear this ring .
he hath sent me an earnest inviting , which many my near occasions did urge me to put off ;
matter then although my foot did stand upon the farthest earth removed from thee , for nimble thought can jump
believe but i shall do thee mischief in the wood .
txt what is the time o ' th ' day ?
the aediles , ho !
o , mickle is the powerful grace that lies in plants , herbs , stones , and their true qualities
three thousand ducats- well .
and therefore frame the law unto my will .
what do you call him ?
i saw them speak together .
, amongst the loving welshmen canst procure , will but amount to five and twenty thousand , why , via
she shall be habited as it becomes the partner of your bed .
of thy dear husband , than that horrid act of the divorce he ' d make !
; think , when we talk of horses , that you see them printing their proud hoofs i ' th
learn this , brother , we live not to be grip ' d by meaner persons .
, and your quod ' s , you must be preeches .
you gods !
, and he is arrested at my suit .
the hand of little employment hath the daintier sense .
; not sick , although i have to do with death , but lusty , young , and cheerly drawing
[exeunt manent the prince and peto .
enter mercutio , benvolio , and men .
and at length how goes our reck ' ning ?
the thane of fife had a wife ; where is she now ?
cast the gorge at this embalms and spices to th ' april day again .
him if he did ; i met this man with my glove in his cap , and i have been
alone she was , and did communicate to herself her own words to her own ears ; she thought ,
- torches , torches !
i know you are not ignorant- ham .
he is grown too proud to be so valiant .
if a christian wrong a jew , what should his sufferance be by christian example ?
i cannot blame them all : what is ' t to them ?
are not those in commission yet return ' d ?
this cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen .
shall seem probable , of every these happen ' d accidents ; till when , be cheerful and think of
have receiv ' d from many a several fair , their kind acceptance weepingly beseeched , with the annexions of
my liege , and madam , to expostulate what majesty should be , what duty is , why day is
now breathe we , lords .
as i intend to thrive in this new world , aumerle is guilty of my true appeal .
so please my lord the duke and all the court to quit the fine for one half of his goods
i ' ll ask them .
is it a lawful trade ?
--[to the musician] o , i cry you mercy , friend .
where ' s potpan , that he helps not to take away ?
the conscience to do no contrived murther .
away the life of our sovereign lord the king , thy royal husband : the pretence whereof being by circumstances
big heart as thou .
, and made her serve your uses both in purse and in person .
mistress ford , by my troth , you are very well met ; by your leave , good mistress .
rare egyptian !
doctor , the thanes fly from me .
a gallant prize ?
exeunt caesar and his train cleopatra .
your own person .
read , and tell me how far ' tis thither .
be witness to me , o thou blessed moon , when men revolted shall upon record bear hateful memory ,
thy brother by decree is banished .
will , he that dies this year is quit for the next .
go and say we purpose her no shame .
will be sick else .
o regan , she hath tied sharp-tooth ' d unkindness , like a vulture , here !
he doth rely on none ; but carries on the stream of his dispose , without observance or respect of
words are strokes , and strokes death to her .
master hume , that you be by her aloft while we be busy below ; and so i pray you
though to myself forsworn , to thee i ' ll faithful prove ; those thoughts to me were oaks ,
given him a penny , and he renders me the beggarly thanks .
by drop , and liquor fishermen ' s boots with me ; i warrant they would whip me with their
a book of prayers on their pillow lay ; which once , ' quoth forrest ' almost chang ' d
these blenches gave my heart another youth , and worse essays proved thee my best of love .
if you will hang me for it , you may ; but i had rather it would please you i
enter hortensio hortensio .
i pandulph , of fair milan cardinal , and from pope innocent the legate here , do in his name
i cannot put him to a private soldier , that is the leader of so many thousands .
good pilgrim , you do wrong your hand too much , which mannerly devotion shows in this ; for saints
impatiently i burn with thy desire ; my heart and hands thou hast at once subdu ' d .
says , not with such strength denied as is delivered to your majesty .
methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously .
give me thy hand !
now , what admittance , lord ?
for well you know we of the off ' ring side must keep aloof from strict arbitrement , and stop
sir , we were talking that our garments seem now as fresh as when we were at tunis at the
, to make a hazard of new fortunes here .
little flower ; lamenting some enforced chastity .
[sings drunkenly] farewell , master ; farewell , farewell !
what a night ' s this !
this purpose , that her skill may time disgrace , and wretched minutes kill .
you shall close prisoner rest , till that the nature of your fault be known to the venetian state .
i do ; and surely it is a sleepy language , and thou speak ' st out of thy sleep
i have enough .
i never robb ' d the soldiers of their pay nor ever had one penny bribe from france .
howsoe ' er , my brother hath done well .
i ' ll see you by and by .
a man , if i live ; and this , by , in , and without , upon the instant
with danger .
thou art so far before , that swiftest wing of recompense is slow to overtake thee .
of hotspur , coldspur ?
txt and daily graced by the emperor ; wishing me with him , partner of his fortune .
now it is the time of night that the graves , all gaping wide , every one lets forth his
fair prince , here is good broken music .
' th ' toe like a parish-top .
you may be pleas ' d to catch at mine intent by what did here befall me .
cousin , farewell ; and , uncle , bid him so .
it is not yet near day .
were you in doubt , sir , that you ask ' d her ?
us awhile for the supply and profit of our hope , your visitation shall receive such thanks as fits a
thou are too like the spirit of banquo down !
txt balm his foul head in warm distilled waters , and burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet ;
txt your marriage comes by destiny , your cuckoo sings by kind .
and little ned plantagenet , his son ?
will you think so ?
this were kindness .
you may as well go stand upon the beach and bid the main flood bate his usual height ; you
but me more good to see so great a lord basely insinuate and send us gifts .
the sleeping and the dead are but as pictures ; ' tis the eye of childhood that fears a painted
and , lips , o you the doors of breath , seal with a righteous kiss a dateless bargain to
i told him you were asleep ; he seems to have a foreknowledge of that too , and therefore comes
my mouth with .
but that your trespass now becomes a fee , mine ransoms yours , and yours must ransom me .
plain message bluntly .
falstaff sweats to death and lards the lean earth as he walks along .
em .
i should not need , if you were gentle brutus .
but do not go with it !
but wilt thou faithfully ?
say ay , and of a boy .
asking the archbishopric of toledo , this is purpos ' d .
duke of milan , and his only heir and princess no worse issued .
germans are honest men .
then the mind much sufferance doth o ' erskip when grief hath mates , and bearing fellowship .
[exeunt others of the watch .
and why so ?
therefore , i pray you , lead me to the caskets to try my fortune .
enter volumnia , virgilia , and menenius sicinius .
dar ' st thou , thou little better thing than earth , divine his downfall ?
who are they ?
these .
chance to speak , be ready straight , and with a low submissive reverence say ' what is it your
she does so blush , and fetches her wind so short , as if she were fray ' d with
help tonight .
are there balance here to weigh the flesh ?
soft , soft !
varro .
there ' s not a one of them but in his house i keep a servant feed .
as dear as helen-i mean , of ours .
and feeling sorrows , am pregnant to good pity .
sirrah , inquire further after me ; i had talk of you last night .
i , that with my sword quarter ' d the world , and o ' er green neptune ' s
salisbury .
sir , shall i to this lady ?
go in , and cheer the town ; we ' ll forth , and fight , do deeds worth praise
none do you like but an effeminate prince , whom like a school-boy you may overawe .
within his tent ; but ill-dispos ' d , my lord .
no , my noble lord , it is not for you .
before young talbot from old talbot fly , the coward horse that bears me fall and die !
and give it him to keep his anger still in motion .
farewell therefore hero !
he neither does nor shall .
these many years wasted our country , slain our citizens , and sent our sons and husbands captivate .
pardon me , madam ; i have unadvis ' d deliver ' d you a paper that i should not
i , as a child , will go by thy direction .
there ' s few or none do know me ; if they did , this ship-boy ' s semblance hath
hear ye , captain-are you not at leisure ?
he is sad and civil , and suits well for a servant with my fortunes .
_num_ if my dear love were but the child of state , it might for fortune ' s bastard be
how often have i told you ' twould be thus !
up higher to the plain , where we ' ll set forth in best appointment all our regiments .
i ' ll not pay a denier .
less , my girl .
o earth !
when our nuptial day was done , and tapers burn ' d to bedward .
we are resolved , my lord .
within thine eyes sat twenty thousand deaths , in thy hands clutch ' d as many millions , in thy
i was , and held me glad of such a doom .
death , traitor !
you vile abominable tents , thus proudly pight upon our phrygian plains , let titan rise as early as he
be retentive to the strength of spirit ; but life , being weary of these worldly bars , never lacks
enter cardinal beaufort , attended cardinal .
then with scotland first begin .
the windsor bell hath struck twelve ; the minute draws on .
my fairy lord , this must be done with haste , for night ' s swift dragons cut the clouds
a king of shreds and patches !
[to her women] alas , poor wenches , where are now your fortunes ?
par .
come , sir ; come , sir ; come , sir ; foh , sir !
txt exit warwick this part of his conjoins with my disease and helps to end me .
the lights burn blue .
as fast lock ' d up in sleep as guiltless labour when it lies starkly in the traveller ' s
from my house--if i had it-- pedro .
curls , in our heart ' s table-heart too capable of every line and trick of his sweet favour .
o my gentle brothers , have we thus met ?
ourself , and bushy , bagot here , and green , observ ' d his courtship to the common people
and art thou not poins his brother ?
saints do not move , though grant for prayers ' sake .
exeunt troilus and cressida pandarus .
who have we here ?
o , i am known of many in the army .
in her consists my happiness and thine ; without her , follows to myself and thee , herself , the
nay , good , be patient .
hear the king ' s pleasure , cardinal , who commands you to render up the great seal presently into
his father by as much as a performance does an irresolute purpose .
where is my romeo ?
i know no ways to mince it in love , but directly to say ' i love you .
enter benvolio and romeo .
manners of my mother that , upon the least occasion more , mine eyes will tell tales of me .
sons , let it be your charge , as it is ours , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
and how you shall speed in your journey ' s end , i think you ' ll never return to
as well be amity and life ' tween snow and fire as treason and my love .
come , lords , will you go to comfort edward with our company ?
sir john , thy tender lambkin now is king ; harry the fifth ' s the man .
when the sea is .
house of sale , ' page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
to ' t again , come !
ay , fashion you may call it .
his father ' s , must embrace the fate of that dark hour .
where is bagot ?
you jig , you amble , and you lisp ; you nickname god ' s creatures and make your wantonness
farewell the hopes of court !
then go successantly , and plead to him .
ah , mocker !
' a paramour is- god bless us !
a monk o ' th ' chartreux .
and when love speaks , the voice of all the gods make heaven drowsy with the harmony .
the last she spake was ' antony !
[to somerset] unless my study and my books be false , the argument you held was wrong in you ;
she that so young could give out such a seeming , to seel her father ' s eyes up close
dolphin my boy , my boy , sessa !
i thank thee for thy care and honest pains .
your resolve to suck the sweets of sweet philosophy .
, where the carcases of many a tall ship lie buried , as they say , if my gossip report
do you know , and dare not be intelligent to me ?
we doubt it nothing .
salisbury , cheer thy spirit with this comfort , thou shalt not die whiles he beckons with his hand and
here ' tis ; this is it .
grieve not that i am fall ' n to this for you , for herein fortune shows herself more kind
the heath .
' but now i envy at their liberty , and will again commit them to their bonds , because my
[within] mistress ford , mistress ford !
so , master mayor .
art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill ' d mine innocent child ?
health , at your bidding , serve your majesty !
all the vows that ever men have broke , in number more than ever women spoke , in that same
come , roundly , roundly .
of wales- but that i think his father loves him not and would be glad he met with some mischance
gallows did his fell soul fleet , and , whilst thou layest in thy unhallowed dam , infus ' d
off with his son george ' s head !
but thou prefer ' st thy life before thine honour ; and seeing thou dost , i here divorce myself
can the son ' s eye behold his father bleed ?
' cast thy humble slough , ' says she .
my thoughts do hourly prophesy mischance unto my state by suffolk ' s means .
charles ' wain is over the new chimney , and yet our horse not pack ' d .
i have been seeking you this hour , my lord .
word .
it doth appear you are a worthy judge ; you know the law ; your exposition hath been most sound
had you not lately an intent-speak truly- to go to paris ?
a room of state in the castle .
, we should advance ourselves to look with forehead bold and big enough upon the power and puissance of the
but reason with the fellow before you punish him , where he heard this , lest you shall chance to
an if you do , you will but make it blush and glow with shame of your proceedings , hubert
cross .
find him guilty , he shall not die .
here !
exit bianca and for i know she taketh most delight in music , instruments , and poetry , schoolmasters will
though it pass your patience and mine to endure her loud alarums , why , man , there be good
hie you , make haste , for it grows very late .
thou odoriferous stench !
: then being asked , where all thy beauty lies , where all the treasure of thy lusty days ;
re-enter hortensio , with his head broke baptista .
part about you blasted with antiquity ?
cromwell , i did not think to shed a tear in all my miseries ; but thou hast forc '
thou hast redeem ' d thy lost opinion , and show ' d thou mak ' st some tender of
hence forthwith unto the sanctuary to save at least the heir of edward ' s right .
why , then , thy husband ' s lands i freely give thee .
i hold the world but as the world , gratiano- a stage , where every man must play a part
you will let me quiet go , to athens will i bear my folly back , and follow you no
one chin , and so forth .
i speak not out of weak surmises , but from proof as strong as my grief and as certain as
person .
stay , stand apart ; i know not which is which .
your heart ' s desires be with you !
[aside] these are kind creatures .
i prithee beat thy drum and get thee gone .
exit an attendant what figure of us think you he will bear ?
so excellent a king , that was to this hyperion to a satyr ; so loving to my mother that
died with them they think on ?
i ' ll through gloucestershire , and there will i visit master robert shallow , esquire .
, " " " " " boyet , lord attending on the princess of france marcade , " " "
the statue is but newly fix ' d , the colour ' s not dry .
[exeunt maskers .
my gracious lord , i tender you my service , such as it is , being tender , raw ,
play in our interlude before the duke and the duchess on his wedding-day at night .
[aside] ' tis true , such pearls as put out ladies ' eyes ; for i had rather wink than
save you , master doctor caius !
txt ulysses .
bind up your hairs .
sweet bianca !
the royal tree hath left us royal fruit which , mellow ' d by the stealing hours of time ,
wise .
our dear son , when you have given good morning to your mistress , attend the queen and us ;
how you can sol-fa , and sing it .
and shall i fly ?
ambitious past all thinking , self-loving- sicinius .
not so .
re-enter cloten how now , my son ?
you attend him in the hall .
these fair ladies , and a measure to lead ' em once again ; and then let ' s dream
grecian , thou dost not use me courteously to shame the zeal of my petition to the in praising her
] you , mistress , that have the office opposite to saint peter , and keep the gate of hell
ban ; and even now my burden ' d heart would break , should i not curse them .
untimely comes this hurt .
speaks suffolk as he thinks ?
i see the business .
' a shall recover his wits there ; or , if ' a do not , ' tis no great
shall the blessed sun of heaven prove a micher and eat blackberries ?
own shame ' s orator ; look sweet , speak fair , become disloyalty ; apparel vice like virtue '
honest wives that were present .
good faith , and when i met this holy man , the men you talk of came into my mind
ca , ha !
craft against vice i must apply .
shallow fang and snare , sheriff ' s officers ralph mouldy simon shadow thomas wart francis feeble peter bullcalf country
of a foul disease , to keep it from divulging , let it feed even on the pith of life
rough northumberland , i dare your quenchless fury to more rage ; i am your butt , and i abide
him i accuse the city ports by this hath enter ' d and intends t ' appear before the people
, farewell .
upon our eldest , malcolm , whom we name hereafter the prince of cumberland ; which honor must not unaccompanied
o , if thou grant my need , which only lives but by the death of faith , that need
the wild motion of mine eye , fixing it only here ; should i , damn ' d then ,
mine own , be satisfied .
with his new bride and england ' s dear-bought queen , and humphrey with the peers be fall ' n
i hope this reason stands for my excuse .
demetrius , thou dost over-ween in all ; and so in this , to bear me down with braves .
what towns of any moment but we have ?
nothing , sir , but that i am beaten .
sure , luciana , it is two o ' clock .
[within] break any breaking here , and i ' ll break your knave ' s pate .
d hare-bell , like thy veins ; no , nor the leaf of eglantine , whom not to slander ,
not the face to say ' beseech you , cease .
nay , go not from us thus .
in this holy chase , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the palace enter king edward , gloucester , clarence , and lady grey king edward .
for thee !
king , and kneels at his feet ; then speaks queen katharine .
enter green green .
merchant , to whom angelo is a debtor pinch , a schoolmaster aemilia , wife to aegeon ; an abbess
the french fly york .
wherein worthy , but in nothing ?
is ' t even so ?
mend me , thou saucy fellow !
then in our measure do but vouchsafe one change .
them , and god befriend us as our cause is just !
then he is more beholding to you than i .
come on ; i ' ll tell thee what , thou damn ' d tripe-visag ' d rascal , an
weep to hear him speak .
truly , sir , the better for my foes and the worse for my friends .
believe me , lords , were none more wise than i- and yet herein i judge mine own wit good-
return to th ' tribunes .
' pedro .
why , then i see a very valiant rebel of the name .
myself and what is mine to you and yours is now converted .
i ' ll not love .
without , my noble lords ?
no , caius marcius ; i ' ll lean upon one crutch and fight with t ' other ere stay
txt for those who could speak low and tardily would turn their own perfection to abuse to seem like him
i say , take heed ; yes , heartily beseech you .
his royal grace- whom god preserve better than you would wish !
nine !
methinks already in this civil broil i see them lording it in london streets , crying ' villiago !
truly , i am so glad you have nobody here .
till he faced the slave , which ne ' er shook hands , nor bade farewell to him , till
no : i do repent the tedious minutes i with her have spent .
txt lobby before the council chamber enter cranmer , archbishop of canterbury cranmer .
this ' a dull sight .
' er was heard or read !
by th ' cardinal ; and on the pieces of the broken wand were plac ' d the heads of
when prospero is destroy ' d .
present my throat to thee and to thy ancient malice ; which not to cut would show thee but a
her blood , make glad and sorry seasons as thou fleet ' st , and do whate ' er thou
who did hoot him out o ' th ' city .
where is she and her son ?
not the ill wind which blows no man to good .
villains !
if he could right himself with quarrelling , some of us would lie low .
macduff i ' ll make so bold to call , for ' tis my limited service .
welcome , wanderer .
but we are prevented .
is a goodly lady ' and the justice of your hearts will thereto ad ' tis pity she ' s
yet a kind of insinuation , as it were , in via , in way , of explication ; facere
how may we try it further ?
warlike people , whom we reckon ourselves to be .
but thence i learn and find the lesson true , drugs poison him that so feil sick of you .
and the men do sympathise with the mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on , leaving their wits with their
though not by war , by surfeit die your king , as ours by murder , to make him a
very loose decides that which long process could not arbitrate .
and you of yours , my lord !
fool , as thou art .
enter other servants flavius .
, queen to king edward iv margaret , widow of king henry vi duchess of york , mother to king
bid them move away ; then in my tent , cassius , enlarge your griefs , and i will give
i ' ll get me one of such another length .
txt you .
" m .
within this hour it will be dinner-time ; till that , i ' ll view the manners of the town
what dangerous action , stood it next to death , would i not undergo for one calm look ?
thy back , i prithee .
and free .
yet to good wine they do use good bushes ; and good plays prove the better by the help of
impossible be strange attempts to those that weigh their pains in sense , and do suppose what hath been cannot
add a royal number to the dead , gracing the scroll that tells of this war ' s loss with
[to isabella] that ' s well said .
andromache , i am offended with you .
seek him out upon the british party .
exit shylock the hebrew will turn christian : he grows kind .
as easy mayst thou the intrenchant air with thy keen sword impress as make me bleed .
i did dream to-night the duke was dumb and could not speak a word .
assist .
i have trusted thee , camillo , with all the nearest things to my heart , as well my chamber-councils
leave !
o ill-starr ' d wench !
and yet the steer , the heifer , and the calf , are all call ' d neat .
it , nor your affections , and your appetites , and your digestions , does not agree with it ,
; you may look pale , but i should blush , i know , to be o ' erheard and
by my troth , sir , if i were to live this present hour , i will tell true .
my master knows not but i am gone hence , and fearfully did menace me with death if i did
well , we shall sift him .
punish me with this , and this with me , that i must be their scourge and minister .
drooping army , and himself , lord clifford , and lord stafford , all abreast , charg ' d our
you shall be lodg ' d ; the rather for i think i know your hostess as ample as myself
re-enter ghost .
that lour ' d upon our house in the deep bosom of the ocean buried .
my lord , we will not .
vexed i am of late with passions of some difference , conceptions only proper to myself , which give some
i am amaz ' d , methinks , and lose my way among the thorns and dangers of this world
must serve my turn out of mine own ; his days and times are past , and my reliances on
his queen mother all alone entreat him to show his grief .
and free from other misbegotten hate , come i appellant to this princely presence .
tail and say nothing , it will .
his glory fight , and time that gave , doth now his gift confound .
marry , sir , i think , if you handled her privately , she would sooner confess ; perchance ,
the crown ; and to take mercy on the poor souls for whom this hungry war opens his vasty jaws
so many guests invite as here are writ .
therefore , to be possess ' d with double pomp , to guard a title that was rich before ,
the heavens .
of present dues .
eat , timon , and abhor them .
i have paid percy ; i have made him sure .
ah , who hath any cause to mourn but we ?
marrying a punk , my lord , is pressing to death , whipping , and hanging .
but pandarus-o gods , how do you plague me !
laertes , was your father dear to you ?
conduits of my blood froze up , yet hath my night of life some memory , my wasting lamps some
but montague is bound as well as i , in penalty alike ; and ' tis not hard , i
where is he , hear you ?
my lord of winchester , i know your mind ; ' tis not my speeches that you do mislike ,
of the night , a thousand fiends , a thousand hissing snakes , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
a crown for york !
[aside] i scarce know how .
than to be butcher of an innocent child .
shall i command thy love ?
if any wretch have put this in your head , let heaven requite it with the serpent ' s curse
that angelo ' s a murderer , is ' t not strange ?
elizabeth .
wast thou in prayer ?
therefore farewell .
and twenty of these puny lies i ' ll tell , that men shall swear i have discontinued school about
of more delight than hawks and horses be : and having thee , of all men ' s pride i
[shout within] ha !
now , somerset , where is your argument ?
see you yond coign o ' th ' capitol , yond cornerstone ?
[aside] so wise so young , they say , do never live long .
a sceptre shall it have , have i a soul on which i ' ll toss the flower-de-luce of france
france and milk of burgundy strive to be interest ; what can you say to draw a third more opulent
let not that doctor e ' er come near my house ; since he hath got the jewel that i
good judgments , turn ' d away the fat knight with the great belly doublet ; he was full of
looking the way her harmless young one went , and can do nought but wail her darling ' s loss
i could put thee in comfort : not by two that i know ; thou makest the triumviry , the
going .
are all thy conquests , glories , triumphs , spoils , shrunk to this little measure ?
[giving a ring] proteus .
enter charles charles .
but if these , as i am sure they do , bear fire enough to kindle cowards and to steel
' s pawn .
] then comes my fit again .
that art which you say adds to nature , is an art that nature makes .
[within] what hoa , gossip ford , what hoa !
re-enter enobarbus enobarbus .
trouble thou hast turn ' d me to ?
exeunt cardinal , somerset , and others warwick .
come in my grace .
enter king , queen , and somerset , on the terrace king henry .
unreprievable condemned blood .
' farewell .
i know that voice .
by my troth .
when that my care could not withhold thy riots , what wilt thou do when riot is thy care ?
richmond .
hadst thou but shook thy head or made pause , when i spake darkly what i purposed , or turn
rosencrantz , courtier .
enter [some of the watch , ] with romeo ' s man [balthasar] .
will none but heme the hunter serve your turn ?
txt have sent thee treasure .
no , no , he ' s gone .
comfort , gentle constance !
but what ' s that pucelle whom they term so pure ?
most subject is the fattest soil to weeds ; and he , the noble image of my youth , is
you true .
a gentleman , nurse , that loves to hear himself talk and will speak more in a minute than he
even now about it !
running to devour the way , staying no longer question .
i know thee well ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
shall i go fetch your nightgown ?
and why not the swift foot of time ?
and what one thing , what another , that i shall leave you one o ' th ' s days
' tis true , master shallow .
he hath slept long .
biondello , what of that ?
as merry as you will .
the day is spent .
exeunt re-enter lucentio as cambio , and biondello biondello .
you cannot , if my heart were in your hand ; nor shall not , whilst ' tis in my
offender ' s life lies in the mercy of the duke only , ' gainst all other voice .
now is cade driven back , his men dispers ' d , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
txt gloucester and exeter king henry .
cade , a rebel george bevis , john holland , dick the butcher , smith the weaver , michael ,
thy noble shape is but a form of wax digressing from the valour of a man ; thy dear love
if this , or more than this , i would deny , to flatter up these powers of mine with
second citizens .
exit hortensius .
so bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench are from their hives and houses driven away .
o , i have fed upon this woe already , and now excess of it will make me surfeit .
sir , you have done enough , and have perform ' d a saint-like sorrow .
upon her wit doth earthly honour wait , and virtue stoops and trembles at her frown .
in the very torrent , tempest , and (as i may say) whirlwind of your passion , you must acquire
o loyal father of a treacherous son !
discover where thy mistress is at once , at the next word .
there stand , for you are spell-stopp ' d .
well , it ' s all one .
o , let him marry her !
after dinner your hazard shall be made .
an i had but one penny in the world , thou shouldst have it to buy ginger-bread .
if you can behold it , i ' ll make the statue move indeed , descend , and take you
heads .
the rites of war speak loudly for him .
we should by this , to all our lamentation , if he had gone forth consul , found it so
not noted , is ' t , but of the finer natures , by some severals of head-piece extraordinary ?
for any good that i myself have done unto myself ?
sorrow and grief have vanquish ' d all my powers ; and , vanquish ' d as i am ,
chide him for faults , and do it reverently , when you perceive his blood inclin ' d to mirth
suits of peach-colour ' d satin , which now peaches him a beggar .
not to be tempted , would she be immured , and now to tempt all liberty procured .
i protest , in the sincerity of love and honest kindness .
mark you but that !
then i , and you , and all of us fell down , whilst bloody treason flourish ' d over
why , how now , uncle gloucester !
yes , lion-sick , sick of proud heart .
this is not , no , laid to thy answer ; but the last- o lords , when i have
hail , royal prince !
enter canidius canidius .
rack ' d , even to the uttermost , to furnish thee to belmont to fair portia .
i am call ' d ; my little spirit , see , sits in a foggy cloud and stays for
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ act iii .
[exeunt leonato and messenger .
of fashions in proud italy , whose manners still our tardy apish nation limps after in base imitation .
how prettily the young swain seems to wash the hand was fair before !
the timon ' s cave , and a rude tomb seen enter a soldier in the woods , seeking timon
and i ' ll grow friend with danger .
' tis sin to flatter ; ' good ' was little better .
a pretty foot , a cherry lip , a bonny eye , a passing pleasing tongue ; and that the
with all my heart .
call him up , drawer .
- stop it , marcellus !
king henry and the prince his son are gone .
his overthrow heap ' d happiness upon him ; for then , and not till then , he felt himself
am i like such a fellow ?
grim as hell !
prisoners wildly overgrown with hair , put forth disorder ' d twigs ; her fallow leas the darnel , hemlock
out , scab !
only to seem to deserve well , and to beguile the supposition of that lascivious young boy the count ,
thou art a robber , a law-breaker , a villain .
and one thing more : that you be never so hardy to come again in his affairs , unless it
lessen ' d herself and in the beams o ' th ' sun so vanish ' d ; which foreshow
hoc .
[a cry within] a plague upon this howling !
enter duke frederick , lords , orlando , charles , and attendants frederick .
but you , my honourable lords , may name the time ; and in the duke ' s behalf i
i do arrest your words .
of rome , especially his mother , may prevail with him .
sir , much like the same upon your finger .
txt the harlot ' s cheek , beautied with plast ' ring art , is not more ugly to the
of ireland , &c .
good , good !
' st good manners , then thy manners must be wicked ; and wickedness is sin , and sin is
of ' s mind could best express how slow his soul sail ' d on , how swift his ship
' tybalt ' s dead , ' thy father , or thy mother , nay , or both , which
ay , more .
o heaven , that there were but a mote in yours , a grain , a dust , a gnat
where is our usual manager of mirth ?
pow ' rs ; nay , in the body of the fleshly land , this kingdom , this confine of
we have not yet been seen in any house , nor can we be distinguish ' d by our faces
[to orlando] to you i give myself , for i am yours .
another part of the field flourish .
this is the letter to your ladyship .
ergo , master launcelot .
wither one rose , and let the other flourish !
practice had in the brave squares of war .
' tis a double labour .
herein i teach you how you shall bid god ' ield us for your pains , and thank us for
and from thy hated presence part i so ; see me no more whether he be dead or no .
o , by your leave , i pray you : i bade you never speak again of him ; but
my brother he is in elysium .
my dearest lord- blest to be most accurst , rich only to be wretched- thy great fortunes are made thy
who ' s there ?
this is not strange at all .
they kiss , consume .
why , bishop , is norfolk dead ?
i would you would accept of grace and love .
well , march we on to give obedience where ' tis truly owed .
let ' s hear it .
that way the noise is .
away , away !
good lords , although my will to give is living , the suit which you demand is gone and dead
make incision for your love to prove whose blood is reddest , his or mine .
a dream itself is but a shadow .
but trust me , gentleman , i ' ll prove more true than those that have more cunning to be
it is the pasture lards the rother ' s sides , the want that makes him lean .
give her what comforts the quality of her passion shall require , lest , in her greatness , by some
come on , come on , come on ; give me your hand , sir ; give me your hand
good wench , let ' s sit down quiet , for fear we wake her .
i have a jewel here- merchant .
a father of the commonweal , to be disgraced by an inkhorn mate , page _num_ complete works of william
no more words , thersites ; peace !
i know not , menas , how lesser enmities may give way to greater .
heaven witness , i have been to you a true and humble wife , at all times to your will
i was mov ' d withal .
o perdurable shame !
as had been ask ' d twice on the banes- such a commodity of warm slaves as had as lieve
good morrow , ajax .
it in her eyes ; the next thing then she waking looks upon , be it on lion , bear
, a troubled mind drave me to walk abroad ; where , underneath the grove of sycamore that westward rooteth
if you will see it , follow me .
i am no beast .
that romeo should , upon receipt thereof , soon sleep in quiet .
for to no other pass my verses tend , than of your graces and your gifts to tell .
come , come , the cause .
son , list to this conjunction , make this match ; give with our niece a dowry large enough ;
according to your ladyship ' s impose , i am thus early come to know what service it is your
marry , i ' ll see thee hang ' d first !
you speak as having power to do wrong ; but answer in th ' effect of your reputation , and
i think he bought his doublet in italy , his round hose in france , his bonnet in germany ,
then thou hast but lost the dregs of life , the prey of worms , my body being dead ,
i know not why i love this youth , and i have heard you say love ' s reason '
see now how wit may be made a jack-a-lent when ' tis upon ill employment .
master doctor , you shall go ; so shall you , master page ; and you , sir hugh .
persuaded him from a first .
well , well , no more of that .
if you can make ' t apparent that you have tasted her in bed , my hand and ring is
o happy horse , to bear the weight of antony !
do you meddle with my master ?
this way the king will come ; this is the way to julius caesar ' s ill-erected tower , to
we must be burnt for you .
my lord , this is impiety in you .
true heart ' s love .
this is to lord timon ; this to alcibiades .
your worship , sir ; or else i mistook .
come , my queen ; last night you did desire it .
i speak but in the figures and comparisons of it ; as alexander kill ' d his friend cleitus ,
land at harvest home .
, and overcame .
once more i come to know of thee , king harry , if for thy ransom thou wilt now compound
you are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch .
he find for ancient quarrels and quite lost their hearts .
yea , at all points ; and longs to enter in .
s death .
i do remember it , and here take my leave to go about my preparation .
-give , when she is able to overtake seventeen years old .
he ' ll spare none .
well , sir .
txt is that his noble grace would have some pity upon my wretched women that so long have follow '
here without discharge , money , or furniture , till france be won into the dauphin ' s hands .
txt did buy each other , must poorly sell ourselves with the rude brevity and discharge of one .
by the sweet power of music .
o , how this spring of love resembleth the uncertain glory of an april day , which now shows all
then is your cause gone too .
sound trumpets <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library
these are not natural events ; they strengthen from strange to stranger .
that you must .
no more can i be severed from your side than can yourself yourself yourself in twain divide .
the loyalty well held to fools does make our faith mere folly .
[exit dennis] ' twill be a good way ; and to-morrow the wrestling is .
near to her close and consecrated bower , while she was in her dull and sleeping hour , a crew
allow ?
beat !
when we were boys , who would believe that there were mountaineers , dewlapp ' d like bulls , whose
exeunt duke and lords celia .
a little thing would make me tell them how much i lack of a man .
said , cry ' woe !
if caesar move him , let antony look over caesar ' s head and speak as loud as mars .
, shall we now contaminate our fingers with base bribes and sell the mighty space of our large honors for
' tis , ' tis his fortune .
come , recreant , come , thou child ; i ' ll whip thee with a rod .
i bear i ' th ' state ; and nature does require her times of preservation , which perforce i
exeunt the two staffords and soldiers cade .
well , i will be there .
room for antony , most noble antony .
come , i charge you both go with me ; for the man is dead that you and pistol beat
name her not now , sir ; she ' s a deadly theme .
well , my good lord .
in whose confine immured is the store , which should example where your equal grew .
would it be better , madam , than i am ?
both are my kinsmen .
afore me , it is so very very late that we may call it early by-and-by .
do not satisfy your resolution with hopes that are fallible ; to-morrow you must die ; go to your knees
i do desire to learn , sir ; and i hope , if you have occasion to use me for
importing the mere perdition of the turkish fleet , every man put himself into triumph ; some to dance ,
first stranger .
no ; you shall not make me welcome .
he speaks well .
she is too subtle for thee ; and her smoothness , her very silence and her patience , speak to
sir , it is your fault that i have lov ' d posthumus .
will ye relent and yield to mercy whilst ' tis offer ' d you , or let a rebel lead
i am my master ' s true confirmed love , but cannot be true servant to my master unless i
i will make an end of my dinner ; there ' s pippins and cheese to come .
[to bertram] i dare not say i take you ; but i give me and my service , ever whilst
long as ' tis by a vortnight .
upon their faces .
that may be must be , love , on thursday next .
o , if this were seen , the happiest youth , viewing his progress through , what perils past ,
but fare thee well ; there is a ducat for thee ; and , launcelot , soon at supper shalt
jove shield thee well for this !
' tis no matter .
short tale to make- we at saint albans met , our battles join ' d , and both sides fiercely
thou art !
you do seem to know page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hear the piteous moan that rutland made when black-fac ' d clifford shook his sword at him ; nor when
or if i might buffet for my love , or bound my horse for her favours , i could lay
nay , but his taunts !
must light on this ingratitude .
then he compass ' d a motion of the prodigal son , and married a tinker ' s wife within
come hither to me , master froth .
without desert so well reputed .
for divers unknown reasons , i beseech you , grant me this boon .
pains .
txt i am your husband if you like of me .
what , john !
is an honorable man .
give me some little breath , some pause , dear lord , before i positively speak in this .
the jove of power make me , most weak , most weak , your reconciler !
then soul live thou upon thy servant ' s loss , and let that pine to aggravate thy store ;
so will i pray that thou mayst have thy will , if thou turn back and my loud crying still
' - ' god-a-mercy , fellow !
many moe of noble blood in this declining land .
courage , my masters !
no , faith , i ' ll not stay a jot longer .
mine ear is open and my heart prepar ' d .
how now , my headstrong ?
come in with me , thersites .
enter york how now , my noble lord !
power against you , and that with the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath , never trust my judgment
now margaret must strike her sail and learn a while to serve where kings command .
now , as i am a true woman , holland of eight shillings an ell .
huntsman .
' a been a grandam ere she died .
falstaff , bardolph , peto , and gadshill shall rob those men that we have already waylaid ; yourself and
shall we in ?
he jests at scars that never felt a wound .
i am hurt .
i , after him , do after him wish too , since i nor wax nor honey can bring home
a long flourish , while the king consults his council draw near , and list what with our council we
this ring was mine ; and when i gave it helen i bade her , if her fortunes ever stood
revoke thy gift , or , whilst i can vent clamour from my throat , i ' ll tell thee
[they stand aside] re-enter pedant below ; baptista , tranio , and servants tranio .
now , as thou lov ' st me , let me see his letter .
speak , o ' er whom , in time to come , i hope to reign ; for i am
sir , i would speak with you .
the crowner hath sate on her , and finds it christian burial .
from them that they have !
thou hast taken against me a most just exception ; but yet , i protest , have dealt most directly
] <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library ,
gracious england hath lent us good siward and ten thousand men ; an older and a better soldier none that
less than an ace , man ; for he is dead ; he is nothing .
but if he sack fair athens , and take our goodly aged men by th ' beards , giving our
jaques de boys .
like it your grace , the state takes notice of the private difference betwixt you and the cardinal .
to your professed bosoms i commit him ; but yet , alas , stood i within his grace , i
your grace , i fear , with dancing is a little heated .
a room in the house of polonius .
see these letters delivered , put the liveries to making , and desire gratiano to come anon to my lodging
a thousand thanks , signior gremio .
his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs .
thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue , finding thy worth a limit past my praise , and
my lord protector needs will have it so .
txt fell by our servants , by those men we lov ' d most- a most unnatural and faithless service
exeunt enter , on the other side of the field , richmond , sir william brandon , oxford , dorset
i shall see thee , ere i die , look pale with love .
she ' s a most triumphant lady , if report be square to her .
tut , tut , thou art all ice ; thy kindness freezes .
hereafter , which shall then have no power to stand against us .
i never gave him token .
me so much of your time in exchange of it as to lay an amiable siege to the honesty of
d , most lov ' d , a sample to the youngest ; to th ' more mature a glass
[noise of hunt within] a savage clamour !
[stabs bassianus] chiron .
my commission , and set down- as best thou art experienc ' d , since thou know ' st thy
demand .
[northumberland advances to the castle , with a trumpet] let ' s march without the noise of threat ' ning
must yield my body to the earth and , by my fall , the conquest to my foe .
what dost thou think ' tis worth ?
for what is in this world but grief and woe ?
; observe his construction of it .
what think ' st thou-will our friends prove all true ?
alack , alack , what blood is this which stains the stony entrance of this sepulchre ?
ll make a holy descant ; and be not easily won to our requests .
in health , i tell thee , herald , i thought upon one pair of english legs did march three
i will not do ' t .
because not there .
for they are worthy to inlay heaven with stars .
a kind .
certain ladies or countesses , with plain circlets of gold without flowers .
but see , but see .
of a galliard .
he hath done good service , lady , in these wars .
none of my lord ' s ring !
didst thou not tell me , griffith , as thou led ' st me , that the great child of
in thy tongue and heart .
txt as for her greeks and troyans suff ' red death .
[kneeling] if i affect it more than as your honour and as your renown , let me no more from
some sins do bear their privilege on earth , and so doth yours : your fault was not your folly
hedge , for his father had never a house but the cage .
lady , shall i lie in your lap ?
and baseness of our natures would conduct us to most preposterous conclusions .
what profane wretch art thou ?
the feast is sold that is not often vouch ' d , while ' tis amaking , ' tis given
[kneels] king henry .
do you bite your thumb at us , sir ?
their lips were four red roses on a stalk , and in their summer beauty kiss ' d each other
before justice , shallow ' s house page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
we ' ll jure ye , faith !
what is in you ?
this , as you say , suggested at some time when his soaring insolence shall touch the people- which time
shall will in others seem right gracious , and in my will no fair acceptance shine ?
indeed , la , ' tis a noble child .
vain dew page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exit servilius true , as you said , timon is shrunk indeed ; and he that ' s once denied
here it is , i think .
txt a husband .
give me my servant forth .
well , as you guess ?
most sweet wench ?
how now o what hath befall ' n ?
d me .
will the king come , that i may breathe my last in wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth ?
money by our father lent , than aquitaine so gelded as it is .
away , varlets !
more company !
[to isabella] thou ' rt i ' th ' right , girl ; more o ' that .
the prince once set a dish of apple-johns before him , and told him there were five more sir johns
turn not thy scorns this way , plantagenet .
fair lady , do you think you have fools in hand ?
now the time is flush , when crouching marrow , in the bearer strong , cries of itself ' no
txt without a tongue , using conceit alone , without eyes , ears , and harmful sound of words- then
is not his heir a well-deserving son ?
i did when you made me drunk , yet i am not altogether an ass .
i would your grace would take me with you .
with industry ; for this they have engrossed and pil ' d up the cank ' red heaps of strange-achieved
i ' ll tell thee what- yet go !
sirrah grumio , go to your mistress ; say i command her come to me .
do not receive affliction at my petition ; i beseech you , rather let me be punish ' d that
he wrings at some distress .
here , noble henry , is my staff .
tis his highness ' pleasure you shall to th ' tower .
i am sorry for thee .
thy face is mine , and thou hast sland ' red it .
i will beat thee into handsomeness .
then , gracious auditory , be it known to you that chiron and the damn ' d demetrius were they
unnatural .
the french king ' s camp enter king philip , lewis , pandulph , and attendants king philip .
that i despise thee for thy wrongful suit , and by and by intend to chide myself even for this
to wait , said i ?
what said my man when my betossed soul did not attend him as we rode ?
and yours , fair queen ?
help me , my women .
sovereignty of nature .
she that herself will sliver and disbranch from her material sap , perforce must wither and come to deadly use
if i hope well , i ' ll never see thee more .
unveil in their dumb cradles .
soul , and my heart , and my duty , and my live , and my living , and my
a caudle , ho !
nay , you shall see my orchard , where , in an arbour , we will eat a last year
it cannot be call ' d our mother , but our grave .
sister , you know he promis ' d me a chain ; would that alone a love he would detain
there for pavement to the abject rear , o ' er-run and trampled on .
open the gates ; ' tis gloucester that calls .
thou wert his mother .
setting your scorns and your mislike aside , tell me some reason why the lady grey should not become my
[to brabantio .
de chin .
it is your husband mock ' d you with a husband .
i know thee well ; thou hast obtain ' d thy suit .
, and owen glendower ?
if the rascal have not given me medicines to make me love him , i ' ll be hang '
o , when she had writ it , and was reading it over , she found ' benedick ' and
txt or as sweet-seasoned showers are to the ground ; and for the peace of you i hold such strife
sickness , farewell all physic ; and what follows then ?
wouldst have me kneel ?
own with oily painting .
being done , there is no pause .
speak it in french , king , say ' pardonne moy .
soft as young down , and therefore lost that title of respect which the proud soul ne ' er pays
the fraud of men was ever so , since summer first was leavy .
nay ; pray be cover ' d .
let me excuse thee , ah my love well knows , her pretty looks have been mine enemies , and
but for the stock , sir thomas , i wish it grubb ' d up now .
the pole a ranker rate , should it be sold in fee .
now come i to my father : ' father , your blessing .
life to woo a maid in way of marriage ; lastly , if i do fail in fortune of my
get you gone , sirrah .
it seems his sleeps were hind ' red by thy railing , and thereof comes it that his head is
with our sword we wip ' d away the blot ; therefore , when merchant-like i sell revenge , broke
my noble uncle , do you know the cause ?
how smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience !
in peace .
be certain what you do , sir , lest your justice prove violence , in the which three great ones
sir valentine and servant , to you two thousand .
pursue him to his house and pluck him thence , lest his infection , being of catching nature , spread
and love , and great allies [to silvius] you to a long and well-deserved bed ; [to touchstone] and you
worthy montano , you were wont be civil ; the gravity and stillness of your youth the world hath noted
it shall as level to your judgment pierce as day does to your eye .
is ink and paper ready ?
o , widow dido !
enter sir william lucy , attended ; a french herald preceding lucy .
or is it fear that makes him close his eyes ?
thy chink , to blink through with mine eyne .
at your birth our grandam earth , having this distemp ' rature , in passion shook .
discharge yourself of our company , pistol .
both at an instant and fought a long hour by shrewsbury clock .
some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens to be thy nurses !
spite of fortune , will bring me off again .
sad , high , and working , full of state and woe , such noble scenes as draw the eye
thou praisest the worst best .
them have scope ; though what they will impart help nothing else , yet do they case the heart .
[gives a paper .
what do you think , you , the great toe of this assembly ?
thou beliest thyself .
txt enter an old shepherd shepherd .
mind to answer it .
how is ' t , brother ?
and so may you ; for a light heart lives long .
that which thou canst not undo .
so use it that my revengeful services may prove as benefits to thee ; for i will fight against my
that ' s a degree to love .
know ' st thou not that i have fin ' d these bones of mine for ransom ?
poor harmless fly , that with his pretty buzzing melody page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
so much for praising myself , who , i myself will bear witness , is praiseworthy .
[aside] she shines not upon fools , lest the reflection should hurt her .
enter two or three servants with a banquet first servant .
most kind messenger , say to great caesar this : in deputation i kiss his conquring hand .
where ' s then the saucy boat , whose weak untimber ' d sides but even now co-rivall ' d
but shall you on your knowledge find this way ?
cheek .
enter porter and his man porter .
let the watch come forth .
did not you tell me i should know the man by the athenian garments he had on ?
and will deny him ; i ' ll have five hundred voices of that sound .
dishes , with scraps o ' th ' court- it is no contract , none .
i never heard of such another encounter , which lames report to follow it and undoes description to do it
do not these fair yokes become the forest better than the town ?
come , neighbour mugs , we ' ll call up the gentlemen .
your ruin- marry her ; and with my best endeavours in your absence your discontenting father strive to qualify ,
a sad tale ' s best for winter .
nay , you shall fight your hearts out ere i part you .
his voice was propertied as all the tuned spheres , and that to friends ; but when he meant to
, the death of each day ' s life , sore labor ' s bath , balm of hurt minds
o , you have made good work !
had they been rul ' d by me , you should have won them dearer than you have .
alack , for pity !
faith , thou hast some crotchets in thy head now .
apothecary !
be free .
come down , you witch , you hag you ; come down , i say .
who has put in ?
(sings) larded all with sweet flowers ; which bewept to the grave did not go with true-love showers .
a bastard son of the king ' s ?
pray you , keep seat .
no higher than thyself , the judge ' s clerk ; a prating boy that begg ' d it as
he ' s gone , but his wife ' s kill ' d .
we will do ' t , come what will come .
who leads his power ?
children .
i do despise them , for they do prank them in authority , against all noble sufferance .
i would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection .
hast thou , which art but air , a touch , a feeling of their afflictions , and shall not
she is froward , peevish , sullen , sour , and not obedient to his honest will , what is
of what , lady ?
tell me your mind .
good sir , no more !
i ' ll fetch a turn about the garden , pitying the pangs of barr ' d affections , though
he by the senate is accited home , from weary wars against the barbarous goths , that with his sons
this is the letter he spoke of , which approves him an intelligent party to the advantages of france .
the bishops place themselves on each side of the court , in manner of consistory ; below them the scribes
and cross-garter ' d ?
his passage ?
we are time ' s subjects , and time bids be gone .
and how does good master fenton ?
under the canopy .
within this hour bring me word ' tis done , and by good testimony , or i ' ll seize
my name is mary , sir .
[advancing] falstaff .
do ; for if he show us his wounds and tell us his deeds , we are to put our
married to the duke of gloucester a young daughter of clarence (margaret plantagenet , countess of salisbury) ghosts , of
this passes !
o , born so , master !
hang ye !
; and you , lord archbishop , and you , lord mowbray , of capital treason i attach you both
ay , thou poor ghost , while memory holds a seat in this distracted globe .
this i must say- but first , i beg my pardon : the young lord did to his majesty ,
why , our authority is his consent , and what we do establish he confirms ; then , noble york
fled ; but by-and-by comes back to romeo , who had but newly entertain ' d revenge , and to
lo , whilst i waited on my tender lambs and to sun ' s parching heat display ' d my
o slaves , i can tell you news- news , you rascals !
so i do .
txt defend thee !
i saw no man use you at his pleasure .
god bless thee ; and put meekness in thy breast , love , charity , obedience , and true duty
none but the king ?
o , go not yet !
after you first forswore it on the mart ; and thereupon i drew my sword on you , and then
for i lack soldiers .
and truly , i ' ll devise some honest slanders to stain my cousin with .
vile squealing of the wry-neck ' d fife , clamber not you up to the casements then , nor thrust
o , is this he ?
look , here it is .
occasion to write for matter of grant , shall name your highness in this form and with this addition ,
my mother had a maid call ' d barbary ; she was in love , and he she loved proved
to an answer , as the pope .
enter four or five servingmen nathaniel .
' _num_ .
ancient , conduct them ; you best know the place .
why , brother hector , we may not think the justness of each act such and no other than event
you look angerly .
well bestowed .
mutton ; and she , a lac ' d mutton , gave me , a lost mutton , nothing for
come , bind them .
abr .
privilege i have with the parents of the foresaid child or pupil , undertake your ben venuto ; where i
i ' ll make a shaft or a bolt on ' t ; ' slid , ' tis but venturing
time is the nurse and breeder of all good .
[clock strikes] the clock upbraids me with the waste of time .
so say we too , but not by edward ' s wife ; for first was he contract to lady
have you ere now denied the asker , and now again , of him that did not ask but mock
poor ropes , you are beguil ' d , both you and i , for romeo is exil ' d
how i have sped among the clergymen the sums i have collected shall express .
nay , more : if any born at ephesus page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
just , just !
maid , to thy master ' s bed : thy mistress is o ' th ' brothel .
hence away ; now all is well .
i thank your worship for your good counsel ; [aside] but i shall follow it as the flesh and fortune
me- ' twas no longer ago than wednesday last , i ' good faith !
france should have torn and rent my very heart before i would have yielded to this league .
roman disciplines , than is a puppy-dog .
lord longaville said i came o ' er his heart ; and trow you what he call ' d me
whence come you ?
islander , that hath lately suffered by thunderbolt .
wherefore was i to this keen mockery born ?
in cases of defence ' tis best to weigh the enemy more mighty than he seems ; so the proportions
haste we for it .
draw , and come .
well said , master ; mum !
sir john falstaff .
how doth pride grow ?
assuredly you know me .
where air comes out , air comes in ; there ' s none abroad so wholesome as that you vent
txt the forest enter touchstone and audrey touchstone .
[to york] i here entail the crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever ; conditionally , that here
so i heard you say .
o miserable lady !
make good room .
following the fliers at the very heels , with them he enters ; who , upon the sudden , clapp
cotus !
good thersites , come in and rail .
for neptune ' s hips ; how chances mock , and changes fill the cup of alteration with divers liquors
' when griping grief the heart doth wound , and doleful dumps the mind oppress , then music with her
wrinkles forbid !
[aside] to have smell ' d like a fool .
sebastian .
they come like sacrifices in their trim , and to the fire-ey ' d maid of smoky war all hot
alexandria .
exit bastard france , i am burn ' d up with inflaming wrath , a rage whose heat hath this
i took him sleeping- that is finish ' d too- and the athenian woman by his side ; that ,
what , hath your grace no better company ?
how could communities , degrees in schools , and brotherhoods in cities , peaceful commerce from dividable shores , the
it is the prettiest villain ; she fetches her breath as short as a new-ta ' en sparrow .
that fair again unsay .
what of her ?
txt of derby , to your good prayer will scarcely say amen .
she eat no meat to-day , nor none shall eat ; last night she slept not , nor to-night she
speak yet again .
law page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
would prefer him to a better place !
is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble ?
it was against our will .
leave us .
ever , ever dearly .
why speak ' st thou not ?
thou art so fat-witted with drinking of old sack , and unbuttoning thee after supper , and sleeping upon benches
to do them good i would sustain some harm .
my lord , here are letters for you .
think that you are upon a rock , and now throw me again .
our right in aquitaine , and hold fair friendship with his majesty .
[exit fellow .
and his poor self , a dedicated beggar to the air , with his disease of all-shunn ' d poverty
a strange one as ever i look ' d on .
good madam , let me see your face .
i have lost my hopes .
couldst thou save nothing ?
are they so ?
my noble lord- othello .
they see ?
hath he provided this music ?
call the slave again .
my treasure ' s in the harbour , take it .
now , as i am a christian , answer me in what safe place you have bestow ' d my
yes , in good faith .
wherefore apt ?
, he ' s just .
my lord , he wonders to what end you have assembled such troops of citizens to come to him .
woeful bed ?
a wassail candle , my lord- all tallow ; if i did say of wax , my growth would approve
be menelaus , i would conspire against destiny .
thou art always figuring diseases in me , but thou art full of error ; i am sound .
have i caught thee ?
sir , my lord , i could do this ; and that with no rash potion , but with a
against a monarch !
but , rosaline , you have a favour too ?
prince , prince of wales ; the second , william of hatfield ; and the third , lionel duke of
i never lov ' d my brother in my life .
are you not ashamed to enforce a poor widow to so rough a course to come by her own ?
o false cressid !
why tender ' st thou that paper to me with a look untender !
the trumpets sound .
twere their own ; for if such actions may have passage free , bond slaves and pagans shall our statesmen
what service wilt thou do me if i give them ?
rosaline , what did the russian whisper in your ear ?
ay , if the fool could find it where it lies .
laer .
the head .
then heaven have mercy on me !
if i do , fillip me with a three-man beetle .
o , then , my father , will you permit that i shall stand condemn ' d a wandering vagabond
she for an edward weeps , and so do i : i for a clarence weep , so doth not
why with some little train , my lord of buckingham ?
here is yet a postscript .
good leave , good philip .
ay , my good lord ; a son that well deserves the honour and regard of such a father .
' it stinted , and said ' ay .
here lies our way .
another room in cymbeline ' s palace enter pisanio reading of a letter pisanio .
macbeth is ripe for shaking , and the powers above put on their instruments .
how now , balthasar ?
alas , that warwick had no more forecast , but , whiles he thought to steal the single ten ,
is that the meaning of ' accost ' ?
if you be not he ; nor ne ' er wed woman , if you be not she .
shall we thither , and with our company piece the rejoicing ?
come , come , thou reverend man of rome , and bring our emperor gently in thy hand , lucius
why , this is not a boon ; ' tis as i should entreat you wear your gloves , or
he know his purse , or yield me this , to show him what a beggar his heart is ,
no , sir ; but it is vara fine , for every one pursents three .
tonight we hold a solemn supper , sir , and i ' ll request your presence .
d the line of every other favour , scorn ' d a fair colour or express ' d it stol
feeling so the loss , i cannot choose but ever weep the friend .
come , we will put forth , body and goods .
so , when he had occasion to be seen , he was but as the cuckoo is in june ,
why , ' some are born great , some achieve greatness , and some have greatness thrown upon them .
[offering to kiss her] katharine .
but this new governor awakes me all the enrolled penalties which have , like unscour ' d armour , hung
right gracious lord , i cannot brook delay .
no ; like a bank for love to lie and play on ; not like a corse ; or if-
, without his help , can make a head to push against a kingdom , with his help we shall
lucilius and titinius , bid the commanders prepare to lodge their companies tonight .
beshrew me , if i would do such a wrong for the whole world .
, and so indiscreet an officer .
a bawd , sir ?
what , rouse thee , man !
transform us not to women .
this respite shook the bosom of my conscience , enter ' d me , yea , with a splitting power
you know my father left me some prescriptions of rare and prov ' d effects , such as his reading
i am qualmish at the smell of leek .
grow .
their use , and slay us after .
you have obtain ' d it .
come , temperate nymphs , and help to celebrate a contract of true love ; be not too late .
him , he is gagg ' d .
exceeding well ; his cares are now all ended .
when thou cam ' st first , thou strok ' st me and made much of me , wouldst give
you have seen sunshine and rain at once : her smiles and tears were like , a better way .
' fair ' i give you back again ; and ' welcome ' i have not yet .
in his looks .
we will employ thee .
blank of his displeasure for my free speech !
o notable strumpet !
my lord ulysses , tell me , i beseech you , in what place of the field doth calchas keep
, that lift your vassal hands against my head and threat the glory of my precious crown .
silenced with that , in viewing o ' er the rest o ' the selfsame day , he finds thee
with the salt of broken tears .
let them come .
romeo , good night .
i would they had broke ' s neck .
grumio , mum !
out of your proof you speak .
sans fable , she herself revil ' d you there .
d fight there too .
he is well paid that is well satisfied , and i , delivering you , am satisfied , and therein
; but i might see young cupid ' s fiery shaft quench ' d in the chaste beams of the
eat grass or pick a sallet another while , which is not amiss to cool a man ' s stomach
i ' ll make my heaven in a lady ' s lap , and deck my body in gay ornaments
three great oaths would scarce make that be believed .
give signs , sweet girl , for here are none but friends , what roman lord it was durst do
little are we beholding to your love , and little look ' d for at your helping hands .
art of this house ?
know you these two ?
commend my service to my sovereign .
it is ' music with her silver sound ' because musicians have no gold for sounding .
but if there be nor ever were one such , it ' s past the size of drearning .
no , my good lord ; ' tis but the shadow of a wife you see , the name and
by any voice or order of the field ?
and a good lady , and a wise and virtuous .
enter on the walls , the king , the bishop of carlisle , aumerle , scroop , and salisbury see
i ' faith , kate , my wooing is fit for thy understanding : i am glad thou canst speak
the romans are beat back to their trenches .
now the hungry lion roars , and the wolf behowls the moon ; whilst the heavy ploughman snores , all
les ongles ?
re-enter ariel , with the master and boatswain amazedly following o look , sir ; look , sir !
o viper vile !
at least have leave and leisure to make love to her , and unsuspected court her by herself .
the edge of war , like an ill-sheathed knife , no more shall cut his master .
is he here , say you ?
are you there , wife ?
father !
sir , good success !
you depend upon a notable gentleman ; i must needs praise him .
[aside] i knew them all , though they suppos ' d me mad , and will o ' er reach
once more i ' ll read the ode that i have writ .
it is no more but that your daughter , ere she seems as won , desires this ring ; appoints
but tell me , dost thou know my lady silvia ?
scout .
as i am egypt ' s queen , thou blushest , antony , and that blood of thine is caesar
feast , if ever from your eyelids wip ' d a tear , and know what ' tis to pity
[to isabella] give ' t not o ' er so ; to him again , entreat him , kneel down
how say ' st thou , charles ?
and forgive us all !
to-day , my lord ; and for three months before , no int ' rim , not a minute '
i ' th ' clout , i ' th ' clout !
i will have none on ' t .
if it be dark , how dost thou know ' tis he ?
; yet eyes this cunning want to grace their art , they draw but what they see , know not
leave your prabbles , oman .
what likelihood of his amendment , lords ?
but lest you should not understand me well- and yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought- i would detain
now forth , lord constable and princes all , and quickly bring us word of england ' s fall .
when all ' s done , you look but on a stool .
well , lords , the duke of lancaster is dead .
speeches down his throat that he hath breath ' d in my dishonour here .
viii d .
tybalt would kill thee , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
she being down , i have the placing of the british crown .
o ' erbears it and burns on .
would fain lay knife aboard ; but she , good soul , had as lieve see a toad , a
i will die bravely , like a smug bridegroom .
deceas ' d , and i have thrust myself into this maze , haply to wive and thrive as best
if thou do this , i ' ll show thee wondrous things that highly may advantage thee to hear ;
and i know not what .
the play .
by priam , and the general state of troy .
kind is my love to-day , to-morrow kind , still constant in a wondrous excellence , therefore my verse to
yea , my lord ; but i can cross it .
so soon we shall drive back of alcibiades th ' approaches wild , who , like a boar too savage
i do conceive .
exit cleopatra .
mercutio ' s kinsman , noble county paris !
re-enter katherina baptista .
let a beast be lord of beasts , and his crib shall stand at the king ' s mess .
lucius , marcus , and their friends go up into the balcony] marcus .
i have no brother , i am like no brother ; and this word ' love , ' which greybeards
come , wilt thou see me ride ?
look ' d he o ' th ' inside of the paper ?
we need more light to find your meaning out .
be gone , you rogue .
if tinkers may have leave to live , and bear the sow-skin budget , then my account i well may
now , by the honour of my ancestry , i do applaud thy spirit , valentine , and think thee
what means your grace ?
who can impress the forest , bid the tree unfix his earth-bound root ?
her part , poor soul , seeming as burdened with lesser weight , but not with lesser woe , was
; whose state so many had the managing that they lost france and made his england bleed ; which oft
when he returns from hunting , i will not speak with him .
we charge you , in god ' s name and the king ' s , to go with us unto
bring me to hear them speak , where i may be conceal ' d .
pray let ' s have no words of this ; but when they ask , you what it means ,
what the devil should move me to undertake the recovery of this drum , being not ignorant of the impossibility
i was not angry since i came to france until this instant .
one parolles ; a filthy officer he is in those suggestions for the young earl .
come , i will bring thee to thy bridal chamber .
well be with you , gentlemen !
' s ground and mine ; thou wall , o wall , o sweet and lovely wall , show me
the poisoner wooes the queen with gifts ; she seems harsh and unwilling awhile , but in the end accepts
i kill ' d the slave that was a-hanging thee .
as ' tis wonderful .
fortune .
sight of him .
hath nature given them eyes to see this vaulted arch and the rich crop of sea and land , which
caviary to the general ; but it was (as i receiv ' d it , and others , whose judgments
i ' ll return consul , or never trust to what my tongue can do i ' th ' way
i love him well ; he is an honest man .
will it serve for any model to build mischief on ?
to save your life in this extremity , this favour will i do you for his sake ; and think
teach her the way .
in all submission and humility york doth present himself unto your highness .
but if the gods themselves did see her then , when she saw pyrrhus make malicious sport in mincing with
nay , but hear you , goodman delver !
no , sir , you must not kneel .
it is too heavy for so light a tune .
say that upon the altar of her beauty you sacrifice your tears , your sighs , your heart ; write
why is this all impon ' d , as you call it ?
did she see thee the while , old boy ?
shall find with me fast to the chair .
saturn and venus this year in conjunction !
once more , take her hence .
is reason .
then have we here young dizy , and young master deepvow , and master copperspur , and master starvelackey ,
desperation is all the policy , strength , and defence , that rome can make against them .
i will , lady .
' cast up their caps and lances .
here is got ' s plessing , and your friend , and justice shallow ; and here young master slender
do you smell a fault ?
we ' ll e ' en to ' t like french falconers , fly at anything we see .
exeunt some attendants you must needs dine with me .
a boon , my sovereign , for my service done !
please your highness , posts from those you sent to th ' oracle are come an hour since .
how pale she looks , and of an earthly cold !
you still wrangle with her , boyet , and she strikes at the brow .
though you are a fool and a knave , you shall eat .
to him !
, when birds do sing , hey ding a ding , ding .
if thou hast any sound , or use of voice , speak to me .
then tell me , who ' s the next heir of naples ?
have cushions by you .
see the hell of having a false woman !
stay to look on his intents .
where is he now ?
txt and but in purged judgment trusting neither ?
and i am blind .
[to florizel] but your petition is yet unanswer ' d .
exit achilles .
had he not reason , lord demetrius ?
why , what did i ?
things , which cannot in their huge and proper life be here presented .
i do arrest thee of high treason here .
my lord , there ' s one arriv ' d , if you will see her .
here lay duncan , his silver skin laced with his golden blood , and his gash ' d stabs look
i have no strength to pluck thee to the brink .
so please my lord , i might not be admitted , but from her handmaid do return this answer :
keep the peace here , ho !
' why so ?
my plenteous joys , wanton in fullness , seek to hide themselves in drops of sorrow .
and as it is base for a soldier to love , so am i in love with a base wench
march .
so shall you hear of carnal , bloody and unnatural acts ; of accidental judgments , casual slaughters ; of
stock .
have you that holy feeling in your souls to counsel me to make my peace with god , and are
enter a messenger brutus .
no passage ?
my man-monster hath drown ' d his tongue in sack .
art then as great as is thy master ; greater , for his fortunes all lie speechless , and his
you must therefore be content to slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this more stubborn and boisterous expedition
re-enter hostess hostess .
of france thomas beaufort , duke of exeter , great-uncle to the king henry beaufort , great-uncle to the king
heart that you cannot enjoy her .
his regiment lies half a mile at least south from the mighty power of the king .
when did he regard the stamp of nobleness in any person out of himself ?
thine own .
give unto you this young scholar [presenting lucentio] that hath been long studying at rheims ; as cunning in greek
more health and happiness betide my liege than can my care-tun ' d tongue deliver him .
i would i were as sure of a good dinner .
well , i will visit her .
fair mistress .
farewell , and take her ; but direct thy feet where thou and i henceforth may never meet .
but mark : as in this haughty great attempt they laboured to plant the rightful heir , i lost my
' by-and-by ' is easily said .
honour is a mere scutcheon- and so ends my catechism .
nothing but this- your true love for my master .
my care is loss of care , by old care done ; your care is gain of care , by
txt the injuries that they themselves procure must be their schoolmasters .
lov ' d .
o , let me view his visage , being dead , that living wrought me such exceeding trouble .
too late comes rescue ; he is ta ' en or slain , for fly he could not if he
was this taken page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
this tyrant , whose sole name blisters our tongues , was once thought honest .
though nature hath given us wit to flout at fortune , hath not fortune sent in this fool to cut
nor should thy prowess want praise and esteem but that ' tis shown ignobly and in treason .
, and is provided by project gutenberg etext of illinois benedictine college page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
an they were sons of mine i ' d have them whipt ; or i would send them to th
enter french and english , fighting .
indeed he is not fit .
you- and you , my liege !
' tis not yet near day .
a boy or a child , i wonder ?
thou bearest a woman ' s face- tamora .
juno .
how say you now ?
hail , brave friend !
not arms , must help .
time hath , my lord , a wallet at his back , wherein he puts alms for oblivion , a
if that thy gentry , britain , go before this lout as he exceeds our lords , the odds is
your lion living ; and we ought to look to ' t .
may deem that you are worthily depos ' d .
to rain and leave thee in the storm .
so is the dear ' st o ' th ' loss .
in truth , sir , and she is pretty , and honest , and gentle ; and one that is
now presently i ' ll give her father notice of their disguising and pretended flight , who , all enrag
sir , he ' s a good dog , and a fair dog .
; nor is he dead , for aught that i can tell .
doth his majesty incline to it , or no ?
canst work i ' th ' earth so fast ?
thou art a slave whom fortune ' s tender arm with favour never clasp ' d , but bred a
spreads his arms .
your nose says , no , you are not ; for it stands to right .
more matter , with less art .
go to thy lady ' s grave , and call hers thence ; or , at the least , in
' tis a match .
tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry .
d his name- might bear him company in the quest of him ; whom whilst i laboured of a love
there ' s honour in the theft .
balk logic with acquaintance that you have , and practise rhetoric in your common talk ; music and poesy use
but , to my thinking , he was very loath to lay his fingers off it .
but francis- fran .
i see this hath a little dash ' d your spirits .
yea , signior , and depart when you bid me .
truly then i fear you are damn ' d both by father and mother ; thus when i shun scylla
as i am man , my state is desperate for my master ' s love ; as i am woman-
for how can we , alas , how can we for our country pray , whereto we are bound ,
o , sir , to wilful men page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[aside] you will be whipt .
week of teen .
behalf , to meet you on the way .
how came we ashore ?
exeunt coriolanus , cominius , menenius , with the other patricians aedile .
why me , timon ?
the emperor calls canidius .
is cadwal mad ?
the cowslips tall her pensioners be ; in their gold coats spots you see ; those be rubies , fairy
take him away ; he knows i know him well .
thee devil !
that brought me to a part of it !
look on my george , i am a gentleman : rate me at what thou wilt , thou shalt be
shalt know the reason of my love ; and so good capulet , which name i tender as dearly as
i do desire you not to deny this imposition , the which my love and some necessity now lays upon
talk not to me , for i ' ll not speak a word .
old body than i have done .
of our affairs .
she hath dian ' s wit , and , in strong proof of chastity well arm ' d , from
but innocence shall make false accusation blush , and tyranny tremble at patience .
like to be lucentio ' s wife .
_num_ against that time (if ever that time come) when i shall see thee frown on my defects , when
banqueted ; embrace we then this opportunity , as fitting best to quittance their deceit , contriv ' d by
thee , thou pale and common drudge ' tween man and man ; but thou , thou meagre lead ,
things done well and with a care exempt themselves from fear : things done without example , in their issue
how cam ' st thou hither , tell me , and wherefore ?
if your leisure serv ' d , i would speak with you .
therefore come you with us , and let him go .
in fear .
the moon is down ; i have not heard the clock .
_num_ how can i then return in happy plight that am debarred the benefit of rest ?
his heels a rabble of his companions , thither provoked and instigated by his distemper , and , forsooth ,
then give me leave to read philosophy , and while i pause serve in your harmony .
when comes such another ?
never till this day saw i him touch ' d with anger so distemper ' d .
his liberty is full of threats to all- to you yourself , to us , to every one .
we ' ll break our walls rather than they shall pound us up ; our gates , which yet seem
here comes the clusters .
i could live and die in the eyes of troilus .
i will , my lord , and doubt not so to deal as all things shall redound unto your good
' enter the queen , usher ' d by the dukes of norfolk and suffolk ; she kneels .
false thief ; for the poor abuses of the time want countenance .
for by his face straight shall you know his heart .
he prize you at .
corioli ?
exeunt the three citizens re-enter two other citizens coriolanus .
is proud to do ' t .
welcome , my good friends .
as i hope to live .
keep his brain fuming .
good stars , that were my former guides , have empty left their orbs and shot their fires into th
- but what , in faith , make you from wittenberg ?
my cake is dough , but i ' ll in among the rest ; out of hope of all but
theft with the losers let it sympathize , for nothing can seem foul to those that win .
welcome .
the imperial ' s court .
young son , it argues a distempered head so soon to bid good morrow to thy bed .
mark now how a plain tale shall put you down .
chastity quite crack ' d , i having ta ' en the forfeit .
look out there , some of ye .
tears drown .
tell her master slender hath married her daughter .
give me particulars .
her by night .
if good , why do i yield to that suggestion whose horrid image doth unfix my hair page _num_ complete
holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver .
in spending your wit in the praise of mine .
who is ' t that hinders you ?
that i am sure of , and void of all profanation in the world that good christians ought to have
enter ford ford .
how shall i fashion me to wear a cloak ?
for cure and this by that i prove , love ' s fire heats water , water cools not love
strange , unusual blood , when man ' s worst sin is he does too much good !
exit claudio [knocking continues] by and by .
by the hand of that black name , edward , black prince of wales ; whiles that his mountain sire-
merciful powers , restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature gives way to in repose !
txt seal ' d in my function , by my testimony ; since when , my watch hath told me
a plague of all cowards !
exeunt agamemnon and nestor achilles .
do i so ?
a thursday be it then .
ho , boy !
lack ' d gold and yet went never gay , fled from her wish and yet said , " now
brother dare to gentle exercise and proof of arms .
o clifford , boist ' rous clifford , thou hast slain the flow ' r of europe for his chivalry
a conqueror and afeard to speak !
i know you think to dine with me to-day , and have prepar ' d great store of wedding cheer
let her come in .
no indeed , my lord .
the measure done , i ' ll watch her place of stand and , touching hers , make blessed my
o , twice my father , twice am i thy son !
nay , good sir toby .
pardon me , pardon me .
note me this , good friend : your most grave belly was deliberate , not rash like his accusers ,
i cry you mercy , ' tis but quid for quo .
that would i , had i kingdoms to give with her .
my behalf- my reputation stain ' d with tybalt ' s slander- tybalt , that an hour hath been my
o boy , then where art thou ?
exeunt costard and jaquenetta berowne .
all school-days ' friendship , childhood innocence ?
, nor hath not one spirit to command ; they all do hate him as rootedly as i .
i might be the organ .
cleanse the foul body of th ' infected world , if they will patiently receive my medicine .
the oracle is fulfill ' d : the king ' s daughter is found .
' tis government that makes them seem divine ; the want thereof makes thee abominable .
last night she enjoin ' d me to write some lines to one she loves .
[offers money .
i saw mark antony offer him a crown (yet ' twas not a crown neither , ' twas one of
whom have i injur ' d , that ye seek my death ?
is able to bear .
avaunt , thou dreadful minister of hell !
she does abuse our ears ; to prison with her .
look on seemeth green ; now i perceive thou art a reverend father .
if i in act , consent , or sin of thought , be guilty of the stealing that sweet breath
that ' s deiphobus .
brutus , this sober form of yours hides wrongs , and when you do them- brutus .
' i will not go from troy .
your old kind father , whose frank heart gave all !
even to our ocean , to great king john .
what two crowns shall they be ?
that villain cousin would have kill ' d my husband .
violent death .
this , or all my fence shall fail .
i for fear of trust , forget to say , the perfect ceremony of love ' s rite , and
stage , princes to act , and monarchs to behold the swelling scene !
you have broke his pate with your bowl .
hence , horrible shadow !
he ' s one honest enough ; would all the rest were so !
blessed be those , how mean soe ' er , that have their honest wills , which seasons comfort .
poor hamlet ' s enemy .
a conduit , girl ?
doctor , your service for this time is ended ; take your own way .
sicilia .
enter , with a trumpet before them , as in dumb show , pyramus and thisby , wall , moonshine
your most imperial majesties unto this bar and royal interview , your mightiness on both parts best can witness .
else to wed demetrius , as he would , or on diana ' s altar to protest for aye austerity
so that , as clear as is the summer ' s sun , king pepin ' s title , and
he was wont to lend money for a christian courtesy ; let him look to his bond .
exit grumio hortensio .
we pray you , for your own sake , to embrace your own safety and give over this attempt .
thy life did manifest thou lov ' dst me not , and thou wilt have me die assur ' d
god give you good morrow , master person .
here is a rural fellow that will not be denied your highness ' presence .
your health .
except i be by silvia in the night , there is no music in the nightingale ; unless i look
be stony .
o , i have suffered with those that i saw suffer !
marry , i thank you for it ; i thank you for that good comfort .
why should you fall into so deep an o ?
a minister in his power .
behold how like a maid she blushes here !
there ' s a merry heart !
followed her with a doting observance ; engross ' d opportunities to meet her ; fee ' d every slight
was not that not hector ?
away , you rogue !
fine , i ' faith !
not i , honey-sweet queen .
he lost a wife whose beauty did astonish the survey of richest eyes ; whose words all ears took captive
but , pray , how pass ' d it ?
she will be a joyful woman .
ay , marry , sweeting , if we could do that , france were no place for henry ' s
sailor .
chief justice .
a woman .
to-morrow .
now gather , and surmise .
[aside] excellent workman !
here , most gracious liege .
well , go , prepare yourself .
if we may pass , we will ; if we be hind ' red , we shall your tawny ground
thou art one o ' th ' false ones .
we are the only love-gods .
' and set upon the guard , who fly , crying ' arm !
beaufort , it is thy sovereign speaks to thee .
coriolanus banish ' d !
to answer ' i ' ll not wed , i cannot love ; i am too young , i pray
dear my lord , if you , in your own proof , have vanquish ' d the resistance of her
return you to my sister .
take thrice thy money ; bid me tear the bond .
where i was wont to feed you with my blood , i ' ll lop a member off and give
show me a thousand that hath done thee wrong , and i will be revenged on them all .
cominius .
ay , you may , you may .
had cause of fear , we sent to thee , to give thy rages balm , to wipe out our
now , dog !
cure her of that .
[he kneels down] my gracious lord- king richard .
[to lavinia] what , would ' st thou kneel with me ?
o , give us leave , great king , to view the field in safety , and dispose of their
i beseech your majesty give me leave to go ; sorrow would solace , and mine age would ease .
let me hear you speak farther ; i have spirit to do anything that appears not foul in the truth
enough , no more ; ' tis not so sweet now as it was before .
their husbands ; their best conscience is not to leave ' t undone , but keep ' t unknown .
the brave sir guichard dolphin ; john duke of alencon ; antony duke of brabant , the brother to the
the condemn ' d pompey , rich in his father ' s honour , creeps apace into the hearts of
[catch sung] enter maria maria .
good fellow , tell us here the circumstance , that we for thee may glorify the lord .
and when i am a-horseback , i will swear i love thee infinitely .
why , then ' tis time to arm and give direction .
' tis so ; they are afoot .
i richard ' s body have interred new , and on it have bestowed more contrite tears than from it
no ; tongues i ' ll hang on every tree that shall civil sayings show .
lords page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
back , foolish tears , back to your native spring !
i ' ll send a friar with speed to mantua , with my letters to thy lord .
the other .
antipholus , thou cam ' st from corinth first ?
o , you , sir , you !
shall we shog ?
how is it with our general ?
instance , briefly ; come , instance .
no , forsooth .
heaven shield your grace from woe , as i , thus wrong ' d , hence unbelieved go !
come , bustle , bustle ; caparison my horse ; call up lord stanley , bid him bring his power
be opposite all planets of good luck to my proceeding !
bring them before us .
[aside] if it be a sin to make a true election , she is damn ' d .
dites-moi l ' anglais pour le bras .
would without lapsing suffer .
i tell thee yea .
and razure of oblivion .
the shame hereof will make me hide my head .
who can speak broader than he that has no house to put his head in ?
duke frederick , hearing how that every day men of great worth resorted to this forest , address ' d
work on , my medicine , work !
' come lead me , officers , to the block of shame ; wrong hath but wrong , and blame
she was too fond of her most filthy bargain .
a sawpit rush at once with some diffused song ; upon their sight we two in great amazedness will fly
the lord mayor craves aid of your honour from the tower , to defend the city from the rebels .
court of venice must needs give sentence ' gainst the merchant there .
he can say nothing of me .
in the acting it .
no more , you petty spirits of region low , offend our hearing ; hush !
a whoreson dog , that shall palter with us thus !
on the ground !
o jove !
pompey .
he came not through the chamber where we stay ' d .
enter pyramus theseus .
the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven to punish my mistreadings .
show me how , good father .
no , thy words are too precious to be cast away upon curs ; throw some of them at me
txt for that same scrubbed boy , the doctor ' s clerk , in lieu of this , last night
i hate a breaking cause to be of heavenly oaths , vowed with integrity .
witness my son , now in the shade of death , whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath hath in
enter the king and state : the queen , gloucester , york , suffolk , and salisbury , with guard
the moon , like to a silver bow new-bent in heaven , shall behold the night of our solemnities .
break to powder , and finish all foul thoughts .
are seen , without all ornament , it self and true , making no summer of another ' s green
what counsel , lords ?
therefore , lord oxford , to prevent the worst , forthwith we ' ll send him hence to brittany ,
it was thy master ' s ; shrew me , if i would lose it for a revenue of any
i will not budge for no man ' s pleasure , enter romeo .
by seven o ' clock i ' ll get you such a ladder .
did at lusty jove when he would play the noble beast in love .
my lord and lady , it is now our time that have stood by and seen our wishes prosper to
' d in his challenge .
say to ventidius i would speak with him .
laertes , son to polonius .
txt should i have answer ' d caius cassius so ?
no , stir not for your lives ; let her pass by .
in him there is a hope of government , which , in his nonage , council under him , and
when you sing , i ' d have you buy and sell so ; so give alms ; pray so
jove bless great ajax !
unbruis ' d , we will bear home that lusty blood again which here we came to spout against your
yes , yes ; the lines are very quaintly writ ; but , since unwillingly , take them again .
i mean the fashion .
for your broken shin .
why , that ' s my dainty ariel !
would any but these boil ' d brains of nineteen and two and twenty hunt this weather ?
who serv ' st thou under ?
' tis very true : my grief lies all within ; and these external manner of laments are merely shadows
yet i have a trick of the old rage ; bear with me , i am sick ; i '
too dull to reason of such goddesses , and hath sent this natural for our whetstone ; for always the
sweet portia , if you did know to whom i gave the ring , if you did know for whom
forswear it , sight !
be rul ' d by me : forget to think of her .
i am out o ' friends , madam , and i hope to have friends for my wife ' s
inquire me out some mean poor gentleman , whom i will marry straight to clarence ' daughter- the boy is
why , this is your own folly .
' little ' again !
enrag ' d and foamy mouth did i redeem ; a wreck past hope he was .
therefore , my harry , be it thy course to busy giddy minds with foreign quarrels , that action ,
all have strongly sworn to give him aid ; and let him never see joy that breaks that oath !
come , let ' s see the event .
what say you , james soundpost ?
what a merit were it in death to take this poor maid from the world !
the all-seeing sun ne ' er saw her match since first the world begun .
is he not here ?
but wherefore dost thou come ?
let ' s levy men and beat him back again .
he seems to be of great authority .
txt which ent ' red their frail shins .
we need not put new matter to his charge .
re-enter snout snout .
gloucester , i do defy thee .
but i beseech your grace pardon me .
, began a fresh assault .
he holds your temper in a high respect and curbs himself even of his natural scope when you come '
ll utter what my sorrow gives me leave .
i ' ll speak a prophecy ere i go : when priests are more in word than matter ; when
if that shepherd be not in hand-fast , let him fly ; the curses he shall have , the tortures
and they have conspired together ; i will not say you shall see a masque , but if you do
he is .
hath she had any more than one husband ?
' spare my grey beard , ' you wagtail ?
what should we say , my lord ?
it in the source , and the first stone drop in my neck ; as it determines , so dissolve
, whose naked breast stepp ' d before targes of proof , cannot be found .
to her , my lord , was i betroth ' d ere i saw hermia .
i will do this , if i can bring it to any opportunity .
then enter the king and queen and their trains .
more musical than the pipe of hermes .
therefore , for coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate him manifests the true knowledge he has in
bolingbroke ' s camp at bristol enter bolingbroke , york , northumberland , percy , ross , willoughby , bushy
i see them lay their heads together to surprise me .
here comes the lady ; let her witness it .
made she no verbal question ?
then , father salisbury , kneel we together , and in this private plot be we the first that shall
who should say ' i am sir oracle , and when i ope my lips let no dog bark .
i know you wise ; but yet no farther wise than harry percy ' s wife ; constant you are
o , i warrant , how he mammock ' d it !
you are ; withal , what i have been , and what i am .
] o spartan dog , more fell than anguish , hunger , or the sea !
this was my speech , and i will speak ' t again- menenius .
or groan for joan ?
o , full of careful business are his looks !
why , look where he comes ; and my good man too ; he ' s as far from jealousy
so ' a is .
he comes , like the catastrophe of the old comedy .
to please himself .
therefore the poet did feign that orpheus drew trees , stones , and floods ; since nought so stockish ,
i am dumb .
submit thee , boy .
never greater , nor , i ' ll assure you , better taken , sir .
i think his understanding is bereft .
though the wisdom of nature can reason it thus and thus , yet nature finds itself scourg ' d by
for fame ' s sake , for praise , an outward part , we bend to that the working of
good gods !
it secretly alone .
good mistress mary accost- sir toby .
d ; but we have been deceiv ' d in thy integrity , deceiv ' d in that which seems
, though bearing misery , i desire my life once more to look on him .
let him bless thee too .
all my reports go with the modest truth ; nor more nor clipp ' d , but so .
txt earl of kent .
i beseech your society .
behind , and cowards living to die with length ' ned shame .
txt launce .
it is suppos ' d he that meets hector issues from our choice ; and choice , being mutual act
let them accuse me by invention ; i will answer in mine honour .
d the grecians ' cause .
o monstrous traitor !
my industrious servant , ariel !
quiet conscience .
heresies that men do leave are hated most of those they did deceive , so thou , my surfeit and
that use is not forbidden usury , which happies those that pay the willing loan ; that ' s for
wither , garden , and be henceforth a burying place to all that do dwell in this house , because
now , until the break of day , through this house each fairy stray .
enter lear , kent , and fool .
how fain , like pilate , would i wash my hands of this most grievous murder !
' d the founder of this law ; who died within the year of our redemption four hundred twenty-six ;
can feel but his own wringing !
this was a way to thrive , and he was blest ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exit mamillius camillo , this great sir will yet stay longer .
what prisoners of good sort are taken , uncle ?
nay , as the pudding to his skin .
senators , citizens , soldiers , commoners , messengers , and servants <<this electronic version of the complete works of
verily , i swear ' tis better to be lowly born and range with humble livers in content than to
i shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness ; but i think thy horse will sooner con an oration
helen herself swore th ' other day that troilus , for a brown favour , for so ' tis ,
thanks to you all , and leave us .
out , some light horsemen , and peruse their wings .
o jest unseen , inscrutable , invisible , as a nose on a man ' s face , or a
i am in parliament pledge for his truth and lasting fealty to the new-made king .
txt a course of learning and ingenious studies .
i can heat it , boy .
lady , you come hither to be married to this count ?
but there ' s no goodness in thy face .
presently the duke said ' twas the fear indeed and that he doubted ' twould prove the verity of certain
farewell , gentle mistress ; farewell , nan .
the english court , where , being but young , i framed to the harp many an english ditty lovely
exit philostrate hippolyta .
another part of the forest enter , from one side , mowbray , attended ; afterwards , the archbishop ,
but furnishings- but , true it is , from france there comes a power into this scattered kingdom , who
; and , putting off his hat , said ' i will now take my leave of these six dry
then have at thee , boy !
o sides , you are too tough !
rightly belong ; our blood to us , this to our blood is born .
therefore fasten your ear on my advisings ; to the love i have in doing good a remedy presents itself
why , sir john , my face does you no harm .
up , for certain drops of salt , your city rome- i say your city- to his wife and mother
death , as the psalmist saith , is certain to all ; all shall die .
now could i , casca , name to thee a man most like this dreadful night , that thunders ,
i have here the customary gown .
ask me not what i know .
his body will i bear unto the king .
she ' s too rough for me .
but here ' s my husband , and so much duty as my mother show ' d to you ,
he will maintain you like a gentlewoman .
that ' s not the tune .
with silence , nephew , be thou politic ; strong fixed is the house of lancaster and like a mountain
exit florizel .
a plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to another !
well , forward , forward !
do the boys carry it away ?
hand hath bow ' d you to the grave and beggar ' d yours forever ?
i pray you , let it stand .
txt to quell the rebels and their complices .
thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair .
son edward , she is fair and virtuous , therefore delay not- give thy hand to warwick ; and with
i have not seen you long ; how goes the world ?
will this work ?
thou wilt amend thy life ?
in isbel ' s case and mine own .
dog !
that one error fills him with faults ; makes him run through all th ' sins : inconstancy falls off
tailors of the earth ; comforting therein that when old robes are worn out there are members to make new
cleopatra ' s palace enter cleopatra , charmian , iras , and mardian cleopatra .
as you were past all shame- those of your fact are so- so past all truth ; which to deny
so fitly ?
as are express ' d in the condition , let the forfeit be nominated for an equal pound of your
come , and be true .
i will buy nine sparrows for a penny , and his pia mater is not worth the ninth part of
ay , lady , it was my word .
set , or by the break of day disguis ' d from hence .
who is this thou mak ' st thy bloody pillow ?
o miracle of men !
swing ' d for this- you blue-bottle rogue , you filthy famish ' d correctioner , if you be not
is there no remedy ?
sisterhood , the votarists of saint clare .
and see her plaints , her brinish tears .
chamberlain !
how dare you ghosts accuse the thunderer whose bolt , you know , sky-planted , batters all rebelling coasts ?
to woo curst katherine ; yea , and to marry her , if her dowry please .
do not rise yet .
called also earl of derby sir thomas vaughan sir richard ratcliff sir william catesby sir james tyrrel sir james blount
would i were dead , if god ' s good will were so !
how light and portable my pain seems now , when that which makes me bend makes the king bow ,
and i the rather wean me from despair for love of edward ' s offspring in my womb .
thou and thine usurp the dominations , royalties , and rights , of this oppressed boy ; this is thy
hark , i will tell you what our sport shall be .
this broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter ; and , my fortunes against any lay
it shall become thee well to act my woes : she will attend it better in thy youth than in
txt this shadowy desert , unfrequented woods , i better brook than flourishing peopled towns .
me live .
, and you in every blessed shape we know .
break their talk , mistress quickly ; my kinsman shall speak for himself .
though that be sick , it dies not .
well , god dild you !
[strikes her .
and , that thou mayst perceive my fear of this , knowing that tender youth is soon suggested , i
his hands were guilty of no kindred blood , but bloody with the enemies of his kin .
gratulate the gentle princes there .
if he were dead , what would betide on me ?
youth and made defeat of her virginity-- claud .
untie the winds and let them fight against the churches , though the yesty waves confound and swallow navigation up
i ne ' er heard yet that any of these bolder vices wanted less impudence to gainsay what they did
well ; what ' s your suit ?
that surge , like a horse-shoe ; think of that -hissing hot .
good sir , to th ' purpose .
[sings] for bonny sweet robin is all my joy .
helenus is a priest .
thou still hast been the father of good news .
thy love ne ' er alter till thy sweet life end !
you have misled the youthful prince .
golden pilgrimage : but when from highmost pitch with weary car , like feeble age he reeleth from the day
i see them now ; then was a blessed time .
i shall break the cause of our expedience to the queen , and get her leave to part .
a fourth !
if he do fear god , ' a must necessarily keep peace .
' thou shalt not steal ' ?
his grief and patience , that had not god , for some strong purpose , steel ' d the hearts
only this- let each man do his best ; and here draw i a sword whose temper i intend to
[hides .
i know a wench of excellent discourse , pretty and witty ; wild , and yet , too , gentle
along ; and i must after , for love , thou know ' st , is full of jealousy .
use me well ; you shall have ransom .
stay a little .
when of ourselves we publish them .
gramercy .
he was indeed the glass wherein the noble youth did dress themselves .
i must go seek some dewdrops here , and hang a pearl in every cowslip ' s ear .
sweet york , sweet husband , be not of that mind .
i have well approved it , sir .
faith , i ' ll home to-morrow , sir toby .
a base walloon , to win the dauphin ' s grace , thrust talbot with a spear into the back
for what had he to do to chide at me ?
- gan to look the way that they did and to grin like lions upon the pikes o ' th
' an if i were thy nurse , thy tongue to teach , ' pardon ' should be the first
york , attended york .
exit enter one in armour hector .
d page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
what misadventure is so early up , that calls our person from our morning rest ?
good news , good news !
the lady speaks again in welsh .
first , it was usual with him-every day it would infect his speech-that if the king should without issue die
malcolm !
love you the maid ?
are all these things perceiv ' d in me ?
you slave !
charles , good night .
, although not valued to the money ' s worth .
please you , madam .
o , some authority how to proceed ; some tricks , some quillets , how to cheat the devil !
s son ; then talk no more of flight , it is no boot ; if son to talbot ,
that she is worthy , i know .
' take then thy bond , take thou thy pound of flesh ; but , in the cutting it ,
either she hath bewitch ' d me with her words , or nature makes me suddenly relent .
if i did take the kingdom from your sons , to make amends i ' ll give it to your
what hast here ?
wouldst have me rescue thee from this reproach ?
and am i , then , a man to be belov ' d ?
is it not lawful , an please your majesty , to tell how many is kill ' d ?
you gods , reward them !
nor did you nothing hear ?
txt duke .
these i will assure her , and twice as much whate ' er thou off ' rest next .
harshly all his days of quiet with turbulent and dangerous lunacy ?
thy sheep be in the corn ; and for one blast of thy minikin mouth thy sheep shall take no
of you , not hate unto my friend , hath made me publisher of this pretence .
, outliving beauty ' s outward , with a mind that doth renew swifter than blood decays !
yond ' s that same knave that leads him to these places ; were i his lady i would poison
to me ; i ' ll discover that which shall undo the florentine .
i will run no base humour .
then enter hotspur .
before angiers enter , on one side , austria and forces ; on the other , king philip of france
away , my lord !
not of you .
that thou art banished- o , that ' s the news !
right ?
ll prove a widower shortly , i ' ll wear the willow-garland for his sake .
o , tell me , did you see aaron the moor ?
the chaplain of the tower hath buried them ; but where , to say the truth , i do not
out my fame .
cleomenes and dion , being well arriv ' d from delphos , are both landed , hasting to th '
will you go with me ?
; he trod the water , whose enmity he flung aside , and breasted the surge most swoln that met
now , petruchio , speak .
then let her beauty be her wedding-dow ' r ; for me and my possessions she esteems not .
[aside to sebastian and antonio] but you , my brace of lords , were i so minded , i here
why , ' tis no great matter ; for a very little thief of occasion will rob you of a
something ; and scarce so much ; nothing , indeed .
this is noted , and generally : whoever the king favours the cardinal instantly will find employment , and far
be rul ' d by me : depart in patience , and let us to the tiger all to dinner
we have heard the chimes at midnight , master shallow .
if in your country wars you chance to die , that is my bed too , lads , and there
i know she will lie at my house : thither they send one another .
lady beatrice , have you wept all this while ?
tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with , and that your grace hath screen ' d
when was it she last walked ?
go with me , and in the breath of bitter words let ' s smother my damned son that thy
nay , you may think my love was crafty love , and call it cunning .
finding ourselves too slow of sail , we put on a compelled valour , and in the grapple i boarded
him to ill thinking .
now approve , desire is death , which physic did except .
, as it were , i have acquainted you withal , to the end to crave your assistance .
soul-fearing clamours have brawl ' d down the flinty ribs of this contemptuous city .
and me , too , good lord !
the elements be kind to thee and make thy spirits all of comfort !
nay ; now thou goest from fortune ' s office to nature ' s : page _num_ complete works of
why then , your visor should be thatch ' d .
' tis our hope , sir , after well-ent ' red soldiers , to return and find your grace in
' tis better , sir , than to be tedious .
he was wont to speak plain and to the purpose , like an honest man and a soldier ; and
and wherefore doth lysander deny your love , so rich within his soul , and tender me , forsooth ,
like an unskilful singer-he kept not time .
o , well fought , my youngest brother !
and giddy fortune ' s furious fickle wheel , that goddess blind , that stands upon the rolling restless stone-
you bade me ban , and will you bid me leave ?
have i , malvolio ?
an but for their owner , master , and yourself .
if i make not this cheat bring out another , and the shearers prove sheep , let me be unroll
_num_ say that thou didst forsake me for some fault , and i will comment upon that offence , speak
hast not slept to-night ?
, in all my lands and leases whatsoever .
how would he look to see his work , so noble , vilely bound up ?
i would have thee deal upon .
peace , smulkin !
that ' s me , i warrant you .
[within .
is most mannerly .
enter bardolph bardolph .
the time ' twixt six and now must by us both be spent most preciously .
that were we talking of , and of his anger .
you must know of me then , antonio , my name is sebastian , which i call ' d roderigo
gall ' d- mightst bespice a cup to give mine enemy a lasting wink ; which draught to me were
ourselves ; when we hold rumor from what we fear , yet know not what we fear , but float
here , and will sing , that they shall hear i am not afraid .
we are men , my liege .
i , amaz ' d , ran from her as a witch .
; if lost , why then a grievous labour won ; however , but a folly bought with wit ,
this earth that bears thee dead bears not alive so stout a gentleman .
it is a bitter deputy .
which of your hands hath not defended rome and rear ' d aloft the bloody battle-axe , writing destruction on
we will have vengeance for it , fear thou not .
well said , adversity !
gift doth stretch itself as ' tis receiv ' d , and is enough for both .
no matter where-of comfort no man speak .
he is walk ' d up to the top of the hill .
let them go ; here is the duke .
valour , and drive the gentleman- as know his youth will aptly receive it- into a most hideous opinion of
in honour ' d love .
, the trespass of the queen .
the night spirits resort- alack , alack , is it not like that i , so early waking- what with
ye lie .
iago ?
women and fools , break off your conference .
thee , hector , and quoted joint by joint .
exeunt tribunes volumnia .
him ; and , by the faith of man , i know my price , i am worth no worse
nay , ' tis for me to be patient ; i am in adversity .
but wilt thou make a fire , or shall i complain on thee to our mistress , whose hand- she
i could neither believe nor misdoubt .
the people cry you mock ' d them ; and of late , when corn was given them gratis ,
" lennox .
larron !
what , this , you gods ?
them for what i bid them do ; for we bid this be done , when evil deeds have their
and make assurance here in padua of greater sums than i have promised .
than if not look ' d on .
nor near nor farther off , my gracious lord , than this weak arm .
, did almost sweat to bear the pride upon them , that their very labour was to them as a
i cannot give thee less , to be call ' d grateful .
why should a man whose blood is warm within sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster , sleep when he
cheek hath already stuff ' d tennis balls .
dishonour to approach the imperial seat , to virtue consecrate , to justice , continence , and nobility ; but
then i love thee because thou art a woman and disclaim ' st flinty mankind , whose eyes do never
[also margaret and ursula] .
and heavens and honour be witness that no want of resolution in me , but only my followers ' base
i think our country sinks beneath the yoke ; it weeps , it bleeds , and each new day a
chamber , yet would you say ye were beaten out of door ; and rail upon the hostess of the
else might the world convince of levity as well my undertakings as your counsels ; but i attest the gods
virtue is bold , and goodness never fearful .
i will pardon you .
i was , an ' t like your majesty .
to fetch her fan , her gloves , her mask , nor nothing ?
then thus : of many good i think him best .
hold you .
and that i love the tree from whence thou sprang ' st , witness the loving kiss i give the
to breathe the abundant dolour of the heart .
>> _num_ the tragedy of king lear by william shakespeare dramatis personae lear , king of britain .
anteroom in the castle .
that is not the duke ' s letter , sir ; that is an advertisement to a proper maid in
affliction is enanmour ' d of thy parts , and thou art wedded to calamity .
e ' er i heard .
i ' ll warrant you ; fear me not .
cressid was here but now .
look to ' t , think on ' t ; i do not use to jest .
and as poor as job ?
re-enter one with the heads cade .
turn this way , henry , and regard them not .
which , thou dost confess , were fit for thee to use , as they to claim , in asking
the next week .
all thy vexations page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
till night , my lord , and all night too !
yet , i protest , were i alone to pass the difficulties , and had as ample power as i
come , kiss .
' tis vile , unless it may be quaintly ordered ; and better in my mind not undertook .
too true ; and bought his climbing very dear .
sir , this gentleman steps in to cassio and entreats his pause .
as it is ; and for my own poor part , look you , i ' ll go pray .
that for thyself , i will not so presume to send such peevish tokens to a king .
and what to ?
what stay had we but clarence ?
his blank , transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name and hit the woundless air .
why , courage then !
to put out the other eye of gloucester .
villainous low .
then all together they fell upon me , bound me , bore me thence , and in a dark and
it a plum , a cherry , and a fig .
god ' s light , these villains will make the word as odious as the word ' occupy ' ;
out- ben .
even a toy in hand here , sir .
a good riddance .
here is my hand for my true constancy ; and when that hour o ' erslips me in the day
at the last , best .
ning of the gorgeous east , bows not his vassal head and , strucken blind , kisses the base ground
txt to see her in your arms .
ask for her , and to her white hand see thou do commend this seal ' d-up counsel .
i will not praise thy wisdom , which , like a bourn , a pale , a shore , confines
but truer stars did govern proteus ' birth ; his words are bonds , his oaths are oracles , his
i was begot .
how have i sworn !
a dry jest , sir .
, and he for me , and thereupon these errors are arose .
that i am not .
i like not that .
arm when caesar ' s head is off .
there is no following her in this fierce vein ; here , therefore , for a while i will remain
those enemies of timon ' s and mine own , whom you yourselves shall set out for reproof , fall
where are his eyes ?
he was a fool , for he would needs be virtuous : that good fellow , if i command him
back- that ' s the utmost of your having .
he prays you to save his life ; he is a gentleman of a good house , and for his
txt what was a month old at cain ' s birth that ' s not five weeks old as yet
enter young osric , a courtier .
devour the treacherous bait .
who hateth thee that i do call my friend , on whom frown ' st thou that i do fawn
that ' s my good son !
hopeless and helpless doth aegeon wend , but to procrastinate his lifeless end .
we have not made good preparation .
then learn to know him now ; this is the duke .
i were better to be eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with perpetual motion
gentle octavia , let your best love draw to that point which seeks best to preserve it .
say you this : (sings) to-morrow is saint valentine ' s day , all in the morning bedtime , and
hath receiv ' d some unrecuring wound .
what , are ye daunted now ?
was ever seen an emperor in rome thus overborne , troubled , confronted thus ; and , for the extent
art thou so confident ?
ford .
french king ' s daughter , with yourself to speak- a mild of grace and complete majestypage _num_ complete works
if i do not usurp myself , i am .
notorious pirate , a man of claudio ' s years ; his beard and head just of his colour .
so get you hence in peace ; and tell the dauphin his jest will savour but of shallow wit ,
had at your important letters-this ill day a most outrageous fit of madness took him , that desp ' rately
that the body public be a horse whereon the governor doth ride , who , newly in the seat ,
bruit doth put it .
come , i would your cambric were sensible as your finger , that you might leave pricking it for pity
[lavinia kisses titus] marcus .
my married wife .
' tis a good hand , a frank one .
pity move my father to be inclin ' d my way !
my lord of gloucester , ' tis my special hope that you will clear yourself from all suspense .
therefore , prepare thee to cut off the flesh .
txt third drawer .
ever ear receiv ' d ; which in recounting his grief grew puissant , and the strings of life began
my lord- to step out of these dreary dumps- how comes it that the subtle queen of goths is of
i see you all are bent to set against me for your merriment .
the bull has the game .
breaks the pate of faith , that daily break-vow , he that wins of all , page _num_ complete works
first , as you know , my house within the city is richly furnished with plate and gold , basins
no talk of timon , nothing of him expect .
, to you , my origin and ender ; for these , of force , must your oblations be ,
my lord , we come .
to have you understand me that he is sufficient ; yet his means are in supposition : he hath an
can you tell page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he cut our roots in characters , and sauc ' d our broths as juno had been sick , and
sir , make haste .
enter troilus pandarus .
exit worcester .
look what i speak , my life shall prove it true- that mowbray hath receiv ' d eight thousand nobles
tell me , good fellow , cam ' st thou here by chance , or of devotion , to this
believe me , you are marvellously chang ' d .
why write i still all one , ever the same , and keep invention in a noted weed , that
bloody point to point ; then in a moment fortune shall cull forth out of one side her happy minion
enjoys it ; but beauty ' s waste hath in the world an end , and kept unused the user
no , holy father ; throw away that thought ; believe not that the dribbling dart of love can pierce
how often said my dignity would last but till ' twere known !
under yond yew tree lay thee all along , holding thine ear close to the hollow ground .
buried fortunes slink all away ; leave their false vows with him , like empty purses pick ' d ;
no , sir , there are more with him .
come .
never spring a babe to honour her !
your knee , sirrah .
for shame , bring juliet forth ; her lord is come .
did i impale him with the regal crown ?
on the sudden i warrant him consul .
good love , call him back .
to have patience to shift me- shallow .
as waggish boys in game themselves forswear , so the boy love is perjur ' d everywhere ; for ere
but , alas , i am as true as truth ' s simplicity , and simpler than the infancy of
of peascod instead of her ; from whom i took two cods , and giving her them again , said
; well run dice !
print of blood where ' er it walks .
exeunt some with king and queen gloucester .
those that are married already- all but one- shall live ; the rest shall keep as they are .
therefore be gone without our grace , our love , our benison .
all men call thee fickle .
speak , beaufort , to thy sovereign .
what , thou speak ' st drowsily ?
nay , but this dotage of our general ' s o ' erflows the measure .
princely daughter .
of whence , i pray ?
come hither , hubert .
why strew ' st thou sugar on that bottled spider whose deadly web ensnareth thee about ?
nay , but you will ?
no outrage- peace !
so you must be the first that gives this sentence , and he that suffers .
[aside] too hot , too hot !
thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood !
come , come , we ' ll prompt you .
the park page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
gentle isabella , turn you the key , and know his business of him : you may , i may
of death , and that it should lie with you in your grave ; though not for me , yet
so should i be sure to be heart-burn ' d .
we sympathise .
support , out of his grace he adds .
come , now towards chertsey with your holy load , taken from paul ' s to be interred there ;
i see a cherub that sees them .
lo , at this tomb my tributary tears i render for my brethren ' s obsequies ; and at thy
fears and scruples shake us .
and , brother , here ' s the earl of wiltshire ' s blood , whom i encount ' red
denmark goes withal .
monde .
i have brought him up ever since he was three years old , and his name is tranio .
what day is this ?
thou wert the man that would divorce this terror from my heart ' ; meaning the king at pomfret .
wert thou environ ' d with a brazen wall .
be to report your lord ' s taking of this .
ring , she would not hold out enemy for ever for giving it to me .
nor you as we are , loyal .
i saw her hand ; she has a leathern hand , a freestone-colour ' d hand ; i verily did
having the power to do the good it would , for th ' ill which doth control ' t .
let her alone ; speak not of helena ; take not her part ; for if thou dost intend never
and therefore ' tis call ' d a sensible tale ; and this cuff was but to knock at your
nay , as they dare .
her be judge whether bassanio had not once a love .
[to page] and this is true ; i like not the humour of lying .
here is a letter will say somewhat .
if i do find him fit , i ' ll move your suit , and seek to effect it to
' em , or else new form ' d ' em ; having both the key of officer and office
show your wisdom , daughter , in your close patience , isabella .
the laws , your curb and whip , in their rough power has uncheck ' d theft .
[to bardolph] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
abide me , if thou dar ' st ; for well i wot thou run ' st before me ,
sirrah , call in my sons to be my bail : exit attendant i know , ere thy will have
but herein mean i to enrich my pain , to have his sight thither and back again .
olivia ' s garden enter olivia and maria olivia .
advis ' d , whose counsel i will implore .
doubly divorc ' d !
was employ ' d in passing to and fro about relieving of the sentinels .
who goes there , ha ?
you cannot reason almost with a man that looks not heavily and fun of dread .
contemning rome , he has done all this and more in alexandria .
o admirable man !
fear not , sweet wench ; they shall not touch thee , kate ; i ' ll buckler thee against
it were a shame to call her back again , and pray her to a fault for which i chid
song blow , blow , thou winter wind , thou art not so unkind as man ' s ingratitude ;
you have me , have you not rey .
and quaff carouses to our mistress ' health ; and do as adversaries do in law- strive mightily , but
caesar !
' honneur d ' user : je ne voudrais prononcer ces mots devant les seigneurs de france pour tout le
vengeance is in my heart , death in my hand , blood and revenge are hammering in my head .
a pretty peat !
" ' this said , his wat ' ry eyes he did dismount , whose sights till then were levelled
o noble misery , to be i ' th ' field and ask ' what news ?
remember march , the ides of march remember .
coward of france , how much he wrongs his fame , despairing of his own arm ' s fortitude ,
[exit servant .
before angiers alarum , excursions .
come hither , man .
never break for urging .
sail ; if he should write , and i not have it , ' twere a paper lost , as
i ' ll re you , i ' ll fa you .
admired be .
this do thou for my love ; and so let him , as he regards his aged father ' s
' tis enough , ' twill serve .
and calumniating time .
o ' er with burning meteors .
o gentle lady , ' tis not for you to hear what i can speak : the repetition in a
sweet prince , speak low ; the king your father is dispos ' d to sleep .
but i pray , can you read anything you see ?
txt thou art not for the fashion of these times , where none will sweat but for promotion , and
i am your free dependant .
let it be ten pound , if thou canst .
nay , daughter , carry the wine in ; we ' ll drink within .
i tell thee , i , that thou hast marr ' d her gown .
well , i will undertake it .
morrow , both .
yea , and my father .
nay , sir , less than a pound shall serve me for carrying your letter .
tonight , my lord ?
be merry , master bardolph ; and , my little soldier there , be merry .
the venom clamours of a jealous woman poisons more deadly than a mad dog ' s tooth .
peradventure , to make it the more gracious , i shall sing it at her death .
as thou shalt think on prating whilst thou liv ' st !
who dead ?
bates .
thy mother was a piece of virtue , and she said thou wast my daughter ; and thy father was
i do beseech your lordship , call her back .
what ' s amiss , may it be gently heard .
in god ' s name speak-when is the royal day ?
i do beseech your majesty , to have some conference with your grace alone .
we mourn : france smiles .
so is the unfirm king in three divided ; and his coffers sound with hollow poverty and emptiness .
receive the sacrament to fight in quarrel of the house of lancaster .
an it had not fall ' n flat-long .
myself have to mine own turn ' d enemy .
it does well to those that do ill .
txt i will away towards barnet presently and bid thee battle , edward , if thou dar ' st .
by my troth , i ' ll tell thee , i am almost sick for one ; [aside] though i
agrippa .
; and my strong imagination sees a crown dropping upon thy head .
else so thy cheek pays shame when shrill-tongu ' d fulvia scolds .
' d whore ?
you could never do him so ill-well unless you were the very man .
most constant wife , who even now answering the letter of the oracle , unknown to you , unsought ,
this is his claim , his threat ' ning , and my message ; unless the dauphin be in presence
why , sir , i brought you word an hour since that the bark expedition put forth to-night ; and
thy pacorus , orodes , pays this for marcus crassus .
he ' ll not feel wrongs which tie him to an answer .
i ' ll break thy little finger , harry , an if thou wilt not tell my all things true
out , and alas !
away with ' t .
achilles bids you welcome .
but i have cause to pry into this pedant ; methinks he looks as though he were in love .
what , shall king henry be a pupil still , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
nay , she must be old ; she cannot choose but be old ; certain she ' s old ;
what is your difference ?
and i ' ll pay ' t as valorously as i may , that sall i suerly do , that
leave off delays , and let us raise the siege .
and every part of what we would doth make a stand at what your highness will .
but a good conscience will make any possible satisfaction , and so would i .
with them ?
where is the crown ?
as , one for superfluity , and another for use !
hears ' d at my foot , and the ducats in her coffin !
txt enter luce , within luce .
he has put upon ' t !
and she is exceeding wise .
two i am sure i have paid , two rogues in buckram suits .
one drop of blood .
provinces .
i tell thee what , corporal bardolph , i could tear her ; i ' ll be reveng ' d
must i not serve a long apprenticehood to foreign passages ; and in the end , having my freedom ,
no , nor nowhere else but in your brain .
nor i ; my spirits are nimble .
txt nor to her bed no homage do i owe ; far more , far more , to you do
and resolution thus fubb ' d as it is with the rusty curb of old father antic the law ?
low shrubs from winter ' s pow ' rful wind .
his majesty bids you welcome .
and ' tis great pity that the noble moor should hazard such a place as his own second with one
it brief wars .
a rescue !
how now , are you sadder than you were before ?
be these the wretches that we play ' d at dice for ?
keep the peace , i say .
your mind is tossing on the ocean ; there where your argosies , with portly sail- like signiors and rich
dismay ' d not this our captains , macbeth and banquo .
near the abbey enter grooms , strewing rushes first groom .
at least we ' ll die with harness on our back .
of elbe ; where charles the great , having subdu ' d the saxons , there left behind and settled
you audience .
o , i have ta ' en too little care of this !
his ill-ta ' en suspicion !
and mine , two hundred .
there ' s two of you ; the devil make a third , and threefold vengeance tend upon your steps
he that is robb ' d , not wanting what is stol ' n , let him not know '
at the trumpet ' s sound ; with them the two brave bears , warwick and montague , that in
sooner than you would .
we will pay him tribute for light ; else , sir , no more tribute , pray you now .
queen lords , heralds , officers , soldiers , keeper , messenger , groom , and other attendants <<this electronic
surfeit of our own behaviour , we make guilty of our disasters the sun , the moon , and the
and that his forward spirit would lift him where most trade of danger rang ' d ; yet did you
to lose ' t or give ' t away were such perdition as nothing else could match .
o , never shall sun that morrow see !
, as fire cools fire within the scorched veins of one new-burn ' d .
if they had swallow ' d poison ' twould appear by external swelling ; but she looks like sleep ,
sir , in good faith , in sincere verity , under th ' allowance of your great aspect , whose
- the beggar .
look , whe ' r he has not turn ' d his colour , and has tears in ' s
were purchas ' d by the merit of the wearer !
upon the right hand i , keep thou the left .
hang thyself .
in this , though i cannot be said to be a flattering honest man , it must not be denied
thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a parable .
you have kill ' d a sweet lady , and her death shall fall heavy on you .
him about , till candles and star-light and moonshine be out .
yea , though our proper son stood in your action .
how may likeness , made in crimes , make a practice on the times , to draw with idle spiders
enter a porter .
i fear the trust othello puts him in on some odd time of his infirmity will shake this island .
and fleance .
fool , i ' ll requite it in the highest degree ; i prithe be gone .
there is no seeming mercy in the king .
txt measure for measure by william shakespeare dramatis personae vincentio , the duke angelo , the deputy escalus , an
hence , home , you idle creatures , get you home .
[the dishes are uncovered and seen to he full of warm water] some speak .
my noble lord- timon .
enter a messenger thy business ?
a fortune as this that i have reach ' d .
>> act ii .
away with those giglets too , and with the other confederate companion !
] porter .
watch of night .
o ' th ' ear ; or if i can see my glove in his cap- which he swore ,
and to set on this wretched woman here against our substitute !
zounds , i ' ll entreat no more .
at it , and botch the words up fit to their own thoughts ; which , as her winks and
bloody thou art ; bloody will be thy end .
only be patient till we have appeased the multitude , beside themselves with fear , and then we will deliver
_num_ when i have seen by time ' s fell hand defaced the rich-proud cost of outworn buried age ,
consumptions sow in hollow bones of man ; strike their sharp shins , and mar men ' s spurring .
there ' s more gold .
we have strict statutes and most biting laws , the needful bits and curbs to headstrong steeds , which for
you !
who wast came by ?
vent my folly !
now , by the faith of my love , i will .
and his kinsman too .
lie still , ye thief , and hear the lady sing in welsh .
dispraise ?
tell you that .
come , sermon me no further .
noble prince , as there comes light from heaven and words from breath , as there is sense in truth
exeunt enter menelaus and paris , fighting ; then thersites thersites .
enter hamlet , reading on a book .
of doubt , would make me sad .
tear me , take me , and the gods fall upon you !
these babes for clarence weep , and so do i : i for an edward weep , so do not
give me your hand , and let me all your fortunes understand .
and not a jot of tranio in your mouth : tranio is chang ' d into lucentio .
doctor caius ' s house enter mistress quickly , simple , and rugby page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
why , your lieutenant , cassio .
why , warwick , when we parted , thou call ' dst me king ?
for the harlot king is quite beyond mine arm , out of the blank and level of my brain ,
prodigious birth of love it is to me that i must love a loathed enemy .
yes , my lord , you see them perspectively , the cities page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
better angel is a man right fair : the worser spirit a woman coloured ill .
d not above seven times a week , went to a bawdy house not above once in a quarter- of
ajax goes up and down the field asking for himself .
silvius ?
a good moral , my lord : it is not enough to speak , but to speak true .
here ' s rome ' s young captain , let him tell the tale ; while i stand by and
what comes the general to speak with me ?
county .
marry , if thou wert an honest man , thyself and the money too .
o night , o night , alack , alack , alack , i fear my thisby ' s promise is
of nature and of nations , ' longs to him and to his heirs- namely , the crown , and
everyone .
nay , good lieutenant !
--messina .
him , i ' ll set thee in a shower of gold , and hail rich pearls upon thee .
who- he ?
subjects may challenge nothing of their sov ' reigns ; but if an humble prayer may prevail , i then
was like to be ?
lavinia , come , receive the blood ; and when that they are dead , let me go grind their
i knew ' t ' would be a bald conclusion .
or rather as horace says in his- what , my soul , verses ?
i have done ; and god forgive me !
if we compose well here , to parthia .
[aside] heaven give thee moving graces .
yea , just so much as you may take upon a knives point , and choke a daw withal .
o wall , full often hast thou beard my moans , for parting my fair pyramus and me !
than well beseems a man of thy profession and degree ; and for thy treachery , what ' s more
i ' ll have my kiss , sir .
he might have chid me so , for in good faith , i am a child to chiding .
in time i may believe , yet i mistrust .
bankrupts , hold fast ; rather than render back , out with your knives and cut your trusters ' throats
five thousand mine .
but once he slander ' d me with bastardy ; but whe ' er i be as true begot or
fauste , precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra ruminat- and so forth .
, to desperation turn my trust and hope , an anchor ' s cheer in prison be my scope ,
i hope the briefness of your answer made the speediness of your return .
' tis troilus ' fault .
doth not my wit become me rarely ?
to see his nobleness !
natural exhalation in the sky , no scope of nature , no distemper ' d day , no common wind
too , if she call your activity in question .
good thou , save me a piece of marchpane and , as thou loves me , let the porter let
; a fiend , a fairy , pitiless and rough ; a wolf , nay worse , a fellow all
wast born i ' th ' forest here ?
give to dogs what thou deniest to men ; let prisons swallow ' em , debts wither ' em to
can he not be sociable ?
de nick .
, is music and sweet fire .
edmunds .
if i can recover him , and keep him tame , and get to naples with him , he '
enter king john , king philip , lewis , blanch , elinor , the bastard , austria , and attendants
' tis for the dead , not for the quick ; therefore thou liest .
take thee from me .
the consequence is , then , thy jealous fits hath scar ' d thy husband from the use of wits
must not be with this .
no , he ' s in tartar limbo , worse than hell .
hast thou read truth ?
i would it were not notorious .
come , here ' s my heart- something ' s afore ' t .
who ambles time withal ?
in words .
grace , and stay here in your court for three years ' space .
give ear , sir , to my sister ; for those that mingle reason with your passion must be content
there was a friar told me of this man .
as i have read , sir ; and the best of them too .
you do yourself wrong indeed , la !
as this ?
nerissa teaches me what to believe : i ' ll die for ' t but some woman had the ring
do but go after , and mark how he continues .
but tell me whom thou seek ' st .
do ' t , in which i bind , on pain of punishment , the world to weet we stand
the lily i condemned for thy hand , and buds of marjoram had stol ' n thy hair , the
i will not entertain so bad a thought .
further- cut me off the heads of all the favourites that the absent king in deputation left behind him here
law on my side .
not so !
enter the king , duke humphrey , cardinal beaufort , buckingham , york , somerset , salisbury , warwick ,
what can happen to me above this wretchedness ?
why do you speak too , ' why blame you me to love you ?
ay , noble father , if our words will serve .
my sword , yet my poor country shall have more vices than it had before , more suffer and more
did not i bid thee still mark me and do as i do ?
fortunes were more able to relieve her ; but i am shepherd to another man , and do not shear
hero itself can blot out hero ' s virtue .
out on thee , villian !
when i like your favour , for god defend the lute should be like the case !
, these base slaves , ere yet the fight be done , pack up .
o , but one word .
been sow ' d .
choristers singing .
fife .
here ' s decius brutus , he shall tell them so .
good god , betimes remove the means that makes us strangers !
this was a venture , sir , that jacob serv ' d for ; a thing not in his power
to defeat the law .
i conjure you , by that which you profess (howeer you come to know it) answer me : though you
for kate and better for myself .
wherefore to dover ?
' s eye ; one hour ' s storm will drown the fragrant meads , what will whole months of
i present your grace a traitor ' s head , the head of cade , whom i in combat slew
we do believe thee ; and beshrew my soul but i do love the favour and the form of this
once more unto the breach , dear friends , once more ; or close the wall up with our english
ay , boy , ready .
if your back cannot vouchsafe this burden , ' tis too weak ever to get a boy .
exit sir toby .
do in slander .
[exit francis]- [singing] ' and was a worthy king ' - how now , mistress doll !
men ' s voices to commend our deeds .
come , come , come , come , give me your hand .
exeunt alarum .
go in with me , and i will tell you my drift .
say how he died , for i will hear it all .
i ' ll do well yet .
it was well done of you to take him at his word .
into the favour of the king , and is his oracle .
then be still .
fat paunches have lean pates ; and dainty bits make rich the ribs , but bankrupt quite the wits .
my words effectual .
perchance he spoke not , but , like a full-acorn ' d boar , a german one , cried '
an upright zeal to right prevails more than the nature of a brother ' s love .
french soldier .
my master ' s mind .
first sinn ' d with us , and that with us you did continue fault , and that you slipp
' flatter and praise , commend , extol their graces ; though ne ' er so black , say they
might think sometime it saw the carcase of a beauty spent and done .
cambridge .
was ever man so ray ' d ?
he vanishes in thunder ; then , to soft music , enter the shapes again , and dance , with
say on , my lord of westmoreland , in peace , what doth concern your coming .
and shall , albeit sweet music issues thence .
you are idle shallow things ; i am not of your element ; you shall know more hereafter .
friends , come hither .
now two paces of the vilest earth is room enough .
sir , my life is yours ; i humbly set it at your will ; but for my mistress ,
this the nature whom passion could not shake ?
keep thy word .
most sincerely .
for your claim , fair sister , i bar it in the interest of my wife .
give me your arm .
fields .
have receiv ' d much honour by your presence , and ye shall find me thankful .
put on what weary negligence you please , you and your fellows .
of her renown either to suffer shipwreck or arrive where i may have fruition of her love .
the regent hath with talbot broke his word and left us to the rage of france his sword .
than the wren .
this is the pent-house under which lorenzo desired us to make stand .
i do not speak of flight , of fear of death , but dare all imminence that gods and men
she must change for youth ; when she is sated with his body , she will find the error of
[aside] very wisely , puppies !
god give your lordship good time of day .
than he haply may retail from me .
what call you the town ' s name where alexander the pig was born ?
what pleasure was he given to ?
why , had your bodies no heart among you ?
there is a gentleman that serves the count reports but coarsely of her .
she says you have it , and you may be gone .
the gentleness of all the gods go with thee !
welcome , marcade ; but that thou interruptest our merriment .
methought the souls of all that i had murder ' d came to my tent , and every one did
as will not leave their tinct .
they boast to have well-armed friends .
true ; out indeed .
see withal than a cat .
for shame , come down ; he made thee duke of york .
constancy confined , one thing expressing , leaves out difference .
my mind .
tell me thou art my son antipholus .
now my wife ?
a paper from fortune ' s close-stool to give to a nobleman !
are to be wish ' d by one that fixes no bourn ' twixt his and mine ; yet were
[music] feste ' s song come away , come away , death ; and in sad cypress let me be
in which addition , hail , most worthy thane , for it is thine .
thou hast nor youth nor age , but , as it were , an after-dinner ' s sleep , dreaming
come , quench your blushes , and present yourself that which you are , mistress o ' th ' feast
dost thou desire her foully for those things that make her good ?
this naughty man shall fact to face be brought to margaret , who i believe was pack ' d in
nor would i wish you .
i know you two are rival enemies ; how comes this gentle concord in the world that hatred is so
wot you what , my lord ?
the people knows it , and have now receiv ' d his accusations .
whiles they each other cross , lives , honours , lands , and all , hurry to loss .
even those you were wont to take such delight in , the tragedians of the city .
wheresoever you had it , i ' ll take out no work on ' t .
i did impeticos thy gratillity ; for malvolio ' s nose is no whipstock .
i witness to the times that brought them in ; so shall i do to th ' freshest things now
for i perceive i am thy prisoner .
exit scarus .
grecian blood .
what is mine own- she is my goods , my chattels , she is my house , my household stuff
and assur ' d success .
] laer .
tarry , jew .
sir proteus , save you !
[to mardian] bid you alexas bring me word how tall she is .
she lingers my desires , like to a step-dame or a dowager , long withering out a young man '
; o , then his lines would ravish savage ears , and plant in tyrants mild humility .
there spake my brother ; there my father ' s grave did utter forth a voice .
bassianus .
carried with more speed before the wind ; and in our sight they three were taken up by fishermen of
if we be english deer , be then in blood ; not rascal-like to fall down with a pinch ,
are not you he that frights the maidens of the villagery , skim milk , and sometimes labour in the
paris , you speak like one besotted on your sweet delights .
a bristle may enter in way of thy excuse ; my lady will hang thee for thy absence .
myself have spoke in vain .
master ' s mate , and walter whitmore two gentlemen , prisoners with suffolk john hume and john southwell ,
sure , we thank you .
why do we linger thus ?
mongst the rest that woo , and free access and favour as the rest .
txt that ' s sure of death without it- at once pluck out the multitudinous tongue ; let them not
britaines , and base lackey peasants , whom their o ' er-cloyed country vomits forth to desperate adventures and assur
enter servilius servilius .
strange times , that weep with laughing , not with weeping !
she is alone .
tooth on every innocent .
where ' er i wander , boast of this i can : though banish ' d , yet a trueborn
cheerly , boys !
of it own colour too .
lie thou there .
' tis the duke ' s pleasure , whose disposition , all the world well knows , will not be
how vexest thou this man !
prince harry slain outright ; and both the blunts kill ' d by the hand of douglas ; young prince
thy crown does sear mine eyeballs .
honourable menenius , my boy marcius approaches ; for the love of juno , let ' s go .
want ' st thou eyes at trial , madam ?
to kiss .
terms !
thou hast prevail ' d ; i pardon them , and thee ; dispose of them as thou know '
as you ' ll have her .
i am not a-hungry , i thank you , forsooth .
but you will take exceptions to my boon .
doth arthur live ?
the council shall hear it ; it is a riot .
anthony , and potpan !
enter kent .
all in this presence are thy betters , warwick .
o young and noble cato , art thou down ?
but what from rome ?
and i to be a corporal of his field , and wear his colours like a tumbler ' s hoop
not yet perform ' d me .
too late , good diomed .
a plaster by contemn ' d revolt , and heal the inveterate canker of one wound by making many .
tears , and daily heart-sore sighs ; for , in revenge of my contempt of love , love hath chas
reflection ; as when his virtues shining upon others heat them , and they retort that heat again to the
how cam ' st thou so ?
come hither , captain ; hark .
but this our purpose now is twelvemonth old , and bootless ' tis to tell you we will go .
and in the fountain shall we gaze so long , till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness ,
' imogen .
' tis they have put him on the old man ' s death , to have th ' expense and
there , gentle hermia , may i marry thee ; and to that place the sharp athenian law cannot pursue
his unpeopled house .
the better to confer with thee .
what art thou there ?
what tidings send our scouts ?
when all athwart there came a post from wales , loaden with heavy news ; whose worst was that the
these are no women ' s matters .
it grieves me much more for what i cannot do for you than what befalls myself .
by my faith , and thank your lordship .
wert despis ' d ?
o , pardon !
falsely to take away a life true made as to put metal in restrained means to make a false one
know ' st thou the way to dover ?
shall i lay perjury upon my soul ?
let him be caesar .
[whispers] you perceive my mind ?
[coming forward] ay , so thou dost , italian fiend !
these dangerous unsafe lunes i ' th ' king , beshrew them !
a piece of him .
i will not fail you .
he hears with ears .
this note doth tell me of ten thousand french that in the field lie slain ; of princes in this
you men , you beasts , that quench the fire of your pernicious rage with purple fountains issuing from your
but in this point all his tricks founder , and he brings his physic after his patient ' s death
low sound reverbs no hollowness .
[exit edgar .
why , so- and i know not what ' s spent in the search .
i have heard a sonnet begin so to one ' s mistress .
your wondrous rare description , noble earl , of beauteous margaret hath astonish ' d me .
my heart ; no woman ' s heart so big to hold so much ; they lack retention .
let us wag , then .
' and great ones i dare not give .
well , gaoler , on ; pray god bassanio come to see me pay his debt , and then i
did not the one deserve to have an heir ?
that ' s fifty-five year ago .
away with her to execution !
had he his hurts before ?
unto my soul to right your wrongs .
there , leonato , take her back again .
whit lesser than thy land .
the ripest fruit first falls , and so doth he ; his time is spent , our pilgrimage must be
a devil in private brawl .
they would hang them on the horns o ' th ' moon , shouting their emulation .
god buy you ; let ' s meet as little as we can .
that shall not be much amiss ; yet , as the matter now stands , he will avoid your accusation
such joy i never saw before .
the french king ' s palace enter katherine and alice katherine .
exeunt moth and costard armado .
another chamber the king lying on a bed ; clarence , gloucester , warwick , page _num_ complete works of
should move ye to attend me most , and force you to commiseration .
bids you name your griefs , and with all speed you shall have your desires with interest , and pardon
cassius , be content , speak your griefs softly , i do know you well .
s sake ; you rather mine , being yours .
yonder comes the troop .
be great in act , as you have been in thought ; let not the world see fear and sad
' a shall charge you and discharge you with the motion of a pewterer ' s hammer , come off
the throne of denmark to thy father .
this you may know , and so deliver : i am put to sea with her who here i cannot
there is a willow grows aslant a brook , that shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream .
sigh for the toothache ?
stand by me , lucius ; do not fear thine aunt .
down , faitors !
be pitiful , dread lord , and grant it , then .
your virtues , gentle master , are sanctified and holy traitors to you .
people of this world , for no thought is contented .
may one that is a herald and a prince do a fair message to his kingly eyes ?
no , page ; it is an epilogue or discourse to make plain some obscure precedence that hath tofore been
re-enter antony .
will you walk in , my lord ?
ancient damnation !
he that hath suffer ' d this disorder ' d spring hath now himself met with the fall of leaf
if you refuse it-as , in love and zeal , loath to depose the child , your brother ' s
swear his thought over by each particular star in heaven and by all their influences , you may as well
know .
come there by dinner-time .
was not your husband in margaret ' s battle at saint albans slain ?
' tis caesar that you mean , is it not , cassius ?
what , man , ' tis not for gravity to play at cherrypit with satan .
such hope have all the line of john of gaunt !
so , i kiss your hand .
[to shallow] o , if i had had to have made new liveries , i would have bestowed the thousand
it was jove ' s case .
yet stay awhile , thou shalt not back till i have borne this corse into the marketplace .
sir , i am a gentleman that have spent much ; my name page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
my life , my joy , my food , my ail the world !
here pitch our battle ; hence we will not budge .
combine together ' gainst the enemy ; for these domestic and particular broils are not the question here .
i know not such , my lord .
away , inhuman dog , unhallowed slave !
full measure to her maidenhead ; be mad and merry , or go hang yourselves .
the most infectious pestilence upon thee !
will you shog off ?
for not alone the death of fulvia , with more urgent touches , do strongly speak to us ; but
gloucester !
the love i bore my cousin tybalt upon his body that hath slaughter ' d him !
and thy hair , thou other gold-bound brow , is like the first .
for the letter that begins them all , h .
well , sir , what answer made the belly ?
come , i will go drink with you , but i cannot tarry dinner .
my means been butchered wrongfully ?
his purpose meets you : ' twas to bring this greek to calchas ' house , and there to render
how apply you this ?
fight i will no more , but yield me to the veriest hind that shall once touch my shoulder .
know , pyramus and thisby meet by moonlight .
the surety for their traitor father .
she is not worth thee , then .
we the globe can compass soon , swifter than the wand ' ring moon .
by this scimitar , that slew the sophy and a persian prince , that won three fields of sultan solyman
somerset .
our state forc ' d to cry out .
well , i may chance to see you , for i would very fain speak with you .
who was with him ?
behold this man ; commend unto his lips thy favouring hand- kiss it , my warrior- he hath fought to-day
[to antony] ha , my brave emperor !
why , ' twas my care , and what loss is it to be rid of care ?
hath in all outward behaviours seem ' d ever to abhor .
through caesar ' s bowels , search this bosom .
slaughters , wretch , that thou hast done !
go to ventidius .
this is the point .
he ' s for his master , an enemy to my son .
i dare not , lest i be taken .
it becomes a virtue .
[exeunt prince john and westmoreland .
i do bite my thumb , sir .
txt enter lady macbeth .
txt born out of your dominions , having here no judge indifferent , nor no more assurance of equal friendship
the curse my noble father laid on thee , when thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper and with
declining , the father should be as ward to the son , and the son manage his revenue .
we are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards .
many years of happy days befall my gracious sovereign , my most loving liege !
be what it is , the action of my life is like it , which i ' ll keep ,
let me be duke of clarence , george of gloucester ; for gloucester ' s dukedom is too ominous .
but is my husband coming ?
for why should others ' false adulterate eyes give salutation to my sportive blood ?
all the rest on ' s body cold .
they are fairies ; he that speaks to them shall die .
what say they ?
old athenian .
on the head of a wasp ' s nest ; then stand till he be three quarters and a dram
go , bear thou this letter to mistress page ; and thou this to mistress ford .
i know your favour , lord ulysses , well .
some oracle must rectify our knowledge .
hear you confess it brokenly with your english tongue .
this accident is not unlike my dream ; belief of it oppresses me already .
what fray was here ?
though what i am i cannot avoid , yet to be what i would not shall not make me tame
lives and as his father here was conqueror , as sure as in this late betrayed town great coeur-de-lion '
behold yond simp ' ring dame , whose face between her forks presageth snow , that minces virtue , and
[they converse apart] enter shallow , slender , and mistress quickly shallow .
now , what mov ' d me to ' t , i will be bold with time and your attention
do not consent that ever hector and achilles meet ; for both our honour and our shame in this are
what is the course and drift of your compact ?
txt cloten .
thy dukedom i resign , and do entreat thou pardon me my wrongs .
yes , good faith , ev ' ry dram of it ; and i will not bate thee a scruple
and so says york- [aside] for he hath greatest cause .
why , this is a passing merry one , and goes to the tune of ' two maids wooing a
why , he that wears her like her medal , hanging about his neck , bohemia ; who- if i
know my place as i would they should do theirs , to ask for my kinsman toby- sir toby .
an hour of quiet shortly shall we see ; till then in patience our proceeding be .
nicely charge your understanding soul with opening titles miscreate whose right suits not in native colours with the truth ;
but when we saw our sunshine made thy spring , and that thy summer bred us no increase , we
now , tell me , how do all from whence you came ?
no , it begins again .
one that , above all other strifes , contended especially to know himself .
[exit servant] good maria , let this fellow be look ' d to .
is it a free visitation ?
you are very well met .
trophy ; and as oft is dumb where dust and damn ' d oblivion is the tomb of honour '
follow me , lady .
my eye ' s too quick , my heart o ' erweens too much , unless my hand and strength
take heed you fall not .
and i say the earth was not of my mind , if you suppose as fearing you it shook .
he hath won .
i had a wound here that was like a t , but now ' tis made an h .
if you look for a good speech now , you undo me ; for what i have to say is
and to you , gentle sir , and to you all .
enter proteus and- in good time !
all lords .
pardon me , sir ; it was a black ill-favour ' d fly , like to the empress ' moor
why prat ' st thou to thyself , and answer ' st not ?
strange flies , these fashion-mongers , these pardona-mi ' s , who stand so much on the new form that
stol ' n the impression of her fantasy with bracelets of thy hair , rings , gawds , conceits ,
[he kneels] rise up a knight .
now they believe it , and withal whet me to be reveng ' d on rivers , dorset , grey
[aside to gloucester] are ye advis ' d ?
othello !
where ' s alexas ?
speak england first , that hath been forward first to speak unto this city : what say you ?
be now as prodigal of all dear grace as nature was in making graces dear , when she did starve
to flatter them for their love .
how now , fellow !
resolve on this : thou shalt be fortunate if thou receive me for thy warlike mate .
strike up our drums , pursue the scatt ' red stray .
my cousin juliet ?
first , he commends him to your noble self .
our stage ; the which if you with patient ears attend , what here shall miss , our toil shall
henceforth be never numb ' red among men !
i never saw an action of such shame ; experience , manhood , honour , ne ' er before did
you cur !
enter lucius , iachimo , the soothsayer , and other roman prisoners , guarded ; posthumus behind , and imogen
upon my life , i am a lord indeed , and not a tinker , nor christopher sly .
for that noble hand of thine , that hath thrown down so many enemies , shall not be sent .
give ground if you see him furious .
sirrah , if thou wouldst page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
six years we banish him , and he shall go .
the king ' s palace flourish .
his tongue is now a stringless instrument ; words , life , and all , old lancaster hath spent .
to-morrow do i meet thee , fell as death ; to-night all friends .
his augurers may hold him from the capitol today .
the lease of nature , pay his breath to time and mortal custom .
have thee crown ' d withal .
do you not hear the people cry ' troilus ' ?
he had his part of it ; let him pay .
success : i have congied with the duke , done my adieu with his nearest ; buried a wife ,
he has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking off so good a wife and so sweet a lady
' d a man , and fear i was descried .
lord , how wise you are !
i fear it is ; and yet methinks it should not , for he hath still been tried a holy
what means that hand upon that breast of thine ?
[exeunt prince and poins .
to him , father , for i am a jew , if i serve the jew any longer .
with a wench .
priest , beware your beard ; i mean to tug it , and to cuff you soundly ; under my
o , woe the day !
presumptuous vassals , are you not asham ' d with this immodest clamorous outrage to trouble and disturb the king
, i am none .
what think you they portend ?
to die- to sleep- no more ; and by a sleep to say we end the heartache , and the
but yet methinks my father ' s execution was nothing less than bloody tyranny .
hear me , grave fathers ; noble tribunes , stay !
him) did slay this fortinbras ; who , by a seal ' d compact , well ratified by law and
come hither to me , harry .
i was never curst ; i have no gift at all in shrewishness ; i am a right maid for
remain here in the cave ; we ' ll come to you after hunting .
i ' ll trust by leisure him that mocks me once ; thee never , nor thy traitorous haughty sons
what harm can your bisson conspectuities glean out of this character , if i be known well enough too ?
look you now what follows .
what shall i do with my doublet and hose ?
let me speak proudly : tell the constable we are but warriors for the working-day ; our gayness and our
there ' s matter in ' t indeed if he be angry .
' so deliver i up my apes , and away to saint peter--for the heavens .
the second property of your excellent sherris is the warming of the blood ; which before , cold and settled
le foot et le count .
nerve .
do me the common right to let me see them , and to make me know the nature of their
take ' t- ' tis yours ; what is ' t ?
some to the common pulpits and cry out " liberty , freedom , and enfranchisement !
as if a god in hate of mankind had destroyed in such a shape .
i thank thee , clifford .
mortimer .
, when he knows thou art the empress ' babe , will hold thee dearly for thy mother ' s
i then did ask of her her changeling child ; which straight she gave me , and her fairy sent
now , sir john , here is the heart of my purpose : you are a gentleman of excellent breeding
and for our father ' s sake and mother ' s care , now let me show a brother '
never , iago .
malvolio .
mine ; the image of a wicked heinous fault lives in his eye ; that close aspect of his doth
i know not why , except to get the land .
sit by us ; you shall hear- this was his gentleman in trust-of him things to strike honour sad .
a gentleman of the very first house , of the first and second cause .
hence , [strikes him] horrible villain !
sir , i say to you we are none .
, receive no tokens .
asses .
since which time of five years i never spake with her , saw her , nor heard from her ,
your hand , salerio .
you ' re my prisoner , but your gaoler shall deliver you the keys that lock up your restraint .
i do .
where is the master , boson ?
stand up .
take their examination yourself and bring it me .
rome shall remedy this .
fell in love .
have with thee , my girl .
on him that enters next , thinking his prattle to be tedious ; even so , or with much more
upon the talk of the poisoning ?
do so , and let no man abide this deed but we the doers .
o , you are men of stone .
, see , king richard doth himself appear , as doth the blushing discontented sun from out the fiery portal
eldest son , evermore tattling .
nerissa and the rest , stand all aloof ; let music sound while he doth make his choice ; then
or flowers with flowers gathered .
that life is better life , past fearing death , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you married ones , if each of you should take this course , how many must murder wives much better
out , though with the loss of many a bold one , whose kinsmen have made suit that their good
poor clifford , how i scorn his worthless threats !
camillo and polixenes laugh at me , make their pastime at my sorrow .
he replied , ' thou unpossessing bastard , dost thou think , if i would stand against thee , would
txt mowbray .
how fair the tribune speaks to calm my thoughts .
i said , an elder soldier , not a better .
no ; he doth but mistake the truth totally .
the shrug , the hum or ha , these petty brands that calumny doth use- o , i am out
yea , sir , in a pottle-pot .
chang ' d to a worser shape thou canst not be .
thump , then , and i flee .
' twas of some estate .
do intend vat i speak ?
tush , i will stir about , and all things shall be well , i warrant thee , wife .
and let him feed .
to the yielding , had i admittance and opportunity to friend .
what i can do i will ; and more i will than for myself i dare .
i do love cassio well , and would do much to cure him of this evil- but , hark !
is lechery so look ' d after ?
vice o ' th ' top .
why shouldst thou hate men ?
no , great king ; i come to thee for charitable licence , that we may wander o ' er
' d love .
therefore away with her , and use her as you will ; the worse to her the better lov '
in bed asleep , while they do dream things true .
he spieth falstaff on the ground .
clarence ; next to whom was john of gaunt , the duke of lancaster ; the fifth was edmund langley
and the grace of heaven , before , behind thee , and on every hand , enwheel thee round !
hark in thine ear .
stay , madam , here is more belongs to her ; first thrash the corn , then after burn the
their arms .
go show your slaves how choleric you are , and make your bondmen tremble .
put off that gown , trinculo ; by this hand , i ' ll have that gown .
; for so appears this fleet majestical , holding due course to harfleur .
he is simply the rarest man i ' th ' world .
for , bear ourselves as even as we can , the king will always think him in our debt ,
shall warwick cut the sea to france , and ask the lady bona for thy queen .
look , ' when his infant fortune came to age , ' and ' gentle harry percy , ' and
[reads madly ] ' by the lord , madam- ' olivia .
why should we , good lady , upon what cause , wrong you ?
how easily murder is discovered !
small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast .
what , is he fled ?
fare ye well , with all my heart .
serve you , sir .
give me the ring of mine you had at dinner , or , for my diamond , the chain you
o , tell not me of fear !
how now , spirit !
i ' ll none now .
before the tower enter queen elizabeth , duchess of york , and marquis of dorset , at one door ;
i do assure thee , father , so it is .
yet tell ' st thou not how thou wert entertain ' d .
devouring .
' tis hymen peoples every town ; high wedlock then be honoured .
o , get thee from my sight ; thou gav ' st me poison .
qui va la ?
prithee no more .
now , master slender !
repose you there , whilst i to this hard house (more harder than the stones whereof ' tis rais '
alas , poor proteus , thou hast entertain ' d a fox to be the shepherd of thy lambs .
where shall we dine ?
and , madam , these for you ; from whom i know not .
lust ' s blood be spotted .
heaven restore thee !
she says you have some goodly jest in hand : she will not come ; she bids you come to
txt at once and fully satisfied-whether ever i did broach this business to your highness , or laid any scruple
txt thersites .
go by water .
, who has- his dignity and duty both cast off- fled from his father , from his hopes , and
hie , make haste , make haste !
hang it !
must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes ?
do you misdoubt this sword and these my wounds ?
txt ere i will yield my virgin patent up unto his lordship , whose unwished yoke my soul consents not
his fracted dates have smit my credit .
wo ha , ho !
we sent unto the temple , unto his chamber ; and answer was return ' d that he will come
then thus for you , my lord : it stands agreed , i take it , by all voices ,
yet we hear no tidings from the king ; therefore we will disperse ourselves .
who are those at the gate ?
anything , my lord , that my ability may undergo , and nobleness impose .
when a gentleman is dispos ' d to swear , it is not for any standers-by to curtail his oaths
there is expectance here from both the sides what further you will do .
storm and tempest .
, where i have liv ' d at honest freedom , paid more pious debts to heaven than in all
burbolt .
the fame .
lose the dues of rejoicing , by being ignorant of what greatness is promised thee .
upon mine honour , sir , i heard a humming , and that a strange one too , which did
the canker gnaw thy heart for showing me again the eyes of man !
o , he sits high in all the people ' s hearts , and that which would appear offense in
will they yet look after thee ?
she is hard by with twenty thousand men ; and therefore fortify your hold , my lord .
hear me a word ; for i shall never speak to thee again .
but she , being mortal , of that boy did die ; and for her sake do i rear up
only to part friends .
the father of his son , nor the master of his servant ; for they purpose not their death when
there is no need of any such redress ; or if there were , it not belongs to you .
how chance thou art return ' d so soon ?
what canst thou say but will perplex thee more , if thou stand excommunicate and curs ' d ?
and , for the morning now is something worn , our purpos ' d hunting shall be set aside .
speak thou no more , if all the rest will speed .
more than i seem , and less than i was born to : a man at least , for less
by heavens , the duke shall know how slack you have been !
let no assembly of twenty be without a score of villains .
hear ' st thou , biondello ?
and , good lieutenant , i think you think i love you .
beseech you tenderly apply to her some remedies for life .
now no more will i control thy griefs .
and ere my knee rise from the earth ' s cold face i throw my hands , mine eyes ,
unseemly woman in a seeming man !
if she be all that is virtuous-save what thou dislik ' st , a poor physician ' s daughter-thou dislik
good madam , if by me you ' ll be advis ' d , let ' s mock them still
there ' s a double tongue ; there ' s two tongues .
forgive me , cousin .
, hath well compos ' d thee .
' mouths so meet .
o , by this count i shall be much in years ere i again behold my romeo !
re-enter guiderius guiderius .
i did not think , sir , to have met you here .
what ' s your highness ' pleasure ?
away with him !
i bleed , sir , but not kill ' d .
the man that once did sell the lion ' s skin while the beast liv ' d was kill '
exeunt octavius , antony , and their army .
man ' s contumely , the pangs of despis ' d love , the law ' s delay , the
what a fearful night is this !
i grant your worship that he is a knave , sir ; but yet god forbid , sir , but
and whither ?
a husband and a son thou ow ' st to me ; and thou a kingdom ; all of you
vengeance on offenders ' heads .
' tis necessary he should die : nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy .
' d me , here i quit him .
be not , as is our fangled world , a garment nobler than that it covers .
we have done our course ; there ' s money for your pains .
to me it is a prison .
txt in to borrow a mess of vinegar , telling us she had a good dish of prawns , whereby
by gar , de herring is no dead so as i vill kill him .
what ' s the disease he means ?
of discord and continual strife ?
o just but severe law !
with it- as with an enemy that had before my face murd ' red my father- the quarrel of a
' tis true , ' tis true : witness my knife ' s sharp point .
get thee away .
exit autolycus , singing will you buy any tape , or lace for your cape , my dainty duck ,
consent to pay thee that i never had !
the ample proposition that hope makes in all designs begun on earth below fails in the promis ' d largeness
my humble thanks .
what had he done , to make him fly the land ?
come , let us take a muster speedily .
in faith , i do not .
down with as much modesty as cunning .
withhold thy speed , dreadful occasion !
good night , sweet prince , and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest !
[puts on the ring] gloucester .
alas , he ' s mad !
i take it she that carries up the train is that old noble lady , duchess of norfolk .
but this exceeding posting day and night must wear your spirits low ; we cannot help it .
get me ink and paper .
no doubt he ' s noble ; he had a black mouth that said other of him .
may i with right and conscience make this claim ?
i shall deliver so .
of me- this is not to do , so grace and mercy at your most need help you , swear
good ground , be pitiful and hurt me not !
what , to perverseness ?
you that have so fair parts of woman on you have too a woman ' s heart , which ever
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene xiv .
' step aside , and i ' ll show thee a precedent .
men all in fire walk up and down the streets .
i am constant to my purposes ; they follow the king ' s pleasure .
i will praise any man that will praise me ; though it cannot be denied what i have done by
there ' s no more to say ; accessible is none but milford way .
an old sheep-whistling rogue , a ram-tender , to offer to have his daughter come into grace !
breathless and faint , leaning upon my sword , came there a certain lord , neat and trimly dress '
but how long fairly shall her sweet life last ?
we were dead of sleep , and-how , we know not-all clapp ' d under hatches ; where , but
him i will not fail him at supper ; for indeed he hath made great preparation .
, he is contented thy poor drudge to be , to stand in thy affairs , fall by thy side
was ever father so bemoan ' d his son ?
now see what good turns eyes for eyes have done , mine eyes have drawn thy shape , and thine
my humour with his merry jests .
you see me , lord bassanio , where i stand , such as i am .
then , even now , i might have look ' d upon my queen ' s full eyes , have
by my troth , it is well said .
to see thee fight , to see thee foin , to see thee traverse ; to see thee here ,
i tell thee , syracusian , twenty years have i been patron to antipholus , during which time he ne
call me a fool ; trust not my reading nor my observation , which with experimental seal doth warrant the
no , good-fac ' d sir ; no , sweet sir .
strong enobarb is weaker than the wine , and mine own tongue splits what it speaks .
to hear , or forbear hearing ?
and indeed , sir , there are cozeners abroad ; therefore it behoves men to be wary .
let deeds express what ' s like to be their words : ' we did request it ; we are
let him write down the prince ' s officer coxcomb .
well , my dread lord ; so must i can you now .
then let me stay ; and , father , do you fly .
my lord protector , so it please your grace , here are the articles of contracted peace between our sovereign
by course of justice !
no , my lord ; i have got two worlds by ' t .
be it with resolution , then , to fight .
exeunt clitus , dardanius , and volumnius .
and not to us , but to thy arm alone , ascribe we all .
the fairest hand i ever touch ' d !
the trumpets have sounded twice .
' says the fiend ; ' away !
it is not well done , mark you now , to take the tales out of my mouth ere it
aufidius , and you volsces , mark ; for we ' ll hear nought from rome in private .
well , god give her good rest !
and we will hear it .
irishman with my aqua-vitae bottle , or a thief to walk my ambling gelding , than my wife with herself
they must come off ; i ' ll sauce them .
she is not well .
and did my brother bedford toil his wits to keep by policy what henry got ?
o unhappy youth !
, i will plead against it with my life .
an i cannot , cannot , cannot , an i cannot , another can .
both truth and beauty on my love depends : so dost thou too , and therein dignified : make answer
[they converse apart] berowne .
er your brows , muffle your face , dismantle you , and , as you can , disliken the truth
exit catesby .
her peerless feature , joined with her birth , approves her fit for none but for a king ; page
it grows dark , he may stumble .
it pleases time and fortune to lie heavy upon a friend of mine , who in hot blood hath stepp
nay , conceive me , conceive me , sweet coz ; what i do is to pleasure you , coz
sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom of good old abraham !
now counterfeit to swoon ; why , now fall down ; or , if thou canst not , o ,
are yours- my lord ' s .
enter antony .
i do proclaim one honest man- mistake me not , but one ; no more , i pray- and he
how do you both ?
cassio did top her ; ask thy husband else .
pray heaven i be deceiv ' d in you !
what should i say to you ?
and these are not fairies ?
dost thou believe , orlando , that the boy can do all this that he hath promised ?
discomfortable cousin !
is very snow-broth , one who never feels the wanton stings and motions of the sense , but doth rebate
o judgement , thou art fled to brutish beasts , and men have lost their reason .
all is well ended if this suit be won , that you express content ; which we will pay with
there is an old tale goes that heme the hunter , sometime a keeper here in windsor forest , doth
' ' nay , ' said i , ' he hath the tongues .
why then , god forgive me !
imogen .
be shown unless this general evil they maintain , all men are bad and in their badness reign .
my love till death , my humble thanks , my prayers ; that love which virtue begs and virtue grants
if you please , be ' t at her father ' s .
good uncle marcus , see how swift she comes !
txt to the disposing of the cardinal ; with whom yourself , myself , and other lords , if you
throat in drops of crimson blood .
prithee , apemantus , read me the superscription of these letters ; i know not which is which .
txt fit too ?
never get her so much as sip on a cup with the proudest of them all ; and yet there
to the flock , before his chaps be stain ' d with crimson blood , as humphrey , prov '
then enter joan la pucelle driving englishmen before her .
sons , we ' ll higher to the mountains ; there secure us .
his thoughts , save such as doth revolve and ruminate himself-shall he be worshipp ' d of that we hold
y ' are welcome , my fair guests .
justly to your grave ears i ' ll present how i did thrive in this fair lady ' s love
' ' what shall betide the duke of somerset ?
txt out of the host .
to joan la pucelle margaret , daughter to reignier , afterwards married to king henry countess of auvergne joan la
sir , do you know me ?
can thy dam ?
we have with a leaven ' d and prepared choice proceeded to you ; therefore take your honours .
to other regions !
enter richard plantagenet first keeper .
your ensigns , let your drums be still , for here we entertain a solemn peace .
the count rousillon cannot be my brother : i am from humble , he from honoured name ; no note
kneel down and take my blessing , good my girl .
aaron , thou hast hit it .
[aside] if that be call ' d deceit , i will be honest , and never whilst i live deceive
thanks , reignier , happy for so sweet a child , fit to be made companion with a king .
haply by much company might be urg ' d ; therefore i say with noble buckingham that it is meet
i sometime lay here in corioli at a poor man ' s house ; he us ' d me kindly
you wrong me , signior gremio ; give me leave .
a fresh tapster .
bear myself (as i perchance hereafter shall think meet to put an antic disposition on) , that you , at
i have spoke thus much to mitigate the justice of thy plea , which if thou follow , this strict
txt page .
this gentleman , the prince ' s near ally , my very friend , hath got this mortal hurt in
as putter-on of these exactions , yet the king our master- whose honour heaven shield from soil !
methinks the ground is even .
ay , sir ; but she will none , she gives you thanks .
give us the swords ; we have bucklers of our own .
there is a vice that most i do abhor , and most desire should meet the blow of justice ;
my heart misgives me ; here comes master fenton .
hats king henry .
now , governor of paris , take your oath [governor kneels] that you elect no other king but him ,
come , my spade !
o , be not mov ' d , prince troilus .
she shall not , for that i ' ll keep shut .
they are so still , or thou , the greatest soldier of the world , art turn ' d the
their rights , they are ever forward- in celebration of this day with shows , pageants , and sights of
pounds of moneys , and gold , and silver , is her grandsire upon his death ' s-bed-got deliver to
you are not to be taught that you have many enemies that know not why they are so , but
to leave you in your madness ' twere my sin ; i will not .
diminishing , as take from me thyself , and not me too .
good mother , be content ; it is no more than my poor life must answer .
why , she hath not writ to me .
year !
a knave ; a rascal ; an eater of broken meats ; a base , proud , shallow , beggarly
improvident soldiers !
troth .
this blow might be the be-all and the end-all -here , but here , upon this bank and shoal of
let it be a quarrel between us if you live .
your last .
in the heat , are curs ' d by those that feel their sharpness .
if it will feed nothing else , it will feed my revenge .
' go to , thou an made , if thou desir ' st to be so ' ; - olivia
enter romeo , mercutio , benvolio , with five or six other maskers ; torchbearers .
, reign ' d as king till henry bolingbroke , duke of lancaster , the eldest son and heir of
no ; i made no such report .
change places and , handy-dandy , which is the justice , which is the thief ?
o , give me thy hand , one writ with me in sour misfortune ' s book !
txt begins to swell , and the approaching tide will shortly fill the reasonable shore that now lies foul and
yea , but so i am apt to do myself wrong .
i protest i love the duke as i love myself .
peace , doting wizard , peace !
nothing but heart ' s sorrow , and a clear life ensuing .
stay , or thou diest .
of her .
, with curses in her mouth , tears in her eyes , the bleeding witness of my hatred by ;
for lord hamlet , believe so much in him , that he is young , and with a larger tether
thus have i had thee as a dream doth flatter , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
ay , sir ; we did sleep day out of countenance and made the night light with drinking .
nay , come your ways .
i would it might be hangers till then .
our cheek , chasing the royal blood with fury from his native residence .
so you had need ; for orleans is besieg ' d ; the english army is grown weak and faint
to punish you by the heels would amend the attention of your ears ; and i care not if i
drag hence her husband to some secret hole , and make his dead trunk pillow to our lust .
height of all his pride .
here comes other reckonings .
you have broke it , cousin ; and by my life , you shall make it whole again ; you
if there be one or two , i shall make-a the turd .
here comes my servant travers , whom i sent on tuesday last to listen after news .
i cannot do it to the gods ; must i then do ' t to them ?
no , by mine honour , madam .
txt cymbeline .
with mine .
of flattery further .
am i rome ' s slave ?
] my lord , my lord !
o , marry me to one frances !
shall i return this answer to the king ?
why , how now , dromio !
nay , then- cressida .
' but yet ' is as a gaoler to bring forth some monstrous malefactor .
; yet , believe me , prince , i am not glad that such a sore of time should seek
o wretched villain !
good my lord , ask him upon his oath if he does think he had not my virginity .
you do love this maid ?
enter it .
last night of all , when yond same star that ' s westward from the pole had made his course
do not , my lord .
to him , and tell him my name is brook-only for a jest .
they be still and willing , i ' ll undertake may see away their shilling richly in two short hours
] friar .
o , then , beware : those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves ; omission to do what
sick now ?
i had myself notice of my brother ' s purpose herein , and have by underhand means laboured to dissuade
[they put mutius in the tomb] lucius .
and were there sense in his idolatry my substance should be statue in thy stead .
and why not as the lion ?
beaufort ' s red sparkling eyes blab his heart ' s malice , and suffolk ' s cloudy brow his
now , salisbury , for thee , and for the right of english henry , shall this night appear how
what news , my friend ?
by me they nothing gain an if i stay : ' tis but the short ' ning of my life
now , good sir , what are you ?
that live honestly by the prick of their needles , but it will be thought we keep a bawdy-house straight
even now i tremble to think your father , by some accident , should pass this way , as you
more to hew thy target from thy brawn , or lose mine arm for ' t .
anointed let me be with deadly venom , and die ere men can say ' god save the queen !
whence are you , sir ?
txt commercially .
he a good wit !
a present .
these be good humours .
write thou , good niece , and here display at last what god will have discovered for revenge .
txt of those physicians that first wounded thee : a thousand flatterers sit within thy crown , whose compass is
o monument and wonder of good deeds evilly bestow ' d !
never in your life , i think ; unless you see canary put me down .
told on : ' we smothered the most replenished sweet work of nature that from the prime creation e '
why , you are so fat , sir john , that you must needs be out of all compass- out
i weep for joy to stand upon my kingdom once again .
well , well , he was the covert ' st shelt ' red traitor that ever liv ' d .
' ll turn you out of my kingdom .
are ; or i will scarce think you have swam in a gondola .
i speak not this that you should bear a good opinion of my knowledge , insomuch i say i know
my pretty cousin , blessing upon you !
[holding sebastian] clown .
but peace be with him !
and ber .
why , he but sleeps .
you spy !
la you , an you speak ill of the devil , how he takes it at heart !
virgins and boys , mid-age and wrinkled eld , soft infancy , that nothing canst but cry , add to
man is but an ass if he go about to expound this dream .
now , pray , my lord , let ' s see the devil ' s writ .
txt so sweet is zealous contemplation .
himself- i know not how , but i do find it cowardly and vile , for fear of what might
long lives this , and this gives life to thee .
[aside to cardinal] faith , holy uncle , would ' twere come to that !
re-enter clown clown .
ascend , fair queen , pantheon .
we thank you both ; yet one but flatters us , as well appeareth by the cause you come ;
the ground to hurl at the beholders of my shame ; my grisly countenance made others fly ; none durst
let ' s away , our tears are not yet brew ' d .
he weeds the corn , and still lets grow the weeding .
as i have heard him swear himself there ' s one whom he begot with child , let her appear
i , dreading that her purpose was of more danger , did compound for her a certain stuff , which
your grace mistakes ; only to be brief , left i his title out .
ay , at philippi .
even as thou wilt , sweet warwick , let it be ; for in thy shoulder do i build my
your wives , your daughters , your matrons , and your maids could not fill up the cestern of my
i a maid at your window , to be your valentine .
call it not patience , gaunt-it is despair ; in suff ' ring thus thy brother to be slaught '
decius , go tell them caesar will not come .
but forbear , i say ; he dies that touches any of this fruit till i and my affairs are
what need the bridge much broader than the flood ?
i wish your enterprise today may thrive .
love ' s not time ' s fool , though rosy lips and cheeks within his bending sickle ' s
[reads .
you are the weaker vessel , as as they say , the emptier vessel .
no , if a scot would save his soul , he shall not .
chance of war .
royally !
, and the lady hath it : sweet clown , sweeter fool , sweetest lady !
cantons of contemned love and sing them loud even in the dead of night ; halloo your name to the
by ' r lady , then i have brought up a neck to a fair end .
i say i will make him eat some part of my leek , or i will peat his pate four
my vows and prayers yet are the king ' s , and , till my soul forsake , shall cry
but your discretions better can persuade than i am able to instruct or teach ; and , therefore , as
who cannot steal a shape that means deceit ?
' tis a very excellent piece of work , madam lady would ' twere done !
send for him hither ; let him confess a truth .
but is there any ?
i think not so , my lord .
as ice , as pure as snow , thou shalt not escape calumny .
second all his plot .
, ' how the world wags ; ' tis but an hour ago since it was nine ; and after
thy sumptuous buildings and thy wife ' s attire have cost a mass of public treasury .
indeed , upon my sword , indeed .
fortune made such havoc of my means , nor my bad life reft me so much of friends , but
had the virtue which their own conscience seal ' d them , laying by that nothing-gift of differing multitudes ,
well , i will find him ; for being now a favourer to the briton , no more a briton
no , nor i neither ; i ' ll be at your elbow .
exit gardiner the most convenient place that i can think of for such receipt of learning is blackfriars ; there
know ' st thou fluellen ?
i do beseech your grace , for charity , if ever any malice in your heart were hid against me
and we ' ll be waited on .
that done , dissever your united strengths and part your mingled colours once again , turn face to face and
eglamour .
o thou day o ' th ' world , chain mine arm ' d neck .
my mistress is my mistress : this my self , the vigour and the picture of my youth .
of all complexions the cull ' d sovereignty do meet , as at a fair , in her fair cheek
nothing at all , unless that this were she .
will you go along with us ?
and by and by think that i am unking ' d by bolingbroke , and straight am nothing .
you are unkind , demetrius ; be not so ; for you love hermia .
the duke of york commends him to your majesty .
' tis midnight ; i ' ll go arm myself .
him thence .
fair ladies mask ' d are roses in their bud : dismask ' d , their damask sweet commixture shown
ah , sirrah , a body would think this was well counterfeited .
thy death , which is no more .
me a child begotten of thy body that i am father to , then call me husband ; but in
[kneeling] i am down again ; but now my heavy conscience sinks my knee , as then your force did
i do beseech you , good my lords , keep on ; i ' ll wait upon you instantly .
sir john , god save you !
what , shall one of us , that struck the foremost man of all this world but for supporting robbers
and now tell me , how doth your cousin ?
of poise and difficult weight , and fearful to be granted .
, and , i think , being too strong for him , though he took up my legs sometime ,
- good morrow , alexander .
was he not held a learned man ?
all studies here i solemnly defy save how to gall and pinch this bolingbroke ; and that same sword-and-buckler prince
villain , thy own hand yields thy death ' s instrument .
s curse-on her revolting son .
' d then our lord , our sovereign king .
all hail , the richest heauties on the earth !
the garter inn enter falstaff and mistress quickly falstaff .
now make your choice .
speak low if you speak love .
to me in any summer house in christendom) .
age , desires to know in brief the grounds and motives of her woe .
[gives money .
indeed , no , by your patience ; i ' ll not over the threshold till my lord return from
here ' s metal more attractive .
by my troth , you like well and bear your years very well .
why , it contains no king ?
sir , like an evil angel , and bid you forsake your liberty .
this is in thee a nature but infected , a poor unmanly melancholy sprung from change of fortune .
both without and within .
dry sorrow drinks our blood .
, scouring faults ; nor never hydra-headed wilfulnes so soon did lose his seat , and all at once ,
you do not use me with that affability as in discretion you ought to use me , look you ;
my son came then into my mind , and yet my mind was then scarce friends with him .
_num_ those parts of thee that the world ' s eye doth view , want nothing that the thought of
prithee , bring me to the dead bodies of my queen and son .
see him deliver ' d , fabian ; bring him hither .
_num_ let me confess that we two must be twain , although our undivided loves are one : so shall
how now , mad wag ?
why , couldst thou perceive so much from her ?
enter queen margaret and the prince of wales exeter .
charg ' d him , at the sixth hour of morn , at noon , at midnight , t '
i will not be put out of countenance .
one , not to be overrul ' d .
fie on sinful fantasy !
the barbarous scythian , or he that makes his generation messes to gorge his appetite , shall to my bosom
cassio and roderigo are borne off .
the devil himself hath not such a name .
and here the maiden , sleeping sound , on the dank and dirty ground .
a public road enter petruchio , katherina , hortensio , and servants petruchio .
for when mine hours were nice and lucky , men did ransom lives of me for jests ; but now
the red-nose innkeeper of daventry .
thither how the world goes , that to the pace of it i may spur on my journey .
; with which i meant to scourge th ' ingratitude that despiteful rome cast on my noble father .
just , if he send me no husband ; for the which blessing i am at him upon my knees
conceived against your son , there is no fitter matter .
exit pandarus words , vows , gifts , tears , and love ' s full sacrifice , he offers in
with pray ' rs for the provider .
wretched in this alone , that thou mayst take , all this away , and me most wretchcd make .
and i will take up that with ' give the devil his due .
i spoke with his man .
trip him , that his heels may kick at heaven , and that his soul may be as damn '
hold , there ' s expenses for thee .
your dane , your german , and your swag-bellied hollander- drink , ho !
[laertes wounds hamlet ; then] in scuffling , they change rapiers , [and hamlet wounds laertes] .
curse , miscreant , when thou comest to the stake .
, doth approach , commander of this hot malicious day .
then i perceive that will be verified henry the fifth did sometime prophesy : ' if once he come to
i ' ll over then to england with this news , and make this marriage to be solemniz ' d
like a poor beggar raileth on the rich .
let us avoid .
or , like the parthian , i shall flying fight ; rather , directly fly .
let me lodge lichas on the horns o ' th ' moon , and with those hands that grasp '
the sense of death is most in apprehension ; and the poor beetle that we tread upon in corporal sufferance
what he bids be done is finish ' d with his bidding .
o , let me teach thee !
i acquainted him with the cause in controversy between the jew and antonio the merchant ; we turn ' d
' tis midnight , charles ; prithee to bed ; and in thy pray ' rs remember th ' estate
' but to the sport abroad .
let ' s do ' t , i pray ; and i this morning know where we shall find him
why is my lord enrag ' d against his love ?
you have a nimble wit ; i think ' twas made of atalanta ' s heels .
madam , be patient .
thou art too gentle and too free a man .
away ?
in following him , i follow but myself ; heaven is my judge , not i for love and duty
' d in hell .
i beseech you , sir , go ; my young master doth expect your reproach .
exit a servant launcelot .
you must bear with me .
no , cassius , for the eye sees not itself but by reflection , by some other things .
makes him all her joy .
all good seeming , by thy revolt , o husband , shall be thought put on for villainy ; not
hang ' d it , have you not ?
are they ?
grows old .
art not afeard ?
unknit that threatening unkind brow , and dart not scornful glances from those eyes to wound thy lord , thy
what means this armed guard that waits upon your grace ?
; the wedding , mannerly modest , as a measure , full of state and ancientry ; and then comes
good paulina , who hast the memory of hermione , i know , in honour , o that ever i
vows are but breath , and breath a vapour is ; then thou , fair sun , which on my
forth , bid me farewell , and smile .
thou fellow , a word .
cobweb !
drunkard let him do , with soft low tongue and lowly courtesy , and say ' what is ' t
are you in camest , sir ?
and so shall you , if happy england ' s royal king be free .
please you ; but i had rather kill two enemies .
rote , to cast into my teeth .
my lord , i have from oxford sent to london the heads of brocas and sir bennet seely ; two
she is indeed perfection .
come , here ' s the map .
estate , shunn ' d my abhorr ' d society ; but then , finding who ' twas that so
dost grant me , hedgehog ?
belike he thinks me henry .
how now ?
was ' t i ?
ay , i would i were deaf ; it makes me have a slow heart .
saw ' st thou the melancholy lord northumberland ?
i beseech you a word : what is she in the white ?
, with ate by his side come hot from hell , shall in these confines with a monarch ' s
give him as much as will make him a royal man , and send him back again to my mother
i have an humour to knock you indifferently well .
i that kill ' d her husband and his father- to take her in her heart ' s extremest hate
i have done so , but he ' s not to be found .
now , to our perjury to add more terror , we are again forsworn in will and error .
exit one with the players sirrah , go you to bartholomew my page , and see him dress ' d
say warwick was our anchor ; what of that ?
he said , sir , the water itself was a good healthy water ; but for the party that owed
good , good , the justice of it pleases , very good .
good uncle , tell your tale , for i have done .
exit maria sir toby .
he that of greatest works is finisher oft does them by the weakest minister .
male twins , both alike .
wish my best friend at such a feast .
these are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i ' the alehouse .
i do beseech you , that are of suppler joints , follow them swiftly , and hinder them from what
let four captains bear hamlet like a soldier to the stage ; for he was likely , had he been
i do beseech you .
this last old man , whom with crack ' d heart i have sent to rome , lov ' d
he cannot scape me ; ' tis impossible he should ; he cannot creep into a halfpenny purse nor into
, he ' ll carry it so to make the sceptre his .
bloody bawdy villain !
shall caesar send a lie ?
, that hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce , pity may move thee ' pardon ' to rehearse
by the greater gust , such is the lightness of you common men .
as many devils entertain ; and ' to her , boy , ' say i .
the lion dying thrusteth forth his paw and wounds the earth , if nothing else , with rage to be
' d with slight denial , nor then silenc ' d when ' commend me to your master ' and
and thou shalt be the third , if this sword hold .
txt but say , is warwick friends with margaret ?
could not a worm , an adder , do so much ?
i ' fecks !
but art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too , that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into
the blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me : ' we blush that thou shouldst choose ; but , be
pray god he do !
poor souls , they perish ' d .
thou make me !
s , we charge and command you , in his highness ' name , to repair to your several dwelling-places
from the king ' s acquaintance , by this carriage .
well , i will back him straight .
what do you mean , my lord ?
backs pucelle .
d , some falling merely through fear , that the strait pass was damm ' d with dead men hurt
fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears to give their censure of these rare reports .
that she was never yet that ever knew love got so sweet as when desire did sue ; therefore this
but now i was the lord of this fair mansion , master of my servants , queen o ' er
his bark is stoutly timber ' d , and his pilot of very expert and approved allowance ; therefore my
for if you were by my unkindness shaken as i by yours , y ' have passed a hell of
let them pull all about mine ears , present me death on the wheel or at wild horses ' heels
she creeps .
exit re-enter fluellen , gower following gower .
put money in thy purse ; follow thou the wars ; defeat thy favor with an usurped beard .
a slave that is not twentieth part the tithe of your precedent lord ; a vice of kings ; a
a couplement of proud compare with sun and moon , with earth and sea ' s rich gems : with
) most bloody .
john duke of norfolk , walter lord ferrers , sir robert brakenbury , and sir william brandon .
our valour is to chase what flies ; our cage we make a choir , as doth the prison '
go tell the lords o ' th ' city i am here ; deliver them this paper ' having read
what , are we cuckolds ere we have deserv ' d it ?
no , he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes with the finger of my substance ; if he
even by my god i swear to thee i will .
thy love !
dispatch us with all speed , lest that our king come here himself to question our delay ; for he
methinks i see thee , now thou art below , as one dead in the bottom of a tomb .
a good discourser lose some life which action ' s self was tongue to .
roam thither then .
i cannot be so partial , goneril , to the great love i bear you - gon .
song autolycus .
laid great bases for eternity , which proves more short than waste or ruining ?
what , fought you with them all ?
yea , as much as you have done my truth .
' d voices too , since arm from arm that voice doth us affray , hunting thee hence with hunt
feeds on his wonder , keep , himself in clouds , with pestilent speeches of his father ' s death
no grace ?
bare to hide offences .
this little one shall make it holiday .
i pledge your grace ; and if you knew what pains page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
some one take order buckingham be brought to salisbury ; the rest march on with me .
txt gold for thee .
if ' a live and ever dare to challenge this glove , i have sworn to take him a box
got pless your house here !
disperse to nought .
yes , just .
one door , and at another caius lucius and attendants cymbeline .
duty , as ' twere in love ' s particular , be more to me , your friend , than
and let him ply his music .
if jupiter should from yond cloud speak divine things , and say ' ' tis true , ' i '
txt of breaking honesty .
evans , a welsh parson doctor caius , a french physician host of the garter inn followers of falstaff bardolph
welcome , good marcellus .
come sit , sit , and a song .
that you beat me at the mart i have your hand to show ; if the skin were parchment ,
hers sepulchre thine .
and let her die too , and give him a worse !
and let us to our work .
i am to blame to be thus waited for .
thou wrong ' st a gentleman who is as far from thy report as thou from honour ; and solicits
here and hence pursue me lasting strife , if , once a widow , ever i be wife !
and must they all be hanged that swear and lie ?
i ' d throw it down for your deliverance as frankly as a pin .
why ring not out the bells aloud throughout the town ?
but shall i hear him speak ?
is your master here in london ?
txt and let it not displease thee , good bianca , for i will love thee ne ' er the
will not tell him of his action of battery ?
he was too hard for him directly , to say the troth on ' t ; before corioli he scotch
tell me , can you deliver an oration to the emperor with a grace ?
your brother is a forfeit of the law , and you but waste your words .
; whom all france , with their chief assembled strength , durst not presume to look once in the face
then if he says he loves you , it fits your wisdom so far to believe it as he in
justice , most sacred duke , against the abbess !
there are ways to recover the general again .
can helenus fight , uncle ?
for whether beauty , birth , or wealth , or wit , or any of these all , or all
, he ' s very likely now to fall from him for matching more for wanton lust than honour or
but he hath conjur ' d me beyond them , and i must needs appear .
though thy speech doth fail , one eye thou hast to look to heaven for grace ; the sun with
in faith , well said , sir john ; very well said .
gloucester , ' tis true that we are in great danger ; the greater therefore should our courage be .
txt free pardon to each man that has denied the force of this commission .
[to the citizens] hence to your homes ; be gone .
then tell me , i pray thee , what ' s thersites ?
' d ; and as the soldiers bore dead bodies by , he call ' d them untaught knaves ,
and i ' ll be bid by thee .
so do you , good master doctor .
diomed !
what , sir ?
but , o scorn , gone !
i thought there would a scab follow .
a greater gift than that i ' ll give my cousin .
the best ?
we ' ll surety him .
that out of mere ambition you have caus ' d your holy hat to be stamp ' d on the
enter parolles [aside] one that goes with him .
why call you for a sword ?
after them enter] don john [and borachio (without masks) , who stand aside and look on during the dance] .
get more tapers .
is silvia dead ?
why should my heart think that a several plot , which my heart knows the wide world ' s common
i would i had that corporal soundness now , as when thy father and myself in friendship first tried our
and we understand him well , how he comes o ' er us with our wilder days , not measuring
madam , an hour before the worshipp ' d sun peer ' d forth the golden window of the east
call me to your remembrances .
de sin .
' the purpose you undertake is dangerous , the friends you have named uncertain , the time itself unsorted ,
when capital crimes , chew ' d , swallow ' d , and digested , appear before us ?
if beauty have a soul , this is not she ; if souls guide vows , if vows be sanctimonies
whither travel you ?
why , then , build me thy fortunes upon the basis of valour .
well then , here ' s the point : you must forget to be a woman ; change command into
i would do more than that , if more were needful .
to see no pastime i .
i will desire you to live in the meantime , and eat your victuals ; come , there is sauce
such things in a false disloyal knave are tricks of custom ; but in a man that ' s just
are they inform ' d of this ?
very hand of heaven .
txt strangers and foes do sunder and not kiss .
then you are a better than the king .
' d quarts .
the breaking of so great a thing should make a greater crack .
but , o , what shall i say to thee , lord scroop , thou cruel , ingrateful , savage
why not by th ' hand , sir ?
for when would you , my liege , or you , or you , in leaden contemplation have found out
give me some ink and paper .
[they walk and speak not] o , hold me not with silence over-long !
so lust doth play with what it loathes , for that which is away .
i have given here my soul ' s consent t ' undeck the pompous body of a king ; made
and him , hath publish ' d and proclaim ' d it openly .
come , we burn daylight , ho !
this hector far surmounted hannibal- costard .
exclaim no more against it .
will you dine with me tomorrow ?
how many women would do such a message ?
tell me , how many good young princes would do so , their fathers being so sick as yours at
to make prize with you of things that merchants sold .
, or given my heart a winking , mute and dumb , or look ' d upon this love with
to sue , and be denied such common grace .
who with them was a rated sinew too and comes not in , overrul ' d by prophecies- i fear
i ' ll not be forsworn .
caesar and he are greater friends than ever .
dull , stale , tired bed , go to th ' creating a whole tribe of fops got ' tween
to pass .
and i for rosalind .
' what is your parentage ?
her honour will remain hers .
a guiltless death i die .
cut off my head with my brother ' s .
; and between these main parcels of dispatch effected many nicer needs .
my having is not much ; i ' ll make division of my present with you ; hold , there
i ' ll make all speed .
, and thou away , the very birds are mute .
from fife , great king , where the norweyan banners flout the sky and fan our people cold .
i rest much bounden to you ; fare you well .
alas , how fiery and how sharp he looks !
there shall be in england seven halfpenny loaves sold for a penny ; the three-hoop ' d pot shall have
coronation take your place .
a cry more tuneable was never holla ' d to , nor cheer ' d with horn , in crete
why , what effects of passion shows she ?
o that i had her here to tear her limb-meal !
fear you not my part of the dialogue .
i shall take it , sir .
' of me !
how is it , my lord ?
, babies , and old women , either past or not arriv ' d to pith and puissance ; for
but what said warwick to these injuries ?
let ' s see the boy ' s face .
i offer ' d to awaken his regard for ' s private friends ; his answer to me was ,
hortensio , hark : this gentleman is happily arriv ' d , my mind presumes , for his own good
o woful time !
nature hath meal and bran , contempt and grace .
all that is mine i leave at thy dispose , my goods , my lands , my reputation ; only
i beseech you follow ; see but the issue of my jealousy ; if i cry out thus upon no
every word doth almost tell my name , showing their birth , and where they did proceed ?
to the mines !
, if i tell you of it ; for he swears he ' ll turn me away .
would thoroughly woo her , wed her , and bed her , and rid the house of her !
and wonder what they were , and to what end their shallow shows and prologue vilely penn ' d ,
txt hor [aside to hamlet] is ' t not possible to understand in another tongue ?
patroclus , let us feast him to the height .
forgive me this my virtue ; for in the fatness of these pursy times virtue itself of vice must pardon
exit ghost .
the king ' s palace flourish of cornets .
ay , my lord , and fear we have landed in ill time ; the skies look grimly and threaten
, too true , too holy , to be corrupted with my worthless gifts .
for the box of the ear that the prince gave you- he gave it like a rude prince , and
thee to laugh at my wife , that now laughs at thee .
she shall not need ; we ' ll meet her in the field .
thither i must , although against my will , for servants must their masters ' minds fulfil .
all whooping !
of satisfaction .
why then , she ' s mine .
friends , unarm ' d , and unresolv ' d to beat them back .
who is thy lord ?
o , burn her , burn her !
so methinks ; and i have found demetrius like a jewel , mine own , and not mine own .
strangeness stand no farther off than in a politic distance .
had she no lover there that wails her absence ?
to three thousand dolours a year .
what , of death too , that rids our dogs of languish ?
, wool of bat and tongue of dog , adder ' s fork and blind-worm ' s sting , lizard
and every humour hath his adjunct pleasure , wherein it finds a joy above the rest , but these particulars
wart .
[within] a pox o ' your throats !
about with the story of the prodigal , fresh and new .
the devil speed him !
now , sir , be judge yourself whether i in any just term am affined to love the moor .
what , is there such a place ?
; ta ' en him once , enlarged him , and made a friend of him , to fill the
to see this age !
show !
and i ' ll go seek the duke ; his banquet is prepar ' d .
marcus , we will .
and shall these hands , so lately purg ' d of blood , so newly join ' d in love
servant of his armourer , my lords .
who makes that noise there ?
and that you fly them as you swear them lordship , yet you desire to marry .
my father and glendower being both away , the powers of us may serve so great a day .
exit pistol .
as any in vienna , on my word .
that noble lady or gentleman that is not freely merry is not my friend .
nay , rather persuade him to hold his hands .
quit an , and give our vineyards to a barbarous people .
my affairs do even drag me homeward ; which to hinder were in your love a whip to me ;
reignier of france , i give thee kingly thanks , because this is in traffic of a king .
i prithee turn aside and weep for her ; then bid adieu to me , and say the tears belong
let them be whipp ' d through every market town till they come to berwick , from whence they came
went ' st not thou to her for purse of ducats ?
; wherefore a guard of chosen shot i had that walk ' d about me every minute-while ; and if
abram , servant to montague .
for the purpose i then follow ' d .
you could , for a need , study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which i would set
king , but i could dig his grave ?
who shall ask it ?
your son .
i take some joy to say you are , because i would be talking page _num_ complete works of william
but remember- for that ' s my business to you-that you three from milan did supplant good prospero ; expos
then does he say he lent me some shipping , unrestor ' d .
with his arms out-stretch ' d , as he would fly , grasps in the corner .
oft we see cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly .
little ones .
you may do it in an hour , sir .
god keep your ladyship still in that mind !
it may be so .
is there no other way of mercy , but i must needs to th ' tower , my lords ?
where ' s this girl ?
there ' s ulysses and old nestor-whose wit was mouldy ere your grandsires had nails on their toes-yoke you like
exeunt all but iago and cassio .
what mar you then , sir ?
the kingdom so much fear and danger that his personal return was most required and necessary .
beside , what infamy will there arise when foreign princes shall be certified that for a toy , a thing
fare you well , my liege .
aeneas is a-field ; and i do stand engag ' d to many greeks , even in the faith of
what is it ?
' the mobled queen ' ?
she were an excellent wife for benedick .
i cross me for sinner .
wreakful vengeance on thy foes .
, bearing their own misfortunes on the back of such as have before endur ' d the like .
; but that i see thee here , thou noble thing , more dances my rapt heart than when i
' s death , their kingdom ' s loss , my woeful banishment , should all but answer for that
who were those went by ?
is the storm overblown ?
] i have seen drunkards do more than this in sport .
, as loud , and to as many tunes ; hats , cloaks- doublets , i think-flew up , and
i am he .
txt sir stephen scroop sir pierce of exton captain of a band of welshmen two gardeners queen to king richard
bal .
txt siward .
would i had put my estate and my neighbour ' s on th ' approbation of what i have spoke
the truth is , i am only old in judgment and understanding ; and he that will caper with me
to her will we to dinner .
beast !
you filthy bung , away !
you see it doth .
' accost ' is front her , board her , woo her , assail her .
farewell , ambitious richard .
that in a twink she won me to her love .
cavaleiro slender , go you through the town to frogmore .
that the people of this blessed land may not be punish ' d with my thwarting stars , warwick ,
nay ' tis twice two months , my lord .
wherefore then didst undertake it ?
where is thy leather apron and thy rule ?
, nor forward of revenge , though they much err ' d .
sound drum and trumpets and to london all ; and more such days as these to us befall !
he and aufidius can no more atone than violent ' st contrariety .
' tis very true , lord bardolph ; for indeed it was young hotspur ' s case at shrewsbury .
he hath twice or thrice cut cupid ' s bowstring , and the little hangman dare not shoot at him
marcius is coming home ; he has more cause to be proud .
i do remember now .
txt charmian .
now , good peter quince , call forth your actors by the scroll .
cloten .
when i do stare , see how the subject quakes .
i warrant thee my man ' s as true as steel .
alas , the sweet woman leads an ill life with him !
turn , good lady ; our perdita is found .
they , by observing of him , do bear themselves like foolish justices : he , by conversing with them
pink for flower .
wilt thou show the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant ?
why , ' twas beautiful and hard , whereto his invised properties did tend ; the deep-green em ' rald
, in his full and ripened years , himself , no doubt , shall then , and till then ,
there ' s never none of these demure boys come to any proof ; for thin drink doth so over-cool
our tables meat , sleep to our nights , free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives , do faithful
well , well , we ' ll leave you .
on , good roderigo , i ' ll deserve your pains .
find in him the continent of what part a gentleman would see .
so there is ; but it lies as coldly in him as fire in a flint , which will not
has no pace , but runs page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
only have a care that your bills be not stol ' n .
, with violent hefts .
you , we shall see justice design the victor ' s chivalry .
thy edward he is dead , that kill ' d my edward ; the other edward dead , to quit
downy windows , close ; and golden phoebus never be beheld of eyes again so royal !
you the like loss !
with determined sword , to execute upon him .
main point of this our after-meeting , to gratify his noble service that hath thus stood for his country .
youngling , learn thou to make some meaner choice : lavina is thine elder brother ' s hope .
by shows ; but most it is presumption in us when the help of heaven we count the act of
but in mine emulous honour let him die with every joint a wound , and that to-morrow !
trip away ; make no stay ; meet me all by break of day .
txt creature .
exit wall theseus .
[aside to another] the king is angry ; see , he gnaws his lip .
i request you to give my poor host freedom .
up remorse .
a little time will melt her frozen thoughts , and worthless valentine shall be forgot .
gardez ma vie , et je vous donnerai deux cents ecus .
what , art thou angry , pandarus ?
sir m .
and ours with thine , befall what fortune will .
continue still in this so good a mind , and henry , though he be infortunate , assure yourselves ,
every sitting what you must say , that he shall not perceive but that you have your father ' s
abate the edge of traitors , gracious lord , that would reduce these bloody days again and make poor england
there ' s a bargain made .
where should othello go ?
do remain as neuter .
my dismal scene i needs must act alone .
other men begin .
why , what a madcap hath heaven lent us here !
why the king of france is so suddenly gone back know you the reason ?
now , if you are a maid , answer to this .
txt and we had the trick to see ' t .
no answer ?
you , i may make the belly smile as well as speak- it tauntingly replied to th ' discontented members
i tell thee , lady , this aspect of mine hath fear ' d the valiant ; by my love
i ' ll play the housewife for this once .
the wanton burden of the prime , like widowed wombs after their lords ' decease : yet this abundant issue
tranio , let ' s go .
no , we ' ll reason with him .
are you wise ?
ay , you spake in latin then too ; but ' tis no matter ; i ' ll ne '
come , come , wrestle with thy affections .
bestow this place on us a little while .
before in such an assembly .
txt not be a villain , but do me true service , undergo those employments wherein i should have cause
before priam ' s palace enter hector and andromache andromache .
tell me , for you seem to be honest plain men , what you have to the king .
brutus says he was ambitious , and brutus is an honorable man .
tell him and spare not .
a hideous dream ; the genius and the mortal instruments are then in council , and the state of man
- and sleep and snore , and rend apparel out- why , jessica , i say !
he were no lion , were not romans hinds .
what , have you forgot me ?
ratcliff !
' d us so as that ungentle gull , the cuckoo ' s bird , useth the sparrow- did oppress
she hath been fairer , madam , than she is .
how easy is it then !
but , to orlando : did he leave him there , food to the suck ' d and hungry lioness
that you ask me what you are , and do not know yourselves .
wilt thou betray thy noble mistress thus ?
and my land ; legitimation , name , and all is gone .
made their bends adornings .
you than now to bid you hold .
son , let your mother end .
pray you a word .
[enter a servant .
plains in anjou enter charles , burgundy , alencon , bastard , reignier , la pucelle , and forces charles
in the midst .
no , my good knight : go with my brothers to my lords of england ; i and my bosom
but , stay .
come off , come off ; [taking off her bracelet] as slippery as the gordian knot was hard !
fut !
think i am dead , and that even here thou takest , as from my death-bed , thy last living
o wondrous thing !
saw you the king to-day , my lord of derby ?
' gainst our rocks ; for joy whereof the fam ' d cassibelan , who was once at point- o
come , ' tis no matter .
, and freshly grow ; then shall posthumus end his miseries , britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and
it will quickly drop ; my day is dim .
allow me very worth his service .
tut , i like it not !
more nearly .
o most bloody sight !
let us from point to point this story know , to make the even truth in pleasure flow .
shall again relate .
this morning come before us ; where i know you cannot with such freedom purge yourself but that , till
me for what dull part in ' t you chose her ; then i ' d shriek , that even
saying is true- the empty vessel makes the greatest sound .
serving-men .
, and to him disloyal , courageously and with a free desire attending but the signal to begin .
i do beseech you- though i perchance am vicious in my guess , as , i confess , it is
let ' s choose executors and talk of wills ; and yet not so-for what can we bequeath save our
what would you , desdemona ?
he is return ' d in his opinions ; which have satisfied the king for his divorce , together with
' why , is not this a lamentable thing , grandsir , that we should be thus afflicted with these
strike off this score of absence .
, at once dispatch ' d ; cut off even in the blossoms of my sin , unhous ' led
his fangs ; and now he feasts , mousing the flesh of men , in undetermin ' d differences of
alas , good gentleman !
your faithful subject i , a gentleman born in northamptonshire , and eldest son , as i suppose , to
gone to be married !
friend .
to say his prayers lest ' a should be thought a coward ; but his few bad words are match
train .
look here upon th ' s picture , and on this , the counterfeit presentment of two brothers .
her borrowed grave , being the time the potion ' s force should cease .
what villains have done this ?
wounds iago .
nay , certainly , i have heard the ptolemies ' pyramises are very goodly things .
warriors ; nor should that nation boast it so with us , but be extirped from our provinces .
more toward the market-place ; thither must i , and here i leave you , sir .
poor margaret was a prophetess !
s richest book .
exit queen elizabeth .
thus shamefully surpris ' d .
such duty as the subject owes the prince , even such a woman oweth to her husband ; and when
did i say " better " ?
belike unlook ' d for friends .
thus goes every one to the world but i , and i am sunburnt .
since my dear soul was mistress of her choice page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
shore with tears as salt as sea through thy unkindness ; the splitting rocks cow ' r ' d in
was he angry ?
' tis hard : a young man married is a man that ' s marr ' d .
not so , my liege ; this lodging likes me better , since i may say ' now lie i
exeunt baptista , gremio , biondello , and attendents tranio .
what king so strong can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue ?
txt see , and then speak yourselves .
a daughter , and a goodly babe , lusty , and like to live .
my people do already know my mind , and will acknowledge you and jessica in place of lord bassanio and
she thanks you .
against such lewdsters and their lechery , those that betray them do no treachery .
he led our powers , bore the commission of my place and person , the which immediacy may well stand
, thou present .
, thyself a maid .
pay still .
what might we do to make the girl forget the love of valentine , and love sir thurio ?
d ; that the desire is boundless , and the act a slave to limit .
what can go well , when we have run so ill .
more may grieve thee , as it doth me- a nobler sir ne ' er liv ' d ' twixt
now for ourself and for this time of meeting .
o dear discretion , how his words are suited !
' a gentle scroll .
[aside .
[stabs him] clarence .
re-enter tamora , with attendants ; titus andronicus and lucius tamora .
second captain .
the sole of his foot , he is all mirth .
is this the lord talbot , uncle gloucester , that hath so long been resident in france ?
<exit luciana enter dromio of syracuse .
honour ; thy garter , blemish ' d , pawn ' d his knightly virtue ; thy crown , usurp
well , then , i ' ll double your folly .
but , my lords , she is a gallant creature , and complete in mind and feature .
known , why there they show something too liberal .
to be married to her .
forced marriage would have brought upon her .
t as thou list .
show ' d fike enemies .
send for the county .
neither call the giddiness of it in question , the poverty of her , the small acquaintance , my sudden
the verse and sanctify the numbers .
go , write it in a martial hand ; be curst and brief ; it is no matter how witty
this is a sleepy tune .
sirrah , can you with a grace deliver up a supplication ?
rectify what is unsettled in the king .
wilt thou let him , my lord ?
you are to blame , my lord , to rate her so .
i think the best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence , and discourse grow commendable in none only
he wish ' d today our enterprise might thrive .
o , rare for antony !
this proves you wise and rich , for in my eye- berowne .
are you a married man or a bachelor ?
as wax and melt in her own fire .
txt doth part his function , and is partly blind , seems seeing , but effectually is out : for
mine honest friends , i turn you not away ; but , like a master married to your good service
for , now he has crack ' d the league between us and the emperor , the queen ' s
there roar ' d the sea , and trumpet-clangor sounds .
is not that a good word ?
were made , or shortly after this world had air ' d them .
exit servingman .
hark how i ' ll bribe you ; good my lord , turn back .
open your gates .
of his own body he was ill , and gave the clergy ill example .
what , what , sweetheart ?
our hands .
to th ' public weal .
nimbleness .
ry tongue , ev ' ry eye saw ' em , envy and base opinion set against ' em ,
mine will now be yours ; and , should we shift estates , yours would be mine .
i will piece out the comfort with what addition i can .
your pretty encounters , press it to death .
then , window , let day in , and let life out .
i see no sense for ' t , but his occasions might have woo ' d me first ; for
, with him .
you must have patience , madam .
the rest of the herd to me that all their other senses stuck in ears .
' - even thus he rates the babe- ' for i must bear thee to a trusty goth , who
; and when i suddenly call you , come forth , and , without any pause or staggering , take
exeunt ladies .
belike , boy , then you are in love ; for last morning you could not see to wipe my
ay , come , you starv ' d bloodhound .
your part , bullcalf , grow you come unto it .
hath she forgot already that brave prince , edward , her lord , whom i , some three months since
i ' ll wear none but this .
these boys know little they are sons to th ' king , nor cymbeline dreams that they are alive .
my poor shoulder , and with his royal finger thus dally with my excrement , with my mustachio ; but
txt one that excels the quirks of blazoning pens , and in the essential vesture of creation does tire the
swore i would not part a bachelor from the priest .
he shall be welcome too .
your eld ' st acquaintance cannot be three hours ; is she the goddess that hath sever ' d us
' cold ground .
[sound a retreat] pandarus .
why , ' tis an office of discovery , love , and i should be obscur ' d .
' turk to make eunuchs of .
i pray you tell me hath anybody inquir ' d for me here to-day .
[aside] ' a would have ten shares .
you herd of- boils and plagues plaster you o ' er , that you may be abhorr ' d farther
doth the old boar feed in the old frank ?
my lord , in athens .
i followed fast , but faster he did fly , that fallen am i in dark uneven way , and
he ' s that he is .
parted ev ' n just between twelve and one , ev ' n at the turning o ' th '
for ' tis a sore upon us you cannot tent yourself ; be gone , beseech you .
you holp us , sir , as you did mean indeed to be our brother ; joy ' d are
" hecate retires .
ay , but she ' ll think that it is spoke in hate .
; and vengeance for ' t not dropp ' d down yet .
no words , no words !
but though thou art adjudged to the death , and passed sentence may not be recall ' d but to
of salisbury , who can report of him , that winter lion , who in rage forgets aged contusions and
but , madam , i must trouble you again no loving token to his majesty ?
nor i .
makes here .
at his return no doubt he will requite it .
she made good view of me ; indeed , so much that methought her eyes had lost her tongue ,
our shape .
her ; for caesar cannot learn to be ungentle .
are so enrooted with his friends that , plucking to unfix an enemy , he doth unfasten so and shake
content : i ' ll to the surgeon ' s .
what observation mad ' st thou in this case of his heart ' s meteors tilting in his face ?
' twill make us proud to be his servant , paris ; yea , what he shall receive of us
will you anything with it ?
and as lining to the time ; but more devout than this in our respects have we not been ;
enter a beadle with whips gloucester .
stabs himself .
more .
wilt thou ?
if not , he foams at mouth , and by and by breaks out to savage madness .
s lands .
and poise the cause in justice ' equal scales , whose beam stands sure , whose rightful cause prevails .
far as to the lady ; and yet to be afeard of my deserving were but a weak disabling of
i warrant thee nobody hears-mine own people , mine own people .
peace thou !
him , though remov ' d fifty times , shall all come under the hangman- which , though it be
gash is added to her wounds .
love ' s feeling is more soft and sensible than are the tender horns of cockled snails : love '
within there !
that i do beg his life , if it be sin , heaven let me bear it !
kiss .
thou hast pared thy wit o ' both sides and left nothing i ' th ' middle .
enter the king with divers young lords taking leave for the florentine war ; bertram and parolles ; attendants king
why , would that have mended my hair ?
[exit roderigo .
philip , make up : my mother is assailed in our tent , and ta ' en , i fear
txt stephano .
a wand ' ring knight ?
let me work ; for i can give his humor the true bent , and i will bring him to
his attorneys-general to sue his livery , and deny his off ' red homage , you pluck a thousand dangers
well plac ' d !
i do desire the like .
sir , you cannot .
let me carry another to his horse ; for that ' s the more capable creature .
if i would but go to hell for an eternal moment or so , i could be knighted .
ay , and truly , you were best .
ay , a minc ' d man ; and then to be bak ' d with no date in the
it was not given me , nor i did not buy it .
say , then , my peace is made .
the lord grandpre .
a figure like your father , armed at point exactly , cap-a-pe , appears before them and with solemn march
mend ' em , for shame , my lords .
peruse this paper , madam .
what a tide of woes comes rushing on this woeful land at once !
if thou wert the ass , thy dulness would torment thee ; and still thou liv ' dst but as
nay , but thou shalt stay too .
belonging to whom ?
re-enter servant chamberlain .
[aside to enobarbus] why , enobarbus , when antony found julius caesar dead , he cried almost to roaring ;
' but mark ' d him not a word .
she bears the purse too ; she is a region in guiana , all gold and bounty .
; but to know how you stand minded in the weighty difference between the king and you , and to
sure there ' s some wonder in this handkerchief ; i am most unhappy in the loss of it .
how seventh cause ?
and after that he came , thus sad , away ?
the isle is full of noises , sounds , and sweet airs , that give delight , and hurt not
to send destruction .
thou strik ' st not me ; ' tis caesar thou defeat ' st .
it is requir ' d you do awake your faith .
why , e ' en so !
>> _num_ the life of king henry the fifth by william shakespeare dramatis personae chorus king henry the fifth duke
the spite of man prevaileth against me .
it is no vicious blot , murther , or foulness , no unchaste action or dishonoured step , that hath
how , wear the garland !
merely , thou art death ' s fool ; for him thou labour ' st by thy flight to shun
we happy few , we band of brothers ; for he to-day that sheds his blood with me shall be
happily , amen !
mine eyes are cloy ' d with view of tyranny ; a deed of death done on the innocent becomes
away , you bottle-ale rascal !
o , answer not ; but to my closet bring the angry lords with all expedient haste .
you see , my good wenches , how men of merit are sought after ; the undeserver may sleep ,
i ' faith , sweetheart , methinks now you are in an excellent good temperality .
virtue is no horn-maker ; and my rosalind is virtuous .
out o ' th ' moon , i do assure thee ; i was the man i ' th '
hadst thou done so , the kings that have revolted , and the soldier that has this morning left thee
least bring forth a wonder , to content ye as much as me my dukedom .
a lady ' s feeble voice , which scorns a modern invocation .
upon my life , my lord , i ' ll undertake it ; and so , god give you quiet
were he the butcher of my son , he should be free as is the wind .
there stay until the twelve celestial signs have brought about the annual reckoning .
re-enter bardolph , with ford disguised ford .
yet come a little .
o lord , sir , the parties themselves , the actors , sir , will show whereuntil it doth amount
by decimation and a tithed death- if thy revenges hunger for that food which nature loathes- take thou the destin
- a thing of naught .
i could make as true a boast as that , if i had a sow to my mistress .
or the baring of my beard ; and to say it was in page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
th ' measures fall .
i must go write again to other friends ; and so farewell , sir michael .
, as his person ' s mighty , must it be violent ; and as he does conceive he is
i want work .
is it your own inclining ?
well , susan is with god ; she was too good for me .
he does ; he did appoint so .
the iron of itself , though heat red-hot , approaching near these eyes would drink my tears , and quench
when i kiss ' d the jack , upon an up-cast to be hit away !
desert and merit according to the weight and worthiness .
i shall obey , my lord .
exit walter with suffolk lieutenant .
for if he be not one that truly loves you , that errs in ignorance and not in cunning ,
_num_ then hate me when thou wilt , if ever , now , now while the world is bent my
a goodly humour , is it not , my lords ?
now , if this suit lay in bianco ' s power , how quickly should you speed !
but when i came , alas !
that she is dead indeed ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
therefore-to speak , and to avoid the first , and then , in speaking , not to incur the last-
tybalt , liest thou there in thy bloody sheet ?
you sent me for a rope ' s end as soon- you sent me to the bay , sir ,
here ' s a villain !
o worthy stephano !
as we with honour and respect may take , with purpose presently to leave this war .
if not , we ready are to try our fortunes to the last man .
show without knocking .
what vizard ?
why , what is that to me more than to richmond ?
want ye corn for bread ?
all our service in every point twice done , and then done double , were poor and single business to
nature craves all dues be rend ' red to their owners .
some god direct my judgment !
town , turn thou the mouth of thy artillery , as we will ours , against these saucy walls ;
we will heal up all , for we ' ll create young arthur duke of britaine , and earl of
my liege , the duke of buckingham is taken- that is the best news .
-perhaps- buckingham .
stay , i will lend thee money , borrow none .
every man , after the hideous storm that follow ' d , was a thing inspir ' d , and
but , my lord , his majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager on
; at gaming , swearing , or about some act that has no relish of salvation in ' t- then
then call ' d you for the l ' envoy .
and never did desire to see thee more .
breast with magnanimity and make him naked foil a man-at-arms .
your friends at pomfret , they do need the priest : your honour hath no shriving work in hand .
cut the villains ' throats !
thou ' t forget me when i am gone .
i ' ll first direct my men what they shall do with the basket .
' tis wonderful !
ma foi , je ne veux point que vous abaissiez votre grandeur en baisant la main d ' une ,
the gods give you joy , sir , heartily !
captain , what greeting will you to my lord lafeu ?
then , in god ' s name , lords , be valiant , and give signal to the fight .
our present business is general woe .
my noble gossips , y ' have been too prodigal ; i thank ye heartily .
plainly conceive , i love you .
yes , it is already garrison ' d .
all my engagements i will construe to thee , all the charactery of my sad brows .
i forgot to ask him one thing ; i ' ll remember ' t anon .
will not the ladies be afeard of the lion ?
i say unto you , what he hath done famously he did it to that end ; though soft-conscienc '
swear thou lovest me ; yet my blood begins to flatter me that thou dost , notwithstanding the poor and
endeavour of this present breath may buy that honour which shall bate his scythe ' s keen edge , and
this will last out a night in russia , when nights are longest there ; i ' ll take my
and when please you to say so ?
no , i went round to work and my young mistress thus i did bespeak : ' lord hamlet is
ned , prithee come out of that fat-room and lend me thy hand to laugh a little .
air by which he should revive ; and even so the general subject to a well-wish ' d king quit
what says his majesty ?
did i abuse myself , my servant , and , i fear me , you .
o , stand up blest !
faith , yes , to be put to the arbitrement of swords , and by such two that would by
y ' have strange serpents there .
you have bereft me of all words , lady .
hang him with his pen and inkhorn about his neck .
and i have read that hecuba of troy ran mad for sorrow .
say ' go forth ' ; and none of this , though strongly apprehended , could restrain the stiff-borne action
' d thee all the qualities o ' th ' isle , the fresh springs , brine-pits , barren place
sweetest nut hath sourest rind , such a nut is rosalinde .
romeo slew tybalt ; romeo must not live .
or called , don adriano de armado .
and , fly thou how thou canst , they ' ll tangle thee .
what , worse and worse !
here , here .
' tis holy sport to be a little vain when the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife .
true lip hath virgin ' d it e ' er since .
what is , my lord ?
call my sister so .
out , out , lucetta , that will be ill-favour ' d .
i ' ll call for pen and ink , and write my mind .
i have heard where many of the best respect in rome , except immortal caesar , speaking of brutus and
me to edmund earl of gloucester .
i took him ; made him joint-servant with me ; gave him way in all his own desires ; nay
i pray you , stay ; by hell and all hell ' s torments , i will not speak a
slain , his land then seiz ' d on by the conqueror .
strato , thou hast been all this while asleep ; farewell to thee too , strato .
the palace enter the old duchess of york , with the son and daughter of clarence son .
well , befall what will befall , i ' ll jest a twelvemonth in an hospital .
well , sit we down , and let us hear bernardo speak of this .
master fer !
upon thy woes , more than remembrance of my father ' s death .
which is sebastian ?
, nor deserve a crown .
adieu , good neighbour .
, if i speak true !
thus it is , general .
it was a violent commencement , and thou shalt see an answerable sequestration- put but money in thy purse .
is it sad , and few words ?
ourself , by monthly course , with reservation of an hundred knights , by you to be sustain ' d
[sings] he that has and a little tiny wit- with hey , ho , the wind and the rain- must
if you think well to carry this as you may , the doubleness of the benefit defends the deceit from
enter , aloft , the general of the french , and others english john talbot , captains , calls you
renown , this gallant hotspur , this all-praised knight , and your unthought of harry chance to meet .
thy strength .
come , come ; cut thread and thrum ; quail , crush , conclude , and quell .
; but fortune , o !
yonder ?
than use , and keep thy friend under thy own life ' s key ; be check ' d for
let them come in .
withhold thine indignation , mighty heaven , and tempt us not to bear above our power !
pray now , buy some .
of these we told him , and there did seem in him a kind of joy to hear of it
signior , it is the moor .
an immortal title to your crown !
' with this , my weapon drawn , i rush ' d upon him , surpris ' d him suddenly
mine eyes are made the fools o ' the other senses , or else worth all the rest .
you are a pair of strange ones .
you denied to fight with me this other day , because i was no gentleman born .
ay , as the glasses where they view themselves , which are as easy broke as they make forms .
do conjure thee , who art the table wherein all my thoughts are visibly character ' d and engrav '
if you shall see cordelia (as fear not but you shall) , show her this ring , and she will
you came , i think , from france ?
beseech you take it for your own fault , and not mine ; for had you been as i took
[taking up the letter] fabian .
you cataracts and hurricanoes , spout till you have drench ' d our steeples , drown ' d the cocks
truly , sir , in my poor opinion , they will to ' t then .
txt the soul of nero enter this firm bosom .
[to cominius] lead you on .
danger knows full well that caesar is more dangerous than he .
so that by this intelligence we learn the welshmen are dispers ' d ; and salisbury is gone to meet
[exeunt some of the servants .
look how thy servants do attend on thee , each in his office ready at thy beck .
meant to beg it- might it not ?
i must attend mine office , or would have done ' t myself .
chanticleer that fools should be so deep contemplative ; and i did laugh sans intermission an hour by his dial
there is no other way but to tell the king she ' s a changeling and none of your flesh
my lord , now fear is from me , i ' ll speak troth .
did i not tell you she was innocent ?
come , march to wakes and fairs and market towns .
, spite of intermission , which presently they read ; on whose contents , they summon ' d up their
bad life and that his country ' s dearer than himself ; let him alone , or so many so
the flesh that she herself hath bred .
o , i smell false latin ; ' dunghill ' for unguem .
[coming forward] thou , old adam ' s likeness , set to dress this garden , how dares thy harsh
but i will use the axe .
till now .
why did you so ?
for beauty lives with kindness .
never could the strumpet , with all her double vigour , art and nature , once stir my temper ;
i arrest thee of high treason , by the name of thomas grey , knight , of northumberland .
tis seen the wicked prize itself buys out the law ; but ' tis not so above .
being in his ales and his cups , so also harry monmouth , being in his right wits and his
; or shall we give the signal to our rage , and stalk in blood to our possession ?
no , i ' ll not go .
i cannot bid you bid my daughter live- that were impossible ; but i pray you both , possess the
we ' d find no fault with the tithe-woman , if i were the parson .
ay , and a kind one too .
not so ; but i answer you right painted cloth , from whence you have studied your questions .
the court , it is tedious .
nor i ; nor any but one that ' s here ; and that ' s himself ; for he
txt hortensio .
this letter from bellario doth commend a young and learned doctor to our court .
go and bring them .
hark , marcus , what she says- i can interpret all her martyr ' d signs ; she says she
deliver sweet , sweet , sweet poison for the age ' s tooth ; which , though i will not
now , by the salt wave of the mediterraneum , a sweet touch , a quick venue of wit- snip
exit moth rosaline .
he never can meet more mischance than come to be but nam ' d of thee .
with oaths , should yet say ' sir , no going .
the dog jew did utter in the streets .
come , fellow , be thou honest ; do thou thy master ' s bidding ; when thou seest him
will you thus break your faith ?
pompey surnam ' d the great , that oft in field , with targe and shield , did make my
those of his chamber , as it seem ' d , had done ' t .
of your moved prince .
; we must incline to the king .
sir , i propose not merely to myself the pleasures such a beauty brings with it ; but i would
cardinal , by extortion ; the goodness of your intercepted packets you writ to th ' pope against the king
be of good cheer , youth .
yield your voices ?
but i cannot believe this crack to be in my dread mistress , so sovereignly being honourable .
let him go hence and , with his cap in hand like a base pander , hold the chamber-door whilst
or else , by jove i vow , i should have scratch ' d out your unseeing eyes , to
exit thurio enter proteus silvia .
[they walk away .
me too ?
doubt not the commoners , for whom we stand , but they upon their ancient malice will forget with the
do what ye will my lords ; and pray forgive me if i have us ' d myself unmannerly ;
' twill grieve your grace my sons should call you father .
then like a roman bear the truth i tell : for certain she is dead , and by strange manner
o , tremble , for you hear the lion roar !
i stand here for law .
soul of rome !
bloodshed but a jest , exampled by this heinous spectacle .
nay , he reserv ' d a blanket , else we had been all sham ' d .
joiner .
pray , master barnardine , awake till you are executed , and sleep afterwards .
bloody constraint ; for if you hide the crown even in your hearts , there will he rake for it
heard that england were busied with a whitsun morris-dance ; for , my good liege , she is so idly
re-enter biondello biondello .
enter lady macbeth with a taper .
followest thy master ; thy master for wages follows not thee .
i ' ll move the king page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
these foils have all a length ?
come , come , no more of that .
" re-enter cassio , driving in roderigo .
i married them ; and their stol ' n marriage day was tybalt ' s doomsday , whose untimely death
the tribune and his nephews kneel for grace .
drink , being pour ' d out of cup into a glass , by filling the one doth empty the
the king is mad .
i feel soft things .
her own despair that she fordid herself .
god ' s will , my liege !
arise , you shall not kneel .
d from prison .
been justled from your senses , know for certain that i am prospero , and that very duke which was
an thou let part so , sir andrew , would thou mightst never draw sword again !
the great metropolis and see of rome .
of love than that which dearest father bears his son do i impart toward you .
run when you will ; the story shall be chang ' d : apollo flies , and daphne holds the
bold .
your majesty , and we that have free souls , it touches us not .
i am sorry to give breathing to my purpose- cleopatra .
draw thy sword , that , if my speech offend a noble heart , thy arm may do thee justice
i pray thee , launce , an if thou seest my boy , bid him make haste and meet me
why hopest thou so ?
[aside] o gods !
re-enter prince henry lo where he comes .
can you deny all this ?
to anger him we ' ll have the bear again ; and we will fool him black and blue- shall
may run into that sink and , soaking in , drown the lamenting fool in sea-salt tears .
die neither mother , wife , nor england ' s queen !
' tis shame for us all , so god sa ' me , ' tis shame to stand still ;
him nothing , let him call me rogue for being so far officious ; for i am proof against that
why , our battalia trebles that account ; besides , the king ' s name is a tower of strength
no eyes in your head , nor no money in your purse ?
extraordinary gaze , such as is bent on unlike majesty page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
this is a gift that i have , simple , simple ; a foolish extravagant spirit , full of forms
hie thee , gentle jew .
i have years on my back forty-eight .
if you prick us , do we not bleed ?
if they ' ll do neither , we will come to them and make them skirr away as swift as
gower is a good captain , and is good knowledge and literatured in the wars .
come , madam , and come , richard , we must speed for france , for france , for it
upon you ; and i pray you your name ?
enter aeneas agamemnon .
, or an unlick ' d bear-whelp that carries no impression like the dam .
for mine own part , i shall be glad to learn of noble men .
is he thy kin ?
yet their own authors faithfully affirm that the land salique is in germany , between the floods of sala and
rage the more .
the same .
master , be one of them ; it ' s an honourable kind of thievery .
i will receive it , sir , with all diligence of spirit .
ah , sweet ducks !
why dost not comfort me , and help me out from this unhallow ' d and blood-stained hole ?
chide me , dear stone , that i may say indeed thou art hermione ; or rather , thou art
our sister ' s man is certainly miscarried .
enter bertram , guarded king .
thoughts black , hands apt , drugs fit , and time agreeing ; confederate season , else no creature seeing
d in me ?
mistake not , uncle , further than you should .
i think we are too bold upon your rest .
but kiss ; one kiss !
the terms of our estate may not endure hazard so near us as doth hourly grow out of his lunacies
my life is my foe ' s debt .
king philip , listen to the cardinal .
' s head , eastcheap doll tearsheet lords , attendants , porter , drawers , beadles , grooms , servants
custody .
war ' st thou ' gainst athens ?
wear thou thy wrongs ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
to thee , king john , my holy errand is .
nay , he ' s a flower , in faith- a very flower .
anywhere but where he is .
drum and colours page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
well , sir , i hope when i do it i shall do it on a full stomach .
the trick of that voice i do well remember .
the noble duke my master , my worthy arch and patron , comes to-night .
, black , obscene a deed !
[guards seize bertram] my fore-past proofs , howe ' er the matter fall , shall tax my fears of little
, to the conqueror ; against the which a moiety competent was gaged by our king ; which had return
zounds , where thou wilt , lad !
, let it not tell your judgement i am old : not age , but sorrow , over me hath
sir , understand you this of me , in sooth : the youngest daughter , whom you hearken for ,
yet , i beseech you , if you think fit , or that it may be done , give me
txt enter leonato , benedick , [beatrice , ] margaret , ursula , antonio , friar [francis] , hero .
how now , malvolio !
fled to heaven ; and england now is left to tug and scamble , and to part by th '
he dares not come there for the candle ; for , you see , it is already in snuff .
when thou didst not , savage , know thine own meaning , but wouldst gabble like a thing most brutish
i ' ll deliver all ; and promise you calm seas , auspicious gales , and sail so expeditious that
and you shall find yourself to be well thank ' d , whate ' er falls more .
here am i left to underprop his land , who , weak with age , cannot support myself .
they are all welcome .
i would not- though ' tis my familiar sin with maids to seem the lapwing , and to jest ,
this and my food are equals ; there ' s no odds .
then down upon her knees she falls , weeps , sobs , beats her heart , tears her hair ,
in french , notre tres cher fils henri , roi d ' angleterre , heritier de france ; and thus
before the walls of athens enter two other senators with a messenger first senator .
give us pause .
madam , the young gentleman of the count orsino ' s is return ' d ; i could hardly entreat
nobles , she hath herself not only well defended but taken and impounded as a stray the king of scots
why didst not tell me sooner ?
of her lightness , i will with you , if you be so contented , forswear bianca and her love
you can play no part but pyramus ; for pyramus is a sweet-fac ' d man ; a proper man
they sound a parley .
this mad-brain ' d bridegroom took him such a cuff that down fell priest and book , and book and
trust me , i think ' tis almost day .
what money , sir ?
a picture , sir .
i wish no better than have him hold that purpose , and to put it in execution .
did not better for my life provide , than public means which public manners breeds .
benedick , didst thou note the daughter of signior leonato ?
lustig , as the dutchman says .
you are right , justice , and you weigh this well ; therefore still bear the balance and the sword
come out o ' th ' storm .
dead , desdemon !
you give him then advantage .
to cheer his dad in mutinies ?
demetrius is a worthy gentleman .
what less than doomsday is the prince ' s doom ?
suppos ' d the holy land .
o you gods , what a number of men eats timon , and he sees ' em not !
find the ooze to show what coast thy sluggish crare might ' st easiliest harbour in ?
garter , it would have been a fine tragedy .
now he denies it faintly and laughs it out .
uncle , farewell ; and , cousin , adieu ; your mother well hath pray ' d , and prove
that is , sir , i will counterfeit the bewitchment of some popular man and give it bountiful to the
i am loath to tell you what i would you knew .
mine host of the garter !
ay , to such mercy as his ruthless arm with downright payment show ' d unto my father .
but she would spell him backward .
i would your grace would leave your griefs , and take my counsel .
enter alcibiades , with the rest most welcome , sir !
there is some strange misprision in the princes .
call ' st thou that trimming ?
o noble english , that could entertain with half their forces the full pride of france , and let another
y ' are caught .
[to ariel] hark what thou else shalt do me .
this is call ' d the reply churlish .
a peevish school boy , worthless of such honor , join ' d with a masker and a reveler !
your uncle worcester ' s horse came but to-day ; and now their pride and mettle is asleep , their
thou fond mad woman , wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy ?
one nickname for her purblind son and heir , young adam cupid , he that shot so trim when king
go on before ; i shall enquire you forth ; i must unto the road to disembark some necessaries that
shall i ?
to side this title is impanelled a quest of thoughts , all tenants to the heart , and by their
if you deny to dance , let ' s hold more chat .
i hope he be in love .
in his youth he had the wit which i can well observe to-day in our young lords ; but they
a name unmusical to the volscians ' ears , and harsh in sound to thine .
worthy timon- timon .
coach after coach , letter after letter , gift after gift ; smelling so sweetly , all musk , and
mars , this other eden , demi-paradise , this fortress built by nature for herself against infection and the hand
down with the nose , down with it flat , take the bridge quite away of him that , his
there ' s for thyself , and that ' s for tamora .
good madam !
is this the promise that you made your mother ?
daughter .
porter , remember what i gave in charge ; and when you have done so , bring the keys to
a night is but small breath and little pause to answer matters of this consequence .
, or else to heaven she heaves them for revenge .
yes , sir , i shall .
than how ?
thou grievest my gall .
or i ' ll fall in them .
then i confess , here on my knee , before high heaven and you , that before you , and
you follow the young prince up and down , like his ill angel .
margaret !
from seasons such as these ?
poor i am stale , a garment out of fashion , and for i am richer than to hang by
himself here tend the savage strangeness he puts on , disguise the holy strength of their command , and underwrite
i would he had some cause to prattle for himself .
to be , or not to be- that is the question : whether ' tis nobler in the mind to
then on good ground we fear , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hath he said anything ?
why , then incision would let her out in saucers .
we had much more monstrous matter of feast , which worthily deserved noting .
advantaging their loan with interest of ten times double gain of happiness .
txt tish ill done , tish ill done ; by my hand , tish ill done !
but if it be a sin to covet honour , i am the most offending soul alive .
your constancy hath left you unattended .
' so ' a cried out ' god , god , god !
beggar .
he hath a tear for pity and a hand open as day for melting charity ; yet notwithstanding , being
that loves not me , nor none of you .
yet will i woo for him , but yet so coldly as , heaven it knows , i would not
the birds fly , and like the famous ape , to try conclusions , in the basket creep and break
speak ; recover breath ; tell us how near is danger , that we may arm us to encounter it
and full as much , for more there cannot be , i do detest false , perjur ' d proteus
my liege , her ear is stopp ' d with dust : the first of april died your noble mother
your sword is bright , sir ; put it up again .
' peace , tawny slave , half me and half thy dam !
you boldly , more than , i fear , you are provided for .
along with me !
now the dry serpigo on the subject , and war and lechery confound all !
sir , i desire you do me right and justice , and to bestow your pity on me ; for
his name is barnardine .
what men have i !
my single state of man that function is smother ' d in surmise , and nothing is but what is
the tender prince would fain have come with me to meet your grace , but by his mother was perforce
thou hast set me on the rack .
safe , antony , brutus is safe enough .
i would wart might have gone , sir .
' are not you the owner of the house i did inquire for ?
you know me , do you not ?
embalm me , then lay me forth ; although unqueen ' d , yet like a queen , and daughter
senator .
give me a kiss ; even this repays me .
my ear should catch your voice , my eye your eye , my tongue should catch your tongue ' s
sound a retreat paris .
the manner of their deaths ?
i hope the king made peace with all of us ; and the compact is firm and true in me
first let me know , and then i ' ll answer you .
know the whole world , he is as valiant .
but see thy fault !
ours- ' tis to be chid as we rate boys who , being mature in knowledge , pawn their experience
o gentle romeo , if thou dost love , pronounce it faithfully .
high a flow as the ridge of the gallows .
not to be endur ' d !
i do , my lord , but long i cannot stay there ; i shall return before your lordship thence
; for we hear your greeting is from him , not from the king .
no , thou villain , thou art full of piety , as shall be prov ' d upon thee by
we were not all unkind , nor all deserve the common stroke of war .
i am sure you know him well enough .
me ; but once put out thy light , thou cunning ' st pattern of excelling nature , i know
fairest cordelia , that art most rich , being poor ; most choice , forsaken ; and most lov '
the greeks upon advice did bury ajax , that slew himself ; and wise laertes ' son did graciously plead
ambassadors from harry king of england do crave admittance to your majesty .
all strange and terrible events are welcome , but comforts we despise ; our size of sorrow , proportion '
enter the army of the volsces marcius .
have i with all my full affections still met the king , lov ' d him next heav ' n
why , what read you there that have so cowarded and chas ' d your blood out of appearance ?
your son , my lord , has paid a soldier ' s debt .
to be generous , guiltless , and of free disposition , is to take those things for bird-bolts that you
now thou and i are new in amity , and will to-morrow midnight solemnly dance in duke theseus ' house
i love you now ; but till now not so much but i might master it .
with all certainty to be the king ' s daughter .
- what ho , pisanio !
for that he dares us to ' t .
then will two at once woo one .
aemilius lepidus , " sextus pompeius , " domitius enobarbus , friend to antony ventidius , " " " eros
what , sovereign sir , i did not well , i meant well .
txt with discretion .
thisby .
er it was , and held for certain the king will venture at it .
o , what might !
then i know thee not .
then a soldier , full of strange oaths , and bearded like the pard , jealous in honour , sudden
come , let me wipe thy face .
' the jaws of darkness do devour it up ; so quick bright things come to confusion .
s life- for ' tis a bastard , so sure as this beard ' s grey- what will you adventure
[aside] what shall cordelia speak ?
before lucentio ' s house enter biondello , lucentio , and bianca ; gremio is out before biondello .
, as ' tis reported , so .
good bardolph , put thy face between his sheets , and do the office of a warming-pan .
they ear and wound with keels of every kind .
' in time the savage bull doth bear the yoke .
chancellor .
might you not know she would do as she has done by sending me a letter ?
this fierce abridgment hath to it circumstantial branches , which distinction should be rich in .
out with ' t .
let me make answer : thy usurping son .
heaven would that she these gifts should have , and i to live and die her slave .
i have spoke long ; be pleas ' d yourself to say how far you satisfied me .
come , sir , your passado !
txt endur ' d all weathers .
amazon , your buskin ' d mistress and your warrior love , to theseus must be wedded , and you
[aside] ' a must needs ; for beggary is valiant .
lousy knave it is ; i hope your majesty is pear me testimony and witness , and will avouchment ,
yes , that the king is dead .
cheeks ?
if you spite it for my sake , i will spite it for yours , for i will never love
now must the world point at poor katherine , and say ' lo , there is mad petruchio ' s
well , fare thee well .
fell sorrow ' s tooth doth never rankle more than when he bites , but lanceth not the sore .
i dare swear he is no hypocrite , but prays from his heart .
never talk to me ; i will weep .
the greatest monarch now alive may glory in such an honour ; how may i deserve it , that am
when must he die ?
txt thine own breeches , [sings] then they for sudden joy did weep , and i for sorrow sung ,
not she .
you go to seek the lord hamlet .
i have the toothache .
this man shall set me packing .
will you be mine now you are doubly won ?
why , how now , gentlemen ?
txt enter two british captains and soldiers first captain .
whate ' er you think , good words , i think , were best .
exeunt macbeth and lennox .
i hear thou must , and nothing may prorogue it , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
nay , then .
then enter talbot talbot .
come when the king doth to my lady come ; then , if i have much love , i '
believe it , royal prince , if he be less , he ' s nothing ; but he ' s
then my dial goes not true ; i took this lark for a bunting .
stream , o ' erflows himself .
enter lovell lovell .
wilt thou whip thine own faults in other men ?
told your majesty .
for your intent in going back to school in wittenberg , it is most retrograde to our desire ; and
you tribunes to th ' people- coriolanus , patience !
as for words , whose greatness answers words , let this my sword report what speech forbears .
peace , peace , iras !
but now , my lord .
suck the goat , and cabin in a cave , and bring you up to be a warrior and command
balthazar .
think my brother happy in having what he wishes for .
was milan thrust from milan , that his issue should become kings of naples ?
call in the sheriff .
i cannot tell if to depart in silence or bitterly to speak in your reproof best fitteth my degree or
at priam ' s royal table do i sit ; and when fair cressid comes into my thoughts- so ,
and to be sure that is not false i swear , a thousand groans but thinking on thy face ,
good old man , thou art right welcome as thy master is .
and then the lover , sighing like furnace , with a woeful ballad made to his mistress ' eyebrow .
death , that hath suck ' d the honey of thy breath , hath had no power yet upon thy
jove , jove !
, these famish ' d beggars , weary of their lives ; who , but for dreaming on this fond
] anon , anon !
and think how such an apprehension may turn the tide of fearful faction and breed a kind of question in
the lady is dead upon mine and my master ' s false accusation ; and briefly , i desire nothing
caesar , now be still ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
as men report thou orphans ' father art , thou shouldst have been , and shielded him from this earth-vexing
the wild disguise hath almost antick ' d us all .
but have you forgot your love ?
' tis well they are whisp ' ring .
i ' ll after him and see the event of this .
[exit knight .
, or more entitled in thy parts , do crowned sit , i make my love engrafted to this store
i did , my lord , yet let me be their bail ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
which to reduce into our former favout you are assembled ; and my speech entreats that i may know the
good my lord , what is your cause of distemper ?
do you not indeed ?
the english army , that divided was into two parties , is now conjoin ' d in one , and
in the name of jesu christ , speak fewer .
and take his thanks that yet hath nothing else .
thou baggage , let me in .
they never flatter ' d thee .
moreover , thou hast put them in prison , and because they could not read , thou page _num_ complete
but you must fear , his greatness weigh ' d , his will is not his own ; for he
how now , my sweet bianca !
a village of it ; i will have it all mine .
be not you asham ' d to show , he ' ll not shame to tell you what it means
when i was sick you gave me bitter pills , and i must minister the like to you .
the next is this : king john hath reconcil ' d page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
one of these three contains her heavenly picture .
perhaps him and her , sir ; what have you to do ?
thou art a most pernicious usurer ; froward by nature , enemy to peace ; lascivious , wanton , more
exit messenger enter lord capucius if my sight fail not , you should be lord ambassador from the emperor ,
o ' the time , the moment on ' t ; fort must be done tonight and something from the
alas , sir , in what have i offended you ?
his sword , death ' s stamp , where it did mark , it took ; from face to foot
you do amaze her .
dost thou speak like a king ?
yes , my lord , yes .
i have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking .
beshrew him for ' t !
late escape .
exit pedant .
these growing feathers pluck ' d from caesar ' s wing will make him fly an ordinary pitch , who
an thou hadst been set i ' th ' stocks for that question , thou ' dst well deserv '
then i will kiss your lips , kate .
deliver ' d with good respect .
devise but how you ' ll use him when he comes , and let us two devise to bring him
but yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion .
and his physicians fear him mightily .
nay then , give him another staff ; this last was broke cross .
marry , sir , our watch to-night , excepting your worship ' s presence , ha ' ta ' en
set we forward ; let a roman and a british ensign wave friendly together .
it is a hint that wrings mine eyes to ' t .
i have a good eye , uncle ; i can see a church by daylight .
the proud insulting queen , with clifford and the haught northumberland , and of their feather many moe proud birds
' i took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me .
i would i had ; so i had broke thy pate , and ask ' d thee mercy for '
is it true too , think you ?
ten thousand french have ta ' en the sacrament to rive their dangerous artillery upon no christian soul but english
i beseech you let his lack of years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend estimation , page
an abbey enter eglamour eglamour .
the pow ' rs that he already hath in gallia will soon be drawn to head , from whence he
[polonius hides behind the arras .
exit dolabella now , iras , what think ' st thou ?
walls of glass , beauty ' s effect with beauty were bereft , nor it nor no remembrance what it
passing well .
your mind is the clearer , ajax , and your virtues the fairer .
a soldier , and afeard ?
clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase soil our addition ; and indeed it takes from our achievements , though
you , pyramus ' father ; myself , thisby ' s father ; snug , the joiner , you ,
i ' ll tell thee what , my friend , he is a very serpent in my way ; and
warlike spirit , and your great-uncle ' s , edward the black prince , who on the french ground play
i know them both .
i cannot choose but pity her .
is tangled in affection to a creature of the queen ' s , lady anne bullen .
smile , gentle heaven , or strike , ungentle death ; for this world frowns , and edward ' s
you are fair .
so think thou wilt no second husband wed ; but die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead .
our noted outward garments .
please your ladyship to visit the next room , i ' ll presently acquaint the queen of your most noble
the meaning , pretty ingenious ?
they must lie there .
bid my guard watch ; leave me .
whither are you going ?
that is the butt end of a mother ' s blessing ; i marvel that her grace did leave it
, be chrish , do nothing .
what propugnation is in one man ' s valour to stand the push and enmity of those this quarrel would
where is he living , clipp ' d in with the sea that chides the banks of england , scotland
when stubbornly he did repugn the truth about a certain question in the law argu ' d betwixt the duke
i will go along .
let ' s all sink wi ' th ' king .
" caesar , beware of brutus ; take heed of cassius ; come not near casca ; have an eye
of sleeping men .
s , betrays to slander , whose sting is sharper than the sword ' s ; and will not- for
are gone .
nay , you were better speak first ; and when you were gravell ' d for lack of matter ,
he was wont to call me usurer ; let him look to his bond .
[exit gentleman .
not out of your apparel , and yet out of your suit .
can ' t be ?
call you that backing of your friends ?
why , these balls bound ; there ' s noise in it .
no , i ' ll not weep .
enter messenger and talbot .
it is the purpose that makes strong the vow ; but vows to every purpose must not hold .
yourself .
madam , so thrive i in my enterprise and dangerous success of bloody wars , as i intend more good
how have the hours rack ' d and tortur ' d me since i have lost thee !
you rogue , here ' s lime in this sack too !
>> scene : athens and a wood near it act i .
and adam was a gardener .
o , let my lady apprehend no fear !
and i hear , moreover , his highness is fall ' n into this same whoreson apoplexy .
here comes little robin .
because here is a man accus ' d of treason : page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
-let me creep in here ; i ' ll never- [gets into the basket ; they cover him with foul
o , that once more you knew but what you are !
our king is not like him in that : he never kill ' d any of his friends .
i do entreat your grace to pardon me .
cruel to herself .
but , come ; since this bar in law makes us friends , it shall be so far forth friendly
i thank your grace ; the gift hath made me happy .
i will stand to , and feed , although my last ; no matter , since i feel the best
yes , by all means ; if it be but to scrape the figures out of your husband ' s
no face is fair that is not full so black .
it shall be suffigance .
i was compell ' d to her ; but i love the by love ' s own sweet constraint ,
i strong o ' er them , and you o ' er me being strong , must for your victory
humh !
my life for yours !
as to o ' erwalk a current roaring loud on the unsteadfast footing of a spear .
how now , moody ?
instantly raise up the gross of full three thousand ducats .
this love of theirs myself have often seen , haply when they have judg ' d me fast asleep ,
patience , i pray you ; ' twas a fault unwilling .
what ' s your affair , i pray you ?
yet to have join ' d with france in such alliance would more have strength ' ned this our commonwealth
, ' or ' fair ladies , i would wish you ' or ' i would request you ' or
, wrestler to frederick oliver , son of sir rowland de boys jaques , " " " " " "
how silver-sweet sound lovers ' tongues by night , like softest music to attending ears !
here comes boyet , and mirth is in his face .
i have been begging sixteen years in court- am yet a courtier beggarly-nor could come pat betwixt too early and
verg .
but let the laws of rome determine all ; meanwhile am i possess ' d of that is mine .
nephew , what means this passionate discourse , this peroration with such circumstance ?
will you not , master bardolph ?
since my here-remain in england , i have seen him do .
i will tell truth ; by grace itself i swear .
] let me go in to see the generals .
and grieve to hear ' t .
here ' s my hand .
as thou lov ' st her , thy love ' s to me religious ; else , does err .
he hath rais ' d the wall , and houses too .
i will tell you , ass my friend , captain gower : the rascally , scald , beggarly , lousy
wert thou a man , thou wouldst have mercy on me .
, at one stroke has taken for ever from the world .
see her , that she were a maid by these exterior shows ?
never be held by you denials .
were it good , think you ?
fear o ' ershades me .
in my rights by me invested , he compeers the best .
thou worm ' s meat in respect of a good piece of flesh indeed !
quick , quick , i pray thee , draw the curtain straight ; the prince of arragon hath ta '
s end , to beg during life .
find outweighs ability , what do we then but draw anew the model in fewer offices , or at least
mock-vater !
d duke , and here detain ' d by her usurping uncle , to keep his daughter company ; whose
masters , play here , i will content your pains ; something that ' s brief ; and bid "
very hardly upon such a subject .
help , lords !
hie thee to hell for shame and leave this page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
this same scall , scurvy , cogging companion , the host of the garter .
_num_ thus can my love excuse the slow offence , of my dull bearer , when from thee i speed
pray , then , foresee me one .
this age ' s size .
do what thou dar ' st ; i beard thee to thy face .
must not be saved .
not a whit , i ' faith .
me , puts on his pretty looks , repeats his words , remembers me of all his gracious parts ,
[aside to antonio] the next advantage will we take throughly .
thou believest no god ; that granted , how canst thou believe an oath ?
who ' s that that rings the bell ?
i ' ll tell the news .
great tyranny , lay thou thy basis sure , for goodness dare not check thee .
the noblest mind he carries that ever govern ' d man .
then , jupiter , thou king of gods , why hast thou thus adjourn ' d the graces for his
then came each actor on his ass- pol .
let us about it .
accompt , on your imaginary forces work .
let her in fine consent , as we ' ll direct her how ' tis best to bear it .
d with the night ' s black mantle , at unawares may beat down edward ' s guard page _num_
sudden choice , behold , i choose thee , tamora , for my bride and will create thee emperess of
but mark troilus ; you shall see anon .
what a pretty thing man is when he goes in his doublet and hose and leaves off his wit !
enter the duke of york york .
this way , my lord .
heaven , i would do it .
pray you , away !
the crows and choughs that wing the midway air show scarce so gross as beetles .
command than to entreaty .
so prosper i , as i swear perfect love !
had she been light , like you , of such a merry , nimble , stirring spirit , she might
' d defiance to my ears , he swung about his head and cut the winds , who , nothing
we split , we split !
you may read the rest .
young gentleman , your spirits are too bold for your years .
why , trowest thou , warwick , that clarence is so harsh , so blunt , unnatural , to bend
it ; pardon the fault , i pray .
exit lady macduff , crying " murther !
i had rather have a handful or two of dried peas .
i love thee ; i have spoke it .
to laugh and leap and say you are merry , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
if bawdy talk offend you , we ' ll have very little of it .
rust , sword ; cool , blushes ; and , parolles , live safest in shame .
pardon , master ; i will be correspondent to command , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i know not by what power i am made bold , nor how it may concern my modesty in such
that cuckold lives in bliss who , certain of his fate , loves not his wronger ; but o ,
ah !
if it please you .
get you to your lord .
oxford , how haps it in this smooth discourse you told not how henry the sixth hath lost all that
c ' est bien dit , madame ; il est fort bon anglais .
the gods forbid !
they did fight with queasiness , constrain ' d , as men drink potions ; that their weapons only seem
enter a serving-man invite my lords of salisbury and warwick to sup with me to-morrow night .
enter the ghost in his nightgown .
you have made good work , you and your cry !
and at first meeting lov ' d , continu ' d so until we thought he died .
, and say ' to-morrow is saint crispian .
sir john colville travers and morton , retainers of northumberland opposites against king henry iv earl of warwick earl of
somerset , somerset , for lancaster !
bid them both meet me within this hour at baynard ' s castle .
if it chance the one of us do fail the other yet may rise against their force .
minded , wave thus to express his disposition , and follow marcius .
his comfortable temper has forsook him ; he ' s much out of health and keeps his chamber .
i thank my god for my humility .
pray do not , sir .
d at your highness-no inveterate malice .
my lord , it were your duty to forbear .
txt there is a prohibition so divine that cravens my weak hand .
i would breed from hence occasions , and i shall , that i may speak .
[aside] now will i fetch the king to find them here , that he thereby may have a likely guess
why then , i would not fly .
so , if a son that is by his father sent about merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea ,
makes him to send that he may learn the ground .
chimney ' s top , and chatt ' ring pies in dismal discords sung ; thy mother felt more than
hector trembles .
he is very well-favour ' d , and he speaks very shrewishly ; one would think his mother ' s
and therefore i yield thee my free consent .
good queen , my lord , good queen- i say good queen ; and would by combat make her good
you train me to offend you ; get you in .
who remov ' d , earl surrey was sent thither , and in haste too , lest he should help
what complexion is she of ?
other of them may have crook ' d noses ; but to owe such straight arms , none .
leave me , i pray , a little ; pray you now ; nay , do so , for indeed
pray , give me favour , sir ; this cunning cardinal the articles o ' th ' combination drew as
when beggars die , there are no comets seen ; the heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes .
an i thought that , i ' d forswear it .
y ' are honest men .
o worthy prince , dishonour not your eye by throwing it on any other object till you have heard me
] claud .
he is as disproportioned in his manners as in his shape .
d decay !
will his vouchers vouch him no more of his purchases , and double ones too , than the length and
what is he ?
enter bassanio , with leonardo , with a follower or two bassanio .
i gave her such a one ; ' twas my first gift .
and our king henry gives away his own to match with her that brings no vantages .
let ' s beat him before his whore .
they are in a trunk , attended by my men .
here at the palace will i rest a while .
how like , methought , i then was to this kernel , this squash , this gentleman .
virtue is of so little regard in these costermongers ' times that true valour is turn ' d berod ;
ho , ho , confess ' d it !
the father and the son ; and two northumberlands- two braver men ne ' er spurr ' d their coursers
captain alcibiades , your heart ' s in the field now .
great-siz ' d monster of ingratitudes .
and wand ' ring air ; but smother ' d it within my panting bulk , who almost burst to
leave off discourse of disability ; sweet lady , entertain him for your servant .
dear lord , you are full of fair words .
' archbishop .
trade .
you peasant swain !
the charity of age .
if i do not , damn me .
and a good soldier to a lady ; but what is he to a lord ?
an there be any matter of weight chances , call up me .
txt hath for your love as great a pang of heart as you have for olivia .
if thou dost love me , show me thy thought .
i am declined into the vale of years- yet that ' s not much- she ' s gone .
s tongue proves dainty bacchus gross in taste .
before shylock ' s house enter the maskers , gratiano and salerio gratiano .
but shall we have this dialogue between the fool and the soldier ?
these banish ' d men , that i have kept withal , are men endu ' d with worthy qualities
we will read it , i swear .
me and my good lord of gloucester .
those same noble scots that are your prisoners- hot .
for wisdom ' s sake , a word that all men love ; or for love ' s sake ,
is come to harvest , your wife is like to reap a proper man .
you yourself have forg ' d against yourself by unkind usage , dangerous countenance , and violation of all faith
pompey , you are partly a bawd , pompey , howsoever you colour it in being a tapster .
you had musty victual , and he hath holp to eat it .
this bare island by your spell ; but release me from my bands with the help of your good hands
tell not me .
enter horatio , queen , and a gentleman .
what brings thee to france ?
txt stand gracious to the rites that we intend !
what ' s dearest to the world !
where then , alas , may i complain myself ?
[lays his hand on his head] if secret powers suggest but truth to my divining thoughts , this pretty lad
therefore , paucas pallabris ; let the world slide .
these evils thou repeat ' st upon thyself have banish ' d me from scotland .
if caesar please , our master will leap to be his friend .
among the crowds i ' th ' abbey , where a finger could not be wedg ' d in more
but to the quick o ' th ' ulcer !
fickle hour : who hast by waning grown , and therein show ' st , thy lovers withering , as
d ; but i had not so much of man in me , and all my mother came into mine
exeunt all but the king king henry .
you are potently oppos ' d , and with a malice of as great size .
such news , my lord , as grieves me to report .
and was the duke a fleshmonger , a fool , and a coward , as you then reported him to
the beauty of the world , the paragon of animals !
near and on speedy foot .
as willingly do i the same resign as ere thy father henry made it mine ; and even as willingly
there , i take it , they may , cum privilegio , wear away the lag end of their lewdness
have you a catalogue of all the voices that we have procur ' d , set down by th '
' tis this slave- go whip him fore the people ' s eyes- his raising , nothing but his report
palate adversely , i make a crooked face at it .
' with that she sighed as she stood , with that she sighed as she stood , and gave this
question with the shepherd ; from whose simplicity i think it not uneasy to get the cause of my son
you say he has been thrown in the rivers ; and has been grievously peaten as an old oman ;
exeunt they two .
place barrels of pitch upon the fatal stake , that so her torture may be shortened .
bear her my true love ' s kiss ; and so , farewell .
her honor is an essence that ' s not seen ; they have it very oft that have it not
are may when they are maids , but the sky changes when they are wives .
youth got me to play the woman ' s part , and i was trimm ' d in madam julia
in lusty stroke to th ' shore , that o ' er his wave-worn basis bowed , as stooping to
as ' t please your lordship .
see the figure of the house , then we must rate the cost of the erection ; which if we
sir , will you hear my suit ?
a mere hoard of gold kept by a devil till sack commences it and sets it in act and use
' tis brief , my lord .
are not you moved , when all the sway of earth shakes like a thing unfirm ?
of you .
both murderers .
ground unsanctified have lodg ' d till the last trumpet .
death , lie thou there , by a dead man interr ' d .
' god help us !
madam , yourself is not exempt from this ; nor you , son dorset ; buckingham , nor you :
unto the green holly .
i must , where is no remedy .
and yet , i think , jet did he never see .
the worthy fellow is our general ; he ' s the rock , the oak not to be wind-shaken .
but , gentle heavens , cut short all intermission ; front to front bring thou this fiend of scotland and
in like manner was i in debt to my importunate business , but he would not hear my excuse .
thou must be patient .
hear what she will say .
and do not seek to take your charge upon you , to bear your griefs yourself , and leave me
no more words .
keep the door .
i do nothing doubt you have store of thieves ; notwithstanding , i fear not my ring .
harp not on that string , madam ; that is past .
of wales , as i have read in the chronicles , fought a most prave pattle here in france .
what , deaf ?
dear a lover of my lord your husband , i know you would be prouder of the work than customary
txt came here to make us merry !
[aside] she ' s beautiful , and therefore to be woo ' d ; she is a woman , therefore
for i have neither wit , nor words , nor worth , action , nor utterance , nor the power
but make you ready your stiff bats and clubs .
let our drums strike .
if it be banish ' d from the frosty head , where shall it find a harbour in the earth
i think scorn to sigh ; methinks i should out-swear cupid .
since that my beauty cannot please his eye , i ' ll weep what ' s left away , and
france is revolted from the english quite , except some petty towns of no import .
perhaps he sees it not , or his good nature prizes the virtue that appears in cassio and looks not
some one with child by him ?
i thought , at least , he would have said the king ; or did he make the jest against
about it , gentlemen !
seize it , if thou dar ' st .
with cheer .
york , i commend this kind submission .
and look where publius is come to fetch me .
call forth the holy father .
and judgment are so well commingled that they are not a pipe for fortune ' s finger to sound what
' - if death , cry ' death !
will will so ; almost all repent in their election .
prithee tarry .
upon mine honour , i will stand betwixt you and danger .
faith , i shall unfold equal discourtesy to your best kindness ; one of your great knowing should learn ,
we will proceed no further in this business : he hath honor ' d me of late , and i
the duke of exeter is master of the pridge ; i can tell your majesty the duke is a prave
this day ' s black fate on moe days doth depend ; this but begins the woe others must end
i take my leave of you ; shall not be long but i ' ll be here again .
such comfort as do lusty young men feel when well apparell ' d april on the heel of limping winter
" first witch .
to say nothing , to do nothing , to know nothing , and to have nothing , is to be
to be known a reasonable creature .
i am the sea ; hark how her sighs do blow .
i saw the tyrant ' s power afoot .
is with greatness , and speaks not to himself but with a pride that quarrels at self-breath .
o , let no words , but deeds , revenge this treason !
lady , such a man as all the world- why he ' s a man of wax .
txt as fear may teach us , out of late examples left by the fatal and neglected english upon our
dress him in my apparel and make him my waiting gentlewoman ?
i mean to shift my bush , and then pursue me as you draw your bow .
pleasing of a lute .
is heir to both of us .
then had my prize been less , and so more equal ballasting to thee , posthumus .
you know sometimes he walks four hours together here in the lobby .
affection , but by your setting on , by your consent ?
considers she my possessions ?
or robin goodfellow peaseblossom , fairy cobweb , fairy moth , fairy mustardseed , fairy prologue , pyramus , thisby
good father , i beseech you on my knees , hear me with patience but to speak a word .
nothing concerning me .
work you , then .
o thou monster ignorance , how deformed dost thou look !
business , my lord ?
the bay trees in our country are all wither ' d , and meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven
yet fear her o thou minion of her pleasure , she may detain , but not still keep her treasure
traitor , then she comes when she is thence .
why , we shall make him mad indeed .
[lavinia turns over with her stumps the books which lucius has let fall] titus .
illuminate so vile a thing as caesar ?
well , then i shall see thee again ?
ha , cousin silence , that thou hadst seen that that this knight and i have seen !
five and twenty , sir .
what a pagan rascal is this !
[draws] sir toby .
with henry ' s death the english circle ends ; dispersed are the glories it included .
, daughter to calchas trojan and greek soldiers , and attendants scene : troy and the greek camp before it
kind rome , that hast thus lovingly reserv ' d the cordial of mine age to glad my heart !
no marvel then though i mistake my view , the sun it self sees not , till heaven clears .
an old , an old instance , beatrice , that liv ' d in the time of good neighbours .
to challenge you ; or if he do , it needs must be by stealth .
the duke ' s palace enter duke , escalus , lords , and attendants duke .
go fetch fire .
how , now , my lord of worcester ?
txt and all my study be to no effect ?
art thou there , truepenny ?
you speak him far .
ay , it stands so that i may hardly tarry so long .
the english force , so please you .
then swear allegiance to his majesty : as thou art knight , never to disobey nor be rebellious to the
in their spheres till they return .
i beseech you , which is justice shallow ?
give you ; then no more remains but that to your sufficiency- as your worth is able- and let them
the street , near leonato ' s house .
your presence needs must puzzle antony ; take from his heart , take from his brain , from ' s
do right unto this princely duke of york ; or i will fill the house with armed men , and
satisfaction of her knowledge only in killing creatures vile , as cats and dogs , of no esteem .
o , that ' s the latin word for three farthings .
let my master in , luce .
he was a man : this , in respect , a child ; and men ne ' er spend their
[here he ascendeth the throne .
thy grief is but thy absence for a time .
we ' ll have this song out anon by ourselves ; my father and the gentlemen are in sad talk
i am so much endeared to that lord : he ' s ever sending .
it beggars any man that keeps it .
i say she shall .
resign it then , and leave thine insolence .
that i wish well .
perform it .
for this i shall have time enough to mourn .
and like me to the peasant boys of france , to be shame ' s scorn and subject of mischance
and do look to know what doth befall you here .
the gates are open , let us enter too .
give him the crowns ; and , captain , you must needs be friends with him .
do you triumph ?
[aside] he ' s a strange fellow himself , and knows it not .
and thou , posthumus , that didst set up my disobedience ' gainst the king my father , and make
but mark how heavily this befell to the poor gentlewoman : there she lost a noble and renowned brother ,
of woman born .
' a would have made a good pantler ; ' a would ha ' chipp ' d bread well .
his daughters seek his death .
him with an enraged affection .
land .
no doubt but he hath got a quiet catch .
father , i am glad you are come ; give me your present to one master bassanio , who indeed
[aside] more jewels yet !
it was to show my skill , that more for praise than purpose meant to kill .
edgar , son of gloucester .
if then true lovers have ever cross ' d , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o gods !
it is not you i call for .
to the time that doth not smack of observation- and so am i , whether i smack or no ;
the house of coriolanus enter coriolanus with nobles coriolanus .
what , not to pray ?
for night-owls shriek where mounting larks should sing .
overdone .
blind fear , that seeing reason leads , finds safer footing than blind reason stumbling without fear .
marshal .
for the selfsame heaven that frowns on me looks sadly upon him .
set the axe to thy usurping root ; and though the edge hath something hit ourselves , yet know thou
pray heartily he be at palace .
thou hotly lusts to use her in that kind for which thou whip ' st her .
beloved where i may not remove nor be removed .
is ' t not enough , is ' t not enough , young man , that i did never ,
i am sorry .
romeo , i come !
no , heaven so speed me in my time to come !
william shakespeare .
but though i am a daughter to his blood , i am not to his manners .
nay , then i must have an ounce or two of this malapert blood from you .
and , lozel , thou art worthy to be hang ' d that wilt not stay her tongue .
one of which fell with him , unwilling to outlive the good that did it ; the other , though
most villainously ; like a pedant that keeps a school i ' th ' church .
i am sorry for ' t .
had i a glass i would .
these tidings nip me , and i hang the head as flowers with frost , or grass beat down with
what i have done that misbecame my place , my person , or my liege ' s sovereignty .
all , curse all , show charity to none , but let the famish ' d flesh slide from the
and when good will is show ' d , though ' t come too short , the actor may plead
yet never know how that desert should be .
then live , macduff .
i your servant .
but indeed , god forbid it should be so !
[they go up] warwick .
come , put mine armor on ; give me my staff .
the trumpets sound , and the king enters with his nobles , gaunt , bushy , bagot , green ,
d my books , he furnish ' d me from mine own library with volumes that i prize above my
go seek him ; tell him i would speak with him .
for this reason , if you ' ll know , that she ' s the choice love of signior gremio
this gentleman , whom i would save , had a most noble father .
sound of words was deep-sworn faith , peace , amity , true love , between our kingdoms and our royal
dear lord , go you and greet him in his tent .
no !
treachery !
from top to toe ?
prepare we for our marriage ; on which day , my lord of burgundy , we ' ll take your
i will fetch my gold and have our two wagers recorded .
lord angelo dukes it well in his absence ; he puts transgression to ' t .
walks , insulting o ' er his prey , and so he comes , to rend his limbs asunder .
i have them ready .
in so profound abysm i throw all care of others ' voices , that my adder ' s sense ,
thou villain , what sayest thou ?
your own turn , you shall find me yare ; for truly , sir , for your kindness i owe
i knew when seven justices could not take up a quarrel ; but when the parties were met themselves ,
not mad , but mated ; how , i do not know .
chance in honour ' s bed .
and this neglection of degree it is that by a pace goes backward , with a purpose it hath to
left me open , bare for every storm that blows- i to bear this , that never knew but better
thrice hath calpurnia in her sleep cried out , " help , ho !
but there are worthies a-coming will speak their mind in some other sort .
i ' ll show thee every fertile inch o ' th ' island ; and will kiss thy foot .
so hath my lord dar ' d him to single fight .
go , get you to your house ; be gone , away .
[to richmond] awake , and think our wrongs in richard ' s bosom will conquer him .
s large tongue proclaims you for a man replete with mocks , full of comparisons and wounding flouts , which
why , so hath this , both by his father and mother .
so far ' d our father with his enemies ; so fled his enemies my warlike father .
is a greater grief to bear greater wrong , than hate ' s known injury .
give the word , ho , and stand .
>> act v .
let us complain to them what fools were here , disguis ' d like muscovites , in shapeless gear ;
' when as he meant all harm .
lay it down in likelihood .
belike is that .
you do him wrong , surely .
that face of his i do remember well ; yet when i saw it last it was besmear ' d
your crown ' s awry ; i ' ll mend it and then play- enter the guard , rushing in
' tis banquo ' s then .
into whose hand i give thy life .
i will make one of her women lawyer to me , for i yet not understand the case myself .
lord , i could not endure a husband with a beard on his face .
make her laugh at that .
what need i fear of thee ?
' grave .
txt longaville .
and penetrate the breasts of ever-angry bears ; it was a torment to lay upon the damn ' d ,
himself in person there ?
my master ' s man .
sailors swallow ' d in the flood ; yet lives our pilot still .
well encounter ' d !
as he was a soldier , he would wear if alive- i will strike it out soundly .
even he , sir .
' ll rent the fairest house in it , after threepence a bay .
here may his head lie on my throbbing breast ; but where ' s the body that i should embrace
last , as i am a gentleman , you shall , if you will , enjoy ford ' s wife
desire .
i am ashamed i did yield to them .
if fortune brag of two she lov ' d and hated , one of them we behold .
say , what art thou that talk ' st of kings and queens ?
what a lack-brain is this !
exeunt [hero and ursula] .
winds his horn ; drums strike up ; a peal of ordnance .
remember it , and let it make thee crestfall ' n , ay , and allay thus thy abortive pride
with ruffs and cuffs and farthingales and things , with scarfs and fans and double change of brav ' ry
need .
necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put it on him .
to-morrow in the battle think on me , and fall thy edgeless sword .
soon to you , as you to me then tendered the humble salve , which wounded bosoms fits !
this bodiless creation ecstasy is very cunning in .
[aside to brutus .
exeunt polonius and players [except the first] .
berowne is like an envious sneaping frost that bites the first-born infants of the spring .
in your own conscience , now ?
two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats will not debate the question of this straw .
alas , master , i am not able to stand alone !
be brief , lest that the process of thy kindness last longer telling than thy kindness ' date .
i cannot leave to love , and yet i do ; but there i leave to love where i should
the god of jupiter .
' ] why then , let ' s on our way in silent sort .
hast no faith in thee ?
captain fluellen !
and yet you halt not .
god save you , noble captain .
exeunt all but york york .
delight , than in the breath that from my mistress reeks .
you go about to torture me in vain .
add thereto a tiger ' s chawdron , for the ingredients of our cawdron .
there is example for ' t : the lady of the strachy married the yeoman of the wardrobe .
lear ' s fool .
we two alone will sing like birds i ' th ' cage .
is old double of your town living yet ?
i cannot tell ; i make it breed as fast .
s rouse the heaven shall bruit again , respeaking earthly thunder .
y ' have made a fine hand , fellows .
i am not treacherous .
and lovers ' absent hours , more tedious than the dial eight score times ?
thou shouldst see a workman in ' t .
i am the veriest varlet that ever chewed with a tooth .
yours , if you talk of tales ; and so farewell .
he is about the house .
then once more to your scottish prisoners .
txt secrets of your army , and made such pestiferous reports of men very nobly held , can serve the
, she never will admit me .
sir , here ' s a woman would speak with you .
in her arms , which should sustain the bound and high curvet of mars ' s fiery steed .
what can you this ?
she ' s well , but bade me not commend her to you .
runs against all reason .
know , then , i came before you here a man prepar ' d to take this offer ; but
o , odious is the name !
o queen of queens !
friends are fled , to wait upon thy foes ; and crossly to thy good all fortune goes .
the fifth is crown ' d .
you shall see .
god reward me for it !
he does , indeed ; and brokes with all that can in such a suit corrupt the tender honour of
they fear us not , but issue forth their city .
heaven take my soul , and england keep my bones !
or no , i must have patience to endure the load ; but if black scandal or foul-fac ' d
i not doubt he came alive to land .
did julius caesar build that place , my lord ?
young cupid ' s tables .
yes , madam ; and , moreover , some thousand verses of a faithful lover ; a huge translation of
i mean , master slender , what would you with me ?
empress ' chest .
it is a simple one ; but what though ?
earnestly did fix mine eye upon the wasted building , suddenly i heard a child cry underneath a wall .
good day , and happiness , dear rosalind !
' d to them again that were with him exil ' d .
what likelihood ?
was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this multitude ?
now will he lie ten nights awake carving the fashion of a new doublet .
or else she could not have the wit to do this .
of his eye , by adding a tongue which i know will not lie .
your grace , we think , should soonest know his mind .
they have had my house a week at command ; i have turn ' d away my other guests .
i am undone !
o , what a goodly outside falsehood hath !
gentlemen , importune me no farther , for how i firmly am resolv ' d you know ; that is
king john ' s palace enter king john , pandulph , and attendants king john .
the ways are dangerous .
vice in me ; i must repent .
me well ; which is the prescript praise and perfection of a good and particular mistress .
i do beseech you , take it not amiss : i cannot nor i will not yield to you .
a thousand pieces .
we are fellows still , serving alike in sorrow .
i have a whole school of tongues in this belly of mine ; and not a tongue of them all
second watch .
ass , i ' ll take that burden from your back , or lay on that shall make your shoulders
cap ; serv ' d the lust of my mistress ' heart and did the act of darkness with her
i am no traitor ' s uncle ; and that word ' grace ' in an ungracious mouth is but
, both grace and faults are loved of more and less : thou mak ' st faults graces , that
alas , why would you heap this care on me ?
o , no , no , no .
go , john , go inquire for my master ; i doubt he be not well that he comes not
you may do your will , but he ' s a tried and valiant soldier .
but i know none , and therefore am no beast .
when they are set , enter mowbray , duke of nor folk , in arms , defendant , and a
only they that come to hear a merry bawdy play , a noise of targets , or to see a
shall repent each drop of blood that hot rash haste so indirectly shed .
o , if thou be ' st the same aegeon , speak , and speak unto the same aemilia !
true gait ; eat , speak , and move , under the influence of the most receiv ' d star
but pardon , gentles all , the flat unraised spirits that hath dar ' d on this unworthy scaffold to
i had a thing to say-but let it go : the sun is in the heaven , and the proud
i grant ye , upon instinct .
that .
faith , we met , and found the quarrel was upon the seventh cause .
her u ' s , and her t ' s ; and thus makes she her great p ' s
, the mirror up to nature ; to show virtue her own feature , scorn her own image , and
he ' s the devil .
it presage the ruin of your love , and be my vantage to exclaim on you .
you are a saucy fellow .
what doth our cousin lay to mowbray ' s charge ?
o heavy day !
alas , poor rogue !
i beseech you do me this courteous office as to know of the knight what my offence to him is
exit proteus julia .
what hath this day deserv ' d ?
try his strength , forsaketh yet the lists by reason of his adversary ' s odds : a poor earl
, and a lady attending imogen .
i know , madam , you love your gentlewoman entirely .
why , then , three-farthing worth of silk .
i would they would forget me , like the virtues which our divines lose by ' em .
this grave charm- whose eye beck ' d forth my wars and call ' d them home , whose bosom
of the crowned king .
the vision .
perspectives which , rightly gaz ' d upon , show nothing but confusion-ey ' d awry , distinguish form .
pardon , madam .
what might , worthy sebastian ?
sucking on her natural bosom find ; many for many virtues excellent , none but for some , and yet
' tis time we twain did show ourselves i ' th ' field ; and to that end assemble we
didst hear her speak ?
free from the bondage you are in , messala : the conquerors can but make a fire of him ;
but this reasoning is not in the fashion to choose me a husband .
i am a soldier and unapt to weep or to exclaim on fortune ' s fickleness .
down with the topmast .
i ' ll not endure him .
i ' ll make one too .
poverty , i am custom-shrunk .
- the wrongs i have done thee stir afresh within me ; and these thy offices , so rarely kind
soldier , thou art ; but his whole action grows not in the power on ' t .
awaking when the other do may all to athens back again repair , and think no more of this night
you are too officious in her behalf that scorns your services .
under sir thomas erpingham .
[begin again] gloucester .
shylock , the world thinks , and i think so too , that thou but leadest this fashion of thy
' thoughts tending to ambition , they do plot unlikely wonders : how these vain weak nails may tear a
the song .
bosoms of our part hot coals of vengeance !
enter titus , marcus , lavinia , and the boy young lucius titus .
[aloud] away , make haste , thou know ' st where i will tarry .
enter mistress quickly mrs .
exeunt some of the servingmen [sings] where is the life that late i led ?
, in that the levies , the lists , and full proportions are all made out of his subject ;
why , that ' s some comfort .
ay , if i know the letters and the language .
good wits will be jangling ; but , gentles , agree ; this civil war of wits were much better
so i do , against my will .
nay , i prithee , stay a little .
she ' s too hard for you at pricks , sir ; challenge her to bowl .
but you shall find the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their
txt when arm in arm they both came swiftly running , like to a pair of loving turtle-doves that could
' bertram .
the queen to your most gracious hands , that are the substance of that great shadow i did represent :
[sings] shall i bid him go ?
and more a friend than e ' er an enemy ; yet , marcius , that was much .
eyes with the memorials and the things of fame that do renown this city .
nor heaven nor earth have been at peace tonight .
pray you keep your way ; when you are call ' d , return .
enter worcester and sir richard vernon .
' you must amend your drunkenness ' - sir toby .
here hung those lips that i have kiss ' d i know not how oft .
to be touch ' d with so many giddy offences as he hath generally tax ' d their whole sex
ay , if you thought your love not cast away .
[sings] to shallow rivers , to whose falls- heaven prosper the right !
me with a dead man in his shroud- things that , to hear them told , have made me tremble-
here , there , and everywhere , he leaves and takes ; dexterity so obeying appetite that what he will
his army is a ragged multitude of hinds and peasants , rude and merciless ; sir humphrey stafford and his
i urge this childhood proof , because what follows is pure innocence .
what trust is in these times ?
and here my mistress .
here a lady that disdains thee and the devil alike .
let me behold thy face .
her wanton spirits look out at every joint and motive of her body .
were , and as mine eye doth his effigies witness most truly limn ' d and living in your face
they are wise and honorable , and will , no doubt , with reasons answer you .
o , two such silver currents , when they join , do glorify the banks that bound them in ;
what are we , apemantus ?
which , like an engine , wrench ' d my frame of nature from the fix ' d place ;
; or study where to meet some mistress fine , when mistresses from common sense are hid ; page _num_
do me some service ere i come to thee .
by heavens , i ' ll go !
and how long is that , think you ?
i , made lame by fortune ' s dearest spite take all my comfort of thy worth and truth .
the king ' s palace enter helena and clown helena .
it is not so with him that all things knows , as ' tis with us that square our guess
i rather will subject me to the malice of a diverted blood and bloody brother .
so shaken as we are , so wan with care , find we a time for frighted peace to pant
why are you thus out of measure sad ?
opens the letter , and reads .
aemilius , let the emperor give his pledges unto my father and my uncle marcus .
till by degrees the memory of my womb , together with my brave egyptians all , by the discandying of
, these pigmy arms , from out the circle of his territories .
but if the water come to him and drown him , he drowns not himself .
author of their variance .
who hath descried the number of the traitors ?
why , what make you here ?
which is beatrice ?
' tis all my business .
this was look ' d for at your hand , and this was baulk ' d .
; for she incites me to that in the letter .
i give thee leave to tell me so !
we ' ll hear him , we ' ll follow him , we ' ll die with him .
be not so hasty to confound my meaning .
men rightly temper with the stars ; yet in this one thing let me blame your grace , for choosing
dispatch- this knave ' s tongue begins to double .
for the greater hides the less .
shame to him whose cruel striking kills for faults of his own liking !
therefore , no more but this : henry , your sovereign , is prisoner to the foe ; his state
about to make me the king ' s brother-in-law .
souls may be appeas ' d with slaughter of you their captives , which ourself have granted ; so think
[singing] ' when arthur first in court ' - empty the jordan .
who dares cross ' em , bearing the king ' s will from his mouth expressly ?
a death to grant this .
nod- ay .
and here ' s to right our gentle-hearted king .
nor my heart that thought her like her seeming .
belonging to his honour ; and this man hath , for a few light crowns , lightly conspir ' d
thus twice before , and jump at this dead hour , with martial stalk hath he gone by our watch
my lord high constable , the english lie within fifteen hundred paces of your tents .
do him homage , subject his coronet to his crown , and bend the dukedom , yet unbow ' d-alas
methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in afric , at the marriage
where do the palmers lodge , i do beseech you ?
well , i shall see her to-day .
re-enter a servant with thyreus is he whipt ?
him as did that one ; and that , in my regard , of the unworthiest siege .
i myself dwell with master doctor caius .
pray you go fit you to the custom , and take to you , as your predecessors have , your
i thought to have ta ' en you at the porpentine ; the chain unfinish ' d made me stay
what ' s the unkindest tide ?
what three things does drink especially provoke ?
, and all his lands and goods confiscated .
at length they came to th ' broomstaff to me ; i defied ' em still ; when suddenly a
man , setting down before you , will undermine you and blow you up .
but , in this changing , what is your intent ?
so i leave you , sir , to th ' worst of discontent .
worthiest love ?
what is it she does now ?
txt sergeant .
good , good nurse , speak .
let us , my liege , to arms .
enter angelo duke .
we ' ll follow the king and clifford .
foe- if i unwittingly , or in my rage , have aught committed that is hardly borne to any in
well said , old mocker ; i must needs be friends with thee .
why tribute ?
o , teach me how you look , and with what art you sway the motion of demetrius ' heart
yield , rustic mountaineer .
where should this music be ?
if hamlet give the first or second hit , or quit in answer of the third exchange , let all
fellow , commend my service to her beauty ; tell her i have chastis ' d the amorous troyan ,
yes , when he is in ; but i think he is not in .
they cannot sit at ease on the old bench ?
, with sweet peace ; and the owner of it blest ever shall in safety rest .
he is unqualitied with very shame .
call my train together !
give me my boots , i say .
i will not , uncle .
tell her the king , that may command , entreats .
come , stretch thy chest , and let thy eyes spout blood : thou blowest for hector .
if you have any music that may not be heard , to ' t again ; but , as they
the king loves you ; beware you lose it not .
bless thee , bottom , bless thee !
that henry born at monmouth should win all , and henry born at windsor should lose all .
' cucullus non facit monachum ' : honest in nothing but in his clothes ; and one that hath spoke
be no less esteemed .
curio .
how , camillo , may this , almost a miracle , be done ?
titus , when wert thou wont to walk alone , dishonoured thus , and challenged of wrongs ?
tou have good leave to leave us .
in the shoot : not wounding , pity would not let me do ' t ; if wounding , then
knows he of this ?
this is that banish ' d haughty montague that murd ' red my love ' s cousin- with which grief
o , me , with what strict patience have i sat , to see a king transformed to a gnat
evil ?
now am i like that proud insulting ship which caesar and his fortune bare at once .
gramercy , lovely lucius .
bell .
the kite soar with unbloodied beak ?
txt it looks a little paler ; ' tis a day such as the day is when the sun is
lucius , i ' ll fit thee ; and withal my boy shall carry from me to the empress '
soldier , you must come to the king .
well , more or less , or ne ' er a whit at all , here aaron is ; and
tut , there ' s life in ' t , man .
and fought the holy wars in palestine , by this brave duke came early to his grave ; and for
she is abused , stol ' n from me and corrupted by spells and medicines bought of mountebanks ; for
better jointure , i think , than you make a woman ; besides , he brings his destiny with him
of those that had encount ' red him .
it touches you , my lord , as much as me .
i charge thee in the prince ' s name obey .
my head and all this famous land .
i should show what party i do follow .
- go take it hence ; be gone , and say no more .
lovell .
by my lifepage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he is made to do , i know he ' ll quickly fly my friendship too .
to thee as thy father was .
if one should be a prey , how much the better to fall before the lion than the wolf !
be thou my witness that , against my will , as pompey was , am i compell ' d to
the children must be practis ' d well to this or they ' ll nev ' r do ' t
for i , that never feared any , am vanquished by famine , not by valour .
run to the capitol , and nothing else ?
banquo !
then was your sin of heavier kind than his .
i pray you , though you mock me , gentlemen , let her not hurt me .
go to ; via !
god in heaven bless her !
but let me hear the letter of your friend .
poor heart , adieu !
if we be conquered , let men conquer us , and not these bastard britaines , whom our fathers have
ay , what of that ?
there was more foolery yet , if could remember it .
nay , gentle madam , to him !
were , in a fruit dish , a dish of some three pence ; your honours have seen such dishes
i forgive him .
this subtile king !
the main consents are had ; and here we ' ll stay to see our widower ' s second marriage-day
but , for your private satisfaction , because i love you , i will let you know .
limb , and thou art far the lesser ; thy hand is but a finger to my fist , page
here ' s to thee , menas !
may she give that ?
farewell ; we are gone .
[to richmond] be cheerful , richmond ; for the wronged souls of butcher ' d princes fight in thy behalf
' s too slow , till newborn chins be rough and razorable ; she that from whom we all were
txt her ; or , in sooth , i would master fenton had her ; i will do what i
bliss and goodness on you !
enter suffolk first murderer .
of flesh .
with a shame as ample .
hearing you praised , i say ' tis so , ' tis true , and to the most of praise
lac ' d with silver , set with pearls down sleeves , side-sleeves , and skirts , round underborne with
i will none of your money .
of argument , look you , and friendly communication ; partly to satisfy my opinion , and partly for the
' d thee of !
i would i were senseless , sir , that i might not feel your blows .
all that served brutus , i will entertain them .
come , in what key shall a man take you to go in the song ?
falstaff pulls off his buck ' s head , and rises enter page , ford , mistress page , mistress
poor bankrout , break at once !
how far dost thou excel no thought can think nor tongue of mortal tell .
tell the world aloud what man thou art .
there is no remedy ; i must cony-catch ; i must shift .
bedford , if thou be slack i ' ll fight it out .
play my part in fortune ' s pageant .
the southern wind doth play the trumpet to his purposes and by his hollow whistling in the leaves foretells a
unhand me , gentlemen .
this hour is an honourable badge of the service ; and i do believe your majesty takes no scorn to
what if both lewis and warwick be appeas ' d by such invention as i can devise ?
flaminius , i have noted thee always wise .
let me see his eyes , that , when i note another man like him , i may avoid him
away , my friends !
i understand a fury in your words , but not the words .
here is the lady which for antenor we deliver you ; at the port , lord , i ' ll
even now , even here , not half an hour since .
you are both sure , and will assist me ?
fiend angelical !
and with what zeal !
taste of it first as thou art wont to do .
rouse the prince , and ring a hunter ' s peal , that all the court may echo with the
i ' ll send them all as willing as i live : lands , goods , horse , armour ,
shall our coffers , then , be emptied to redeem a traitor home ?
txt tawny-finn ' d fishes ; my bended hook shall pierce their slimy jaws ; and as i draw them
this ague fit of fear is over-blown ; an easy task it is to win our own .
ah , juliet , if the measure of thy joy be heap ' d like mine , and that thy
then thus : baptista is safe , talking with the deceiving father of a deceitful son .
marry , so i mean , sweet katherine , in thy bed .
if i had my mouth , i would bite ; if i had my liberty , i would do my
st of his profession , that his good receipt shall for my legacy be sanctified by th ' luckiest stars
[alarum afar off] if you be ta ' en , we then should see the bottom of all our fortunes
with being proud .
these swelling wrong-incensed peers .
heaven restore me !
i am , my lord , as well deriv ' d as he , as well possess ' d ;
what foul play had we that we came from thence ?
yet i love thee well ; and , by my troth , i think thou lov ' st me well
the gates of monarchs are arch ' d so high that giants may jet through and keep their impious turbans
my kinsmen and my son .
enter autolycus , singing lawn as white as driven snow ; cypress black as e ' er was crow ;
o vile !
her name , that was as fresh as dian ' s visage , is now begrimed and black as mine
i prithee , who ?
undone , and forfeited to cares for ever !
they can tell you how things go better than i can .
run after that same peevish messenger , the county ' s man .
truly to speak , and with no addition , we go to gain a little patch of ground that hath
' tis a notorious villain .
for these my friends in spite of thee shall wear .
take thou no scorn to wear the horn ; it was a crest ere thou wast born .
how came it that the absent duke had not either deliver ' d him to his liberty or executed him
for us , if you please to trust us in your business , we are ready to use our utmost
this fellow ' s of exceeding honesty , and knows all qualities , with a learned spirit , of human
being unprevented , to your timeless grave .
to nothing but despair .
i think , to steal cream indeed , for thy theft hath already made thee butter .
o slave !
thy marriage , sooner than thy wickedness .
but , since the affairs of men rest still incertain , let ' s reason with the worst that may
[aside] how pregnant sometimes his replies are !
as i told thee before , i am subject to a tyrant , sorcerer , that by his cunning hath
then brother john of lancaster , to you this honourable bounty shall belong .
art thou afeard to be the same in thine own act and valor as thou art in desire ?
[knocking within .
who hath it ?
and set on .
rough chastisement ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
sir , your honour cannot come to that yet .
troilus , thou coward troilus , show thy head .
some are born great , some achieve greatness , and some have greatness thrust upon ' em .
approach .
under mars , i .
come , sir , dispatch .
so shows a snowy dove trooping with crows as yonder lady o ' er her fellows shows .
being not mad , but sensible of grief , my reasonable part produces reason how i may be deliver '
so shall you quietly enjoy your hope and marry sweet bianca with consent .
txt dear gentlewoman , how fares our gracious lady ?
to prison with her !
before , and greet his grace .
here comes kent .
a street enter salerio and solanio salerio .
i wish your ladyship all heart ' s content .
pitchers have ears .
what is ' t thou say ' st , her voice was ever soft , gentle , and low- an
when duncan is asleep- whereto the rather shall his day ' s hard journey soundly invite him- his two chamberlains
and who is england ' s king but great york ' s heir ?
so frown ' d he once when , in an angry parle , he smote the sledded polacks on the
[throwing the money back] lucullus .
bid him recount the fore-recited practices , whereof we cannot feel too little , hear too much .
as fat as butter .
brave soldier , pardon me that any accent breaking from thy tongue should scape the true acquaintance of mine ear
my lord , because we have business of more moment , we will be short with you .
, as a good subject should , on some known ground of treachery in him ?
pluck me out all the linen .
towards him i made ; but he was ware of me and stole into the covert of the wood .
o wherefore , nature , didst thou lions frame ?
too high to be enthrall ' d to low .
enter third drawer third drawer .
perchance light in the light .
frenchmen , i ' ll be a salisbury to you .
upon thy life i charge thee , whate ' er thou hearest or seest , stand all aloof and do
my leave .
hear the devil as a drum ; such as fear the report of a caliver worse than a struck fowl
i mean , my head upon your lap ?
yet seemed it winter still , and you away , as with your shadow i with these did play .
not since widow dido ' s time .
if there be any good thing to be done , that may to thee do ease , and , race
doctor ' s marrying my daughter ; but ' tis no matter ; better a little chiding than a great
their helpful swords .
i ' ll make her render up her page to me .
must lie and fester .
, with ugly rack on his celestial face , and from the forlorn world his visage hide stealing unseen to
' then in the midst a tearing groan did break the name of antony ; it was divided between her
, and durst not once peep out .
last breathing in this mortal world !
how oft to-night have my old feet stumbled at graves !
for thou shalt hear that i , knowing by paulina that the oracle gave hope thou wast in being ,
you that have turn ' d off a first so noble wife page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter hector , armed ; aeneas , troilus , paris , helenus , and other trojans , with attendants agamemnon
what ' s the boy malcolm ?
our holy lives must win a new world ' s crown , which our profane hours here have thrown down
we were descried ; they ' ll mock us now downright .
as gifts to desdemona ; it must not be .
shall i , sweet lord , be bound to you so much , after we part from agamemnon ' s
none but friends : say boldly .
o love , that thou couldst see my wars to-day , and knew ' st the royal occupation !
[reads] ' when as a lion ' s whelp shall , to himself unknown , without seeking find , and
do you love my son ?
; thou mixture rank , of midnight weeds collected , with hecate ' s ban thrice blasted , thrice infected
she waded through the dirt to pluck him off me , how he swore , how she pray ' d
my good friends , hark !
this morning page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
do as i bid you do .
the violet smells to him as it doth to me ; the element shows to him as it doth to
they are ; and bolingbroke hath seiz ' d the wasteful king .
what was that henton ?
a french crown more .
the wind sits fair for news to go to ireland .
i loved you page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
if you find him sad , say i am dancing ; if in mirth , report that i am sudden
where the feast is held .
come , cords ; come , nurse .
but if my frosty signs and chaps of age , grave witnesses of true experience , cannot induce you to
attend my words , [to lucius] speak , rome ' s dear friend , as erst our ancestor , when
and , as a branch and member of this royalty , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in florence , of a most chaste renown ; and this night he
tends that thou wouldst speak to the duke of hereford ?
burn !
i never yet saw man , how wise , how noble , young , how rarely featur ' d ,
give her to thy hand , and by the way possess thee what she is .
nor i neither .
dromio , play the porter well .
i warrant , an i should live a thousand yeas , i never should forget it .
has page any brains ?
' d for life , and was by strength subdu ' d .
my super-dainty kate , for dainties are all kates , and therefore , kate , take this of me ,
for mine own part , i could be well content to entertain the lag-end of my life page _num_ complete
very easily .
to a greater falseness ; which should not find a ground to root upon unless on you .
hearts , tongues , figures , scribes , bards , poets , cannot think , speak , cast , write
all ' s done , all ' s won .
the naked truth of it is : i have no shirt ; i go woolward for penance .
sometimes from her eyes i did receive fair speechless messages .
his fingers ' end , i knew there was but one way ; for his nose was as sharp as
what seest thou in me , york ?
i ' ll to the throng .
for ' tis most easy the inclining desdemona to subdue in any honest suit .
low march within .
' romeo is banished ' - there is no end , no limit , measure , bound , in that
i say , by sorcery he got this isle ; from me he got it .
so dying love lives still .
good master fang , hold him sure .
d , with plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads , we make thee lady .
a mighty man of pisa .
when , harry , when ?
but was not this nigh shore ?
here come two of sir john falstaffs men , as i think .
apollo , pallas , jove , or mercury , inspire me , that i may this treason find !
' will you come home ?
what are you ?
for obtaining of suits ?
pray you let ' s hit together .
what a full fortune does the thick-lips owe , if he can carry ' t thus !
my lord , i have .
be you his eunuch and your mute i ' ll be ; when my tongue blabs , then let mine
; come , lame me with reasons .
no sun shall ever usher forth mine honours , or gild again the noble troops that waited upon my smiles
you had not sometime in your life err ' d in this point which now you censure him , and
when that this body did contain a spirit , a kingdom for it was too small a bound ; but
thou knowest my daughter ' s of a pretty age .
[caliban , stephano , and trinculo are driven out] go charge my goblins that they grind their joints with dry
now he importunes him to tell it o ' er .
if thou spy ' st any , run and bring me word ; and thou shalt find me at the
ay , now my sovereign speaketh like himself ; and now will i be edward ' s champion .
i think you know my fortunes do all lie there .
enter players now , fellows , you are welcome .
enter emilia .
the prince will doom thee death if thou art taken .
' sblood , you starveling , you elf-skin , you dried neat ' s-tongue , you bull ' s sizzle
but , too unruly deer , he breaks the pale , and feeds from home ; poor i am but
the truth being known , we ' ll all present ourselves ; dis-horn the spirit , and mock him home
my tongue and soul in this be hypocrites- how in my words somever she be shent , to give them
is she a capulet ?
he deserves .
see thou render this into my cousin ' s hands , doctor bellario ; and look what notes and garments
he was convey ' d by richard duke of gloucester and the lord hastings , who attended him in secret
no so , my lord ; a twelvemonth and a day i ' ll mark no words that smooth-fac '
you are a very simplicity oman ; i pray you , peace .
you whoreson cur !
seven , by these hilts , or i am a villain else .
my every action to be guided by others ' experiences ; but upon my mended judgment- if i offend not
if i do it , let the audience look to their eyes ; i will move storms ; i will
the prince is here at hand .
i have ta ' en a due and wary note upon ' t ; with whispering and most guilty diligence
' so , rushing in the bowels of the french , he left me proudly , as unworthy fight .
thanks , sweet lavinia .
enter constance look who comes here !
solicit henry with her wondrous praise .
my crown , mine own ambition , and my queen .
o , on my soul , my cousin is belied !
villains , that dare as well answer a man indeed as i dare take a serpent by the tongue .
alas , i am the mother of these griefs !
i wonder how our princely father scap ' d , or whether he be scap ' d away or no
i must obey .
' swounds , i should take it !
where have you been gadding ?
stand not amaz ' d ; here is no remedy .
[coriolanus draws his sword] coriolanus .
dost thou know the difference , my boy , between a bitter fool and a sweet fool ?
i have forgot the map .
txt and seize himself- i say not ' slaughter him , ' for i intend but only to surprise him
yet have i fierce affections , and think what venus did with mars .
if i quench thee , thou flaming minister , i can again thy former light restore , should i repent
dear self ' s better part .
is it a beggarman ?
lo , where it comes again !
well , well , come on ; who else ?
king henry the fifth , too famous to live long !
so profane ; but being awak ' d , i do despise my dream .
i- measuring his affections by my own , which then most sought where most might not be found , being
and others king richard .
when did she send thee ?
he eyes us not ; forbear .
our discontented counties do revolt ; our people quarrel with obedience , swearing allegiance and the love of soul to
let her have your voices .
alack , let it blood .
with strokes , and here defying those whose great power must try him- even this , so criminal and in
blessed live you long , a lady to the worthiest sir that ever country call ' d his !
more , more , a page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
coming page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
well , we were born to die .
as by reflection , i your glass will modestly discover to yourself that of yourself which you yet know not
if thou please to take me to thee , as i was to him i ' ll be to caesar
txt first , to be hanged , and then to confess .
' tis yet to know- which , when i know that boasting is an honor , i shall promulgate- i
o , that record is lively in my soul !
me as well i tender you and all of yours !
cerberus is at proserpina ' s beauty-ay , that thou bark ' st at him .
, and they are going to meet him .
stop in your wind , sir ; tell me this , i pray : where have you left the money
by toil , the other to complain how far i toil , still farther off from thee .
' burning kisses .
your fears are worse .
is he at master ford ' s already , think ' st thou ?
fierce extremes in their continuance will not feel themselves .
am in estimation ; you shall perceive that a jack guardant cannot office me from my son coriolanus .
alack , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
master , there is three carters , three shepherds , three neat-herds , three swineherds , that have made themselves
but tell not me ; i know antonio is sad to think upon his merchandise .
out on thee , rude man !
this learned constable is too cunning to be understood .
that ?
elbow is your name ?
god will revenge it ; whom i will importune with earnest prayers all to that effect .
meantime , sweet sister , we will not part from hence .
give him this letter ; do it secretly .
enter the ghost of henry the sixth ghost .
o ' er myself , prevented from a damned enterprise .
shall braying trumpets and loud churlish drums , clamours of hell , be measures to our pomp ?
alas , poor fool , why do i pity him that with his very heart despiseth me ?
before repast , it shall please you to gratify the table with a grace , i will , on my
should have heard the news ; or had he scap ' d , methinks we should have heard the happy
go with me to bless this twain , that they may prosperous be , and honour ' d in their
call her forth to me .
o , say thou for her , who hath done this deed ?
; for they have entertained cause enough to draw their swords .
how , bribe me ?
look how we can , or sad or merrily , interpretation will misquote our looks , and we shall feed
' and cried ' a crown , or else a glorious tomb !
see when and where she died .
this even ; and there she was not .
sirrah , your lord and master ' s married ; there ' s news for you ; you have a
come back again assured , of thy fair health , recounting it to me .
there ' s a franklin in the wild of kent hath brought three hundred marks with him in gold .
fear and love holds quantity , in neither aught , or in extremity .
behind shallow .
you broke my head for nothing ; and that that did , i was set on to do ' t
' falstaff .
o sir , the loathsomeness of them offend me more than the stripes i have received , which are mighty
i am joyful of your sights .
for this gentleman , and i , to blame , have held him here too long .
the lord protect him from that kingly title !
so smile the heavens upon this holy act that after-hours with sorrow chide us not !
but was a race of heaven .
here in my scabbard , meditating that shall dye your white rose in a bloody red .
i melancholy !
that ' s most certain .
speak , man ; thy tongue may take off some extremity , which to read would be even mortal to
is the duke of exeter safe ?
, gasping for life under great bolingbroke ; and more and less do flock to follow him .
alas , how love can trifle with itself !
, to be a comrade with the wolf and owl- necessity ' s sharp pinch !
exeunt the soldiers of saturninus rome , be as just and gracious unto me as i am confident and kind
faith , here ' s an equivocator that could swear in both the scales against either scale , who committed
fie , fie , gratiano , where are all the rest ?
heavy matters , heavy matters !
call for enobarbus , he shall not hear thee ; or from caesar ' s camp say ' i am
thy royal party granted once , his glittering arms he will commend to rust , his barbed steeds to stables
i account of her beauty .
o fair katherine , if you will love me soundly with your french heart , i will be glad to
the reverend abbot , with all his covent , honourably receiv ' d him ; to whom he gave these
the rest ; and if you break the ice , and do this feat , achieve the elder , set
gladly quak ' d , hear more ; where the dull tribunes , that with the fusty plebeians hate thine
if it live in your memory , begin at this line- let me see , let me see : '
cheerly , good adam !
holy joan was his defensive guard .
i have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins that almost freezes up the heat of life .
no dance !
their project .
reason to my love is liable .
second varro ' s servant .
sententious of it , of you and rosemary , that it would do you good to hear it .
he lays him down upon a bank of flowers .
they shall find awak ' d in such a kind both strength of limb and policy of mind , ability
stamp of merit ?
this thought is as a death which cannot choose but weep to have , that which it fears to lose
fuel , making a famine where abundance lies , thy self thy foe , to thy sweet self too cruel
[to richard] when i was mortal , my anointed body by thee was punched full of deadly holes .
here ' a comes , methinks , and the queen with him .
farewell , proud rome ; till lucius come again , he leaves his pledges dearer than his life .
come , thou new ruin of old clifford ' s house ; as did aeneas old anchises bear , so
the one the other poisoned for my sake , and after slew herself .
soul , that you vouchsafe in your rich wisdom to excuse or hide the liberal opposition of our spirits ,
enter queen margaret , prince edward , somerset , oxford , and soldiers queen margaret .
[draws] enter olivia olivia .
the sun no sooner shall the mountains touch but we will ship him hence ; and this vile deed we
exit , parolles guarded .
the louse of a lazar , so i were not menelaus .
thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit ; wilt thou not , jule ?
enter maria aguecheek .
all hurt behind !
indeed , i am no mourner for that news , because they have been still my adversaries ; but that
dread sovereign , how much are we bound to heaven in daily thanks , that gave us such a prince
what , lucius , ho !
thy promises are like adonis ' gardens , that one day bloom ' d and fruitful were the next .
how shall i be reveng ' d on him ?
laertes , you shall hear them .
fie , beat it hence .
leave nothing out for length , and make us think page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
three months this youth hath tended upon me- but more of that anon .
arm ' d , as black defiance as heart can think or courage execute .
all is confounded , all !
who did guide- i mean , who set the body and the limbs of this great sport together , as
a forest near rome enter titus andronicus , and his three sons , lucius , quintus , martius , making
stay , go , do what you will , the like do i ; for live i will not if
txt to pardon him that hath from nature stol ' n a man already made , as to remit their
you shall not choose but drink before you go ; i think i shall command your welcome here , and
why hast thou abus ' d so many miles with a pretence ?
' tis not so , i hope .
will take her in .
than thought .
thy honour , state , and seat , is due to me .
not a resemblance , but a certainty .
and let it keep one shape till custom make it their perch , and not their terror .
how say ' st thou , that macduff denies his person at our great bidding ?
plants , and almost should ' red in the swallowing gulf of dark forgetfulness and deep oblivion .
what impediment there is why that the naked , poor , and mangled peace , dear nurse of arts ,
thou dost belie her , and thou art a devil .
re-enter the bishop of ely bishop of ely .
they say he wears a key in his ear , and a lock hanging by it , and borrows money
northumberland , say thus the king returns : his noble cousin is right welcome hither ; and all the number
my cousin romeo !
i shall win at the odds .
and we fairies , that do run by the triple hecate ' s team from the presence of the sun
command to the lord mayor straight to stop the rumour and allay those tongues that durst disperse it .
let him not ask our pardon ; the nature of his great offence is dead , and deeper than oblivion
will bring us .
yet let us all together to our troops , and give them leave to fly that will not stay ,
[reads] ' jockey of norfolk , be not so bold , for dickon thy master is bought and sold .
maxim out of love i teach : achievement is command ; ungain ' d , beseech .
hail , king , for so thou art .
some heavy business hath my lord in hand , and i must know it , else he loves me not
there is more owing her than is paid ; and more shall be paid her than she ' ll demand
sir , let me be so bold as ask you , did you yet ever see baptista ' s daughter
he was a king bless ' d of the king of kings ; unto the french the dreadful judgment-day so
the one affrights you , the other makes you proud .
helen is defended ; nor none so noble whose life were ill bestow ' d or death unfam ' d
the star moves not but in his sphere , i could not but by her .
if i like thee no worse after dinner , i will not part from thee yet .
preferring you before her father , so much i challenge that i may profess due to the moor , my
agamemnon and the rest of the greeks come forward ajax .
do ?
these hands are free from guiltless bloodshedding , this breast from harbouring foul deceitful thoughts .
then garter , in his coat of arms , and on his head he wore a gilt copper crown .
none , my lord .
spark of fire to answer for his love , tell him from me i ' ll hide my silver beard
o , stay and hear ; your true love ' s coming , that can sing both high and low
if , on the tenth day following , thy banish ' d trunk be found in our dominions , the
that a man may owe , matchless navarre ; the plea of no less weight than aquitaine , a dowry
to wive , with hey , ho , the wind and the rain , by swaggering could i never thrive
no , ye fat chuffs ; i would your store were here !
all shall yet go well .
here in this island we arriv ' d ; and here have i , thy schoolmaster , made thee more
this is a strange repose , to be asleep with eyes wide open ; standing , speaking , moving ,
do not you think the duke was here , and bid us follow him ?
in you it best lies ; otherwise a seducer flourishes , and a poor maid is undone .
where ' s bohemia ?
before timon ' s cave enter poet and painter painter .
the gods grant-o my lord !
thou art not holy to belie me so .
what make you here ?
commend me to them , and tell them that , to ease them of their griefs , their fears of
enter hamlet .
dream .
a prison enter posthumus and two gaolers first gaoler .
alack , there lies more peril in thine eye than twenty of their swords !
and did not i in rage depart from thence ?
enter travers northumberland .
as if i lov ' d my little should be dieted in praises sauc ' d with lies .
set your countenance , sir .
a fiery mind , a savageness in unreclaimed blood , of general assault .
said .
hector of greece , my boy !
o , here ' s a wit of cheveril , that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad
and so have i , boy .
no , no , no , no !
ay me , it is my husband !
good night , good night .
exeunt gentlemen autolycus .
see , it stalks away !
in my disposition ?
draw , men , for all this privileged place blue-coats to tawny-coats .
' it is written they appear to men like angels of light ; light is an effect of fire ,
receive ' says he ' no swaggering companions .
can i bear that with patience and not my husband ' s secrets ?
how much she loves me- o , the kindest kate !
thine , as he vow ' d to thee in thine ear , parolles .
he perforce must do thee right , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hear you , sir !
' or shall i bend low and , in a bondman ' s key , with bated breath and whisp
if thou delight to view thy heinous deeds , behold this pattern of thy butcheries .
are you a man ?
madam , here is a letter from my lord .
courage !
to forget their faults , i drink to you .
both citizens .
i ' ll take the gold thou givest me , not all thy counsel .
arthur of britaine , yield thee to my hand , and out of my dear love i ' ll give
then , pray you , tell me : if i should swear by jove ' s great attributes i lov
come hither , fellow .
the ides of march are come .
, and serves in offices that profit us .
king richard by the apostle paul , shadows to-night have stuck more terror to the soul of richard than can
i ' ll pay thy pleasure , then .
' that is the word .
they seek revenge , and therefore will not yield .
know him i shall , i am well sure of it .
come , come , you are a fool , and turn ' d into the extremity of love .
he was a bachelor then .
well , whiles i am a beggar , i will rail and say there is no sin but to be
kind gods , forgive me that , and prosper him !
a wither ' d hermit , five-score winters worn , might shake off fifty , looking in her eye .
scarce ever look ' d on blood but that of coward hares , hot goats , and venison !
every realm , that did debate this business , who deem ' d our marriage lawful .
murder her brothers , and then marry her !
[within] anon , anon , sir .
i will not long be troubled with you ; you shall have some part of your will .
yea , the elect o ' th ' land , who are assembled to plead your cause .
only i yield to die .
it alone concerns your ear .
you mean , to bear me , not to bear with me .
of faults concealed , wherein i am attainted : that thou in losing me , shalt win much glory :
enter timon , addressing himself courteously to every suitor , a messenger from ventidius talking with him ; lucilius and
txt the title is affeer ' d .
good faith , how foolish are our minds !
thy face strange motions have appear ' d , such as we see when men restrain their breath on some
adieu , poor soul , that tak ' st thy leave of it !
is my lord angry ?
that thou shalt know , troyan , he is awake , he tells thee so himself .
swell ' d boast of him that best could speak ; for feature , laming the shrine of venus or
grumio .
dick .
[seats herself on the ground] here i and sorrows sit ; here is my throne , bid kings come bow
he ' s a rank weed , sir thomas , and we must root him out .
at blows , your mother came to sicily and did find her welcome friendly .
you urg ' d me as a judge ; but i had rather you would have bid me argue like
alas , good master , my wife desir ' d some damsons and made me climb , with danger of
the cardinal ' s letters to the pope miscarried , and came to th ' eye o ' th '
not , my senses , better pleas ' d with madness , do bid it welcome .
teach me , dear creature , how to think and speak ; lay open to my earthy-gross conceit , smoth
the prisoners which he in this adventure hath surpris ' d to his own use he keeps , and sends
we all expect a gentle answer , jew .
i thank thee , master .
txt must all determine here ?
delay not , caesar ; read it instantly .
love lacked a dwelling and made him her place ; and when in his fair parts she did abide ,
our tongue is rough , coz , and my condition is not smooth ; so that , having neither the
nose neither .
manent musicians [and nurse] .
favours , by jove that thunders !
i did send to you for gold to pay my legions , which you denied me .
the boy was the very staff of my age , my very prop .
and for a hand and a foot , and a body , though they be not to be talk '
were they his men ?
well said , lord sandys ; your colt ' s tooth is not cast yet .
why , then , it seems some certain snatch or so would serve your turns .
i ' ll devil-porter it no further .
like twenty torches join ' d , and yet his hand not sensible of fire remain ' d unscorch '
and that distill ' d by magic sleights shall raise such artificial sprites as by the strength of their illusion
foul shame upon you !
the next is that sir thomas more is chosen lord chancellor in your place .
re-enter thurio thurio .
what says your highness to my just request ?
whip him , fellows , till like a boy you see him cringe his face , and whine aloud for
he is not here , so please your lordship , that should sing it .
earth , that i must call ' t in question .
her name is margery , indeed .
or that persuasion could but thus convince me that my integrity and truth to you might be affronted with the
empirics ; or to dissever so our great self and our credit to esteem a senseless help , when help
as if i knew not his name !
tears ; i have not been desirous of their wealth , nor much oppress ' d them with great subsidies
there ' s no more to be said , but he is banish ' d , as enemy to the
faith , and so we should ; where now remains a sweet reversion .
slander , unmitigated rancour--o god , that i were a man !
tyrant , show thy face !
you are my mother , madam ; would you were- so that my lord your son were not my brother-
if she should sing by day , when every goose is cackling , would be thought no better a musician
did you assay him to any pastime ?
txt friar .
they that , when richard liv ' d , would have him die are now become enamour ' d on
not , for i know you lack not folly to commit them and have ability enough to make such knaveries
yet honest too .
tut , she ' s a lamb , a dove , a fool , to him !
these tedious old fools !
therefore , good cousin , let not harry know , in any case , the offer of the king .
what moves ajax thus to bay at him ?
look , here comes a pilgrim .
o , cursed be the hand that made these holes !
way to heaven , whiles , like a puff ' d and reckless libertine , himself the primrose path of
well , i will forget the condition of my estate , to rejoice in yours .
exeunt caesar and all his train but casca .
hark , perdita .
blow each dust , each straw , each little rub , out of the path which shall directly lead thy
is there any man has rebus ' d your worship ?
a maid , they say .
the dogs did yell ; put el to sore , then sorel jumps from thicket- or pricket sore , or
so tedious is this day as is the night before some festival to an impatient child that hath new robes
exeunt some with king henry and , lords , towards coventry bend we our course , where peremptory warwick now
macbeth .
diseases desperate grown by desperate appliance are reliev ' d , or not at all .
is not the truth the truth ?
yoke and sufferance show us womanish .
o , good sir , i do !
then call our captains and our colours forth !
txt out of myself , press me to death with wit !
faint-hearted woodville , prizest him fore me ?
your wisdoms best shall see advantageable for our dignity , any thing in or out of our demands ; and
stay yet .
[beats down their swords .
so farewell to you both .
enter nerissa dressed like a lawyer ' s clerk duke of venice .
treason ' gainst the kingly state of youth .
delay this marriage for a month , a week ; or if you do not , make the bridal bed
come , enter with us .
i shall attend your leisure ; but make haste ; the vaporous night approaches .
let us that have our tongues plot some device of further misery to make us wonder ' d at in
txt leontes .
txt did whisper often very secretly .
draw that thy honest sword , which thou hast worn most useful for thy country .
' tis not enough to help the feeble up , but to support him after .
some holy angel fly to the court of england and unfold his message ere he come , that a swift
hath the fellow any wit that told you this ?
' tis not ten years gone since richard and northumberland , great friends , did feast together , and in
is my lord well that he doth speak so wide ?
he is my dear friend , an please you .
cold looks , and meeting here the other messenger , whose welcome i perceiv ' d had poison ' d
resty sloth finds the down pillow hard .
out , you mad-headed ape !
sit , cousin percy ; sit , good cousin hotspur , for by that name as oft as lancaster doth
o , sir- pandarus .
, do challenge thee to trial of a man .
come from his mouth , ours from our breast .
so indeed he did .
that must we also .
look you lay home to him .
what he hath utter ' d i have writ my sister .
his own fall ; for men , like butterflies , show not their mealy wings but to the summer ;
come and get thee a sword , though made of a lath ; they have been up these two days
be where you list , your charter is so strong , that you your self may privilage your time to
them in present action .
he never did harm that i heard of .
not , be you content to lend your patience to us , and we shall jointly labour with your soul
with desire to get a grave , as witting i no other comfort have .
and not alone in habit and device , exterior form , outward accoutrement , but from the inward motion to
why , what a rascal art thou then , to praise him so for running !
the mad blood stirring .
complain ; which , by mine honour , i will perform with a most christian care .
and he , and more than he , and men- the earth , the heavens , and all : that
hold , take thou that , and that .
oh , oh , oh !
nay , i must hold you .
these are complements , these are humours ; these betray nice wenches , that would be betrayed without these ;
what , are ancient pistol and you friends yet ?
burden laid upon us all .
methinks , thy favour ' s good enough .
wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly rascally sheep-biter come by some notable shame ?
were not that a botchy core ?
die ?
you lie , in faith , for you are call ' d plain kate , and bonny kate , and
take pains ; be perfect ; adieu .
oft have i seen a hot o ' er weening cur run back and bite , because he was withheld
' " when thou impressest , what are precepts worth of stale example ?
for an idle plume which the air beats for vain .
they did entreat me to acquaint her of it ; but i persuaded them , if they lov ' d
yes , forsooth .
pandulph .
i will forget that julia is alive , rememb ' ring that my love to her is dead ; and
mistress bianca , bless you with such grace as ' longeth to a lover ' s blessed case !
or he should not ; for he made me mad to see him shine so brisk , and smell so
- gracious , so please you , we will bestow ourselves .
at thy good heart ' s oppression .
three talents on the present ; in future , all .
i whom fortune of such triumph bars unlooked for joy in that i honour most ; great princes ' favourites
of chivalry ?
study me how to please the eye indeed , by fixing it upon a fairer eye ; who dazzling so
i know him well ; you are welcome for his sake .
it is a poison temper ' d by himself .
i warrant , one that knows him not .
thou crusty batch of nature , what ' s the news ?
now , signior petruchio , how speed you with my daughter ?
carry master silence to bed .
heigh , heigh , the devil rides upon a fiddlestick !
thou hast most traitorously corrupted the youth of the realm in erecting a grammar school ; and whereas , before
, shall our abode make with you by due turns .
for i am sure you can wish none from me ; and , when your honours mean to solemnize the
speak on .
draw me a clothier ' s yard .
mistress quickly , hostess of the boar ' s head in eastcheap .
where is he ?
these words are not mine .
loss of virginity is rational increase ; and there was never virgin got till virginity was first lost .
she took to quench it she would to each one sip .
when good manners shall lie all in one or two men ' s hands , and they unwash ' d
with directions to repair to ravenspurgh .
exeunt bardolph and page this doll tearsheet should be some road .
if i depart from thee i cannot live ; and in thy sight to die , what were it else
and so i leave you both- [aside] like bloody villains .
therefore we ' ll knock .
] go you , call hither my fool .
should not visit you .
did michael cassio , when you woo ' d my lady , know of your love ?
foe , say but the word , and i will be his priest .
what men of name resort to him ?
enter the french power and the english lords burgundy .
it is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue ; but it is no more unhandsome than to
here standeth thomas mowbray , duke of norfolk , on pain to be found false and recreant , both to
five men to twenty !
dost thou hear ?
or i , whate ' er it be , what pain it cost , what danger !
enter antony , again in a march ; scarus with others antony .
i pray you mar no more of my verses with reading them ill-favouredly .
full upon them .
the earl of hereford was reputed then in england the most valiant gentleman .
my noble mistress , here is a box ; i had it from the queen .
exit oberon .
how now , masters !
and in that very line , harry , standest thou ; for thou hast lost thy princely privilege with vile
a council chamber .
i have a letter from monsieur berowne to one lady rosaline .
enter the ghost of clarence ghost .
truth loves open dealing .
walks are wide and spacious , and many unfrequented plots there are fitted by kind for rape and villainy .
thou art like one of these fellows that , when he enters the confines of a tavern , claps me
love loving not itself , none other can .
fool ' s play , by heaven , hector .
now my foes tell me plainly i am an ass ; so that by my foes , sir , i
my lord , for your many courtesies i thank you .
o , for a stone-bow to hit him in the eye !
thing you teach , but prove a chief offender in the same ?
an i were not a very coward i ' d compel it of you ; but fare you well .
where is thy faith ?
txt thy purse .
and i to ford shall eke unfold how falstaff , varlet vile , his dove will prove , his gold
a time do i now fortify against confounding age ' s cruel knife , that he shall never cut from
, shall , o dear father , pay thee plenteously .
[they wrestle] rosalind .
why dost thou so oppress me with thine eye ?
but , in the verity of extolment , i take him to be a soul of great article , and
ay , my lord , and of calveskins too .
lack mercy !
you may : warwick may lose that now hath won the day .
to boot .
come , you shall have trent turn ' d .
est-il impossible d ' echapper la force de ton bras ?
calling death ' banishment , ' thou cut ' st my head off with a golden axe and smilest upon
where is the post that came from montague ?
fall ' n out with her husband .
o , you must wear your rue with a difference !
what ' s to do ?
txt parolles .
you are not ignorant of what excellence laertes is- ham .
and by this hand i swear , that sways the earth this climate overlooks , before we will lay down
he knows thy thought : hear his speech , but say thou nought .
i an itching palm ?
these were his very words .
what are they that fly there ?
[they draw] enter adriana , luciana , the courtezan , and others adriana .
and yet dear too , because i bought mine own .
andronicus , would thou were shipp ' d to hell page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
haply you shall not see me more ; or if , a mangled shadow .
what if a man bring him a hundred pound or two to make merry withal ?
here gloucester ' s men beat out the cardinal ' s men ; and enter in the hurly burly the
you have mistook , my lady , polixenes for leontes .
' twill not he seen in him there .
has broke my head across , and has given sir toby a bloody coxcomb too .
can you smell him out by that ?
txt and never live but true unto his liege !
the park enter holofernes , sir nathaniel , and dull holofernes .
your hostages i have , so have you mine ; and we shall talk before we fight .
[trumpets , hautboys , drums beat , all together] the trumpets , sackbuts , psalteries , and fifes , tabors
he is cupid ' s grandfather , and learns news of him .
they say too that she will rather die than give any sign of affection .
should not so dull a kingdom , though war nor no known quarrel were in question , but that defences
[rosalind swoons] celia .
enter isabella isabella .
one mess is like to be your cheer ; come , sir ; we will better it in pisa .
a dear happiness to women !
dare you presume to harbour wanton lines ?
my herald thoughts in thy pure bosom rest them , while i , their king , that thither them importune
mend your speech a little , lest it may mar your fortunes .
cannot be with you , signior baptista , of whom i hear so well .
such as i am , i come from antony .
have lack ' d footing .
here , so please you .
' so on the tip of his subduing tongue all kind of arguments and question deep , all replication prompt
txt more valour in me than my habits show .
and yet i would not be thee , nuncle .
txt of common ounces ?
what , shall i find you here ?
trouble us not .
chide me for it .
what i have lost to-day at bowls i ' ll win to-night of him .
something from cyprus , as i may divine ; it is a business of some heat .
o ' good cheer , for truly i think you are damn ' d .
you must not now deny it is your hand ; write from it if you can , in hand or
i do begin to perceive that i am made an ass .
heaven me such uses send , not to pick bad from bad , but by bad mend !
i ' ll read the writing .
txt freeze , freeze , thou bitter sky , that dost not bite so nigh as benefits forgot ; though
for thou art a way , i think , to liberty .
[sleeps] puck .
call it accident .
i ' ll to england .
on thy love , i charge thee .
town of ciceter in gloucestershire ; but whether they be ta ' en or slain we hear not .
young men will do ' t if they come to ' t by cock , they are to blame .
my father , and both against the peace of heaven and him have here up-swarm ' d them .
enter scarus scarus .
that this is true , father , behold his blood .
txt but do not dull thy palm with entertainment of each new-hatch ' d , unfledg ' d comrade .
i hear their drums .
loves i may not drop , but wail his fall who i myself struck down .
he hath a stern look but a gentle heart .
abhorson .
i come to observe ; i give thee warning on ' t .
i ' ll after them .
didst perceive it ?
, i would not shun their fury .
at first i did adore a twinkling star , but now i worship a celestial sun .
yet , if thou swear ' st , thou mayst prove false .
yet who ' s so bold but says he sees it not ?
must case me in leather .
it is no time to discourse , so chrish save me .
diadem upon his head , whose church-like humours fits not for a crown .
she hath directed how i shall take her from her father ' s house ; what gold and jewels she
sweet , above thought i love thee .
help to dress me , good coz , good meg , good ursula .
no , believe me , ' tis very cold ; the wind is northerly .
this apparel .
but were we burd ' ned with like weight of pain , as much , or more , we should
a civil war set ' st oath to oath .
but in what habit will you go along ?
, which he to seek of me again , perforce , behoves me keep at utterance .
sweet , and yet more dangerous , than baits to fish or honey-stalks to sheep , when as the one
horatio , friend to hamlet .
did strive to prove the constancy and virtue of your love .
let me stop this way first .
d for the journey dull and heavy .
madam , i was thinking with what manners i might safely be admitted .
i ' ll be the first , sure .
adieu .
search his pockets .
what shall i call thee when thou art a man ?
come , come , peace .
give ' s your hand .
come on , trinculo , let us sing .
the duke ' s palace enter duke , viola , curio , and others duke .
trinculo .
as plays the sun upon the glassy streams , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, when he might spurn him with his foot away ?
empery o ' er france and all her almost kingly dukedoms , or lay these bones in an unworthy urn
_num_ when in the chronicle of wasted time , i see descriptions of the fairest wights , and beauty making
gaunt .
they ' re welcome all ; let ' em have kind admittance .
i have two boys seek percy and thyself about the field ; but , seeing thou fall ' st on
a privilege never to see me more .
bring it to that , the gold i give thee will i melt and pour down thy ill-uttering throat .
eyes , do you see ?
mend the lottery well : a man may draw his heart out ere ' a pluck one .
to let a fellow that will take rewards , and say ' god quit you !
with too much blood and too little brain these two may run mad ; but , if with too much
what says my bully rook ?
i wonder at it .
now do you know the reason of this haste .
txt his flight was madness .
and therefore yet relent , and save my life .
you shall have forty , sir .
' twas a commodity lay fretting by you ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
that ' s a fault .
o my soul ' s joy !
your strong possession much more than your right , or else it must go wrong with you and me ;
and this is edward ' s wife , that monstrous witch , consorted with that harlot strumpet shore , that
then follows that i weigh ' d the danger which my realms stood in by this my issue ' s
other servants following timon .
' s servitors repose in fame ; none basely slain in brawls .
an thy mind stand to ' t , boy , steal away bravely .
thou shalt find that i ' ll resume the shape which thou dost think i have cast off for ever
he wears his honour in a box unseen that hugs his kicky-wicky here at home , spending his manly marrow
mocks , pity me not ; as till that time i shall not pity thee .
prohibited commercial distribution includes by any service that charges for download time or for membership .
i arrest thee of high treason , by the name of henry lord scroop of masham .
live , and hereafter say a madman ' s mercy bid thee run away .
let me but bind it hard , within this hour it will be well .
; i and ten thousand in this luckless realm had left no mourning widows for our death ; and thou
what would they , say they ?
accommodated : that is , when a man is , as they say , accommodated ; or , when a
, and shortly murdered .
which by their graces i will keep .
goneril , our eldest-born , speak first .
is it not monstrous that this player here , but in a fiction , in a dream of passion ,
good fortune , worthy soldier , and farewell .
no , cloven .
i am sorry for your displeasure , but all will sure be well .
a hall in blackfriars trumpets , sennet , and cornets .
send danger from the east unto the west , so honour cross it from the north to south , and
wrath .
of my spirits ; sit down and rest .
she works by charms , by spells , by th ' figure , and such daub ' ry as this
the palace enter the king , gloucester , winchester , york , suffolk , somerset , warwick , talbot ,
thanks , rosencrantz and gentle guildenstern .
brutus may but find it ; and throw this in at his window ; set this up with wax upon
stoop , boys ; this gate instructs you how t ' adore the heavens , and bows you to a
that head of thine doth not become a crown ; thy hand is made to grasp a palmer ' s
save you , friend cassio !
first my wedded mistress saw bestride my threshold .
temperance was a delicate wench .
o god , counterfeit ?
art thou there ?
but truly , these same whoreson devils do the gods great harm in their women , for in every ten
he ' ll never know himself else .
o , when she is angry , she is keen and shrewd ; she was a vixen when she went
a plague of all cowards i say still !
here , at your lordship ' s service .
[beats him away] enter aufidius with the second servingman aufidius .
alas , our frailty is the cause , not we !
and she will speak most bitterly and strange .
myself am naples , who with mine eyes , never since at ebb , beheld the king my father wreck
logs that you are enjoin ' d to pile .
eat and drink as friends .
he says you are no good member of the commonwealth , for in converting jews to christians you raise the
what art thou that dost grumble there i ' th ' straw ?
how dost thou pity him whom thou dost trouble ?
you sin against obedience , which you owe your father .
] enter hamlet .
why , by making him uncapable of othello ' s place ; knocking out his brains .
not exceed you three hits ; he hath laid on twelve for nine , and it would come to immediate
i sold not maine , i lost not normandy ; yet , to recover them , would lose my life
as the king and queen do mean to hawk .
this closing with him fits his lunacy .
i would gladly have him see his company anatomiz ' d , that he might take a measure of his
self-gracious remembrance did first propose .
, not only take away , but let your sentence even fall upon my life .
it is no matter ; let no images be hung with caesar ' s trophies .
o thou varlet !
rosencrantz and guildenstern hold their course for england .
happier is he that has no friend to feed than such that do e ' en enemies exceed .
to spend his time awhile .
' d the thankings of a king .
go to , here ' s a simple line of life ; here ' s a small trifle of wives
then pause not ; for the present time ' s so sick that present med ' cine must be minist
he has no more knowledge in hibocrates and galen , and he is a knave besides-a cowardly knave as you
thyself a queen , for me that was a queen , outlive thy glory , like my wretched self !
; my father was that sebastian of messaline whom i know you have heard of .
grace , where it is impossible you should take true root but by the fair weather that you make yourself
- o , my old friend ?
o inglorious league !
for , knowing thee to be but young and light- katherina .
you will never run mad , niece .
opposing end them .
the food that to him now is as luscious as locusts , shall be to him shortly as acerb as
i ' ll confine myself no finer than i am .
i warrant it is to knight you , captain .
ay , sir , when he goes before me .
' tis ten to one this play can never please all that are here .
here ; what would my lord ?
, if it be just and true report that goes of his having .
i most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make some reservation of your wrongs .
exeunt murtherers .
what cheer ?
would not this nave of a wheel have his ears cut off ?
is sportful edward come ?
madam , do you ; ' tis fittest .
the wager thou hast won ; and i will ad unto their losses twenty thousand crowns ; another dowry to
gives him the letter .
ghastly looks are at my service , like enforced smiles ; and both are ready in their offices at any
if not the face of men , the sufferance of our souls , the time ' s abuse- if these
the better for the king of heaven , that hath him .
but , i ' faith , you have drunk too much canaries ; and that ' s a marvellous searching
a light condition in a beauty dark .
what should such fellows as i do , crawling between earth and heaven ?
therefore , at your vantage , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
till then , blows , blood , and death !
lord alexas , sweet alexas , most anything alexas , almost most absolute alexas , where ' s the soothsayer
they have a good thing , to make it too common .
ere himself , and ran dismayed away .
he gives you , upon his knees , a thousand thanks ; and he esteems himself happy that he hath
it ' s dry , sir .
philario ' s house enter posthumus and philario posthumus .
one word , sir .
ay , ay , he said four .
would i were fairly out on ' t !
enter polixenes polixenes .
arthur .
have i had ; and even since then hath richard been obscur ' d , depriv ' d of honour
yield up my crown let him be hang ' d .
tonight , never till now , did i go through a tempest dropping fire .
if that the youth will come this way to-morrow , i ' ll give him reasons for ' t .
had we pursu ' d that life , and our weak spirits ne ' er been higher rear ' d
draw !
how shall this bosom multiplied digest the senate ' s courtesy ?
and hark ye , sirs ; because she is a maid , spare for no fagots , let there be
art a traitor and a miscreant , too good to be so , and too bad to live , since
after we leave them ; and , sirrah , i have cases of buckram for the nonce , to immask
o , sir , i find her milder than she was ; and yet she takes exceptions at your person
for , and there ' s an end .
not shine to-day !
the happiest gift that ever marquis gave , the fairest queen that ever king receiv ' d .
on what compulsion must i ?
my child ?
my lords , with all the humbleness i may , i greet your honours from andronicus- [aside] and pray the
i pray you , have your remembrance , child .
let them be in the hands-- con .
for my part , he keeps me rustically at home , or , to speak more properly , stays me
how parted with your brothers ?
so should we you , if you should be our king .
i would eat his heart in the market place .
like enough you do .
i nothing know where she remains , why gone , nor when she purposes return .
the sun shines hot ; and , if we use delay , cold biting winter mars our hop ' d-for
and as in the common course of all treasons we still see them reveal themselves till they attain to their
as great to me as late ; and , supportable to make the dear loss , have i means much
come on , you whoreson chops .
have you limbs to bear that load of title ?
, a rat !
the park from the shooting within , enter holofernes , sir nathaniel , and dull nathaniel .
all offices are open , and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the
thou stool for a witch !
from thence , by cold gradation and well-balanc ' d form .
the palace of leontes enter leontes , cleomenes , dion , paulina , and others cleomenes .
enter balthasar with music .
yes , he was .
sconce , call you it ?
oppressed child religiously provokes .
costard .
you shall also make no noise in the streets ; for for the watch to babble and to talk is
how fine this tyrant can tickle where she wounds !
you lords and noble friends , know our intent .
stanley , he is your wife ' s son : well , look unto it .
hide thy head , achilles ; here comes hector in arms .
exit a messenger queen .
thou wot , wot ta ?
if you suspect my husbandry or falsehood , call me before th ' exactest auditors and set me on the
' d to sleep .
' tis a monster begot upon itself , born on itself .
we being strangers here , how dar ' st thou trust page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
things have fall ' n out , sir , so unluckily that we have had no time to move our
most like a gentleman .
what ladybird !
the duke of york , to know what pricks you on to take advantage of the absent time , and
you shall command me , sir .
we have seen the seven stars .
the swallow follows not summer more willing than we your lordship .
the april ' s in her eyes .
for whose sake did i that ill deed ?
i know of none , nor know i you by voice or any feature .
away ; but you gave leave to my unwilling tongue against my will to do myself this wrong .
how have i been behaved , that he might stick the small ' st opinion on my least misuse ?
, i love thee , by my life i do ; i swear by that which i will lose for
stand fast , good fate , to his hanging ; make the rope of his destiny our cable , for
all the people .
, we shall not send o ' er the vast world to seek a single man , and lose advantage
gentlemen , let ' s look to our business .
o shame !
all comfort go with thee !
the volsces have much corn : take these rats thither to gnaw their garners .
every fool can tell that .
tribunes , give way : he shall to th ' market-place .
hark , what fine change is in the music !
exit enter sir john and sir hugh mortimer york .
he has no equal .
in the sick air ; let not thy sword skip one .
thou art the knight of the burning lamp .
the story , then , goes false you threw it him out of a casement .
man a worm .
go drag the villain hither by the hair ; nor age nor honour shall shape privilege .
ay , wherefore else guard we his royal tent but to defend his person from night-foes ?
and had robin nightwork , by old nightwork , before i came to clement ' s inn .
my lady , she is much out of quiet .
what , is he angry too ?
now , my sweet guardian !
where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me ?
they thus directed , we will follow in the main battle , whose puissance on either side shall be well
in the great hand of god i stand , and thence against the undivulged pretense i fight of treasonous malice
fore god , my lord , well spoken , with good accent and good discretion .
self-same way , with more advised watch , to find the other forth ; and by adventuring both i oft
[to richmond] i died for hope ere i could lend thee aid ; but cheer thy heart and be thou
fire .
my lord , ' tis an unseason ' d courtier ; good my lord , advise him .
exit rosalind .
he was a man of an unbounded stomach , ever ranking himself with princes ; one that , by suggestion
forgetful ?
i am the last of noble edward ' s sons , of whom thy father , prince of wales ,
thee for it .
enter musicians come on , tune .
how grounded he his title to the crown upon our fail ?
o , come , go in , and take our friendly senators by th ' hands , who now are
ah , thou , the model where old troy did stand ; thou map of honour , thou king richard
but to-day by feeding is allayed , to-morrow sharpened in his former might .
[exeunt some of the watch .
>> _num_ as you like it by william shakespeare dramatis personae .
sweet invocation of a child ; most pretty , and pathetical !
yet we hear not of our son-in-law .
he hath observ ' d in noble ladies unto their lords , by them accomplished ; such duty to the
hie hence , be gone , away !
now doth it turn and ebb back to the sea , where it shall mingle with the state of floods
his love .
thou didst well ; for wisdom cries out in the streets , and no man regards it .
comets , importing change of times and states , brandish your crystal tresses in the sky and with them scourge
well , thereby hangs a tale ; good faith , it is such another nan ; but , i detest
because she ' s kin to me , therefore she ' s not so fair as helen .
upon the waters , allaying both their fury and my passion with its sweet air ; thence i have follow
yield thee , thief .
let hercules himself do what he may , the cat will mew , and dog will have his day .
- and i are pick-purses in love , and we deserve to die .
what ' s that to th ' purpose ?
go with me to a notary , seal me there your single bond , and , in a merry sport
] and when you lov ' d you were my other husband .
exeunt citizens with the body .
whose meal and exercise are still together , who twin , as ' twere , in love , unseparable ,
being taught , forbearance .
but , sir , here comes your boy ; ' twere good he were school ' d .
o , to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words , that thou returnest no greeting to thy friends ?
; but we must do good against evil .
reclaims , shall to my flaming wrath be oil and flax .
no , mighty king of france .
this lies glowing , i can tell you , and is almost mature for the violent breaking out .
the storm is up , and all is on the hazard .
then is the world one .
i am more serious than my custom ; you must be so too , if heed me ; which to
to be more eager .
this honest creature doubtless sees and knows more , much more , than he unfolds .
not a month fore your queen died , she was more worth such gazes than what you look on now
enter thurio and musicians but here comes thurio .
it is spoke as a christians ought to speak .
is it good-den ?
our expectation hath this day an end : the dauphin , whom of succours we entreated , returns us that
] prince .
' who devis ' d this penalty ?
when a man ' s servant shall play the cur with him , look you , it goes hard- one
one speech in ' t i chiefly lov ' d .
in reason nothing .
" speak , strike , redress !
txt the earl of pembroke keeps his regiment ; good captain blunt , bear my good night to him ,
truly , gentlemen , a bloody tyrant and a homicide ; one rais ' d in blood , and one
begin .
exit [fool] .
and , good boy , good night .
he is , and feasts the nobles of the state at his house this night .
[aside] wormwood , wormwood !
get thee to bed .
nay , warwick , single out some other chase ; for i myself will hunt this wolf to death .
that this my mother ' s son was none of his ; and if he were , he came into
the king is coming .
some sack , francis .
send one presently to sir toby .
these be the stops that hinder study quite , and train our intellects to vain delight .
behold , his eye , as bright as is the eagle ' s , lightens forth controlling majesty .
let me choose ; for as i am , i live upon the rack .
enter cleopatra ah , thou spell !
sir , your jewel hath suffered under praise .
and she as much in love , her means much less to meet her new beloved anywhere ; but passion
o , whither ?
ah , boy , if any life be left in thee , throw up thine eye !
exeunt elbow , pompey and officers what news , friar , of the duke ?
[aside] the raven chides blackness .
the best actors in the world , either for tragedy , comedy , history , pastoral , pastoral-comical , historical-pastoral
men shall hold of me in capite ; and we charge and command that their wives be as free as
who does her ?
god save king henry , unking ' d richard says , and send him many years of sunshine days !
in things right true my heart and eyes have erred , and to this false plague are they now transferred
the prologue enter chorus .
txt beating and hanging are terrors to me ; for the life to come , i sleep out the thought
the queen is obstinate , stubborn to justice , apt to accuse it , and disdainful to be tried by
or , rather , the neapolitan bone-ache !
words without thoughts never to heaven go .
what black magician conjures up this fiend to stop devoted charitable deeds ?
what is become of bushy ?
nay , sir nicholas , let it alone ; my state now will but mock me .
lord fool , out of this nettle , danger , we pluck this flower , safety .
what , you have charg ' d me with , that have i done , and more , much more
, [voltemand , cornelius , ] lords attendant .
, as they say , but in the way of honesty ; and , i warrant you , they could
whoe ' er helps thee , ' tis thou that must help me .
, your full consent gave wings to my propension , and cut of all fears attending on so dire a
enter thersites a labour sav ' d !
d , tears in his eyes , distraction in ' s aspect , a broken voice , and his whole
did not goodwife keech , the butcher ' s wife , come in then and call me gossip quickly ?
the service and the loyalty lowe , in doing it , pays itself .
if you had sent but two hours before- timon .
txt let none think flattery , for they ' ll find ' em truth .
- here ' s a goodly watch indeed !
not fearful .
the love that follows us sometime is our trouble , which still we thank as love .
we will attend to neither .
i learn you take things ill which are not so , or being , concern you not .
for my love ' s forgetfulness !
thy news , boyet ?
pluck up thy spirits , look cheerfully upon me .
he came too late , the ship was under sail ; but there the duke was given to understand that
not iscariot , sir .
but , alack , my hand is sworn ne ' er to pluck thee from thy thorn ; vow ,
is it not as this mouth should tear this hand for lifting food to ' t ?
westmoreland ; and this to old mistress ursula , whom i have weekly sworn to marry since i perceiv '
wife , mother , child , i know not .
he hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes .
but till this afternoon his passion ne ' er brake into extremity of rage .
must also tell him our noble acceptance of them .
the count ' s gentleman , one cesario .
sir , i will answer anything .
heaven mend all !
young gentlemen would be as sad as night , only for wantonness .
enter the lord mayor and catesby buckingham .
publish we this peace to all our subjects .
, or a that-way-accomplish ' d courtier , would hazard the winning both of first and last .
no , as i shall be saved .
o heavenly powers !
alas , sir , i know not jupiter ; i never drank with him in all my life .
hulk sir john , is prisoner to your son .
blame not this haste of mine .
friends to this ground .
out with that too ; it was eve ' s legacy , and cannot be ta ' en from her
if they smile and say ' twill do , i know within a while all the best men are ours
madam , you have done me wrong , notorious wrong .
myself did win them both ; those provinces these arms of mine did conquer ; and are the cities that
behold !
why , friends , you go to do you know not what .
i take my leave before i have begun , for sorrow ends not when it seemeth done .
usurped throne .
the duke had crotchets in him .
now must your conscience my acquittance seal , and you must put me in your heart for friend , sith
i would his majesty had call ' d me with him .
for mine own part- no offense to the general , nor any man of quality- i hope to be saved
no , sir , not i ; i came from syracuse .
good my lord , forbear .
farewell , great chief .
but for which of my good parts did you first suffer love for me ?
in this case of favour would be wisely definite ; nor i ' th ' appetite ; sluttery , to
roman and cydnus swell ' d above the banks , or for the press of boats or pride .
going , almost spent with hunger , i am fall ' n in this offence .
that i might sing it , madam , to a tune .
why did you so cry out , sirs , in your sleep ?
what have you there , my friend ?
kite of cressid ' s kind , doll tearsheet she by name , and her espouse .
; let it pry through the portage of the head like the brass cannon : let the brow o '
[dies] oxford .
but william of hatfield died without an heir .
shall i be tempted of the devil thus ?
too cruel anywhere .
a hundred thousand rebels die in this !
that ' s all one ; you shall play it in a mask , and you may speak as small
but sup them well , and look unto them all ; to-morrow i intend to hunt again .
rather a ditch in egypt be gentle grave unto me !
and yet i wish but for the thing i have .
the duke of york ' s garden enter york , salisbury , and warwick york .
she is no match for you .
thy love is worth a million ; thou owest me thy love .
this may plant courage in their quailing breasts , for yet is hope of life and victory .
than your sisters ?
exeunt servants with thyreus you were half blasted ere i knew you .
man i ' th ' moon ; this thorn-bush , my thorn-bush ; and this dog , my dog .
i pray thee , rosalind , sweet my coz , be merry .
and rooks and daws , and maidens bleach their summer smocks ; the cuckoo then on every tree mocks married
god save the foundation !
come , let us go and pray to all the gods for our beloved mother in her pains .
ours be your patience then , and yours our parts ; your gentle hands lend us , and take our
as thou art a knave and no knave .
i pray you , in your letters , when you shall these unlucky deeds relate , speak of me as
help him , lucio .
to those of mine in court .
you must be gone ; and i shall here abide the hourly shot of angry eyes , not comforted to
for gowns , petticoats , nor caps , nor any petty exhibition ; but , for the whole world- why
i saw the man to-day , if man he be .
apollo ' s angry ; and the heavens themselves do strike at my injustice .
a house in rome .
' twas i , indeed , thou promised ' st to strike , and thou hast given me most bitter
in faith , she ' s too curst .
' d with my reproach .
not living to whom he more adheres .
shall sweet bianca practise how to bride it ?
it is but needful : mercy is not itself that oft looks so ; pardon is still the nurse of
ring the bell .
o thou vile one !
they hold up adam ' s profession .
intent everywhere : for that ' s it that always makes a good voyage of nothing .
beshrew me , but i love her heartily , for she is wise , if i can judge of her
i thank thee , brutus , that thou hast proved lucilius ' saying true .
for taking one ' s part that ' s out of favour .
dat he is no come ; by gar , jack rugby , he is dead already , if he be
surely as your feet hit the ground they step on .
well , there is sixpence to preserve thee .
knock you here , sir ?
how otherwise ?
txt first citizen .
hail , caesar !
speak no more of her .
hark thee , dardanius .
god comfort thy capacity !
in reversion that i do possess- but what it is that is not yet known what , i cannot name
i would cure you , if you would but call me rosalind , and come every day to my cote
i cannot tell , except they are busied about a counterfeit assurance .
my hand shall go .
that i did love the moor to live with him , my downright violence and storm of fortunes may trumpet
those things i bid you do , get them dispatch ' d .
the eldest of the three wrestled with charles , the duke ' s page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
preparations , the source of this our watch , and the chief head of this post-haste and romage in the
d ' angleterre .
for me ?
alas , it hath been great pains to you !
he bears him on the place ' s privilege , or durst not for his craven heart say thus .
in this i bury all unkindness , cassius .
mistress line , is not this my jerkin ?
hold argument , persuade my heart to this false perjury ?
the commons will not , then , be satisfied .
i ' ll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject , for the liquor is not earthly .
more needs she the divine than the physician .
that seeks his praise more than he fears his peril , that knows his valour and knows not his fear
' s bed .
valour ; which , indeed , is valour misbegot , and came into the world when sects and factions were
it is no other .
i have business to my lord , dear queen .
i think nobly of the soul , and no way approve his opinion .
revolt our subjects ?
this is some fellow who , having been prais ' d for bluntness , doth affect a saucy roughness ,
, my lord , what she hath writ ?
go , fellow , go , return unto thy lord ; bid him not fear the separated council : his
no point , with my knife .
' lo , ere i can repeat this curse again , within so small a time , my woman '
i then , all smarting with my wounds being cold , to be so pest ' red with a popingay
sir hugh , persuade me not ; i will make a star chamber matter of it ; if he were
i sent you money , sir , to be your bail , by dromio ; but i think he brought
if we mean to thrive and do good , break open the gaols and let out the prisoners .
[to edmund] then shall you go no further .
th ' adulterate hastings , rivers , vaughan , grey , untimely smother ' d in their dusky graves .
touch her soft mouth and march .
exit with jaquenetta armado .
nous les appelons de nails .
wounded to death .
urge the necessity and state of times , and be not peevish-fond in great designs .
abusing times unto a lineal true-derived course .
o , run doll , run , run , good come .
now , daughter silvia , you are hard beset .
exit sir hugh get you home , boy .
' ah !
and , to be noted for a merry man , he ' ll woo a thousand , ' point the
thou , trumpet , there ' s my purse .
pindarus ascends the hill .
as thou refts me of my lands .
how , my lord , i may be censured , that nature thus gives way to loyalty , something fears
stay , madam , i must talk a word with you .
to be in love- where scorn is bought with groans , coy looks with heart-sore sighs , one fading moment
was drinking .
his visage by that cost more dear ; and nice affections wavering stood in doubt if best were as it
nay , ' tis most certain , iras .
go , see how he fares .
on without good morrow to the sun .
sounds of woe into hey nonny , nonny .
d too sharp in sweetness , for the capacity of my ruder powers .
what man art thou that , thus bescreen ' d in night , so stumblest on my counsel ?
do not know wherefore my father should revengers want , having a son and friends , since julius caesar ,
repentance and with his bad legs falls into the cinque-pace faster and faster , till he sink into his grave
let me come to her .
i , madam ?
arm , gentlemen !
carlisle , this is your doom : choose out some secret place , some reverend room , more than thou
gratiano !
most in helena .
not i .
would give life , and bring a tomb .
they did me too much injury that ever said i heark ' ned for your death .
again , being ne ' er so little urg ' d , another way to pluck him headlong from the
[striking him] pinch .
your mother .
i ' ll make her come , i warrant you , presently .
i shall attend you presently at your tent .
>> _num_ the tragedy of julius caesar by william shakespeare dramatis personae julius caesar , roman statesman and general octavius
no , i ' ll not be your half .
now my spirit is going i can no more .
what were ' t worth to know the secret of your conference ?
queen isabel .
i must to him too , before he go to bed .
[gathering up the pieces] berowne .
tell the fishes he ' s the queen ' s son , cloten .
boast of nothing else but that i was a journeyman to grief ?
i cannot but remember such things were that were most precious to me .
besides , i heard the banish ' d norfolk say that thou , aumerle , didst send two of thy
walk ?
before king henry ' s pavilion enter gower and williams williams .
, that i had been forsworn .
good cousins both , of york and somerset , quiet yourselves , i pray , and be at peace .
enter a messenger warwick .
once remove the root of his opinion , which is rotten as ever oak or stone was sound .
pardon , my liege , that i have stay ' d so long .
that twenty such rude boys might tend upon , and call her hourly mistress .
commixed .
no , my lord , nor shall not while i have a stamp .
of sorrow ; or if of grief , being altogether had , it adds more sorrow to my want of
, have ever made me sour my patient cheek or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign ' s face .
bullen !
' ' how comes that ?
we ' ll to our ship .
do you call me fool ?
what you have spoke , it may be so perchance .
o disloyal thing , that shouldst repair my youth , thou heap ' st a year ' s age on
perfections challenge sovereignty .
i will take the wall of any man or maid of montague ' s .
txt personal use only , and ( _num_ ) are not distributed or used commercially .
of painted pomp ?
he lives upon mouldy stew ' d prunes and dried cakes .
thou ' rt mad to say it !
madam , so i did .
for all the wealth that ever i did see , i would not have him know so much by me
let that persuade thee there ' s something extra-ordinary in thee .
pomfret castle enter sir richard ratcliff , with halberds , carrying the nobles , rivers , grey , and vaughan
she bade me tell your worship that her husband is seldom from home , but she hopes there will come
[retires with horatio .
thou speakest aright : i am that merry wanderer of the night .
see this knack- as never i mean thou shalt- we ' ll bar thee from succession ; not hold thee
by it young .
than it is .
o proserpina , from the flowers now that , frighted , thou let ' st fall from dis ' s
with demetrius .
my lord- king .
[to antonio] give me your gloves , i ' ll wear them for your sake .
will or the state ' s allowance , a league between his highness and ferrara .
why , first for flouting me ; and then wherefore , for urging it the second time to me .
i go , andronicus ; and for thy hand look by and by to have thy sons with thee .
urging of her wreck at sea- these are the parents to these children , which accidentally are met together .
pride is his own glass , his own trumpet , his own chronicle ; and whatever praises itself page _num_
[aside] his steel was in debt ; it went o ' th ' back side the town .
you pay him then !
worshipful mutineers , your valour puts well forth ; pray follow .
shallow .
therefore to ' s seemeth it a needful course , before we enter his forbidden gates , to know his
muffle me , night , awhile .
rs purple , blue and white ; like sapphire , pearl , and rich embroidery , buckled below fair knighthood
, and england ' s fame .
enter launcelot , with a letter friend launcelot , what ' s the news ?
cam ' st thou from the bridge ?
and health of this whole state , and therefore must his choice be circumscrib ' d unto the voice and
our batt ' ry next .
answer .
i think so .
nothing is at a like goodness still ; for goodness , growing to a plurisy , dies in his own
will you remember ?
what is , come see , and in my voice most welcome shall you be .
never believe it .
address their dangers in .
i am glad to see you , good master slender .
do as thou list .
enter servants take hence this jack and whip him .
when these mutualities so marshal the way , hard at hand comes the master and main exercise , the incorporate
txt re-enter malvolio malvolio .
hearths unswept , there pinch the maids as blue as bilberry ; our radiant queen hates sluts and sluttery .
o most courageous day !
determination thus set it down : he shall with speed to england for the demand of our neglected tribute .
and i will fall .
txt will the faithful offer take of me and all that i can make ; or else by him my
exeunt all but brutus .
haply i do .
, the knights and gentlemen to come with thee .
i have so ; because it is an open room , and good for winter .
the son of duncan , from whom this tyrant holds the due of birth , lives in the english court
as ' let the magistrates be labouring men ' ; and therefore should we be magistrates .
give me leave , unworthy as i am , to follow you .
txt i have bestow ' d to breed this present peace , you would drink freely ; but my love
take notice , lords , he has a loyal breast , for you have seen him open ' t .
i know , sir , we weary you .
a man may be too confident .
now , what ' s the matter , provost ?
what were these ?
i will answer it straight : i have done all this .
marry , will i , sir ; and for that i promis ' d you , i ' ll be
exit above .
good even and twenty , good master page !
but now two mirrors of his princely semblance are crack ' d in pieces by malignant death , and i
i will not hear thee speak ; i ' ll have my bond ; and therefore speak no more .
i long with all my heart to see the prince .
for he indeed hath set the women on to this complaint .
' then , if you urge me farther than to say ' do you in faith ?
lucius is taken .
know you on which side they have plac ' d their men of trust ?
ye will .
i am very glad on ' t .
hail to your grace !
with a groan , ' o farewell , warwick !
acquainted each other how they love me ?
the cesse of majesty dies not alone , but like a gulf doth draw what ' s near it with
her absence valiant , not her might .
and to-morrow they made britain india : every man that stood show ' d like a mine .
both of one horse ?
would thou and those thy scars had once prevail ' d to make me fight at land !
be rul ' d .
god ' a ' mercy on his soul !
my merry host hath had the measuring of their weapons ; and , i think , hath appointed them contrary
txt you should not use me so .
what lawful quest have given their verdict up unto the frowning judge , or who pronounc ' d the bitter
fatal mouths gaping on girded harfleur .
alack , poor richard !
[comes fortward] o , ' tis our setter .
the first meets him third servant .
ll implore it , that will free your life , but fetter you till death .
thou teachest me .
he draweth out the thread of his verbosity finer than the staple of his argument .
what , rate , rebuke , and roughly send to prison , th ' immediate heir of england !
, that ' s never to be found again , lament till i am lost .
let it work ; for ' tis the sport to have the enginer hoist with his own petar ; and
for mine own part , i breathe free breath .
but , noble as he is , look where he comes .
' world- against all colour here did put the yoke upon ' s ; which to shake of becomes a
if you live to see this come to pass , say pompey told you so .
longer in monument than the bell rings and the widow weeps .
txt or , having sworn too hard-a-keeping oath , study to break it , and not break my troth .
instruct us , boy ; what dream , boy ?
for his bounty , there was no winter in ' t ; an autumn ' twas that grew the more
many ?
unfold .
the dead man ' s knell is there scarce ask ' d for who , and good men ' s
, it will go hard with poor antonio .
is no matter .
his discretion , i am sure , cannot carry his valour ; for the goose carries not the fox .
dukedom .
will not he ?
i am- and hold her free , i do beseech your honor .
or stronger for your need .
to change the course .
beard they have sing ' d off with brands of fire ; and ever , as it blaz ' d
long .
state so .
chiefly a villanous trick of thine eye and a foolish hanging of thy nether lip that doth warrant me .
i prithee hear me speak .
and others , when the bagpipe sings i ' th ' nose , cannot contain their urine ; for affection
good heart , and i faith i will tell her as much .
a man .
exeunt iago and attendants .
dost thou not suspect my place ?
of a snail !
once more , what news ?
[marcius is shut in] first soldier .
go , call her in .
measureless liar , thou hast made my heart too great for what contains it .
if a man were porter of hell gate , he should have old turning the key .
exit enobarbus .
bid a sick man in sadness make his will .
i ' ll do , i ' ll do , and i ' ll do .
perchance , my lord , i show more craft than love ; and fell so roundly to a large confession
- may it please you , my grandsire , well advis ' d , hath sent by me the goodliest
a weasel hath not such a deal of spleen as you are toss ' d with .
we do require them of you , so to use them as we shall find their merits and our safety
this earth shall have a feeling , and these stones prove armed soldiers , ere her native king shall falter
only this proof i ' ll of thy valour make in single combat thou shalt buckle with me ; and
grace and good i could .
why , thou say ' st well .
a scar nobly got , or a noble scar , is a good liv ' ry of honour ; so
a minister of her will ; and it is great to do that thing that ends all other deeds ,
i am but hurt .
woe-begone , drew priam ' s curtain in the dead of night and would have told him half his troy
i swear he is true-hearted , and a soul none better in my kingdom .
a horse !
shut me nightly in a charnel house , o ' ercover ' d quite with dead men ' s rattling
thou ' rt my good youth , my page ; i ' ll be thy master .
wherein the king stands generally condemn ' d .
i confess nothing , nor i deny nothing .
slave , thou hast slain me .
him that makes him gasp , and stare , and catch the air , blaspheming god , and cursing men
a most scurvy monster !
i humbly thank you for ' t .
if the duke continue these favours towards you , cesario , you are like to be much advanc ' d
you de good guest , de earl , de knight , de lords , de gentlemen , my patients .
i but believe it partly , for i am fresh of spirit and resolved to meet all perils very constantly
) , an exact command , larded with many several sorts of reasons , importing denmark ' s health ,
tell not me of mercy- this is the fool that lent out money gratis .
you shall see now , in very sincerity of fear and cold heart will he to the king and lay
' s emperor , do i consecrate my sword , my chariot , and my prisoners , presents well worthy
to verona .
i bought an unction of a mountebank , so mortal that , but dip a knife in it , where
queen how well she fares .
never did faithful subject more rejoice at the discovery of most dangerous treason than i do at this hour joy
for a buried corse ; and all things change them to the contrary .
the fixture of her eye has motion in ' t , as we are mock ' d with art .
txt and there the strawy greeks , ripe for his edge , fall down before him like the mower '
good griffith , cause the musicians play me that sad note i nam ' d my knell , whilst i
soft and fair , friar .
his legs bestrid the ocean ; his rear ' d arm crested the world .
i cannot tell what heaven hath given him-let some graver eye pierce into that ; but i can see his
' portia .
and what they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign .
what do you mean by this haunting of me ?
escalus .
that is laertes , a very noble youth .
[reads] ' so sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not to those fresh morning drops upon the rose ,
by the gods , it is one .
she says i am not fair , that i lack manners ; she calls me proud , and that she
unappeas ' d , nor we disturb ' d with prodigies on earth .
but ' tis no matter ; thou shalt bring him to me where i will write .
edward iv lady anne , widow of edward , prince of wales , son to king henry vi ; afterwards
the pine and cedar .
who seeks , and will not take when once ' tis offer ' d , shall never find it more
my husband ' s hand ?
if sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt an erring barbarian and a supersubtle venetian be not too hard for my
nay , but i know who loves him .
doctor too .
mum .
some six or seven dozen of scots at a breakfast , washes his hands , and says to his wife
thy adversary ' s wife doth pray for thee .
txt no , not for venice .
[reads] ' thou canst not choose but know who i am .
to think no harm all night , and make a dark night too of half the day- which i hope
the flame o ' th ' taper bows toward her and would under-peep her lids to see th ' enclosed
taught me thus to ruminate that time will come and take my love away .
what , dead , my dove ?
[within] my lord , is the lady ready ?
heavens defend me from that welsh fairy , lest he transform me to a piece of cheese !
your day ' s service at shrewsbury hath a little gilded over your night ' s exploit on gadshill .
dark night , that from the eye his function takes , the ear more quick of apprehension makes ; wherein
first and second lords .
within the forest of gaultree enter the archbishop of york , mowbray , hastings , and others archbishop .
o , my lord !
i pompey am- berowne .
[the king puts laertes ' hand into hamlet ' s .
the cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it .
enter ross with an old man .
merits due , being all to dolours turn ' d ?
by this separation i may give : that due to thee which thou deserv ' st alone : o absence
_num_ love is my sin , and thy dear virtue hate , hate of my sin , grounded on sinful
feast-won , fast-lost ; one cloud of winter show ' rs , these flies are couch ' d .
some five or six and thirty of his knights , hot questrists after him , met him at gate ;
the heart is sorely charged .
the noise they make will cause demetrius to awake .
here i am antony ; yet cannot hold this visible shape , my knave .
within the infant rind of this small flower poison hath residence , and medicine power ; for this , being
truly , i think they are .
thou art the cap of all the fools alive .
friend , not a friend greet my poor corpse where my bones shall be thrown ; a thousand thousand to
mark you his absolute ' shall ' ?
hob-nob is his word- give ' t or take ' t .
will not live to be accounted warwick .
till storms be past of civil enmity .
o , i have pass ' d a miserable night , so full of fearful dreams , of ugly sights
welcome , ass .
commend me to your niece .
why , she would hang on him as if increase of appetite had grown by what it fed on ;
more rushes , more rushes !
' " o then advance of yours that phraseless hand whose white weighs down the airy scale of praise ;
third gentleman .
well-minded clarence , be thou fortunate !
them but the shales and husks of men .
, fashion-monging boys , that lie and cog and flout , deprave and slander , go anticly , show outward
] this is the night that either makes me or fordoes me quite .
of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library , inc .
so many miseries have craz ' d my voice that my woe-wearied tongue is still and mute .
o , but she is wise .
these three world-sharers , these competitors , are in thy vessel .
he throws a thunderbolt .
there lies the man , slain by young romeo , that slew thy kinsman , brave mercutio .
all the contagion of the south light on you , you shames of rome !
do not say so , my lord .
so help me every spirit sanctified , as i have spoken for you all my best and stood within the
i pray you be gone .
here ; swear then how thou escap ' dst .
he then that is not furnish ' d in this sort doth but usurp the sacred name of knight ,
but to make an end of the ship- to see how the sea flap-dragon ' d it ; but first
if it be so , laertes (as how should it be so ?
all is well yet .
' and ' as sure as day !
o , let it not be said !
long since thy husband serv ' d me in my wars , and i to thee engag ' d a
denote me truly .
ay ; and let none enter , lest i break your pate .
] i do not know from what part of the world i should be greeted , if not from lord
my lord , i am a man whom fortune hath cruelly scratch ' d .
a little scene , to monarchize , be fear ' d , and kill with looks ; infusing him with
fawn , and give it food .
nor , princes , is it matter new to us that we come short of our suppose so far that
mistress , we have .
but while i say one prayer !
my good lords , hitherto in all the progress both of my life and office , i have labour '
thy cries ?
beshrew your heart , fair daughter , you do draw my spirits from me with new lamenting ancient oversights .
an i may hide my face , let me play thisby too .
well , i will do it , sir ; fare you well .
o my lord , when you went onward on this ended action , i look ' d upon her with
txt deserves the travail of a worthier pen , yet what of thee thy poet doth invent , he robs
which when i saw , i reprehended them , and ask ' d the mayor what meant this wilfull silence
one scene of it comes near the circumstance , which i have told thee , of my father ' s
, and highly mov ' d to wrath to be controll ' d in that he frankly gave .
nay , we will all of us be there to fetch him .
when the sun sets the air doth drizzle dew , but for the sunset of my brother ' s son
or be a known friend , ' gainst his highness ' pleasure- though he be grown so desperate to be
at the helm a seeming mermaid steers .
[the two companies separate and place themselves in every corner of the stage] second soldier .
nature but i may snap at him .
have you heard any imputation to the contrary ?
sweet bianca , gives her desdemona ' s handkerchief .
come in ; the wish deserves a welcome .
these strong egyptian fetters i must break , or lose myself in dotage .
cymbeline ' s palace enter cymbeline , lords , pisanio , and attendants cymbeline .
et le coude ?
i am your own forever .
come , to our flock .
[music plays] enter petruchio , katherina , bianca , baptista , hortensio , grumio , and train petruchio .
nay , there is some comfort in the news , some comfort ; your son will not be kill '
the better for him ; would i were so too !
say to him i live ; and observe his reports for me .
bodykins , master page , though i now be old , and of the peace , if i see a
enter jaques first lord .
o , treachery !
me , uncle ?
o ye gods , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' d it for a special purpose which wrought to his desire .
gonzalo .
see where it comes !
myself have letters of the selfsame tenure .
re-enter first murderer first murderer-how now , what mean ' st thou that thou help ' st me not ?
saw you not , even now , a blessed troop invite me to a banquet ; whose bright faces cast
speak the word along .
surety me .
know the glove ?
to ireland , i ; our separated fortune shall keep us both the safer .
' ] enter caesar ; gallus , proculeius , maecenas , seleucus , and others of his train caesar .
or if thou wilt needs marry , marry a fool ; for wise men know well enough what monsters you
the enemy ' s castle ?
, and if i could but meet him again .
warrant thee .
i am a scribbled form drawn with a pen upon a parchment , and against this fire do i shrink
faith , there has been much to do on both sides ; and the nation holds it no sin to
you must not dare , for shame , to talk of mercy ; for your own reasons turn into your
[aside] i know that deformed .
now help , ye charming spells and periapts ; and ye choice spirits that admonish me and give me signs
alas , malvolio , this is not my writing , though , i confess , much like the character ;
save thou the child , so we may all be safe .
most mighty neptune seem to besiege , and make his bold waves tremble , yea , his dread trident shake
consider , when you above perceive me like a crow , that it is place which lessens and sets off
the lady bade take away the fool ; therefore , i say again , take her away .
course and lighted the little o , the earth .
come on , my queen , there ' s sap in ' t yet .
poor antony !
let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests ; i bear a charmed life , which must not yield to one
on such slight conditions .
[gives hack the letter] valentine .
affairs touching that time .
why , will shall break it ; will , and nothing else .
marry , we were sent for to the justices .
now is the sun upon the highmost hill of this day ' s journey , and from nine till twelve
thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to .
here , sister , arm ' d , and bloody in intent .
born shall harm macbeth .
speak .
and now , octavius , listen great things .
he is not emulous , as achilles is .
but where was this ?
my horse is tied up safe .
o ruin ' d piece of nature !
come , bring away the stocks !
heaven cease this idle humour in your honour !
let her approach .
and being no other but as she is , i do not like her .
i am the greatest , able to do least , yet most suspected , as the time and place doth
put up your naked weapons , put up your naked weapons .
this presence knows , and you must needs have heard , how i am punish ' d with sore distraction
what would my lord and father ?
to take the widow exasperates , makes mad her sister goneril ; and hardly shall i carry out my side
not that i fear to stay , but love to go whither the queen intends .
the benediction of these covering heavens fall on their heads like dew !
what lady would you choose to assail ?
what should i answer you ?
nay , i was taken up for laying them down ; yet here they shall not lie for catching cold
fly , brother .
i hear a tongue , shriller than all the music , cry " caesar .
to the lubber ' s head in lumbert street , to master smooth ' s the silkman .
' d honesty .
txt thy leg a stick compared with this truncheon ; my foot shall fight with all the strength thou hast
' t and see ' t ; and though ' tis wonder that enwraps me thus , yet ' tis
he trots the air ; the earth sings when he touches it ; the basest horn of his hoof is
sir john , i arrest you at the suit of mistress quickly .
sweet bloods , i both may and will .
then there is no true lover in the forest , else sighing every minute and groaning every hour would detect
say that she frown ; i ' ll say she looks as clear as morning roses newly wash ' d
good lord chamberlain , go , give ' em welcome ; you can speak the french tongue ; and pray
to befriend himself .
you are naught , you are naught !
pray you sit by us , and tell ' s a tale .
unto , till now did ne ' er invite nor never woo .
i do forget .
am i dromio ?
why , but you are now well enough .
full fast ; and yonder shines aurora ' s harbinger , at whose approach ghosts , wand ' ring here
ay , crook-back , here i stand to answer thee , or any he , the proudest of thy sort
fair ladies , you drop manna in the way of starved people .
boys of art , i have deceiv ' d you both ; i have directed you to wrong places ;
his julia gave it him at his departure .
your voices ?
a fall off of a tree .
divers dear friends slain ?
by gar , me dank you vor dat ; by gar , i love you ; and i shall procure-a
ah , marcus , marcus !
emulations shall arise !
the savage bull may ; but if ever the sensible benedick bear page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
for his sweet life ' s loss .
sojourn in mantua .
o , speak to me no more !
troth , sir , i can yield you none without words , and words are grown so false i am
' s chamber window .
on mountain standing , up in the air , crown ' d with the golden sun- saw his heroical seed
i muse my mother does not approve me further , who was wont to call them woollen vassals , things
henry is dead and never shall revive .
and one , and in the lawful name of marrying , to give our hearts united ceremony .
i peace ?
the king would speak with cornwall ; the dear father would with his daughter speak , commands her service .
i ne ' er made my will yet , i thank heaven ; i am not such a sickly creature
' well could he ride , and often men would say , " that horse his mettle from his rider
s matters , nor women ' s matters , but with awl .
make poor my greatness , nor my power work without it .
look how the black slave smiles upon the father , as who should say ' old lad , i am
you a captain !
not unto my clothes .
pass by , and curse thy fill ; but pass , and stay not here thy gait .
her father is no better than an earl , although in glorious titles he excel .
come , where ' s the chain ?
a bedchamber in the lord ' s house enter aloft sly , with attendants ; some with apparel , basin
hold you , there is a groat to heal your pate .
my leaping time into a crutch , than have seen this .
the noise is round about us .
forth to steal .
very ready , sir .
are they not some of them set forward already ?
sir , sir- sicinius .
i honour him even out of your report .
txt with them !
' s rising in the east until his very downfall in the sea .
- but if thou meanest not well , i do beseech thee- nurse .
when shepherds pipe on oaten straws , and merry larks are ploughmen ' s clocks ; when turtles tread ,
exit host ford .
no , my chuck .
but that your royalty holds idleness your subject , i should take you for idleness itself .
i was then a young traveller ; rather shunn ' d to go even with what i heard than in
, with- but with this i passion to say wherewith- ' costard .
, with camping foes to live , where death and danger dogs the heels of worth .
no single soul can we set eye on , but in an safe reason he must have some attendants .
if you swear still , your recompense is still that i regard it not .
he that dies pays all debts .
what sudden anger ' s this ?
the bounty and the benison of heaven to boot , and boot !
i thank you , sir exit [gentleman] .
scene ii .
utter my thoughts ?
it is too late ; the life of all his blood is touch ' d corruptibly , and his pure
of my lord ' s worthiness , i crave the benefit of law of arms .
how ended she ?
their hands and faces were all badged with blood ; so were their daggers , which unwiped we found upon
bound to himself !
bring me to him .
i am sorry they offend you , heartily ; yes , faith , heartily .
here is thy fee ; arrest him , officer .
o , brave !
caius marcius coriolanus !
sir , it is ; and i am constant .
it would become me better than to close in terms of friendship with thine enemies .
be of the same relish as ours are ; yet , in reason , no man should possess him with
had all his hairs been lives , my great revenge had stomach for them all .
thou art not certain ; for thy complexion shifts to strange effects , after the moon .
txt you may behold confusion of your foes .
this is a creature , would she begin a sect , might quench the zeal of all professors else ,
have you scored me ?
he was never , but where he meant to ruin , pitiful .
before baptista ' so house enter baptista , gremio , tranio as lucentio , katherina , bianca , lucentio as
how much better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping !
how stiff is my vile sense , that i stand up , and have ingenious feeling of my huge sorrows
he reads .
these vows are hermia ' s .
and shall , or some of us will smart for it .
you are merry , my lord .
the worthies , and let them dance the hay .
txt claud .
or is the adder better than the eel because his painted skin contents the eye ?
sometimes to see ' em , and not to see ' em ; now the ship boring the moon with
do you know this lady ?
; and so obsequious will thy father be , even for the loss of thee , having no more ,
txt are past compare .
it ascends me into the brain ; dries me there all the foolish and dull and crudy vapours which environ
he told me that rebellion had bad luck , and that young harry percy ' s spur was cold .
here , wear this jewel for me ; ' tis my picture .
kingly couch a watch-case or a common ' larum-bell ?
why the man dies .
wilt thou go with me ?
grumio gave order how it should be done .
the time to come .
' twere well we let the people know ' t .
age .
it is his .
and doth beget new courage in our breasts .
of love- force ye .
d up in steel , whose conscience with injustice is corrupted .
o uncle , would some part of my young years might but redeem the passage of your age !
keep close within your chamber .
up himself .
' tis well that i get it so .
it is with a good will ; i can tell you it will serve you to mend your shoes .
to fear judgment , to fight when i cannot choose , and to eat no fish .
why , if thou never wast at court thou never saw ' st good manners ; if thou never saw
sir , your company is fairer than honest .
which men devout by testament have given to the church would they strip from us ; being valu ' d
see here , my friends and loving countrymen : this token serveth for a flag of truce betwixt ourselves and
we do not mean the coursing snatchers only , but fear the main intendment of the scot , who hath
you must leave this .
the widow ' s house enter helena , widow , and diana helena .
true , worthy banquo !
; it is impossible to bear it out .
' there comes none here .
let the foils be brought , the gentleman willing , and the king hold his purpose , i will win
what shall be done , sir , with the groaning juliet ?
prison , my lord ?
aside my high blood ' s royalty , which fear , not reverence , makes thee to except .
navarre .
, the briars scarlet hips ; the bounteous housewife nature on each bush lays her full mess before you .
lord cardinal , will your grace persuade the queen to send the duke of york unto his princely brother presently
what will you do with ' t , that you have been so earnest to have me filch it ?
that confirms it home .
for full well he knows he cannot so precisely weed this land as his misdoubts present occasion : his foes
pasture .
he hath wrong ' d me , master page .
i pray you , speak not ; he grows worse and worse ; question enrages him .
shall this fellow live ?
who would be thence that has the benefit of access ?
sun and descant on mine own deformity .
scene _num_ .
you are john rugby , and you are jack rugby .
the council shall know this .
my noble lord , this man hath my consent to marry her .
your griefs and discontents .
or will that way inclining , hard ' ned be the hearts of all that hear me , and my
if to be old and merry be a sin , then many an old host that i know is damn
' tis his description .
come , sirrah , you must be hang ' d .
, your names , your ages , of what having , breeding , and anything that is fitting to be
i tell thee , licio , this is wonderful .
where should i lose my tongue ?
] [to the son] cousin , you know what you have to do .
tomorrow , as he purposes .
why , therefore warwick came to seek you out ; and therefore comes my brother montague .
i told you : my lord .
' bone ' ?
third watchman .
txt dorcas .
throats had hanging at ' em wallets of flesh ?
at your request ?
pyramus , you begin ; when you have spoken your speech , enter into that brake ; and so every
txt here comes the emperor .
o , i follow ' d that i blush to look upon .
jesu , jesu , the mad days that i have spent !
beneficial news , it is the celebration of his nuptial .
what must we understand by this ?
my office is to noise abroad that harry monmouth fell under the wrath of noble hotspur ' s sword ,
in a scarf cominius .
what a head have i !
did your letters pierce the queen to any demonstration of grief ?
this before all the world do i prefer ; this maugre all the world will i keep safe , or
exit [balthasar] .
i warrant thee ; if i do not act it , hiss me .
taurus .
your grace ?
the other , a land itself at large , a potent dukedom .
i will dazzle all the eyes of france , yea , strike the dauphin blind to look on us .
away with him to prison !
by the pricking of my thumbs , something wicked this way comes .
these things , come thus to light , smother her spirits up .
, which art my nearest and dearest enemy ' thou that art like enough , through vassal fear , base
is true , where false plantagenet dare not be seen .
because your heart is in love with her ; and out of heart you love her , being out of
the duke does greet you , general , and he requires your haste-post-haste appearance , even on the instant .
thomas of norfolk , what say ' st thou to this ?
come , mistress kate , i ' ll bear you company .
[aside] villain and he be many miles asunder .
doth he still rage ?
do you not think he thinks himself a better man than i am ?
so ill he could not sit his mule .
i ' ll tell my husband , launcelot , what you say ; here he comes .
than is her custom .
the king takes place under the cloth of state ; the two cardinals sit under him as judges .
they deny him justice .
which means she to deceive , father or mother ?
i cannot hide what i am : i must be sad when i have cause , and smile at no
good sister , wrong me not , nor wrong yourself , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
txt gives way to us-i much fear .
by mine honour , if i were but two hours younger , i ' d beat thee .
i should sin to think but nobly of my grandmother : page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
their children rawly left .
again ; but those that understood him smiled at one another and shook their heads ; but for mine own
no sound , no word ?
' tis well thou art not fish ; if thou hadst , thou hadst been poor-john .
peace .
he would have deserved it : sixpence a day in pyramus , or nothing .
high above our heads .
is this the man that you did tell us of ?
a foolish gentleman pompey , a clown and servant to mistress overdone abhorson , an executioner barnardine , a dissolute
come , good my lord .
my shroud of white , stuck all with yew , o , prepare it !
who is to be buried in ' t ?
i am a soldier and now bound to france .
stars shot madly from their spheres to hear the sea-maid ' s music .
say ' ay ' and be the captain of us all .
if arguing make us sweat , the proof of it will turn to redder drops .
scene _num_ the house of antipholus of ephesus enter adriana , wife to antipholus of ephesus , with luciana ,
let me speak , sir , for heaven now bids me ; and the words i utter page _num_ complete
is there a maid with child by him ?
these eyes are not the same i wore in rome .
if we should fail ?
therefore thy threat ' ning colours now wind up and tame the savage spirit of wild war , that ,
o , my lord posthumus !
i know thou dost but jest : he and his lady both are at the lodge upon the north side
what power is it which mounts my love so high , that makes me see , and cannot feed mine
yet give leave , my lord , that we may bring you something on the way .
that love i begg ' d for you he begg ' d of me .
, which she must dote on in extremity .
seest thou this sweet sight ?
and mine shall .
though in this city he hath widowed and unchilded many a one , which to this hour bewail the injury
fie , savage , fie !
that ' sort ' was well fish ' d for .
and if we meet , we shall not scape a brawl , for now , these hot days , is
while !
dishonour undergo , while i sit lazy by .
nay , then you lie ; it is the blessed sun .
why is rumour here ?
enter one with letters .
doublet will sully .
gladly , my lord .
the air hath got into my deadly wounds , and much effuse of blood doth make me faint .
the man is , notwithstanding , sufficient .
since i saw you last there is a change upon you .
wherefore , on a brick wall have i climb ' d into this garden , to see if i can
tailor .
rail thou in fulvia ' s phrase , and taunt my faults with such full licence as both truth and
' tis certain , greatness , once fall ' n out with fortune , must fall out with men too
this , and all else this talking lord can lay upon my credit , i answer is most false .
methinks your looks are sad , your cheer appall ' d .
art thou thus bolden ' d , man , by thy distress ?
the head and shoulders , and have given ourselves without scruple to hell , that ever the devil could have
when i have laid proud athens on a heap- timon .
before the palace enter old queen margaret queen margaret .
more blessed hap did ne ' er befall our state .
that cannot be ; since i am still possess ' d of those effects for which i did the murther-
no , my love , i should not mourn , but die for thee .
a bad world , i say .
nothing neither way .
didst thou not hear a noise ?
there ' s a letter for you , sir , - it comes from th ' ambassador that was bound
; and this they con perfectly in the phrase of war , which they trick up with new-tuned oaths ;
hear me , beatrice !
, and has been slave to thousands ; but he that filches from me my good name robs me of
i ' ll be with her by and by ; i ' ll but bring my young man here to
[aside to ariel] my ariel , chick , that is thy charge .
s breast ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
that it may be to-day read o ' er in paul ' s .
tongue ?
well , let them rest .
what dost thou wrap and fumble in thy arms ?
or spend a minute ' s time in pruning me ?
to bear ' em the back is sacrifice to th ' load .
, though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down , though castles topple on their warders ' heads ,
proud northern lord , clifford of cumberland , warwick is hoarse with calling thee to arms .
gentles , perchance you wonder at this show ; but wonder on , till truth make all things plain .
thus may we gather honey from the weed , and make a moral of the devil himself .
tush , man , mortal men , mortal men .
feet i kneel , with tears of joy shed on this earth for thy return to rome .
my affairs are servanted to others .
right , you say true : as hereford ' s love , so his ; as theirs , so mine
madam , it will not lie where it concerns , unless it have a false interpreter .
' to silvia ' !
txt vincentio .
transported with no worse nor better guard but with a knave of common hire , a gondolier , to the
to solemnize this day the glorious sun stays in his course and plays the alchemist , turning with splendour of
he ' s a good fellow , i can tell you that .
exit bardolph ford .
mine such as fill my heart with unhop ' d joys .
it is meat and drink to me to see a clown .
be clamorous and leap all civil bounds , rather than make unprofited return .
[he descends .
our scouts have found the adventure very easy ; that as ulysses and stout diomede with sleight and manhood stole
love me , and reward me for making him egregiously an ass and practicing upon his peace and quiet even
and i may say to you we knew where the bona-robas were , and had the best of them all
' king-t ' appoint who should attend on him ?
enter silvius and phebe page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
kissing .
hark , tranio , thou mayst hear minerva speak !
with thee .
mine- being the very fellow which of late display ' d so saucily against your highness- having more man than
on pain of torture , from those bloody hands throw your mistempered weapons to the ground and hear the sentence
no , but he ' s out a tune thus .
why , then you must .
exit guardsman hast thou the pretty worm of nilus there that kills and pains not ?
er seen but wond ' red at ; and so my state , seldom but sumptuous , show ' d
s , thy god ' s , and truth ' s ; then , if thou fall ' st ,
thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud , and after summer evermore succeeds barren winter , with his wrathful
how now , poet !
my master said that he was , and that the king was an usurper .
txt brutus .
[roaring] o- [thisby runs off] demetrius .
courtiers as free , as debonair , unarm ' d , as bending angels ; that ' s their fame
she alone knew this ; and but she spoke it dying , i would not believe her lips in opening
his grace says that which his flesh rebels against .
king (in which your pain that way , i ' ll this) , he that first lights on him holla
thus from my lips , by thine my sin is purg ' d .
why went you not with master doctor , maid ?
amity : octavia is of a holy , cold , and still conversation .
lo , she is one of this confederacy !
turn ' d her to foreign casualties , gave her dear rights to his dog-hearted daughters- these things sting his
where did you find it then ?
open these dead men ' s tombs .
my queen and son are gone to france for aid ; and , as i hear , the great commanding
in happy time , here comes the duke himself .
the senators with one consent of love entreat thee back to athens , who have thought on special dignities ,
what there is else , keep close ; we ' ll read it at more advantage .
ply desdemona well , and you are sure on ' t .
rebukeable , and worthy shameful check it were , to stand on more mechanic compliment ; i ' ll leave
need , you may be armed and appointed well .
txt lady in the world .
signior lucentio , here is my hand , and here i firmly vow never to woo her more , but
billows by the top , curling their monstrous heads , and hanging them with deafing clamour in the slippery clouds
wife , we scarce thought us blest that god had lent us but this only child ; but now i
orsino , this is that antonio that took the phoenix and her fraught from candy ; and this is he
the issue of his mother ' s body and makes her pew-fellow with others ' moan !
sweet sir , sit ; i ' ll be with you anon ; most sweet sir , sit .
well , i ' ll have her ; an if it be a match , as nothing is impossible- speed
why , you were with him , were you not ?
the first i warrant thee , if dreams prove true .
thou ' rt like to have a lullaby too rough ; i never saw the heavens so dim by day
behold , i have a weapon ; a better never did itself sustain upon a soldier ' s thigh .
my lord , you do me shameful injury falsely to draw me in these vile suspects .
my heart this covenant makes , my hand thus seals it .
thou hast one son ; for his sake pity me , lest in revenge thereof , sith god is just
a sullen bell , rememb ' red tolling a departing friend .
ay , kennel , puddle , sink , whose filth and dirt troubles the silver spring where england drinks ;
what , art thou drawn among these heartless hinds ?
now , in good time , here comes the duke of york .
txt by william shakespeare dramatis personae theseus , duke of athens egeus , father to hermia lysander , in love
it is shame , by my hand ; and there is throats to be cut , and works to be
york .
i ' faith , i love thee .
thus stands it with me : upon a true contract i got possession of julietta ' s bed .
nay , dry your eyes .
a present sum ; therefore go forth , try what my credit can in venice do ; that shall be
with him , half my care and duty .
my gracious lord , retire to killingworth until a power be rais ' d to put them down .
it hath been prophesied to me many years , i should not die but in jerusalem ; which vainly i
it cannot be , my lord .
the jail .
txt a woman ' s face with nature ' s own hand painted , hast thou the master mistress of
he hath .
commend the parts and graces of the wrestler that did but lately foil the sinewy charles ; and she believes
himself , she is too mean to have her name repeated ; all her deserving is a reserved honesty ,
my mother bows , as if olympus to a molehill should in supplication nod ; and my young boy hath
through athens i am thought as fair as she .
no , in truth .
still be kind , and eke out our performance with your mind .
two fair babes , a dream of what thou wast , a garish flag to be the aim of every
do you hear , masters ?
good sir , i do in friendship counsel you to leave this place .
briefly , i dwell by the capitol .
now let us understand .
far-off shore where he would tread , wishing his foot were equal with his eye ; and chides the sea
the quality of mercy is not strain ' d ; it droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven upon the
exit helena oberon .
s name : but now is black beauty ' s successive heir , and beauty slandered with a bastard shame
signior antonio ?
shake it off .
o god , i fear all will be overturn ' d .
yet is no dearer in my account .
no , no ; when fortune means to men most good , she looks upon them with a threat '
exit moth .
then enter titus and hortensius first varro ' s servant .
thou know ' st that all my fortunes are at sea ; neither have i money nor commodity to raise
[drum afar off] hark !
the expedition of my violent love outrun the pauser reason .
i am sure on ' t , not a word .
blow of it .
that i would visit you , who grieves much for your weakness , and by me sends you his princely
throw physic to the dogs , i ' ll none of it .
alive again ?
borachio one .
o let me true in love but truly write , and then believe me , my love is as fair
did romeo ' s hand shed tybalt ' s blood ?
, i would have him poisoned with a pot of ale .
master gower , shall i entreat you with me to dinner ?
death for death !
this pert berowne was out of count ' nance quite .
i ' ll make the best in gloucestershire know on ' t ; would i were hang ' d ,
will it never be day ?
i thank you , gentle servant .
another part of the plain enter hector hector .
who wrongs him ?
how is it that the clouds still hang on you ?
some get within him , take his sword away ; bind dromio too , and bear them to my house
' and , for my heart disdained that my tongue should so profane the word , that taught me craft
in my mouth .
when i know the gentleman , i ' ll tell him what you say .
rude hand .
txt suppers , and sleeping hours , excepted .
useth it .
let me unkiss the oath ' twixt thee and me ; and yet not so , for with a kiss
let us sway on and face them in the field .
your time .
as a rich legacy unto their issue .
voice of slaves to be whoop ' d out of rome .
you are well met , sir .
and fire will burn ; ergo , light wenches will burn .
so it appears by that i have to say .
alas , sweet wife , my honour is at pawn ; and but my going nothing can redeem it .
that the tongues of men are full of deceits ?
nay , i ' ll tickle ye for a young prince , i ' faith .
here in the tent .
[awaking] yes , sir , to milford haven .
he pieces out his wife ' s inclination ; he gives her folly motion and advantage ; and now she
o me , lieutenant !
half the heart of caesar , worthy maecenas !
make of them .
i have seen the day that with this little arm and this good sword i have made my way through
well , god give thee the spirit of persuasion and him the ears of profiting , that what thou speakest
have .
wishing clocks more swift ; hours , minutes ; noon , midnight ?
it hath happen ' d all as i would have had it , save that he comes not along with
liv ' st .
look as hollow as a ghost , as dim and meagre as an ague ' s fit ; and so
' i have sworn ' t .
believe me , queen , your swarth cimmerian doth make your honour of his body ' s hue , spotted
- o , a root !
say that i linger ' d with you at your shop to see the making of her carcanet , and
you always end with a jade ' s trick .
blood hath been shed ere now , i ' the olden time , ere humane statute purged the gentle weal
how prove you that , in the great heap of your knowledge ?
but not kiss ' d your keeper ' s daughter .
and i for my escape have put on his ; for in a quarrel since i came ashore i kill
txt which i have wond ' red at .
master , knock the door hard .
bold your highness cannot deny ; he hath done no briton harm though he have serv ' d a roman
but found no cure , the bath for my help lies , where cupid got new fire ; my mistress
my heart is wondrous light , since this same wayward girl is so reclaim ' d .
we are haunted .
what comfort to this great decay may come shall be applied .
i hate it as an unfill ' d can .
but to the brightest beams distracted clouds give way ; so stand thou forth ; page _num_ complete works of
they fell on ; i made good my place .
at the twelvemonth ' s end i ' ll change my black gown for a faithful friend .
think of me as you please .
o proud death , what feast is toward in thine eternal cell that thou so many princes at a shot
upon the stroke of ten .
exit enter a priest priest .
with horror , madly dying , like her life ; which , being cruel to the world , concluded most
since then hath made between them .
you swore to that , berowne , and to the rest .
comfort him .
katherine , alice , and other ladies ; the duke of burgundy , and his train king henry .
[aside to macbeth .
i thank thee , jew , for teaching me that word .
mine eyes are full of tears ; i cannot see .
what , are there no posts dispatch ' d for ireland ?
it is a mind that shall remain a poison where it is , not poison any further .
your grace shall pardon me , i will not back : i am too high-born to be propertied , to
poor tom , thy horn is dry .
look to your house , your daughter , and your bags !
break not your sleeps for that .
txt true that thou art beauteous ; truth itself that thou art lovely .
let us kill him , and we ' ll have corn at our own price .
thou wouldst have him be !
your brother is but young and tender ; and , for your love , i would be loath to foil
i am a woeful suitor to your honour , please but your honour hear me .
by my trot , dere is no duke that the court is know to come ; i tell you for
your name from hence immortal life shall have , though i (once gone) to all the world must die ,
you might have spoken a thousand things that would have done the time more benefit , and grac ' d
hither have they sent it for her ransom .
good my lord , bid him welcome .
supply , flatt ' ring himself in project of a power much smaller than the smallest of his thoughts ;
hold , sir .
and fells the hardest-timber ' d oak .
their eyes , villain , their eyes .
my sickness grows upon me .
, the eyes (fore duteous) now converted are from his low tract and look another way : so thou ,
we here receive it , a certainty , vouch ' d from our cousin austria , with caution , that
one his purple blood right well resembles ; the other his pale cheeks , methinks , presenteth .
o , ' tis the sun that maketh all things shine !
who should withhold me ?
have not your worship a wart above your eye ?
follow me close , for i will speak to them .
as to rejoice at friends but newly found .
most eloquent music .
by your patience , i needs must rest me .
o dieu vivant !
i will tell her , sir , that you do protest , which , as i take it , is
of earth entomb , when living light should kiss it ?
the learned pate ducks to the golden fool .
shall i , for lucre of the rest unvanquish ' d , detract so much from that prerogative as to
i ' ll tell thee , diomed , this brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head .
enter [paris ' s] boy and watch .
he shall be thrown down the tarpeian rock with rigorous hands ; he hath resisted law , and therefore law
thou wretch , despite o ' erwhelm thee !
sir , it is the king ' s most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulate the princess at her pavilion
exit sebastian .
they march about the stage .
- my love to thee is sound , sans crack or flaw .
offer ' d by a child to an old man ; which is wit-old .
my letter for the purpose ; where , if thou fear to strike , and to make me certain it
and fix ' d his eyes upon you ?
' paulina .
second a villain and a murderer ?
[aside to poins] prithee let him alone .
my throat of war be turn ' d , which quier ' d with my drum , into a pipe
madam , the lady valeria is come to visit you .
she ' s a beagle true-bred , and one that adores me .
disguise of love .
certain it is that he will steal himself into a man ' s favour , and for a week escape
, who heaven it self for ornament doth use , and every fair with his fair doth rehearse , making
flatterers ?
exit servant leading hortensio carrying the lute and lucentio with the books we will go walk a little in the
your provost knows the place where he abides , and he may fetch him .
and does he send to me ?
' tis plate of rare device , and jewels of rich and exquisite form , their values great ; and
that prevail ' d .
where we may rest ourselves and feed .
his heart ' s his mouth ; what his breast forges , that his tongue must vent ; and ,
enter suffolk and queen first petitioner .
have given him for a favour may haply purchase him a box o ' th ' ear .
a fair name .
so had you need ; i scarce can speak to thank you for myself .
well , bring our lady hither to our sight ; and once again , a pot o ' th '
do it , england ; for like the hectic in my blood he rages , and thou must cure me
' item : she will often praise her liquor .
farewell , kind master .
why then , how stands the matter with them ?
she is the weeping welkin , i the earth ; then must my sea be moved with her sighs ;
[aside] i had forgot that foul conspiracy of the beast caliban and his confederates against my life ; the minute
for bounty , that makes gods , does still mar men .
he that died a wednesday .
his name and credit shall you undertake , and in my house you shall be friendly lodg ' d ;
three all ready .
to a render where we have liv ' d , and so extort from ' s that which we have
the boar ' s head tavern .
thou poisonous slave , got by the devil himself upon thy wicked dam , come forth !
o , good madam , there can be none yet .
so stood the state when henry the sixth was crown ' d in paris but at nine months old .
enter robert faulconbridge and philip , his bastard brother what men are you ?
but a strain of rareness ; and i grieve myself to think , when thou shalt be disedg ' d
why , so he doth , when he delivers you from this earth ' s thraldom to the joys of
the field of battle alarum .
not so , my lord .
their trenches driven , and then i came away .
dear earth , i do salute thee with my hand , though rebels wound thee with their horses ' hoofs
and yet the eighth appears , who bears a glass which shows me many more ; and some i see
me dead ; for now i stand as one upon a rock , environ ' d with a wilderness of
your grace is noble .
no , believe me .
take time to pause ; and by the next new moon- the sealing-day betwixt my love and me for everlasting
shall the son of england prove a thief and take purses ?
way have you look ' d for master caius , that calls himself doctor of physic ?
leave me , iago .
spout , rain !
, between the promise of his greener days and these he masters now .
pleaseth your lordship to meet his grace just distance ' tween our armies ?
why , hark you !
why , madam , that is to the isle of man , there to be us ' d according to
o , out of that ' no hope ' what great hope have you !
some one hath set you on ; confess the truth , and say by whose advice thou cam ' st
i would i could have spoken with the woman herself ; i had other things to have spoken with her
seen .
wars .
in darkness , rain , and cold .
and prompt me , plain and holy innocence !
would he were fatter !
are you so brave ?
my ears have yet not drunk a hundred words of that tongue ' s utterance , yet i know the
' montgomery .
txt hither , spirit ; set caliban and his companions free ; untie the spell .
no , no , my heart will burst , an if i speak- and i will speak , that so
well , i guess the sequel ; and yet i will not name it- and yet i care not .
his daughter ; till , from one sign of dolour to another , she did with an ' alas !
realm of france ?
here will we sit and let the sounds of music creep in our ears ; soft stillness and the night
broke out to acquaint you with this evil , that you might the better arm you to the sudden time
pardon , pardon !
how does your mistress ?
no ; god forbid your grace should be forsworn .
speak not in spite , for you shall sup with jesu christ to-night .
what , all amort ?
but as for caesar , kneel down , kneel down , and wonder .
to play the broker in mine own behalf ; and to that end i shortly mind to leave you .
flavius , steward to timon flaminius lucilius servilius timon ' s servants caphis philotus titus hortensius servants to timon '
nut-hook , nut-hook , you lie .
menenius , you are known well enough too .
but outside ; these pencill ' d figures are even such as they give out .
but , how now , sir john hume !
what ransom must i pay ?
and others agamemnon .
you must no more .
why , yet thy scandal were not wip ' d away , but i in danger for the breach of
and yet he ' ll be crowing as if he had writ man ever since his father was a bachelor
would say in plain terms , gone to heaven .
and you this glove .
what is thy sentence , then , but speechless death , which robs my tongue from breathing native breath ?
you , diana , under my poor instructions yet must suffer something in my behalf .
let ' s see ; i think ' tis now some seven o ' clock , and well we may
cannot choose but branch now .
ay , much is the force of heaven-bred poesy .
in law , what plea so tainted and corrupt but , being season ' d with a gracious voice ,
come on , we ' ll visit caliban , my slave , who never yields us kind answer .
what , canst thou say all this and never blush ?
how meanest thou ?
it is , i would not wed her for a mine of gold .
withdraw yourselves , and leave us here alone .
what , art thou stiff ?
live thou , i live .
, on the start , can woman me unto ' t .
it is too true an evil : gone she is , and what ' s to come of my despised
will he woo her ?
you but dally .
] ' doubt thou the stars are fire ; doubt that the sun doth move ; page _num_ complete works
renowned prince , how shall poor henry live unless thou rescue him from foul despair ?
before the tent of achilles enter achilles and patroclus achilles .
o sun , burn the great sphere thou mov ' st in !
ay , ay ; farewell .
corners thrown .
the first inter ' gatory that my nerissa shall be sworn on is , whether till the next night she
i knew what you would prove ; my friends told me as much , and i thought no less .
transform me , then , and to your pow ' r i ' ll yield .
if it assume my noble father ' s person , i ' ll speak to it , though hell itself
shall i live on to see this bastard kneel and call me father ?
ring clock : my thoughts are minutes ; and with sighs they jar their watches on unto mine eyes ,
friar , where ' s the provost ?
in an invisible baldrick , all women shall pardon me .
davy !
shall i speak a word in your ear ?
since birth and heaven and earth , all three do meet in thee at once ; which thou at once
pray , let ' s see these four threes of herdsmen .
[reads] ' against the duke of suffolk , for enclosing the commons of melford .
txt repair there to me .
you are a great deal abus ' d in too bold a persuasion , and i doubt not you sustain
note this before my notes : there ' s not a note of mine that ' s worth the noting
will you hear the letter ?
exit an alarum ; excursions .
that would i know too .
the safer sense will ne ' er accommodate his master thus .
for us , we will consider of this further ; to-morrow shall you bear our full intent back to our
i was promis ' d them against the feast ; but they come not too late now .
o dearest soul , your cause doth strike my heart with pity that doth make me sick !
truly , the tree yields bad fruit .
else sorel ; the people fall a-hooting .
txt but in despair die under the black weight .
no , i warrant you , he will not hear of godliness .
ready , my lord .
brother page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
come , poor babe .
honest ?
not so well as plain dealing , which will not cost a man a doit .
freedom , high-day !
lead .
my liege , they are not yet come back .
hast thou denied thyself a faulconbridge ?
here ' tis , most reverend doctor ; here it is .
what error leads must err ; o , then conclude , minds sway ' d by eyes are full of
when i spoke that , i was ill-temper ' d too .
' s youngest daughter .
their sense thus weak , lost with their fears thus strong , made senseless things begin to do them wrong
old man , tenant to gloucester .
, which i have bettered rather than decreas ' d .
if that his majesty would aught with us , we shall express our duty in his eye ; and let
y ' have heard that i have gold ; i am sure you have .
therefore be abhorr ' d all feasts , societies , and throngs of men !
to england will i steal , and there i ' ll steal ; and patches will i get unto these
go , you that banish ' d him : a mile before his tent fall down , and knee the
i thee , my earth , and do thee favours with my royal hands .
come all his forces back ?
only an animal , only sensible in the duller parts ; and such barren plants are set before us that
more measure of this measure ; be not nice .
quality after them , to suffer all alike .
pattern , though devis ' d and play ' d to take spectators ; for behold me- a fellow of
he has our voices , sir .
n !
exeunt [all but albany and edgar] .
i will not break it .
txt to-night- are those stars or suns upon it ?
my mind is chang ' d .
shall i say ' tis so ?
these times of woe afford no tune to woo .
judgment !
but , beseech your grace , be plainer with me ; let me know my trespass by its own visage
, the banquet vanishes ariel .
but go with speed to some forlorn and naked hermitage , remote from all the pleasures of the world ;
o god ' s lady dear !
this wretch hath part confess ' d his villainy .
marry , and shall , and very willingly .
to disturb him .
why , a thing to thank god on .
pray heaven the king may never find a heart with less allegiance in it !
where ' s hector ?
neither latin , french , nor italian , and you will come into the court and swear that i have
my mind gave me , in seeking tales and informations against this man-whose honesty the devil and his disciples only
a sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch , past speaking of in a king !
leave , gentle wax ; and , manners , blame us not .
i would be loath to cast away my speech ; for , besides that it is excellently well penn '
that he was never trained up in arms .
, lieutenants , gentlemen of companies- slaves as ragged as lazarus in the painted cloth , where the glutton '
thou losest labor .
let ' s stand close , and behold him .
thy juliet is alive , for whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead .
what did he when thou saw ' st him ?
what ' s this ?
have you make-a de sot of us , ha , ha ?
send thither to see .
do you hear , monsieur ?
thou hast appointed justices of peace , to call poor men before them about matters they were not able to
he is my very good friend , and an honourable gentleman .
nor i no strength to climb without thy help .
even so lies she , blubb ' ring and weeping , weeping and blubbering .
yet , coming from him , that great med ' cine hath with his tinct gilded thee .
i bring thee tidings of the prince ' s doom .
' twas from the canon .
o rome , i make thee promise , if the redress will follow , thou receivest thy full petition at
too early i attended a youthful suit- it was to gain my grace- o , one by nature ' s
' tis he , that villain romeo .
no , the world must be peopled .
of danger and reproof .
had it pleased heaven to try me with affliction , had they rain ' d all kinds of sores and
o master , master , have watch ' d so long that i am dog-weary ; but at last i
o my son , what theme ?
music i ' th ' air .
some twenty years .
and wishes are all i can return .
fellow , be gone : i cannot brook thy sight ; this news hath made thee a most ugly man
then , if angels fight , weak men must fall ; for heaven still guards the right .
contagious clouds of heady murder , spoil , and villainy .
' tis strange to think how much king john hath lost in this which he accounts so clearly won .
my blood , i must have done no less with wit and safety .
take the mountain pine and make him stoop to th ' vale .
enter the boy with a linstock salisbury .
thou old unhappy traitor , briefly thyself remember .
harmful slumber , the mortal worm might make the sleep eternal .
thou saidst but two even now .
bring me to the test , and i the matter will reword ; which madness would gambol from .
shall we not see these daughters and these sisters ?
she does so take on with her men ; they mistook their erection .
what am i , sir ?
she never told her love , but let concealment , like a worm i ' th ' bud , feed
this love that thou hast shown doth add more grief to too much of mine own .
nay , we will slink away in suppertime , disguise us at my lodging , and return all in an
it to her acceptance : you have let him go and nothing marted with him .
and what say you to this ?
sir john affects thy wife .
d some never-heard-of torturing pain for them .
what ' s yours ?
truly , for mine own part i would little or nothing with you .
to earth , some of us never shall a second time do such a courtesy .
purblind eye may find it out .
her banks to hear the replication of your sounds made in her concave shores ?
by heaven , i will , or let me lose the fashion of a man !
take thou this vial , being then in bed , and this distilled liquor drink thou off ; when presently
sweet sir andrew !
dido and her aeneas shall want troops , and all the haunt be ours .
a word , lucilius , how he received you .
if the encounter acknowledge itself hereafter , it may compel him to her recompense ; and here , by this
part no other but what comes from myself , it shall scarce boot me to say ' not guilty .
how think you of it ?
my lady charg ' d my duty in this business .
follow thy drum ; with man ' s blood paint the ground , gules , gules .
no tales .
narrow lands ; a hound that runs counter , and yet draws dry-foot well ; one that , before the
i speak it before his face , if he be not page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
ah , why should wrath be mute and fury dumb ?
i thank you for your pains .
if the tagrag people did not clap him and hiss him according as he pleased and displeased them , as
as would take in some virtue .
i shall remember this bold language .
what is your name , friend ?
be pitiful to my condemned sons , whose souls are not corrupted as ' tis thought .
enter the king , northumberland , worcester , hotspur , sir walter blunt , with others .
she did betray me to my own reproof .
and substance that i have .
the love of wicked men converts to fear ; that fear to hate ; and hate turns one or both
and is this all ?
good morrow , sweet hal .
signior baptista , my business asketh haste , and every day i cannot come to woo .
, tying her duty , beauty , wit , and fortunes in an extravagant and wheeling stranger of here and
enter benedick [unmasked] .
caesar ' sister is call ' d octavia .
that ' s the next to do .
alas , poor lady , desolate and left !
look whe ' er he have not crown ' d dead cassius !
bear thee hence to mantua .
show me one scar character ' d on thy skin : men ' s flesh preserv ' d so whole
flesh and blood , you , brother mine , that entertain ' d ambition , expell ' d remorse and
o , courage , courage , courage , princes !
young man , have you challeng ' d charles the wrestler ?
body is , and live no more to shame nor me , nor you .
can he vent trinculos ?
make that thy question , and go rot !
but with my breath i can revive it , boy .
but this eternal blazon must not be to ears of flesh and blood .
' claud .
come , let us go .
even she , i mean .
corruption in the place !
, let the botcher mend him .
: to vow , and swear , and superpraise my parts , when i am sure you hate me with
fat falstaff hath a great scene .
that i do love to spite a raven ' s heart within a dove .
valentine ?
do they hold the same estimation they did when i was in the city ?
by my count , i was your mother much upon these years that you are now a maid .
it is more worthy to leap in ourselves than tarry till they push us .
red , no sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall to make this contract grow ; but barren hate ,
' s resort thither .
and that , my lord , i shall be loath to do : ' tis an ill office for a
why seek ' st thou to possess me with these fears ?
dost thou deny thy father , cursed drab ?
i saw him yesterday , or t ' other day , or then , or then , with such or
- heard in genoa .
i have heard it over , and it is nothing , nothing in the world ; unless you can find
in the presence of thy corse ?
, or carv ' d to thee .
let floods o ' erswell , and fiends for food howl on !
eat a crocodile ?
if you find a man there , he shall die a flea ' s death .
object .
stands not in such warlike brace , but altogether lacks the abilities that rhodes is dress ' d in .
what say ' st thou , trot ?
to kill him , clitus .
were not you , then , as cruel as the sentence page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he childed as i fathered !
alack , for youth unmeet , youth so apt to pluck a sweet .
good king , that must approve the common saw , thou out of heaven ' s benediction com ' st
at commandment .
[snatching up his sword] then death rock me asleep , abridge my doleful days !
do , good my friend .
honest man , wait like a lousy footboy at chamber door ?
let ' s exchange charity .
if so thou think ' st , vex him with eager words .
and speak parrot ?
enter edward , running edward .
not one of those but had a noble father .
far off methinks i hear the beaten drum .
orsino !
why do you rate my lord of suffolk thus ?
we do .
] the watch dogs bark .
of all the four , or the three , or the two , or one of the four .
i am sure he is in the fleet .
the gods !
not i ; unless the breath of heartsick groans , mist-like infold me from the search of eyes .
enter a messenger how now ?
you charge me that i have blown this coal : i do deny it .
here cease more questions ; thou art inclin ' d to sleep ; ' tis a good dullness , and
i ' ll give thrice so much land to any well-deserving friend ; but in the way of bargain ,
these are my mates , that make their wills their law , have some unhappy passenger in chase .
better than remuneration ; a ' leven-pence farthing better ; most sweet gardon !
enter touchstone and audrey jaques .
they say many young gentlemen flock to him every day , and fleet the time carelessly , as they did
cleomenes , dion .
by the queen , devis ' d impeachments to imprison him .
hang thee , monster !
within corioli .
give him tending ; he brings great news .
away , and mock the time with fairest show : false face must hide what the false heart doth know
indirect attempts he seek the life of any citizen , the party ' gainst the which he doth contrive shall
so call it ; but it does fulfil my vow : i needs must think it honesty .
i give thee thy liberty , set thee from durance ; and , in lieu thereof , impose on thee
east to west and cull their flower , ajax shall cope the best .
he is the half part of a blessed man , left to be finished by such as she ; and
make her their boots .
well , i ' ll hear it , sir ; yet you must not think to fob off our disgrace
' tis like she comes to speak of cassio ' s death .
you call honourable boldness impudent sauciness ; if a man will make curtsy and say nothing , he is virtuous
if that an eye may profit by a tongue , then should i know you by description- such garments ,
to be pardoned , am content withal .
his counsel .
if he see me , you shall see him nod at me .
have i not tarried ?
ever god bless your highness !
so , let me hear you speak .
i will bethink me .
in this offense , though he had twinn ' d with me , both at a birth , shall lose
by the rector of the place .
holy gonzalo , honourable man , mine eyes , ev ' n sociable to the show of thine , fall
txt something of me , or what concerns me ; pray you- since doubting things go ill often hurts more
i was forbid it .
belmont .
exit re-enter three of the citizens coriolanus .
look in your glass and there appears a face , that over-goes my blunt invention quite , dulling my lines
why , then the world ' s mine oyster .
loves i prize as the dead carcasses of unburied men that do corrupt my air- i banish you .
be better supplied when i have made it empty .
that they- menenius .
what some ' er he is , he ' s bravely taken here .
cried game !
so shall this lady , when she has so much english .
i found him under a tree , like a dropp ' d acorn .
deal of old iron i chose forth .
what shall become of me ?
ay , ay , a scratch , a scratch .
so doth the swan her downy cygnets save , keeping them prisoner underneath her wings .
hold , my hand .
is she at home ?
dromio , go bid the servants spread for dinner .
take him away , and behead him .
cloven chin- cressida .
] what can man ' s wisdom in the restoring his bereaved sense ?
he would put us two .
thou art very trinculo indeed !
re-enter macbeth and lennox , with ross .
o , if you but knew how you the purpose cherish , whiles thus you mock it !
that ' s on some shallow story of deep love : how young leander cross ' d the hellespont .
i ' ll speak to thee in silence .
i know not what the success will be , my lord , but the attempt i vow .
and pease ; thy turfy mountains , where live nibbling sheep , and flat meads thatch ' d with stover
self-drawing web , ' a gives us note the force of his own merit makes his way- a gift that
what , with me too , thersites ?
be so equal that your love can equally move with them .
there lies the duke asleep ; and there the keys .
even for that i thank you .
' then asks bohemia forgiveness ; then embraces his son-in-law ; then again worries he his daughter with clipping her
why , so i do , the noblest that i have .
flourish the deceit .
and spit and , with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget , shake in and out the rivet .
enter brutus , lucilius , lucius , and soldiers ; titinius and pindarus meet them .
to-day , to-day , unhappy day , too late , o ' erthrows thy joys , friends , fortune ,
o , what more favour can i do to thee than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
i know you do not love me ; for your sisters have , as i do remember , done me
but meet him now and be it in the morn , when every one will give the time of day
octavia .
, if he be so , his conceit is false .
ah , no more of that , hal , an thou lovest me !
an ' twere dark , you ' d close sooner .
i protest i love thee .
use well our father .
flight cannot stain the honour you have won ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
life must end .
rome ' s emperor , and nephew , break the parle ; these quarrels must be quietly debated .
the reason that i gather he is mad , besides this present instance of his rage , is a mad
there ' s not a nobler man in rome than antony .
and more unlikely than to accomplish twenty golden crowns .
against them both , my true joints bended be .
what new alarum is this same ?
sir , you speak a language that i understand not .
is love a generation of vipers ?
prince bassianus , leave to plead my deeds .
come , go ; i will fall prostrate at his feet , and never rise until my tears and prayers
with valor the melting spirits of women , then , countrymen , what need we any spur but our own
see for the news .
our hate .
for i would not speak with him till after dinner .
i am glad to see your ladyship .
do so .
ay , and it doth confirm another stain , as big as hell can hold , were there no more
what ' s thy passion ?
it may be you have heard it ; but , since it serves my purpose , i will venture to
who brought that letter from the cardinal ?
clock ' s behalf .
under king harry .
o , there has been much throwing about of brains .
were ' t not for laughing , i should pity him .
[going .
i wish him joy of her .
i have a kind of alacrity in sinking ; if the bottom were as deep as hell i should down
nay , mark how lewis stamps as he were nettled .
they heard .
at last , with easy roads , he came to leicester , lodg ' d in the abbey ; where
thou hast painfully discover ' d ; are his files as full as thy report ?
and you , my lords , farewell ; share the advice betwixt you ; if both gain all , the
her husband , sirrah ?
it may be so , my lord .
they are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that .
what an ass it is !
glendower , whose daughter , as we hear , the earl of march hath lately married .
how cam ' st thou in this pickle ?
my lord , he doth deny to come .
peace , i pray you .
i pity you .
] marg .
i am confident .
my duty will i boast of , nothing else .
good word nor look .
as hotly and as nobly with thy love as ever in ambitious strength i did contend against thy valour .
i am sorry , sir , that i have hind ' red you ; but i protest he had the
tell him , in hope he ' ll prove a widower shortly , i ' ll wear the willow-garland for
it must be your imagination then , and not theirs .
what flaying , boiling in leads or oils ?
[drawing] villain , i ' ll make thee safe .
was promised before i drew this gallant head of war , and cull ' d these fiery spirits from the
then , warwick , thus : our sister shall be edward ' s .
he takes up hotspur on his hack .
i afeard of him !
' item : she hath a sweet mouth .
what wilt thou tell her , nurse ?
a foe to tyrants , and my country ' s friend .
shall not stay alone till holy church incorporate two in one .
sorrow that i know thee well for our proud empress , mighty tamora .
enter buckingham buckingham .
see whether their basest metal be not moved ; they vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness .
revolt , to make only my wars with him .
thee very grievously .
the night to th ' owl and morn to th ' lark less welcome .
may be he will not touch young arthur ' s life , but hold himself safe in his prisonment .
eyes without feeling , feeling without sight , ears without hands or eyes , smelling sans all , or but
and yet no matter- why should we go in ?
methinks , mistress , you should have little reason for that .
show your sheep-biting face , and be hang ' d an hour !
pardon him , sweet timandra , for his wits are drown ' d and lost in his calamities .
is not the humour conceited ?
' d in the colors of their trade , their daggers unmannerly breech ' d with gore .
you are manifest housekeepers .
so jest with heaven , make such unconstant children of ourselves , as now again to snatch our palm from
o , pardonnez-moi !
; i must employ him in a letter to my love .
near birnam wood shall we well meet them ; that way are they coming .
as you and lord ]eneas consent upon the order of their fight , so be it ; either to the
what is dictynna ?
your edgar ?
that ever death should let life bear his name , where life hath no more interest but to breathe !
[here they shoot and salisbury and gargrave fall down] salisbury .
nay , rather let me have it , as you are a false thief .
on this stage , where we offend her now , appear soul-vex ' d , and begin ' why to
exit armado .
i ' ll undertake ' t ; i think he ' ll hear me .
i will prove it legitimate , sir , upon the oaths of judgment and reason .
have let off the danger to itself ?
' what many men desire- that ' many ' may be meant by the fool multitude , that choose by
enter a nobleman nobleman .
you are too absolute ; though therein you can never be too noble but when extremities speak .
by heaven , i would most gladly have forgot it .
ay , dread queen .
th ' uncivil kerns of ireland are in arms and temper clay with blood of englishmen ; to ireland will
and one that is as slanderous as satan ?
or else you would not have bestow ' d the heir of the lord bonville on your new wife '
that edward is escaped from your brother and fled , as he hears since , to burgundy .
, and still enjoy thy regal dignity .
what sayest thou to this ?
where is the fellow ?
at last- if promise last- i got a promise of this fair one here to have her love , provided
baby daughter to be or none or little , though a devil would have shed water out of fire ere
see , they have shut him in .
sons , to whom i sued for my dear son ' s life ; and make them know what '
way .
; and throw foul linen upon him , as if it were going to bucking , or-it is whiting-time-send him
more water glideth by the mill than wots the miller of ; and easy it is of a cut loaf
enter warwick and gloucester warwick .
welcome , sir diomed !
sir , the duke is marvellous little beholding to your reports ; but the best is , he lives not
killing , worth castle sound trumpets .
all rites that appertain unto a burial .
, he ' ll break ' t himself in vainglory .
remember , jove , thou wast a bull for thy europa ; love set on thy horns .
some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme .
house of signior baptista minola ?
equally .
ay , and wisely too , for ' twould have anger ' d any heart alive to hear the men
his majesty , tend ' ring my person ' s safety , hath appointed this conduct to convey me to
i say again , in soothing them we nourish ' gainst our senate the cockle of rebellion , insolence ,
the duke of somerset .
i have , my lord ; and their intent is this : they humbly sue unto your excellence to have
i am now of all humours that have showed themselves humours since the old days of goodman adam to the
to-morrow , before the sun shall see ' s , we ' ll spill the blood that has to-day escap
antipholus of syracuse .
and come with naked swords .
clapping their hands , and crying with loud voice ' jesu maintain your royal excellence !
i will none but hector .
if any spark of life be yet remaining , down , down to hell ; and say i sent thee
i do serve you in this business .
griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast , which thou wilt propagate , to have it prest with
with die and drab i purchas ' d this caparison ; and my revenue is the silly-cheat .
i know so .
in the delaying death .
how now , master ford !
let why gentle peace should not expel these inconveniences and bless us with her former qualities .
you have not given him his mother ' s letter ?
' and with that word she struck me on the head , and through the instrument my pate made way
from all dishonesty he can : in this , unless he take the course that you have done- commit me
o most pernicious woman !
a plain in syria enter ventidius , as it were in triumph , with silius and other romans , officers
how is ' t with you , best brother ?
, these , and those that were thy peach-colour ' d ones- or to bear the inventory of thy shirts-
it fits us therefore ripely our chariots and our horsemen be in readiness .
take thy fortune .
en his oath , and comes to his election presently .
re-enter cleomenes , with florizel , perdita , and attendants they are come .
i do affect a sorrow indeed , but i have it too .
athens sent their ships fraught with the ministers and instruments of cruel war .
ourself will mingle with society and play the humble host .
nor in thine , lord .
we will fetch thee straight adonis painted by a running brook , and cytherea all in sedges hid , which
ay , and the captain of his horse , count rousillon .
not say if th ' importance were joy or sorrow- but in the extremity of the one it must needs
keep a gamester from the dice , and a good student from his book , and it is wonderful .
stuff will not endure .
where you make abode ; but darkness and the gloomy shade of death environ you , till mischief and despair
[to austria] sirrah , were i at home , at your den , sirrah , with your lioness , i
keep in that mind ; i ' ll deserve it .
he did ask favour .
let ' s meet him and receive him .
- welcome , good friends .
may not an ass know when the cart draws the horse ?
now your traveller , he and his toothpick at my worship ' s mess- and when my knightly stomach is
stark , as you see ; thus smiling , as some fly had tickled slumber , not as death '
challenge me the count ' s youth to fight with him ; hurt him in eleven places .
poor tom , that eats the swimming frog , the toad , the todpole , the wall-newt and the water
some villain , ay , and singular in his art , hath done you both this cursed injury .
why , say they are vile and false ; as where ' s that palace whereinto foul things sometimes intrude
the beholders take his part with weeping .
as weeds before a vessel under sail , so men obey ' d and fell below his stem .
to the boy caesar send this grizzled head , and he will fill thy wishes to the brim with principalities
wrinkled brow an age of poverty ; from which ling ' ring penance of such misery doth she cut me
then i must be thy lady ; but i know when thou hast stolen away from fairy land , and
i know my uncle york hath power enough to serve our turn .
o , what a deal of scorn looks beautiful in the contempt and anger of his lip !
i should so .
come on , my lords , the better foot before ; straight will i bring you to the loathsome pit
ay ; prithee , sing .
dost thou , or dost thou not , heaven ' s curse upon thee !
, and nothing can or shall content my soul till i am even ' d with him , wife for
, as any mother ' s child , though not so bright as those gold candles fixed in heaven '
d , to the majestic cedar join ' d , whose issue promises britain peace and plenty .
dear particular .
my father at the road expects my coming , there to see me shipp ' d .
before timon ' s house enter flavius , timon ' s steward , with many bills in his hand flavius
i ' ll none of it ; hence !
now , captain ?
my prime request , which i do last pronounce , is , o you wonder !
a flourish of trumpets , and two pieces go off .
on the walls pucelle .
exeunt salerio and solanio gratiano .
justified by us , a pair of kings .
txt hath motion , and mine eye may be deceived .
monsieur le fer .
i will lay trust upon thee , and thou shalt find a dearer father in my love .
you may go so far .
if she should break it now !
flaminius .
i live , into your guiding power .
what you have done hath not offended me .
nay , that ' s not your way .
beshrew the witch !
now thou art come unto a feast of death , a terrible and unavoided danger ; therefore , dear boy
a whoreson cold , sir , a cough , sir , which i caught with ringing in the king '
d in a pale clear-shining sky .
great and increasing ; but by sea he is an absolute master .
i am the shadow of poor buckingham , whose figure even this instant cloud puts on by dark ' ning
and kill ' d .
why , then , let kibes ensue .
why , how now , cousin ?
in second voice we ' ll not be satisfied ; we come to speak with him .
to hit their lives .
a beast : not that , i being a beast , she would have me ; but that she ,
you ' ll find it otherwise , i assure you ; therefore , if you hold your life at any
do these justs and triumphs hold ?
tybalt , mercutio , the prince expressly hath forbid this bandying in verona streets .
arrest them to the answer of the law ; and god acquit them of their practices !
for shame , be friends , and join for that you jar .
what ' s the matter , you dissentious rogues that , rubbing the poor itch of your opinion , make
fare ye well ; thou hast years upon thee , and thou art too full of the wars ' surfeits
' i was one , sir , in this interlude- one sir topas , sir ; but that ' s
crowns , i am content he shall reign ; but i ' ll be protector over him .
mind , care of your food and living ; and believe it , my most honour ' d lord ,
the king and commonweal are deeply indebted for this piece of pains ; my lord protector will , i doubt
no cause !
a plague upon it !
hang her an epitaph upon her tomb , and sing it to her bones--sing it to-night .
o spirit of love , how quick and fresh art thou !
loins .
flourish and march .
are you the butcher , suffolk ?
i , that censure him , do so offend , let mine own judgment pattern out my death , and
then you conclude , my grandam , he is dead .
enter demetrius , helena following him demetrius .
brave world !
what lord talbot pleaseth burgundy .
in their fears , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter don pedro , claudio , benedick , balthasar , and john the bastard .
i shall be sav ' d by my husband ; he hath made me a christian .
he cannot want the best that shall attend his love .
look what a wardrobe here is for thee !
but whate ' er you are that in this desert inaccessible , under the shade of melancholy boughs , lose
an if she do , i would i were an eunuch .
exit diomedes .
enter cinna the poet .
' tis right .
txt and many unrough youths that even now protest their first of manhood .
exit french soldier i did never know so full a voice issue from so empty a heart ; but the
fast as york ; and never will i rise up from the ground till bolingbroke have pardon ' d thee
truth is , that fulvia , to have me out of egypt , made wars here ; for which myself
there ' s dolabella sent from caesar ; call him .
now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made ; now shall he try his friends that flatter ' d
of that fatal country sicilia , prithee , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
thou art not conquer ' d .
wilt take thy chance with me ?
ercome you with her show ; and in time , when she had fitted you with her craft , to
the other , walter whitmore , is thy share .
i say she ' s dead ; i ' ll swear ' t .
friend , cleitus .
cozen ' d of that true hand that fought rome ' s quarrel out and sent her enemies unto the
exeunt guard dercetas .
so he unsay it now .
so few should fetch the prince .
[reads] ' ask me no reason why i love you ; for though love use reason for his precisian ,
why , so he did , i am sure .
the platform before the castle .
who overcame he ?
i am thoroughly weary .
why , but he is not in this tune , is he ?
' ulysses .
yet see , when these so noble benefits shall prove not well dispos ' d , the mind growing once
go you and prepare aliena ; for , look you , here comes my rosalind .
and i do with an eye of love requite her .
lechery !
passage where thy words should enter .
tell me this : who begot thee ?
my blood in rome ' s great quarrel shed , for all the frosty nights that i have watch '
o , had the monster seen those lily hands tremble like aspen leaves upon a lute and make the silken
james , there ' s toys abroad-anon i ' ll tell thee more .
i ' ll rather kill myself .
servants attending on baptista and petruchio scene : padua , and petruchio ' s house in the country sc_ _num_
a witty mother !
o sweet portia , here are a few of the unpleasant ' st words that ever blotted paper !
padua affords nothing but what is kind .
her mother hath many times told me so .
ah , york , no man alive so fain as i !
fill , lucius , till the wine o ' erswell the cup ; i cannot drink too much of brutus
sir john hangs with me , and thou knowest he is no starveling .
took deep scars to save thy life ; even for the blood that then i lost for thee , now
txt to have his title live in aquitaine ; which we much rather had depart withal , and have the
advertisement is five days old .
how easy dost thou take all england up !
sir , if you ' d save your life , fly to your house .
of the same house publius and quintus were , that our best water brought by conduits hither ; and censorinus
i cheer ' d them up with justice of our cause , with promise of high pay and great rewards
the ripe revenue and due of birth , yet so much is my poverty of spirit , so mighty and
titus andronicus , my lord the emperor sends thee this word , that , if thou love thy sons ,
sir christopher , tell richmond this from me : that in the sty of the most deadly boar my son
, duke of york ; the sixth was thomas of woodstock , duke of gloucester ; william of windsor was
sister wanton .
vat is in my closet ?
do you like this haste ?
' a shot a fine shoot .
they sit conferring by the parlour fire .
will not compare with an old man .
there is one goat for you .
made good the passage , cried to those that fled ' our britain ' s harts die flying , not
traitors , avaunt !
lincoln .
to-morrow or next day they will be here .
i would ' twere bedtime , hal , and all well .
exit here a dance of twelve satyrs polixenes .
married her ; the very head and front of my offending hath this extent , no more .
they have pitch ' d a toil : i am tolling in a pitch- pitch that defiles .
that keep ' st the ports of slumber open wide to many a watchful night !
rude tongue sound this unpleasing news ?
and art thou living , stephano ?
d robin goodfellow .
a pepper box .
their native lords !
wither ; i ' ll smell it on the tree .
ll fashion him .
yet , for all this , say not that percy ' s dead .
just remove ; the people muddied , thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers for good polonius '
breathing here , which now , two tender bedfellows for dust , thy broken faith hath made the prey for
white-handed mistress , one sweet word with thee .
have you got leave to go to shrift to-day ?
ill blows the wind that profits nobody .
but where ' s my fool ?
txt thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life .
poictiers , and all that we upon this side the sea- except this city now by us besieg ' d-
did- beggar the estimation which you priz ' d richer than sea and land ?
you come with letters against the king , and take vanity the puppet ' s part against the royalty of
my sword is drawn .
cause to prick us to redress ?
king , and seeing ignorance is the curse of god , knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven ,
i did .
drew on me here again .
once more adieu .
very true , sir ; he , sir , he ; that ' s the rogue that put me into
eyes of fire sparkling through sights of steel , and the loud trumpet blowing them together- then , then ,
swounded and fell down at it .
the marshal and the archbishop are strong .
france ; rather , lost more .
peace , peace , mercutio , peace !
what hast thou there ?
you have .
for his father ' s sake , henry the fifth , in whose time boys went to span-counter for french
by my soul , nor i !
' tis his own blame ; hath put himself from rest and must needs taste his folly .
be stirring as the time ; be fire with fire ; threaten the threat ' ner , and outface the
say either , and i ' ll stay the circumstance .
the justice and the truth o ' th ' question carries the due o ' th ' verdict with it
why , true ; he means to make a puppet of thee .
to have a foolish wife .
' world as great sicilius ' heir .
o , let her live , and i ' ll corrupt her manners , stain her beauty , page _num_
wherein thou art less happy being fear ' d than they in fearing .
shall i produce the men ?
i do not understand .
antonio shall become bound- well .
there is a mystery-with whom relation durst never meddle-in the soul of state , which hath an operation more divine
they shout for joy .
have i not in my time heard lions roar ?
' d as he was born .
ladders , ho !
wars is not kept : if you would take the pains but to examine the wars of pompey the great
o fie !
sowter will cry upon ' t for all this , though it be as rank as a fox .
any appearance of fear , lest he , by showing it , should dishearten his army .
he followed you ; for love i followed him ; but he hath chid me hence , and threat '
both defy , not wond ' ring at the present , nor the past , for thy records , and
with little cost ; another would fly swift , but wanteth wings ; a third thinks , without expense at
yet better thus , and known to be contemn ' d , than still contemn ' d and flatter '
may be he has paid you more , which will shame you to give him again .
one- two -why then ' tis time to do ' t .
i know the man .
the humour of it is too hot ; that is the very plain-song of it .
launcelot ' or ' good gobbo ' or ' good launcelot gobbo , use your legs , take the start
i had a pass with him , rapier , scabbard , and all , and he gives me the stuck
truce unto my wars to do my duty to my sovereign ; in sign whereof , this arm that hath
- yea , will you come , doll ?
duke of alencon , this was your default that , being captain of the watch to-night , did look no
i am no thing to thank god on , i would thou shouldst know it !
bring him through the bands .
what cares these roarers for the name of king ?
is sailing in this salt flood ; the winds , thy sighs , who , raging with thy tears and
what dogs are these ?
so did he never the sparrow .
his mean ' st garment that ever hath but clipp ' d his body is dearer in my respect than
' d , away to-night .
for when fools shall- enter pisanio who is here ?
ll not be perjur ' d ; ' tis a hateful thing ; tush , none but minstrels like of
txt uncharitably with me have you dealt , and shamefully my hopes by you are butcher ' d .
nay , then , the wanton lies ; my face is black .
i fear ' d he did but trifle and meant to wrack thee ; but beshrew my jealousy !
have with you , prince .
the fearful passage of their death-mark ' d love , and the continuance of their parents ' rage , which
thy intention stabs the centre .
my breast i ' ll burst with straining of my courage .
' how shall she know my griefs ?
come to me at your convenient leisure , and you shall page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
has censur ' d him already , and , as i hear , the provost hath a warrant for his
i will not say how true- but to himself so secret and so close , so far from sounding and
it be with caesar .
that he is old (the more the pity) his white hairs do witness it ; but that he is (saving
the time inviting thee ?
be obtained by the manner of my father ' s will .
' there is a word will priam turn to stone ; make wells and niobes of the maids and wives
of westminster lord marshal page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
nay , i ' ll ne ' er believe a madman till i see his brains .
master hume , we are therefore provided ; will her ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms ?
from thy walks and in my tongue , thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell , lest i (too
follow me , then , to plainer ground .
by wailing them .
was that might rightly say , ' veni , vidi , vici ' ; which to annothanize in the vulgar
nor white , had stol ' n of both , and to his robbery had annexed thy breath , but
: but thou contracted to thine own bright eyes , feed ' st thy light ' s flame with self-substantial
the sea whose envious gulf did swallow up his life .
alack , i have no eyes !
anon , good nurse !
and i can cut the mutton to ' t .
- be jolly , lords .
speak freely , syracusian , what thou wilt .
, and jumps upon join ' d-stools , and swears with a good grace , and wears his boots very
the forlorn soldier , that so nobly fought , he would have well becom ' d this place and grac
what the devil art thou ?
shall be found an ass .
what out of this , my lord ?
too curst is more than curst .
let this fellow be nothing of our strife ; if we contend , out of our question wipe him .
' d me to leave my base vocation and free my country from calamity her aid she promis ' d
i did very well note him .
as true as steel , as plantage to the moon , as sun to day , as turtle to her
yet she must die , else she ' ll betray more men .
wherefore i humbly beseech you , sir , to spare me till i may be by my friends in spain
his vices , you would say ; there ' s no virtue whipt out of the court .
what treasure , uncle ?
did not i tell you ?
it was , so please your highness .
and , sweetest , fairest , as i my poor self did exchange for you , to your so infinite
well , here he comes .
he that is giddy thinks the world turns round .
for as it would ill become me to be vain , indiscreet , or a fool , so , were
villain , where is thy lady ?
damn her , lewd minx !
for , being transported by my jealousies to bloody thoughts and to revenge , i chose camillo for the minister
if study ' s gain be thus , and this be so , study knows that which yet it doth
these tears are my sweet rutland ' s obsequies ; and every drop cries vengeance for his death ' gainst
, and tell them there thy fixed foot shall grow till thou have audience .
two hot sheeps , marry !
that i ask again , for nothing can be ill if she be well .
taste .
would serve to scale another hero ' s tow ' r , so bold leander would adventure it .
but my muse labors , and thus she is deliver ' d .
thou art not ignorant what dear good will i bear unto the banish ' d valentine ; nor how my
the glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy particular prosperity , and love thee no worse than thy old
since maids , in modesty , say ' no ' to that which they would have the profferer construe '
i have already delivered him letters , and there appears much joy in him ; even so much that joy
the third , he bids you then resign your crown and kingdom , indirectly held from him , the native
to an ox , were nothing : he is both ox and ass .
the earth hath bubbles as the water has , and these are of them .
exeunt rosalind and celia duke senior .
shave the head and tie the beard ; and say it was the desire of the penitent to be so
the duke of lancaster and westmoreland ; against the welsh , himself and harry monmouth ; but who is substituted
and place here in vienna , and he supposes me travell ' d to poland ; for so i have
he says so , tranio .
live loath ' d and long , most smiling , smooth , detested parasites , courteous destroyers , affable wolves
all sorts enchantingly beloved ; and , indeed , so much in the heart of the world , and especially
enter tybalt and others .
we can .
o , i am undone !
then his good report should have been my son ; i therein would have found issue .
for this time will i take my leave , my lord .
another alarum .
eye ?
ay , thou unreverend boy , sir robert ' s son !
exeunt against the town all but bedford and attendants an alarum ; excursions .
my bed shall be abus ' d , my coffers ransack ' d , my reputation gnawn at ; and
txt boyet .
more concerns the turk than rhodes , so may he with more facile question bear it , for that it
ah , my lavinia , i will wipe thy cheeks .
an excellent musician , and her hair shall be of what colour it please god .
a dangerous rhyme , master , against the reason of white and red .
of argument .
i tell you , friends , most charitable care have the patricians of you .
go , go , good countrymen , and , for this fault , assemble all the poor men of your
a hail , caesar !
there i deny my land service .
mistress ford ; come , mistress ford- quickly .
and of the heat of the ginger .
a brave fellow !
o , he would miss it rather than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him and
who is he whose chin is but enrich ' d with one appearing hair that will not follow these cull
hearts of most hard temper melt and lament for her .
that was he that fed him with his prophecies ?
while they weigh so even , we hold our town for neither , yet for both .
to bind me , or undo me--one of them .
and master slender ' s your master ?
my father ' s goods are all distrain ' d and sold ; and these and all are all amiss
, to take their rooms ere i can place myself .
, deiphobus , antenor , diomedes the grecian , and others , with torches paris .
or strange , or self-affected .
' tis strange that death should sing .
and friend of caesar , a triumvir after his death lepidus , third member of the triumvirate marcus brutus ,
his delights were dolphin-like : they show ' d his back above the element they liv ' d in .
weigh it but with the grossness of this age , you break not sanctuary in seizing him .
be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn ' d , bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts
give me my horse and be hang ' d !
where do you dwell ?
this your son-in-law , and son unto the king , whom heavens directing , is troth-plight to your daughter .
death make me revenger .
all ' s well .
who ' s there , ha ?
gentle , hear me : none about caesar trust but proculeius .
' tis no matter ; let it go ; there ' s few or none will entertain it .
foolish knight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer .
i cannot hate thee worser than i do if thou again say ' yes .
now , cinna ; now , metellus ; what , trebonius , i have an hour ' s talk in
the palace sennet .
thus the mortimers , in whom the title rested , were suppress ' d .
but here an angel in a golden bed lies all within .
but she loves you ?
agamemnon , thou great commander , nerve and bone of greece , heart of our numbers , soul and only
it was mine art , when i arriv ' d and heard thee , that made gape the pine ,
much danger do i undergo for thee .
[strikes him] orlando .
he hath given his empire up to a whore , who now are levying the kings o ' th '
the holding or loss of that you term her frail .
to-morrow may it please you to be crown ' d ?
' d my choughs from the chaff , i had not left a purse alive in the whole army .
in ' s wits .
you have no reason .
soldiers can .
what , if i had said i had seen him do you wrong ?
either the cardinal or some about him near have , out of malice to the good queen , possess '
of his keeper ' s arms , even so my limbs , weak ' ned with grief , being now
, but , as it seems , did violence on herself .
there is seward ' s son page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
berowne did swear himself out of all suit .
rough and rugged , like to the summer ' s corn by tempest lodged .
now , youthful troilus , do not these high strains of divination in our sister work some touches of remorse
mine eyes do itch ; doth that bode weeping ?
[york occupies the throne] flourish .
' tis no sin for a man to labour in his vocation .
ay , noble titus , and resolv ' d withal to do myself this reason and this right .
sink for food .
how now , boy !
light boats sail swift , though greater hulks draw deep .
i pray you tell my lord and father , madam , i will not marry yet ; and when i
[reading the ballad title] ' a showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor .
i have a fine hawk for the bush .
which terms he us ' d his lavish tongue and did upbraid me with my father ' s death ;
slaves , vapours , and minute-lacks !
rowland ' s youngest son ?
urge them while their souls are capable of this ambition , lest zeal , now melted by the windy breath
is most mockable at the court .
i ' ll lengthen it with mine ; and having both together heav ' d it up , we '
i may say " thrusting " it , for piercing steel and darts envenomed shall be as welcome to the
who commands them , sir ?
shall i not find a woodcock too ?
sir pierce of exton , who lately came from the king , commands the contrary .
hem !
guards of the ever-fixed pole .
why , rude companion , whatsoe ' er thou be , i know thee not ; why then should i
if my augury deceive me not , witness good bringing up , fortune , and truth ; therefore , know
here come the lovers , full of joy and mirth .
sirrah , what say you ?
vere is mine host de jarteer ?
o , but she ' ll keep her word .
pray you , let us in .
fool , fool !
your son and daughter found this trespass worth the shame which here it suffers .
my heart- poins .
at a game of tick-tack .
and tell me now , sweet friend , what happy gale blows you to padua here from old verona ?
not that we love words better , as you do .
i muse my lord of gloucester is not come .
d at me , now scorn ' d of me ; for she being fear ' d of all ,
show your knave ' s visage , with a pox to you !
could not breed no contendon with him ; but i will be so bold as to wear it in my
this is old .
pine , and supplicant their sighs to your extend , to leave the batt ' ry that you make '
it is not politic in the commonwealth of nature to preserve virginity .
my face is but a moon , and clouded too .
i ' ll hold thee any wager , when we are both accoutred like young men , i ' ll
my mistress here lies murther ' d in her bed- all .
what hope is there of his majesty ' s amendment ?
come you to me at night ; you shall know how i speed .
half stand laughing by , all out of work and cold for action !
i thank god , i thank god .
let him alone ; i ' ll follow him no more with bootless prayers .
i long that we were safe and sound aboard .
now thus it rests : her father means she shall be all in white ; and in that habit ,
by mars his gauntlet , thanks !
by this sword , he that makes the first thrust i ' ll kill him ; by this sword ,
o , these men , these men !
my discourse ; which i observing , took once a pliant hour , and found good means to draw from
then is he the ground of my defeatures .
enter marcus , from hunting marcus .
i said the deer was not a haud credo ; ' twas a pricket .
now , brother king , farewell , and sit you fast , for i will hence to warwick ' s
a child .
let us into the city presently to sort some gentlemen well skill ' d in music .
why , then is my pump well-flower ' d .
indeed , sir , to my cost .
for though usurpers sway the rule a while yet heav ' ns are just , and time suppresseth wrongs .
with thy tongue , and with thy weapon nothing dar ' st perform .
this visitation is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose .
you have my consent .
can my tongue unload my heart ' s great burden , for self-same wind that i should speak withal is
be brief , my good she- mercury .
they went hence so soon as they were born .
[exeunt other servants .
declare thine office .
i would have stay ' d till i had made you merry , if worthier friends had not prevented me
some tender money to me , some invite me , some other give me thanks for kindnesses , some offer
do you go back dismay ' d ?
my mother stays .
very well , my lord , very well .
fancy not the cardinal , yet must we join with him and with the lords , till we have brought
my lord , there is a messenger from rome desires to be admitted to your presence .
to have their balmy slumbers waked with strife .
was agamemmon ' s brother wrong ' d by that false woman as this king by thee .
" ' this will i send ; and something else more plain that shall express my true love ' s
you faint , as fearing to do so , stay and be secret , and myself will go .
you fillip me o ' th ' head .
must i go show them my unbarb ' d sconce ?
then i ' ll go fetch an axe .
what , not an oath ?
ancient .
a man were curs ' d i cannot tell what to think on ' t .
the first , of gold , who this inscription bears : ' who chooseth me shall gain what many men
the alps and apennines , the pyrenean and the river po- it draws toward supper in conclusion so .
the ingratitude of this seleucus does even make me wild .
he vanquisheth and disarmeth iachimo , and then leaves him iachimo .
yond same black cloud , yond huge one , looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor .
trembled and shook , for why he stamp ' d and swore as if the vicar meant to cozen him
if it confess a natural guiltiness such as is his , let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
i was then frugal of my mirth .
britaine , son of geffrey , late duke of britaine , the elder brother of king john earl of pembroke
gold , great anchors , heaps of pearl , inestimable stones , unvalued jewels , all scatt ' red in
the fatal followers do pursue , and i am faint and cannot fly their fury ; and were i strong
my very worthy cousin , fairly met !
then , heigh-ho , the holly !
enter king , queen , polonius , ophelia , rosencrantz , guildenstern , and lords .
what should it be , that they so shriek abroad ?
who are you ?
i thank thee , varrius ; thou hast made good haste .
how can that be ?
i fear , i fear- duchess .
a secure couch , and to suppose her chaste !
the duke of gloucester ' s house enter duke and his wife eleanor duchess .
fie , sirrah , a bawd , a wicked bawd !
high respect .
or an arm ?
wife , thou art a fool .
double and treble admonition , and still forfeit in the same kind !
long traded in it , makes it seem like rivers of remorse and innocency .
sir , i will walk here in the hall .
no exorciser harm thee !
i hope so .
ll do for you .
nor you , mistress , ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour to recompense your love .
o mistress ford , what have you done ?
this offer comes from mercy , not from fear ; for , lo !
i follow you .
what since thou swor ' st is sworn against thyself and may not be performed by thyself , for that
, he hath , like lean , sterile , and bare land , manured , husbanded , and till '
is not thy coming for my other hand ?
she ' s framed as fruitful as the free elements .
be then desir ' d by her that else will take the thing she begs a little to disquantity your
, that , if thou conquer rome , the benefit which thou shalt thereby reap is such a name whose
francis feeble !
to visit a son of mine , which long i have not seen .
let it not gall your patience , good iago , that i extend my manners ; ' tis my breeding
wit shall not go unrewarded while i am king of this country .
follow my voice ; we ' ll try no manhood here .
you may wear her in title yours ; but you know strange fowl light upon neighbouring ponds .
not one now , to mock your own grinning ?
to , to , to- clarence .
o , if thou wert the noblest of thy strain , young man , thou couldst not die more honorable
the ladies have prevail ' d , the volscians are dislodg ' d , and marcius gone .
i know your virtue hath a license in ' t , which seems a little fouler than it is ,
this shoulder was ordain ' d so thick to heave ; and heave it shall some weight or break my
oppose not scythia to ambitious rome .
i dare damnation .
it is my will ; the which if thou respect , show a fair presence and put off these frowns
over-blown , themselves the conquerors make war upon themselves-brother to brother , blood to blood , self against self .
paternal care , propinquity and property of blood , and as a stranger to my heart and me hold thee
o lord archbishop , thou hast made me now a man ; never before this happy child did i get
shine comforts from the east , that i may back to athens by daylight , from these that my poor
on my knees i beg that you ' ll vouchsafe me raiment , bed , and food .
at all .
stand ; or we are romans and will give you that , like beasts , which you shun beastly ,
" " caius ligarius , " " " decius brutus , " " " metellus cimber , " " "
i shall , my lord .
do , do , thou rogue !
alas , my lord , your wisdom is consumed in confidence .
behold where stands the usurper ' s cursed head .
certainly ; he flouted us downright .
like from him .
construe them .
i do hate a proud man as i do hate the engend ' ring of toads .
then , as she goes , what upward lies the street should see as she walk ' d overhead .
why , i can buy me twenty at any market .
iras .
and all this is ' long of you .
my holy lord of milan , from the king i come , to learn how you have dealt for him
[singing] be merry , be merry , my wife has all ; for women are shrews , both short and
not so , neither ; but if i were as wise as honest , then my purpose would prove well
o beauty , till now i never knew thee !
what belongs to reason , and canst use the time well , if the time use thee well .
ay my lord , so you will not o ' errule me to a peace .
yet , in a sort , lechery eats itself .
suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune or to take arms against a sea of troubles , and by
emperor .
othello ?
thou atomy , thou !
nothing but fair is that which you inherit .
here comes our general .
if you will come to me (for now i spy a danger) , i entreat you to bring but five-and-twenty
i think not of them ; yet , when we can entreat an hour to serve , we would spend
make them cool in zeal unto your grace .
they fight , and young seward is slain .
' at your whipping , and ' spare not me ' ?
[to lucentio] ' twas i won the wager , though you hit the white ; and being a winner ,
what need you tell me that ?
- still virginalling upon his palm ?
i do beseech you , madam , be content .
by gar , he is de coward jack priest of de world ; he is not show his face .
look , like drowned mice .
you the cause why i , that did love caesar when i struck him , have thus proceeded .
to his surname coriolanus ' longs more pride than pity to our prayers .
he rais ' d a sigh so piteous and profound as it did seem to shatter all his bulk and
welcome , brave captain and victorious lord !
is this the noble moor whom our full senate call all in all sufficient ?
sword out , my finger itches to make one .
how , how ?
shall die to want .
flavius .
o , stay but till then !
will you vouchsafe with me to change a word ?
, most certain to miseries enough ; no hope to help you , but as you shake off one to
everything is well .
[to duke] you to your former honour i bequeath ; your patience and your virtue well deserves it .
and , in some taste , is lepidus but so : he must be taught , and train ' d
i had rather have my horse to my mistress .
peace there !
ay , mistress bride , hath that awakened you ?
plague , plague !
[aside] well , i could reply : if we should serve with horse and mares together the horse were merely
i wish your worship well .
him that thou provok ' st thyself to cast him up .
peace , sister , peace .
if , as his nature is , he fall in rage with their refusal , both observe and answer the
fool , of thyself speak well .
branch in hewing rutland when his leaves put forth , but set his murd ' ring knife unto the root
to call me so .
let ' s be calm .
the one i ' ll slay , the other slayeth me .
i say , my lord , they have deserved death .
but though they jump not on a just account- as in these cases , where the aim reports , '
i have , my liege .
as the time , the place , and the condition of this country stands , i could heartily wish this
[juno and ceres whisper , and send iris on employment] prospero .
and dick the butcher- george .
i knew thou wouldst be his death !
lion vile with bloody mouth did stain .
txt i love thee not a jar o ' th ' clock behind what lady she her lord .
god ' s bodykins , man , much better !
' red or overthrow incurable ensues .
him thus .
pomfret castle .
but he ' s a learned man .
fitzwater .
you look pale to-day ; in sooth , i would you were a little sick , that i might sit
talk you of young master launcelot ?
take it , and do ' t ; and leave me for this time .
you nickname virtue : vice you should have spoke ; for virtue ' s office never breaks men ' s
do you ?
the duke yet would have dark deeds darkly answered ; he would never bring them to light .
and stand between her back , sir , and the fire , holding a trencher , jesting merrily ?
this letter is mistook ; it importeth none here .
it was wise nature ' s end in the donation , to be his evidence now .
marry , is ' t .
to tak ' t again perforce !
let me see what he writes , and when he means to come .
o insupportable and touching loss !
rais ' d only that the weaker sort may wish good marcius home again .
foolish wench !
ay , of a snail ; for though he comes slowly , he carries his house on his head- a
sir , let me speak with you in your chamber ; you shall hear how things go , and ,
d , with excellent endeavour of drinking good and good store of fertile sherris , that he is become very
what wouldst thou have , laertes ?
your grant or your denial shall be mine .
they are not sallet-herbs , you knave ; they are nose-herbs .
all for your delight we are not here .
- to the greedy touch of common-kissing titan , and forget your laboursome and dainty trims wherein you made great
and thou for a true prince .
that twofold balls and treble sceptres carry .
a health to all that shot and miss ' d .
[a noise again : ' stones !
o bottom , thou art chang ' d !
sure , and they indeed had no cause to mistrust ; but yet you see how soon the day o
nay , good my lord , be not afraid of shadows .
give me those flow ' rs there , dorcas .
; alas , fifteen wives is nothing ; a ' leven widows and nine maids is a simple coming-in for
some pigeons , davy , a couple of short-legg ' d hens , a joint of mutton , and any
it is my duty , sir .
txt the time is fair again .
, welcome .
queen marquis of dorset and lord grey , her sons earl of oxford lord hastings lord lovel lord stanley ,
ay , not mine own desire .
if the cause were not in being- part o ' th ' cause , she , th ' adultress ;
' d from tithing to tithing , and stock-punish ' d and imprison ' d ; who hath had three
sir , ancient pistol ' s below and would speak with you .
i would have had thee there , and here again , ere i can tell thee what thou shouldst do
yea , is the worst well ?
if this which he avouches does appear , there is nor flying hence nor tarrying here .
i ' ll lay my head to any good man ' s hat these oaths and laws will prove an
methinks i do .
now all ' s his .
folly , whose foundation is pil ' d upon his faith and will continue the standing of his body .
he hath ribbons of all the colours i ' th ' rainbow ; points , more than all the lawyers
the making of the cake , the heating of the oven , and the baking ; nay , you must
ay , that they do , my lord- hercules and his load too .
here is sir william lucy , who with me set from our o ' er-match ' d forces forth for
get you with him , you old dog .
retreat and flourish .
here a cry of hounds , and wind horns in a peal .
heart of thee .
she that is queen of tunis ; she that dwells ten leagues beyond man ' s life ; she that
or does he walk ?
royal queen !
we are denied access unto his person , even by those men that most have done us wrong .
txt our prayers to the gods , which is a comfort that all but we enjoy .
o , had it been a stranger , not my child , to smooth his fault i should have been
gallimaufry of gambols , because they are not in ' t ; but they themselves are o ' th '
whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave ?
the cause why i have brought this army hither is to remove proud somerset from the king , seditious to
convey unto our fearful minds a doubtful warrant of immediate death ; which though myself would gladly have embrac '
come , sir , arise , away !
some merry mocking lord , belike ; is ' t so ?
the english camp near bordeaux enter talbot and john his son talbot .
enter armado , for hector berowne .
quit thee .
thither macduff is gone to pray the holy king , upon his aid to wake northumberland and warlike siward ;
most gracious sir , in humblest manner i require your highness that it shall please you to declare in hearing
i ' ll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind ; and would my father had left me no more
from these our henry lineally descends .
did you see him ?
vell ?
have you no wit , manners , nor honesty , but to gabble like tinkers at this time of night
let ' s stay and hear the will .
what is there ?
methought i was- there is no man can tell what .
for bed ; and then , but now (as if some planet had unwitted men) , swords out , and
that is some good .
, or cuckoo birds do sing .
good troth , you do me wrong , good sooth , you do , in such disdainful manner me to
ocean of salt tears to tell my love unto his dumb deaf trunk ; and with my fingers feel his
so all hail , macbeth and banquo !
stand aside .
i do not know the french for fer , and ferret , and firk .
so farewell to the little good you bear me .
o noble emperor , do not fight by sea ; trust not to rotten planks .
i presume that , as my hand has open ' d bounty to you , my heart dropp ' d
disdain ' d ; and in this habit met i my father with his bleeding rings , their precious stones
be convented .
for ever and a day .
outside macbeth ' s castle .
that is now answer ' d .
some villain hath done me wrong .
well , how then ?
, and follow ' d with a rabble that rejoice to see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans .
i was advertis ' d their great general slept , whilst emulation in the army crept .
thou look ' st like him that knows a warlike charge .
had all the royal makings of a queen : as holy oil , edward confessor ' s crown , the
who ' s gone this morning ?
where ' er she did itch .
exeunt lucio and gentlemen mrs .
speak to be understood .
ay , but i hope your highness shall have his .
consumption catch thee !
o , je vous supplie , pour l ' amour de dieu , me pardonner !
let them kiss one another , for they lov ' d well when they were alive .
the great king of kings hath in the tables of his law commanded that thou shalt do no murder .
o , enforce it !
la main , de hand ; les doigts , de fingres .
foul whisperings are abroad .
servilius ?
that , of epidaurus this .
but i ' ll not chide thee .
way of blindness !
keep in tunis , and let sebastian wake .
i have not yet made known to mariana a word of this .
] " the poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree , sing all a green willow ; her hand
as the battles join ' d .
seeking sweet favours for this hateful fool , i did upbraid her and fall out with her .
but , soft , what nymphs are these ?
and keep the natural ruby of your cheeks when mine is blanch ' d with fear .
is caesar yet gone to the capitol ?
where is the gentle rivers , vaughan , grey ?
i thank thee .
first conspirator .
you shall never take her without her answer , unless you take her without her tongue .
the still and mental parts that do contrive how many hands shall strike when fitness calls them on , and
and god defend but still i should stand so , so long as out of limit and true rule you
_num_ not mine own fears , nor the prophetic soul , of the wide world , dreaming on things to
supply his life , or that which can command it .
farewell , sweet lord , and sister .
you know i am a woman , lacking wit to make a seemly answer to such persons .
he that sweetest rose will find must find love ' s prick and rosalinde .
i am your wife , if you will marry me ; if not , i ' ll die your maid
[a shout within] menenius .
txt enter a third messenger third messenger .
to quicken you ; the mathematics and the metaphysics , fall to them as you find your stomach serves you
so , lie thou there ; for underneath an alehouse ' paltry sign , the castle in saint albans ,
your will be done .
txt which we have not done neither ; that , i fear , all the expected good w ' are
i cannot give due action to my words except a sword or sceptre balance it .
is he gone and hath nothing ?
he did , and with an absolute " sir , not i , " the cloudy messenger turns me his
of yours , a grief that smites my very heart at root .
minds look after- a pestilent complete knave , and the woman hath found him already .
lascivious edward , and thou perjur ' d george , and thou misshapen dick , i tell ye all i
come , sing .
no , not a grize ; for ' tis a vulgar proof that very oft we pity enemies .
take you the lute , and you the set of books ; you shall go see your pupils presently .
go make you ready .
well aim ' d of such a young one .
my vex ' d spirits i cannot take a truce , but they will quake and tremble all this day
the queen ' s in labour , they say in great extremity , and fear ' d she ' ll
am betrayed by keeping company with men like you , men of inconstancy .
(rises) nurse- nurse .
his precious eye the meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold .
now expectation , tickling skittish spirits on one and other side , troyan and greek , sets all on hazard-and
it was , andronicus .
what , was i born to this , that my sad look should grace the triumph of great bolingbroke ?
satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death and sepulchre .
sir , you of troy , call you yourself aeneas ?
there is division (although as yet the face of it be cover ' d with mutual cunning) ' twixt albany
no way but gentleness- gently , gently .
ay , so you serve us till we serve you ; but when you have our roses you barely leave
and ' twere the cheaper way : better it were a brother died at once than that a sister ,
hath got his friend with child .
i pray you home to dinner with me .
i will after straight and tell him so ; for i will else my heart , albeit i make a
not be the last ; like silly beggars who , sitting in the stocks , refuge their shame , page
well met here .
- titles , for thyself ?
so you may put a man in your belly .
; so may you miss me ; but if you do , you ' ll make me wish a sin
i have a daughter , sir , call ' d katherina .
and as wicked as his wife ?
my lord of westmoreland , and uncle exeter , we will aboard to-night .
where ' s abhorson there ?
you will be welcome with this intelligence , nicanor .
as the other .
come , sir , now i am for you again .
enobarbus , welcome !
ry neptune , is now bound in with shame , with inky blots and rotten parchment bonds ; that england
a goodly portly man , i ' faith , and a corpulent ; of a cheerful look , a pleasing
fall ' n into the hands of one- as he thinks- the most brave , valorous , and thrice-worthy signieur
to be thus is nothing , but to be safely thus .
of thy worth gives thee releasing : my bonds in thee are all determinate .
cousin , stand forth , and look upon that man .
were my wife ' s liver infected as her life , she would not live the running of one glass
diest in thine unthankfulness , and thine ignorance makes thee away .
sort ; so thou the garland wear ' st successively .
enter biondello master , master !
i would thou hadst done so by claudio .
hence , saucy eunuch ; peace !
cordelia .
or else were this a savage spectacle .
because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to go to the ale with a christian .
' a was a merry man) took up the child .
what did you swear you would bestow on me ?
all wrong .
thou hast cast away thyself , being like thyself ; a madman so long , now a fool .
enter the king and butts at window above butts .
thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays ; thus eleanor ' s pride dies in her youngest days
o murtherous slumber , layest thou thy leaden mace upon my boy that plays thee music ?
native of our so frank donation .
' i fear he will indeed .
you here some month or two before you venture for me .
i would the milk thy mother gave thee when thou suck ' dst her breast had been a little ratsbane
' trust none ; for oaths are straws , men ' s faiths are wafer-cakes , and holdfast is the
first watchman .
i think crab my dog be the sourest-natured dog that lives : my mother weeping , my father wailing ,
think of that-that am as subject to heat as butter ; a man of continual dissolution and thaw .
it was great ignorance , gloucester ' s eyes being out , to let him live .
grumio , draw forth thy weapon ; we are beset with thieves ; rescue thy mistress , if thou be
here is the head of that ignoble traitor , the dangerous and unsuspected hastings .
when he opens his purse to give us our reward , thy conscience flies out .
writ be sued against you : to forfeit all your goods , lands , tenements , chattels , and whatsoever
farewell , good brother .
i thank you , hubert .
women- as i perceive by your simp ' ring none of you hates them- that between you and the women
god keep all vows unbroke are made to thee !
truly , she must be given , or the marriage is not lawful .
them a measure , and be gone .
sir toby will be sworn that i am no fox ; but he will not pass his word for twopence
we ' ll go to supper i ' th ' morning .
hal , wilt thou make one ?
be packing , therefore , thou that wast a knight ; henceforth we banish thee on pain of death .
is not your city strong ?
accost , sir andrew , accost .
o , yet i do repent me of my fury , that i did kill them .
good my lord , the reasons of our state i cannot yield , but like a common and an outward
o , yes , my lord , but very idle words ; for though you lay here in this goodly
would thus violently redress .
in the heaviness of sleep we put fresh garments on him .
art not ashamed ?
lovell !
yet he ' s gentle ; never school ' d and yet learned ; full of noble device ; of
desp ' rate , wild , and furious ; thy prime of manhood daring , bold , and venturous ;
where are they ?
how this grace speaks his own standing !
the garter inn enter falstaff and bardolph falstaff .
since that respects of fortune are his love , i shall not be his wife .
o coz , coz , coz , my pretty little coz , that thou didst know how many fathom deep
accursed tower !
sir , the king is a noble gentleman , and my familiar , i do assure ye , very good
cousin of york , we institute your grace to be our regent in these parts of france .
ay , for fault of a better .
let me shake thy hand .
so thy grand captain , antony , shall set thee on triumphant chariots and put garlands on thy head .
o , ' tis a verse in horace , i know it well ; i read it in the grammar
the count ' s palace flourish .
what , frighted with false fire ?
felt .
we are arrant knaves all ; believe none of us .
give him this money and these notes , reynaldo .
obscure and lowly swain , king henry ' s blood , the honourable blood of lancaster , must not be
come not near her .
this present hour , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my child , my only life !
] so , uncle , there you are .
how if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us ?
any thing .
as soon as done .
be patient ; to-morrow ' t shall be mended .
the main blaze of it is past , but a small thing would make it flame again ; for the
return , return , and make thy love amends .
then certifies your lordship that this night he dreamt the boar had razed off his helm .
exeunt guiderius and arviragus how hard it is to hide the sparks of nature !
o , serve me well , and teach yourselves that duty !
tweaks me by th ' nose ?
dead , dead ?
stones have been known to move and trees to speak ; augures and understood relations have by maggot pies and
o madam , yonder ' s my lord your son with a patch of velvet on ' s face ;
i know not , an ' t like you .
throng ' d to ?
with nought but truth .
arm , arm , you heavens , against these perjur ' d kings !
rome and her rats are at the point of battle ; the one side must have bale .
did you converse , sir , with this gentlewoman ?
sound , sound alarum ; we will rush on them .
i wish i had a cause to seek him there , to oppose his hatred fully .
it must be so ; for miracles are ceas ' d ; and therefore we must needs admit the means
' here follow her vices .
you wrong this presence ; therefore speak no more .
i am a poor man , and at your majesty ' s command .
what , what , ye sanguine , shallow-hearted boys !
this once , that france may get the field .
now proud as an enjoyer , and anon doubting the filching age will steal his treasure , now counting best
the pretty dimples of his chin and cheek ; his smiles ; the very mould and frame of hand ,
nay then , this spark will prove a raging fire , if wind and fuel be brought to feed it
a public place enter lucius , with three strangers lucius .
the scale do turn but in the estimation of a hair- thou diest , and all thy goods are confiscate
o , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
would the two princes lie ?
untalk ' d of and unseen .
ah , buckingham , now do i play the touch , to try if thou be current gold indeed .
enter the lords of the city lords .
i have been with your father , and given him notice that the duke of cornwall and regan his duchess
i ' ll tell you them all by their names as they pass by ; but mark troilus above the
no , they are both as whole as a fish .
ay , but not rough enough .
why , then , thou know ' st what colour jet is of ?
i am not of that feather to shake of my friend when he must need me .
three nights ago on goodwin sands ; this news was brought to richard but even now .
in my opinion yet thou seest not well .
many horrid ghosts .
are you well ?
madam , i am protector of the realm ; and at his pleasure will resign my place .
that the earl of richmond is with a mighty power landed at milford is colder tidings , yet they must
darted their desiring eyes upon his visage ; and that all the walls with painted imagery had said at once
knaves .
came this from hamlet to her ?
justice , sweet prince , against that woman there !
thus , after greeting , speaks the king of france in my behaviour to the majesty , the borrowed majesty
are wrinkled ; their eyes purging thick amber and plum-tree gum ; and that they have a plentiful lack of
a gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh , a boar spear in my hand ; and- in my heart lie there
lo , here is the chain .
' of gloucester ' s treachery and of the loyal service of his son when i inform ' d him
enter at a distance , host , and julia in boy ' s clothes host .
with her modern grace subdu ' d me to her rate .
not choose but fall ; and for his death no wind but even his mother shall uncharge the practice and
had not churchmen pray ' d , his thread of life had not so soon decay ' d .
believe me , noble lord , i am a stranger here in gloucestershire .
i have told more of you to myself than you can with modesty speak in your own behalf ; and
do you as i do in these dangerous days : wink at the duke of suffolk ' s insolence ,
- my lords , i thank you both for your good wins ; ye speak like honest men-pray god ye
cassio , walk hereabout .
to apprehend thus draws us a profit from all things we see , and often to our comfort shall we
no did he think it meet to lay so dangerous and dear a trust on any soul remov ' d
a gentlemanlike offer .
the tide of blood in me hath proudly flow ' d in vanity till now .
[aside to banquo] do you not hope your children shall be kings , when those that gave the thane of
we came to visit you , and purpose now to lead you to our court ; vouchsafe it then .
but down !
[he cuts their throats] so .
work her son into th ' adoption of the crown ; but failing of her end by his strange absence
marullus .
hark you , guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer !
where is malvolio ?
i fight against thee ?
of my own lord , who is lost too .
i came to serve a king and not a duke .
speak , captain , for his life , and i will thee requite .
all that dare look into these affairs see this main end- the french king ' s sister .
i know you are my eldest brother ; and in the gentle condition of blood , you should so know
, by heaven !
we ' ll have thee to a couch page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
how doth the king ?
i am no fighter .
way into his mercy .
[aside to sebastian] let it be to-night ; for , now they are oppress ' d with travel , they
the obsequies that i for thee will keep nightly shall be to strew , thy grave and weep .
duke of cornwall .
if the matter were good , my lord , i durst swear it were his ; but in respect of
thou dost me yet but little hurt ; thou wilt anon , i know it by thy trembling ; now
certain horse of my cousin vernon ' s are not yet come up .
txt when great things labouring perish in their birth .
as good a man as he , sir , whoe ' er i am .
a road near the shepherd ' s cottage enter autolycus , singing when daffodils begin to peer , with heigh
the same dead thing alive .
wilt thou serve me ?
said : as proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground ; and it
wherefore should i curse them ?
thou must .
my lord , the queen would speak with you , and presently .
which the base vulgar do call three .
cure .
then they could smile , and fawn upon his debts , and take down th ' int ' rest into
titus lartius writes they fought together , but aufidius got off .
now a little fire in a wild field were like an old lecher ' s heart- a small spark ,
o , sir , you are old !
big enough for the bed of ware in england , set ' em down ; go about it .
, as the case now stands , it is a curse he cannot be compell ' d to ' t-
so may he rest ; his faults lie gently on him !
a devil in an everlasting garment hath him ; one whose hard heart is button ' d up with steel
they have made worms ' meat of me .
which is he that killed the deer ?
i am not made of stones , but penetrable to your kind entreaties , albeit against my conscience and my
his sons , from forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame , deposing thee before thou wert possess
desire him to have borne his bruised helmet and his bended sword before him through the city .
' zounds , sir , you are one of those that will not serve god , if the devil bid
thou liest , most ignorant monster : i am in case to justle a constable .
come , away , away !
with him patroclus upon a lazy bed the livelong day breaks scurril jests ; and with ridiculous and awkward action-
the lily beds propos ' d for the deserver !
nay , good my lord ; for mine ease , in good faith .
' orlando .
the one and other diomed embraces .
mother ' s womb , full of unpleasing blots and sightless stains , lame , foolish , crooked , swart
a hell of ugly devils !
with his pencil and the painter with his nets ; but i am sent to find those persons whose names
honour .
yes , i beseech your grace ; i am not yet well breath ' d .
your suit ' s unprofitable ; stand up , i say .
chrysolite , i ' ld not have sold her for it .
as full of valour as of royal blood .
seemed to me but hope of orphans , and unfathered fruit , for summer and his pleasures wait on thee
bird of dawning singeth all night long ; and then , they say , no spirit dare stir abroad ,
enter pandulph and even there , methinks , an angel spake : look where the holy legate comes apace ,
, be it either which , - she ' s so conjunctive to my life and soul that , as
but out of question ' tis maria ' s hand .
hold your hand , my lord !
her hand , and exeunt .
not knowing what they fear , but full of fear ; and here ' s a prophet that i brought
nay , not so much , not two .
if that the dauphin there , thy princely son , can in this book of beauty read ' i love
what hour now ?
to boast how i do love thee , till then , not show my head where thou mayst prove me
the mistress of your charms , the close contriver of all harms , was never call ' d to bear
' red in errors , feeble , shallow , weak , the folded meaning of your words ' deceit .
' d ; and with another knot , five-finger-tied , the fractions of her faith , orts of her love
who goes farthest .
to bait fish withal .
the duke of suffolk is the first , and claims to be high steward ; next , the duke of
chief watch .
ho , ho , ho !
your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverent youth , and i praise god for you .
alas , poor ghost !
how near the tidings of our comfort is .
and these knaves honest .
gloucestershire .
' conscience , ' say i , (you counsel well .
what an eye she has !
set but thy foot against our rampir ' d gates and they shall ope , so thou wilt send thy
' ll my self disgrace , knowing thy will , i will acquaintance strangle and look strange : be absent
hapless valentine !
to silence that which , to the spire and top of praises vouch ' d , would seem but modest
march , afterwards king edward iv , his son edmund , earl of rutland , his son george , afterwards
murder , murder !
from silvius , sir .
exeunt in state , as before] brutus and sicinius come forward page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
a street enter the judges , tribunes , and senators , with titus ' two sons martius and quintus bound
leave me or tarry , edward will be king , and not be tied unto his brother ' s will
should entreat , am starv ' d for meat , giddy for lack of sleep ; with oaths kept waking
hence : some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds ; some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings ,
i am question ' d by my fears of what may chance or breed upon our absence , that may
how goes the field ?
[reads] the letter .
on pain to be found false and recreant , to prove the duke of norfolk , thomas mowbray , a
we do condemn thee to the very block where claudio stoop ' d to death , and with like haste
and i .
' haste still pays haste , and leisure answers leisure ; like doth quit like , and measure still for
he hath been a courtier , he swears .
master , shall i strike ?
is in his robes , burning , burning .
but to prove to you that helen loves troilus- cressida .
ay , and ' twere pity to sunder them that yoke so well together .
here , take you this .
with sobs that he would labour my delivery .
' n on th ' inventors ' heads .
why , lords , what wrongs are these !
ll breathe the welkin dim and stain the sun with fog , as sometime clouds when they do hug him
and she ' s fair i love .
what , four ?
be it his pleasure .
she is going , wench .
my lord , i long to hear it at full .
at last i left them i ' th ' filthy mantled pool beyond your cell , there dancing up to
dignities ; but out upon this half-fac ' d fellowship !
his son seyton , attendant to macbeth hecate , queen of the witches the three witches boy , son of
o , but her eye !
i have remov ' d falstaff ' s horse , and he frets like a gumm ' d velvet .
' st .
he that bereft thee , lady , of thy husband did it to help thee to a better husband .
dream ' d so , certain the daughter of a king , my drops of tears i ' ll turn
my head and my neck .
i had rather than forty shillings i had such a leg , and so sweet a breath to sing ,
nay , you must do it soon .
health , of his content ; yet not that we two are asunder- let that grieve him !
good brother , come you hither ; and bring aeneas and the grecian with you .
know you any , count ?
but let this same be presently perform ' d , even while men ' s minds are wild , lest
' sicinius .
indeed , i have had earnest ; but i cannot with conscience take it .
thank you , good pompey ; and , in requital of your prophecy , hark you : i advise you
great spirit flew .
provide us all things necessary and meet me to-night in eastcheap .
my lord achilles !
enter falstaff falstaff .
so do we .
it is apparent foul-play ; and ' tis shame that greatness should so grossly offer it .
him send lord hastings to the tower , from whence this present day he is delivered ?
my name is will .
say then ; ' tis true , i ought so .
them for his .
heaven guide thy pen to print thy sorrows plain , that we may know the traitors and the truth !
my lord , you do me most insupportable vexation .
doth the man of war stay all night , sir ?
ely with richmond troubles me more near than buckingham and his rash-levied strength .
by your leave , sweet ladies .
speak not , reply not , do not answer me !
hair , shall , whiles thy head is warm and new cut off , write in the dust this sentence
lartius .
god knows i lov ' d my niece , and she is dead , slander ' d to death by
txt casca .
if we both stay , we both are sure to die .
she and the duke her husband !
if you think i come hither as a lion , it were pity of my life .
it is berowne ' s writing , and here is his name .
here comes the good macduff .
this is the day which in king edward ' s time i wish ' d might fall on me when
a bed that longing have been sick for , ere i ' d yield my body up to shame .
thurio , give back , or else embrace thy death ; come not within the measure of my wrath ;
why , that ' s well said .
thou art a guard too wanton for the head which princes , flesh ' d with conquest , aim to
then leave her , sir ; for , by the pow ' r that made me , i tell you
i thank your lordship , you have got me one .
save that my soul ' s imaginary sight presents thy shadow to my sightless view , which like a jewel
gentlemen .
' tis his will .
at any time ' fore noon .
down , strumpet !
[aside] if a talent be a claw , look how he claws him with a talent .
a baubling vessel was he captain of , for shallow draught and bulk unprizable , with which such scathful grapple
now go thy ways ; thou hast tam ' d a curst shrow .
when his love he doth espy , let her shine as gloriously as the venus of the sky .
all the world ; in sooth , he might ; then , if he were my brother ' s ,
no more , ha ?
draw , seem to defend yourself ; now quit you well .
exit enter stanley stanley .
march patiently along .
him , pledges the breath of him in a divided draught , is the readiest man to kill him .
lord titus , by your leave , this maid is mine .
i do not like the man ; had he been lay , my lord , for certain words he spake
i cannot justify whom the law condemns .
a maid ; but she is arm ' d for him , and keeps her guard in honestest defence .
you are too senseless-obstinate , my lord , too ceremonious and traditional .
enter lewis the french king , his sister bona , his admiral call ' d bourbon ; prince edward ,
and how doth she !
freedom , high- day , freedom !
a torch for me !
nay , come again , good kate ; i am a gentleman .
call for some men of sound direction .
my lord ambassador , these letters are for you , sent from your brother , marquis montague .
know we not galloway nags ?
great griefs , i see , med ' cine the less , for cloten is quite forgot .
overspread with them ; therefore my grief stretches itself beyond the hour of death .
and you too , somerset and montague , speak freely what you think .
madam ?
re-enter lucius with ligarius .
scratch thee but with a pin , and there remains some scar of it ; lean upon a rush ,
; he stands there like a mortar-piece , to blow us .
' m .
truly , shepherd , in respect of itself , it is a good life ; but in respect that it
aegeon , art thou not ?
o murtherous slave !
have i heard groan and drop .
pants triumphing .
well , that ' s set down .
o , let me stay and comfort you , my master .
kindness in women , not their beauteous looks , shall win my love ; and so i take my leave
why weep ' st thou , man ?
willingly attend your ladyship .
captain macmorris , i think , look you , under your correction , there is not many of your nation-
why , they stay at door , sir .
he that throws not up his cap for joy shall for the fault make forfeit of his head .
ay , marcius , caius marcius !
would you proceed especially against caius marcius ?
thou ' t go , strong thief , when gouty keepers of thee cannot stand .
what would you have ?
too early .
if he had been forgotten , it had been as a gap in our great feast and all thing unbecoming
that ' scuse serves many men to save their gifts .
thy due from me is tears and heavy sorrows of the blood which nature , love , and filial tenderness
praise .
would you have a love-song , or a song of good life ?
nay , rather , every tedious stride i make will but remember me what a deal of world i wander
exit katherina .
twice treble shame on angelo , to weed my vice and let his grow !
i fly , biondello ; but they may chance to need the at home , therefore leave us .
nay , i knew by his face that there was something in him ; he had , sir , a
the forest enter jaques and lords , in the habit of foresters jaques .
enter a lord lord .
any man may , you may as soon as any .
best sing it to the tune of ' light o ' love .
stay , stay thy hands ; thou art an amazon , and fightest with the sword of deborah .
debtor .
rumour doth double , like the voice and echo , the numbers of the feared .
what ' s that ' ducdame ' ?
he will suspect us still and find a time to punish this offence in other faults .
of all reasonable compass , sir john .
i am very sick .
d his ponderous and marble jaws to cast thee up again .
my father lov ' d sir rowland as his soul , and all the world was of my father '
dragg ' d through the shameful field .
there ' s nothing situate under heaven ' s eye but hath his bound , in earth , in sea
, shall dizzy with more clamour neptune ' s ear in his descent than shall my prompted sword falling on
thou shalt go back , i warrant thee ; but i ' ll catch thine eyes though they had wings
i will swear by it that you love me , and i will make him eat page _num_ complete works
lord rivers and lord grey are sent to pomfret , and with them sir thomas vaughan , prisoners .
such as may the passive drugs of it freely command , thou wouldst have plung ' d thyself in general
exit cassius , with some citizens .
enter blunt .
[to camillo] you ' re welcome , sir .
we have lost your son , i fear , for ever .
your own honour to contain the ring , you would not then have parted with the ring .
thy father was a traitor to the crown .
base court , where kings grow base , to come at traitors ' calls , and do them grace .
gallus , go you along .
mark , marcus , mark !
txt you owe this strange intelligence , or why upon this blasted heath you stop our way with such prophetic
as for thee , boy , go , get thee from my sight ; thou art an exile , and
txt that govern us below .
be a lawful hangman .
ay , marry , what of these ?
he shall present hercules in minority : his enter and exit shall be strangling a snake ; and i will
i will the second time , as i would buy thee , view thee limb by limb .
i marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are .
d soon calm ' d ; his heart and hand both open and both free ; for what he has
ensuing danger ; as by proof we see the water swell before a boist ' rous storm .
knot , yet you are curb ' d from that enlargement by the consequence o ' th ' crown ,
didst thou behold octavia ?
ay , sir , the sergeant of the band ; that brings any man to answer it that breaks his
marcus , the post is come .
_num_ since brass , nor stone , nor earth , nor boundless sea , but sad mortality o ' ersways
if i come off , and leave her in such honour as you have trust in , she your jewel
yes , marry , did i ; but i was fain to forswear it : they would else have married
by giving liberty unto thine eyes .
rudely stamp ' d , and want love ' s majesty to strut before a wanton ambling nymph- i-that am
the bad revolting stars that have consented unto henry ' s death !
he is every man in no man .
enter rosalind rosalind .
o graceless men !
to things of sale a seller ' s praise belongs : she passes praise ; then praise too short doth
call you ?
but come , the bow .
why , how now , juliet ?
the very town be buckled with .
were ' t twenty of the greatest tributaries that do acknowledge caesar , should i find them so saucy with
exit soothsayer he shall to parthia .
here ' s ' in witness whereof the parties interchangeably .
my best train i have from your sicilian shores dismiss ' d ; who for bohemia bend , to signify
txt sound trumpets .
trebonius knows his time , for , look you , brutus , he draws mark antony out of the way
let us sit and mock the good housewife fortune from her wheel , that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed
enter albany , goneril , regan , soldiers .
under silvia ' s window enter launce with his dog launce .
[within] what ' s all the doors open here ?
apart upon our knees .
shall i be frighted when a madman stares ?
the fire i ' th ' flint shows not till it be struck : our gentle flame provokes itself ,
shepherd , ply her hard .
whiles i in this affair do thee employ , i ' ll to my queen , and beg her indian
for what is he they follow ?
father , i warrant you ; take you no care ; i ' ll never trouble you , if i
enter ulysses ulysses .
of your brethren roar ' d and ran from th ' noise of our own drums .
his place , or in his eminence that fills it up , i stagger in .
, nine and some five ; if this prove true , they ' ll pay for ' t .
do you dare our anger ?
thou earth , thou !
go , my lord , and let our army be discharged too .
i pray you , what thinks he of our estate ?
what ' s that ?
when thou need ' st him , there thou shalt find him .
sound and be hang ' d , sound out !
to look like her are chimney-sweepers black .
nobles richer and more loyal subjects , whose hearts have left their bodies here in england and lie pavilion '
d to hobnails .
to cabin !
am i a coward ?
as well to see the vessel that ' s come in as to throw out our eyes for brave othello
my blessing season this in thee !
[gives back the crown] take again from this my hand , as holding of the pope , your sovereign greatness
so is lysander .
no , sir , helen .
i will , sir , flatter my sworn brother , the people , to earn a dearer estimation of them
now , esperance !
parts : if i could write the beauty of your eyes , and in fresh numbers number all your graces
wherein , my friends , have i offended you ?
but who dare tell her so ?
your bed until i see the ring .
come , for england !
happy is hermia , wheresoe ' er she lies , for she hath blessed and attractive eyes .
with good acceptance of his majesty ; save that there was not time enough to hear , as i perceiv
nothing that can be can come between me and the full prospect of my hopes .
what will your grace have done with margaret ?
is not that strange ?
i am sorry that such sorrow i procure ; and so deep sticks it in my penitent heart that i
this murtherous shaft that ' s shot hath not yet lighted , and our safest way is to avoid the
gadshill lies to-night in rochester .
, aaron , let us sit , and while the babbling echo mocks the hounds , replying shrilly to the
still , still , far wide !
headstrong humour .
in death , mark antony shall not love caesar dead so well as brutus living , but will follow the
ay , but that fool knows not himself .
but where ' s the money ?
did i let pass th ' abuse done to my niece ?
but now he parted hence to embark for milan .
for those of old , and the late dignities heap ' d up to them , we rest your hermits
hero is , saying i lik ' d her ere i went to wars .
hand more close .
' our rash faults make trivial price of serious things we have , not knowing them until we know their
avaunt , thou hateful villain , get thee gone !
exit poet .
go then ; find me a meet hour to draw don pedro and the count claudio alone ; tell them
; but puts it off to a compell ' d restraint ; whose want , and whose delay , is
yea , this man ' s brow , like to a title-leaf , foretells the nature of a tragic volume
yes , that thou didst .
enter gloucester .
marry , and did ; but if you be rememb ' red , i did not bid you mar it
she was here even now ; she haunts me in every place .
know the gallant monarch is in arms and like an eagle o ' er his aery tow ' rs to
hear him , lords ; and be you silent and attentive too , for he that interrupts him shall not
then deny her aiding hand therein , and lay those honours on your high desert .
and as sorry your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty , that you might well enjoy her
i will not change my horse with any that treads but on four pasterns .
txt sound a sennet .
tend to th ' master ' s whistle .
not i !
i would the state of time had first been whole ere he by sickness had been visited .
besides , upon the very siege of justice , lord angelo hath to the public ear profess ' d the
txt lucullus .
they say best men moulded out of faults ; and , for the most , become much more the better
the palace enter the king with a supplication , and the queen with suffolk ' s head ; the duke
deliver ' d .
not at all , good lady .
i did send , after the last enchantment you did here , a ring in chase of you ; so
we attend his lordship ; pray signify so much .
more shall they speak ; for now i am bent to know , by the worst means , the worst
alas , he hath but as offended in a dream !
be patient , gentle nell ; forget this grief .
enter dromio of ephesus adriana .
you are well encount ' red here , my cousin mowbray .
the face of an old roman coin , scarce seen .
- be my horses ready ?
he ploughed her , and she cropp ' d .
i ' ll make ' t my comfort he is a man .
and weep ; for , since the substance of your perfect self is else devoted , i am but a
but if ' t be he i mean , he ' s very wild addicted so and so ' ;
dankish vault at home there left me and my man , both bound together ; till , gnawing with my
water a great while ; and your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body .
this , casca ; this , cinna ; and this , metellus cimber .
ay , or a stomach .
never so rich a gem was set in worse than gold .
by day ' s approach look to be visited .
the gods themselves , humbling their deities to love , have taken the shapes of beasts upon them : jupiter
enter the king , and his attendants , below bolingbroke .
this it is : ' tis better that the enemy seek us ; so shall he waste his means ,
exeunt severally .
troth , sir , she hath eaten up all her beef , and she is herself in the tub .
what is the matter ?
, and on the gates of lud ' s town set your heads .
a pretty one ; a very pretty one- sure , some scape .
and , not to swell our spirit , he shall be executed presently .
her matter was , she loved your son .
so hence !
off yet .
scald ' st with safety .
your friends are well , and have them much commended .
advancement of your children , gentle lady .
some stay to see him fast ' ned in the earth .
i am sorry for thee , friend .
why then , god ' s soldier be he !
bless you , good father friar .
as near as i could sift him on that argument , on some apparent danger seen in him aim '
ratcliff , thyself-or catesby ; where is he ?
a nest of traitors !
remember , if e ' er thou look ' dst on majesty .
descends .
i am the son of marcus cato , ho !
th ' art a knave .
[strikes him] thersites .
how can tyrants safely govern home unless abroad they purchase great alliance ?
speak lower , princes , for the king recovers .
on her damask cheek .
her vestal livery is but sick and green , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the roman camp enter posthumus alone , with a bloody handkerchief posthumus .
in that there ' s comfort .
of three .
and live we how we can , yet die we must .
exeunt all but macbeth and an attendant .
that thou depart ' st hence safe does pay thy labour richly .
our country loss ; and if to live , the fewer men , the greater share of honour .
at jars ; then will i raise aloft the milk-white rose , with whose sweet smell the air shall be
deserve we no more reverence ?
why dost thou laugh ?
sir topas , sir topas !
, so from the waves of tiber did i the tired caesar .
therefore he sends to know your lordship ' s pleasurepage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
re-enter bardolph how now !
, and not betray thy treason with a blush ?
what , will you go unto the tower , my lord ?
unless it were a bloody murderer , or foul felonious thief that fleec ' d poor passengers , i never
this fest ' red joint cut off , the rest rest sound ; this let alone will all the rest
the errors that these princes hold against her maiden truth .
that life looks through , and will break out .
look what is best , that best i wish in thee , this wish i have , then ten times
to th ' most of men this is a caliban , and they to him are angels .
good beauties , let me sustain no scorn ; i am very comptible , even to the least sinister usage
i will tell thee in french , which i am sure will hang upon my tongue like a new-married wife
yet am i arm ' d against the worst can happen ; and haste is needful in this desp '
a very weak monster !
i grant i am a woman , but withal a woman that lord brutus took to wife .
that e ' er our hearts shall make !
ay me most wretched , that have my heart parted betwixt two friends , that does afflict each other !
bring us to his cave .
what we will do , we do upon command .
back ; and for the third , if he fight longer than he sees reason , i ' ll forswear
than hath been taught by any of my trade ; and there it is in writing fairly drawn .
then god forgive the sin of all those souls that to their everlasting residence , before the dew of evening
not one amongst us , save yourself , but says he us ' d us scornfully .
marry , the immortal part needs a physician ; but that moves not him .
- if you do wrongfully seize hereford ' s rights , call in the letters patents that he hath by
a dog of the house of montague moves me .
enter bushy bushy , what news ?
o brave troilus !
put in his legs .
[they retire] hortensio .
well , what is it ?
o perjured woman !
the spirit of my father grows strong in page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
off with my boots , you rogues !
exeunt [all but benedick and beatrice] .
but romeo may not- he is banished .
and but one word with one of us ?
a man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king , and eat of the fish that
[sings] hey , robin , jolly robin , tell me how thy lady does .
i must go in .
than was that young and princely gentleman .
when a jest is so forward- and afoot too- i hate it .
come , gentlemen .
of this female- which in the common is woman- which together is : abandon the society of this female ;
go to ; away !
' ll drown my book .
say you ?
but yet to me they are strong .
txt king , etc .
what stay had i but edward ?
where words are scarce , they are seldom spent in vain ; for they breathe truth that breathe their words
call you ' em stanzos ?
for page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
as there is no true cuckold but calamity , so beauty ' s a flower .
first i ' the charmed pot .
tell me if you love warwick more than me ?
o ' erwhelm ' d my pity .
get him to bed , and let his hurt be look ' d to .
sway o ' th ' state , if he should still malignantly remain fast foe to th ' plebeii ,
thus to persist in doing wrong extenuates not wrong , but makes it much more heavy .
you shall have two noble partners with you : the old duchess of norfolk and lady marquis dorset .
very services thou hast done ; which if i have not enough considered- as too much i cannot- to be
men expose themselves to battle , and not endure all threats ?
and even the like precurse of fierce events , as harbingers preceding still the fates and prologue to the omen
here come two of the banish ' d duke ' s pages .
, watch such a multitude .
well put up your sword .
but have i fall ' n , or no ?
one that hath been a courtier , and says , if ladies be but young and fair , they have
will !
either thou or i , or both , must go with him .
you have taken it wiselier than i meant you should .
signior claudio and signior benedick , my dear friend leonato hath invited you all .
to the best bride-bed will we , which by us shall blessed be ; and the issue there create ever
ay , buck !
i ' ll make him a philosopher ' s two stones to me .
warms it , and makes it course from the inwards to the parts extremes .
myself have often heard him say and swear that this his love was an eternal plant whereof the root was
stand ' st out ?
but tell me true , will ' t be a match ?
realm of albion come to great confusion .
then , o you blessed ministers above , keep me in patience ; and , with ripened time , unfold
you do desire to know wherefore i sent for you .
for antony , i have no ears to his request .
so soon as ever thou seest him , draw ; and as thou draw ' st , swear horrible ;
what o ' that ?
art thou not romeo , and a montague ?
see further .
i do not like your faults .
though in the trade of war i have slain men , yet do i hold it very stuff o '
enter douglas .
to go rove with one that ' s yet unbruis ' d ; bring me but out at gate .
my name , dear saint , is hateful to myself , because it is an enemy to thee .
i pray you yet- since you lack virtue , i will lose a husband- send for your ring , i
' tis almost night ; you shall have better cheer ere you depart , and thanks to stay and eat
o , if in black my lady ' s brows be deckt , it mourns that painting and usurping hair
my cause is hearted ; thine hath no less reason .
what do i fear ?
were not my doors lock ' d up and i shut out ?
re-enter second gentleman .
how if ' a will not stand ?
now , by anchises ' life , welcome indeed !
enter titus lartius , with his power , from the pursuit lartius .
txt yet am i sick for fear .
so , come , help : well struck !
pen .
look you how pale he glares !
stoop .
there ' s villanous news abroad .
turn another into the register of your own , that i may pass with a reproof the easier , sith
why , sir , her name ' s a word ; and to dally with that word might make my
let be .
[they blindfold him] first soldier .
heaven ' s fiery eye , by light we lose light ; your capacity is of that nature that to
beautiful old rhyme , in praise of ladies dead , and lovely knights , then in the blazon of sweet
so far he topp ' d my thought that i , in forgery of shapes and tricks , come short
i am appointed him to murder you .
coventry enter warwick , the mayor of coventry , two messengers , and others upon the walls warwick .
play , music , then .
good volumnius , thou know ' st that we two went to school together ; even for that our love
you must not marvel , helen , at my course , which holds not colour with the time , nor
to set so rich a man on the nice hazard of one doubtful hour ?
my mistress and her sister stays for you .
s great defense , and pour ' d them down before him .
if he steal aught the whilst this play is playing , and scape detecting , i will pay the theft
it shall not wind with such a deep indent to rob me of so rich a bottom here .
gerard de narbon was my father , in what he did profess , well found .
does she so ?
fellow .
do your best wills , and make me blest to obey .
thy friend ?
false , false , false !
o imogen !
but you are no such man ; you are rather point-device in your accoutrements , as loving yourself than seeming
i shall never begin if i hold my peace .
he dies .
, nose , lip , the trick of ' s frown , his forehead ; nay , the valley ,
do they grow rusty ?
does the world go round ?
meeting two such wealsmen as you are- i cannot call you lycurguses- if the drink you give me touch my
bechanc ' d would make me sad ?
it shall be seven ere i go to horse .
whom should he follow but his natural king ?
to promise is most courtly and fashionable ; performance is a kind of will or testament which argues a great
nor dare i question with my jealous thought , where you may be , or your affairs suppose , but
why bear you these rebukes , and answer not ?
because you talk of wooing , i will sing , since many a wooer doth commence his suit to her
it shall be inventoried , and every particle and utensil labell ' d to my will : as- item ,
she ' s none of mine , my lord .
stand up , lord .
good morrow to my sovereign king and queen ; and , princely peers , a happy time of day !
i will bite my thumb at them ; which is disgrace to them , if they bear it .
hadst thou foxship to banish him that struck more blows for rome than thou hast spoken words ?
cannot do what they would , are sorry- you are honourable- but yet they could have wish ' d- they
put thee to ' t : within these three days let me hear thee say that cassio ' s not
to him in thine own voice , and bring me word how thou find ' st him .
or which of your friends have i not strove to love , although i knew he were mine enemy ?
apemantus ' grace immortal gods , i crave no pelf ; i pray for no man but myself .
shall we give o ' er , and drown ?
make thee great : of nature ' s gifts thou mayst with lilies boast , and with the half-blown rose
pray , do not mock me .
piteous plainings of the pretty babes , that mourn ' d for fashion , ignorant what to fear , forc
madam , i know not , nor i greatly care not .
first , she confess ' d she never lov ' d you ; only affected greatness got by you ,
' d with one ; so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm , let him bear
art thou not second woman in the realm , and the protector ' s wife , belov ' d of
thou shalt be loggerhead .
exeunt re-enter servants severally nathaniel .
mine honour keeps the weather of my fate .
well , no more .
not he ; but yet heaven ' s bounty towards him might be us ' d more thankfully .
quick , quick ; fear nothing ; i ' ll be at thy elbow .
then but forbear your food a little while , whiles , like a doe , i go to find my
one loving kiss .
come , sir , come , we know you well enough .
re-enter lafeu with helena lafeu .
, sir , she bears away .
is this your comfort ?
rich she shall be , that ' s certain ; wise , or i ' ll none ; virtuous ,
justice , o royal duke !
i do believe it ; for they pass ' d by me as misers do by beggars-neither gave to me
have you receiv ' d no promise of satisfaction at her hands ?
upon him as he pass ' d ; the nobles bended as to jove ' s statue , and the
he thinks that you should bear me on your shoulders .
iachimo .
take it , brave york .
give me breath .
terms i have .
been ow ' d and worn .
how now , blown jack ?
tush , thou art deceiv ' d .
to knock out an honest athenian ' s brains .
sir , i am made of the selfsame metal that my sister is , and prize me at her worth
this fortification , gentlemen , shall we see ' t ?
[to charles] to say the truth , it is your policy to save your subjects from such massacre and ruthless
no rescue ?
he that had wit would think that i had none , to bury so much gold under a tree and
he gave you all the duties of a man ; trimm ' d up your praises with a princely tongue
shalt no sooner march to assault thy country than to tread- trust to ' t , thou shalt not- on
friar , i must entreat your pains , i think .
denny .
, to fail in the disposing of those chances which he was lord of ; or whether nature , not
enter benedick alone .
will you we show our title to the crown ?
or as the destinies decrees .
some tardy cripple bare the countermand that came too lag to see him buried .
my lord of somerset , what youth is that , of whom you seem to have so tender care ?
not till he hears how antony is touch ' d with what is spoke already .
our court , you know , is haunted with a refined traveller of spain , a man in all the
i have drunk medicines .
pray you mark .
thou art too much deceiv ' d .
at all times alike men are not still the same ; ' twas time and griefs that fram ' d
exit re-enter buckingham buckingham .
effect your suits , here is man shall do it .
let her be round with him ; and i ' ll be plac ' d so please you , in
now , good master doctor !
[to emilia .
' s crest becomes the heavens well .
' he could be contented- why is he not then ?
blow me about in winds !
abbot .
him know so .
villains , answer you so the lord protector ?
what is thy name , that in the battle thus thou crossest me ?
sir topas , never was man thus wronged .
what good is cover ' d with the face of heaven , to be discover ' d , that can
teach her not thus to lay such violent hands upon her tender life .
if this may please you , discharge your powers unto their several counties , as we will ours ; and
i ran away to call the watch .
this expedition was by york and talbot too rashly plotted ; all our general force might with a sally of
but for all this , thou shalt have as many dolours for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a
moth !
speak no more .
she ' s like a liar gone to burning hell ; ' twas i that kill ' d her .
mother , my sacred aunt , should by my mortal sword be drained !
these very words i ' ve heard him utter to his son-in-law , lord aberga ' ny , to whom
' s crest .
though i owe my revenge properly , my remission lies in volscian breasts .
the boy hath sold him a bargain , a goose , that ' s flat .
write me a prologue ; and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm with our swords
txt you are already love ' s firm votary and cannot soon revolt and change your mind .
farewell , andronicus , revenge now goes to lay a complot to betray thy foes .
but , though i lov ' d you well , i woo ' d you not ; and yet ,
enter a gentleman queen katharine .
' ercharging your free purses with large fines ; that seeks to overthrow religion , because he is protector of
come , kate , and wash , and welcome heartily .
call peter ; he will show thee where they are .
you deny already ; yet we will ask , that , if you fail in our request , the blame
julia ' s house enter proteus and julia proteus .
but how , but how ?
by this good light , this is a very shallow monster !
exeunt severally act v .
what life is in that to be the death of this marriage ?
be a cardinal , he ' ll make his cap co-equal with the crown .
s sake ?
he writes me here that inward sickness- and that his friends by deputation could not so soon be drawn ;
he doth entreat your grace , my noble lord , to visit him to-morrow or next day .
titus ' house a banquet .
methought all his senses were lock ' d in his eye , as jewels in crystal for some prince to
i have heard it was ever his manner to do so .
they say ' a crafty knave does need no broker ' ; yet am i suffolk and the cardinal '
exeunt lucilius and titinius .
how now , daughter ?
exeunt , hearing antony act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene xv .
i do refuse it , and stand upon my common part with those that have beheld the doing .
the whoreson smooth-pates do now wear nothing but high shoes , and bunches of keys at their girdles ; and
txt and though it be allowed in meaner parties- yet who than he more mean ?
, are angels vailing clouds , or roses blown .
makes him stand to and not stand to ; in conclusion , equivocates him in a sleep , and giving
slave !
gramercies , lad .
without leave-taking ?
or bide the mortal fortune of the field ?
calls my lord ?
txt caesarion , whom they call my father ' s son , and all the unlawful issue that their lust
let the rest go .
now might i do it pat , now he is praying ; and now i ' ll do ' t
the circumstance more .
was not that letter from fair jessica ?
and since her time are colliers counted bright .
thou know ' st our meaning .
husband , i come .
o heavens themselves !
this i should have fatted all the region kites with this slave ' s offal .
o , let me stay , befall what may befall !
' d , to take him in the purging of his soul , when he is fit and seasoned for
nothing in france until he have no wife !
wilt thou rest damn ' d ?
he shall be none ; we ' ll keep him here .
o brutus !
upon thine honour , is he prisoner ?
i would not follow him then .
in league , and lulls him whilst she playeth on her back , and when he sleeps will she do
look when i vow , i weep ; and vows so born , in their nativity all truth appears .
to let you know my thoughts .
their power , how with this rage shall beauty hold a plea , whose action is no stronger than a
enter king henry alone king henry .
he is elder .
beshrew your heart for sending me about to catch my death with jauncing up and down !
eye which in this forest looks shall see thy virtue witness ' d every where .
and hector laugh ' d .
we shall , my lord .
a good tongue in thy head .
_num_ o that you were your self , but love you are no longer yours , than you your self
after my death i wish no other herald , no other speaker of my living actions , to keep mine
hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult ?
the tyrannous and bloody act is done , the most arch deed of piteous massacre that ever yet this land
stay ' d it long ?
; whose dear perfection hearts that scorn ' d to serve humbly call ' d mistress .
be true to my lord ; if he flinch , chide me for it .
our own vantage .
he will offer to say what methought i had .
i saw a smith stand with his hammer , thus , the whilst his iron did on the anvil cool
let us on , and publish the occasion of our arms .
their own wills , and made their wills obey .
o ' my word , the father ' s son !
nine worthies .
how do you , my good lady ?
prithee , dispatch .
scorn and derision never come in tears .
third apparition .
sink , my knee , i ' th ' earth ; [kneels] of thy deep duty more impression show than
prithee , peace .
but , katharine , what was sent to you from fair dumain ?
[sings] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exeunt gaolers , hearing out the body of mortimer here dies the dusky torch of mortimer , chok ' d
with twenty thousand soul-confirming oaths !
straight-pight minerva , postures beyond brief nature ; for condition , a shop of all the qualities that man loves
fie that you ' ll say so !
- i say , away !
i have spoke this to know if your affiance were deeply rooted , and shall make your lord that which
we have beat him to his camp .
within ten year it will make itself ten , which is a goodly increase ; and the principal itself not
if they march along unfought withal , but i will sell my dukedom to buy a slobb ' ry and
exit orleans .
txt king john .
and that ' s a good root .
if she will return me my jewels , i will give over my suit and repent my unlawful solicitation ;
o , that the slave had forty thousand lives !
i tell thee , man , ' tis better with me now than when thou met ' st me last
is he not honest ?
my child !
vouchsafe a word , young sister , but one word .
land , as if i had never been such .
for vengeance comes along with them .
an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck into a yoke , wear the print of it and sigh away sundays
an she agree , within her scope of choice lies my consent and fair according voice .
my heart laments that virtue cannot live out of the teeth of emulation .
from strife ; for though mine enemy thou hast ever been , high sparks of honour in thee have i
fear not you .
shall draw him on to his confusion .
no more evasion !
what , from myself ?
let me endure your wrath , if ' t be not so .
the french , my lord ; men ' s mouths are full of it ; besides , i met lord
you are the better at proverbs by how much ' a fool ' s bolt is soon shot .
txt twinkling another counterfeited beam , so seems this gorgeous beauty to mine eyes .
o mistress page , give me some counsel .
the city cast her people out upon her ; and antony , enthron ' d i ' th ' market-place
that ' s as york thrives to beat back bolingbroke .
[unmasks] i answer to that name .
it will be dangerous to go on- no further .
and pardon , father , for i knew not thee .
txt the dukes of orleans , calaber , bretagne , and alencon , seven earls , twelve barons , and
joy had the like conception in our eyes , and at that instant like a babe sprung up .
court .
i arrest thee of high treason , by the name of richard earl of cambridge .
lady beatrice , i will get you one .
because he loves her , he despiseth me ; because i love him , i must pity him .
the best and safest passage in ?
if i should take a displeasure against you , look you- trinculo .
take corruption from that particular fault .
and now he writes to heaven for his redress .
stay , edward .
of teaching and of learning instantly .
' tis true , most worthy signior ; the duke ' s in council , and your noble self ,
when proteus cannot love where he ' s belov ' d !
while i go to the goldsmith ' s house , go thou and buy a rope ' s end ;
i thank thee , good sir john , with all my heart .
[to titus] two of thy whelps , fell curs of bloody kind , have here bereft my brother of his
et vous aussi ; votre serviteur .
brought into my power .
not when i saw ' t .
bardolph , a soldier , firm and sound of heart , and of buxom valour , hath by cruel fate
know you this woman ?
a public place enter menenius , with the two tribunes of the people , sicinius and brutus menenius .
and let the devil be sometime honour ' d for his burning throne !
forever , and forever , farewell , cassius !
it is the worst , and all , my lord , he writes .
my lord chamberlain , prithee come hither : what fair lady ' s that ?
o , my knave , how does my old lady ?
my fleet hath yielded to the foe , and yonder they cast their caps up and carouse together like friends
clarence , excuse me to the king my brother .
i hope i shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another .
good faith , across !
lucy- your mother lives a witness to his vow- and afterward by substitute betroth ' d to bona , sister
good man , those joyful tears show thy true heart .
ajax hath ta ' en aeneas .
i ' ll see no more !
it shall be done , my lord .
it likes me well .
ourselves we do remember , sir , by you ; for lately we were bound as you are now .
' and in this brainish apprehension kills the unseen good old man .
i ' ll tell you what you shall do .
cheeks , god ' s mother deigned to appear to me , and in a vision full of majesty will
[to phebe] i would love you if i could .
of goodly thousands .
have forsworn his book , can you still dream , and pore , and thereon look ?
the best , for the innocence .
be a scoffer .
if he may find mercy in the law , ' tis his ; if none , let him not seek
, her frail son , amongst my brethren mortal , must give my tendance to .
a foutra for thine office !
' d her up , because she will not be annoy ' d with suitors .
that cons state without book and utters it by great swarths ; the best persuaded of himself , so cramm
' observ ' d of all observers- quite , quite down !
madam , with much ado .
i ' ll give you boot ; i ' ll give you three for one .
heart did lend it , splitted the heart .
o , i could weep my spirit from mine eyes !
an i have not ballads made on you all , and sung to filthy tunes , let a cup of
er their lords ?
come , come ; for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep into the purse of rich prosperity as lewis
for gazing on your beams , fair sun , being by .
where be thy brothers ?
[aside] wit would be out of fashion .
' ll stick where they are thrown .
all these owe their estates unto him .
some say the lark and loathed toad chang ' d eyes ; o , now i would they had chang
false in this , that you for love speak well of me untrue , my name be buried where my
here let them lie till famine and the ague eat them up .
and authority .
i have put you out .
o , banish me , my lord , but kill me not !
here is the place , my lord .
if he break the peace , he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling .
fie , fie on all tired jades , on all mad masters , and all foul ways !
it was , as i have seen it in his life , a sable silver ' d .
i ' ll forbear ; and am fallen out with my more headier will , to take the indispos '
other women do .
his reward .
work- fleance his son , that keeps him company , whose absence is no less material to me than is
substance bred , did lately meet in the intestine shock and furious close of civil butchery , shall now in
titania .
thou art the best o ' the cut-throats !
them as unrelenting flint to drops of rain .
why thy odour matcheth not thy show , the soil is this , that thou dost common grow .
would crave a word or two ; the which shall turn you to no further harm than so much loss
they will , they will , god knows , and leap for joy , though they are lame with blows
but , o , how oddly will it sound that i must ask my child forgiveness !
if ever we are nature ' s , these are ours ; this thorn doth to our rose of youth
cousin of buckingham !
] i can scarce speak to thee .
whiles i may scape , i will preserve myself ; and am bethought to take the basest and most poorest
stopping the career of laughter with a sigh ?
good morrow , fairest sister .
no , not these twenty years .
besides , it were a mock apt to be render ' d , for someone to say " break up
the prince , the count , signior benedick , don john , and all the gallants of the town are
but to say i know more harm in him than in myself were to say more than i know .
i to my grave , where peace and rest lie with me !
is your englishman so expert in his drinking ?
a good man ' s fortune may grow out at heels .
they would make war with mankind .
what , upon compulsion ?
let ' s withdraw , and meet the time as it seeks us .
enter northumberland attended page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
look , in this place ran cassius ' dagger through ; see what a rent the envious casca made ;
good lords , conduct him to his regiment .
i dare not drink yet , madam ; by-and-by .
the setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim a matter from thee ; and a birth , indeed , which
done so to great and growing men , they might have ev ' d to bear , and he to
his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far more choler .
txt enter oxford , with drum and colours warwick .
shame ' s a baby .
enter the king , lord john of lancaster , earl of westmoreland , [sir walter blunt , ] with others
nay , ' tis strange , ' tis very strange ; that is the brief and the tedious of it
[takes agamemnon aside] nestor .
my bed , nor doth the general care take hold on me ; for my particular grief is of so
may i , sweet lady , beg a kiss of you ?
gower .
re-enter officers with isabella ; and provost with the duke in his friar ' s habit escalus .
could make me any summer ' s story tell : or from their proud lap pluck them where they grew
fire ; sir john and all .
we will not from the helm to sit and weep , but keep our course , though the rough wind
txt thrusts forth his horns again into the world , which were inshell ' d when marcius stood for rome
hast thou by secret means us ' d intercession to obtain a league , and now the matter grows to
do the wise think them other ?
begin to patch up thine old body for heaven ?
we have been up and down to seek thee ; for we are high-proof melancholy , and would fain have
a paper-mill .
achiev ' d by th ' minute , lost his favour .
still going ?
and necessities .
i go of message from the queen to france : i charge thee waft me safely cross the channel .
he did not ?
accompany you home .
why comest thou ?
now , by my life , this day grows wondrous hot ; some airy devil hovers in the sky and
like bondmen , kissing caesar ' s feet ; whilst damned casca , like a cur , behind page _num_
most humbly therefore bending to your state , i crave fit disposition for my wife , due reference of place
txt there ' s something else to do ; hush , and be mute , or else our spell is
monster ingratitude !
[to florizel] o sir , you have undone a man of fourscore-three that thought to fill his grave in quiet
now , in faith , gratiano , you give your wife too unkind a cause of grief ; an '
angels are bright still , though the brightest fell .
sir , i was an inward of his .
my necessaries are embark ' d .
tutor .
what says the world to your proceedings ?
let us first see peace in athens .
you spurn me hence , and he will spurn me hither ; if i last in this service , you
if i know this , know all the world besides , that part of tyranny that i do bear page
wear them , betray with them .
and mine , my lord .
where ' s the queen ?
' tis true ; and therefore women , being the weaker vessels , are ever thrust to the wall .
i ' ll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning .
but all the honour salisbury hath won is that he was the lord ambassador sent from a sort of tinkers
[they open the tomb] there greet in silence , as the dead are wont , and sleep in peace ,
ay , for a turtle , as he takes a buzzard .
when the man of action is call ' d on .
has much disgrac ' d me in ' t ; i ' m angry at him , that might have
commend me to their loves ; and i am proud , say , that my occasions have found time to
; i do lean upon justice , sir , and do bring in here before your good honour two notorious
mantua there was stay ' d .
deceiv ' d , that have no use for trusting .
fear to seize thee .
not i , for this fair island .
give me some help .
i am no villain ; i am the youngest son of sir rowland de boys .
you advancement .
we will descend and fold him in our arms .
thus goes to bed .
second woe .
all the charms of sycorax , toads , beetles , bats , light on you !
by this marriage all little jealousies , which now seem great , and all great fears , which now import
but if you ever chance to have a child , look in his youth to have him so cut off
to plainness honour ' s bound when majesty falls to folly .
some devils ask but the parings of one ' s nail , a rush , a hair , a drop
he apprehends a world of figures here , but not the form of what he should attend .
what need she be acquainted ?
nothing , my lord ; or if- i know not what .
may hang upon your hardness ; therefore hear us .
then say they were not slain .
is free of speech , sings , plays , and dances well ; where virtue is , these are more
' upon these words i came and cheer ' d him up ; he smil ' d me in the
ay , but their sense is shut .
my heart ' s subdued even to the very quality of my lord .
nurse , and presently , all humbled , kiss the rod !
go ; fresh horses .
' tis double wrong to truant with your bed and let her read it in thy looks at board ;
and she- in spite of nature , of years , of country , credit , everything- to fall in love
i must perforce have shown to thee such a declining day or look on thine ; we could not stall
be buried quick with her , and so will i .
for this , consorted with the citizens , your very worshipful and loving friends , and by their vehement instigation
that ' s mercy , but too much security .
thy reason , man ?
sir , where is the patience now that you so oft have boasted to retain ?
doth the moon shine that night we play our play ?
till you compound whose right is worthiest , we for the worthiest hold the right from both .
england ?
what thou wouldst highly , that wouldst thou holily ; wouldst not play false , and yet wouldst wrongly win
i will lead the way .
nightly lodge her in an upper tow ' r , the key whereof myself have ever kept ; and thence
opinions ; for oldcastle died a martyr and this is not the man .
poor soul , knows not which way to stand , to look , to speak .
of no regard , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
his pestilent scythe .
the name of morgan guiderius and arviragus , sons to cymbeline , disguised under the names of polydore and cadwal
so , let her rest .
the rather will i spare my praises towards him ; knowing him is enough .
how now , is he dead already ?
now even in the centre of this isle , near to the town of leicester , as we learn .
plate sin with gold , and the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks ; arm it in rags , a
let every man be master of his time till seven at night ; to make society the sweeter welcome ,
perchance the cardinal cannot make your peace ; or , if he do , let it at least be said
txt enter the princess , rosaline , maria , katharine , boyet , lords , attendants , and a forester
] o , she was foul !
go , do it instantly .
o , cut my lace , lest my heart , cracking it , break too !
deep rebuke ere you with grief had spoke and i had heard the course of it so far .
come , gentle master slender , come ; we stay for you .
txt prick ' d you .
indeed , my lord , you made me believe so .
eyesight to be ; all senses to that sense did make their repair , to feel only looking on fairest
it grieves me for the death of claudio ; but there ' s no remedy .
before the cave of belarius enter imogen alone , in boy ' s clothes imogen .
i do not desire he should answer for me , and yet i determine to fight lustily for him .
he after honour hunts , i after love ; he leaves his friends to dignify them more : i leave
they know your grace hath cause and means and might- so hath your highness ; never king of england had
thou mightst have done this without thy beard and gown : he sees thee not .
see that he be convey ' d unto the tower .
so is it , if thou knew ' st our purposes .
king ' s commission .
no , by the holy rood , thou know ' st it well thou cam ' st on earth to
how comes it ?
see how with signs and tokens she can scrowl .
' thus dost thou hear the nemean lion roar ' gainst thee , thou lamb , that standest as his
when fortune in her shift and change of mood spurns down her late beloved , all his dependants , which
and on a love-book pray for my success ?
widow , we will consider of your suit ; and come some other time to know our mind .
" and forgave him with all their hearts .
for the repealing of my banish ' d brother ?
prove false traitor to myself .
shall be said so again , while stephano breathes at nostrils .
let me know the point .
hide thee , thou bloody hand ; thou perjur ' d , and thou simular man of virtue that art
bring me no more reports ; let them fly all !
clifford .
and you that love the commons follow me .
i cannot say the words .
ah , none but in this iron age would do it !
a century send forth .
crab ' s like an apple , yet i can tell what i can tell .
well , he is there too , and one mordake , and a thousand bluecaps more .
awak ' d you not in this sore agony ?
' male varlet .
she which late was in my nobler thoughts most base is now the praised of the king ; who ,
to die .
we ' ll play with them : the first boy for a thousand ducats .
never alone did the king sigh , but with a general groan .
the mightiest space in fortune nature brings to join like likes , and kiss like native things .
stay , i will go with you .
caesar ' s ambition shall be glanced at .
widow ?
i am far better born than is the king , more like a king , more kingly in my thoughts
desdemona .
then , joan , discover thine infirmity that warranteth by law to be thy privilege : i am with child
' mongst friends , if brothers .
come , let ' s away about it .
s velvet buds , which pillage they with merry march bring home to the tent-royal of their emperor ; who
i see it in my motion , have it not in my tongue ; but yet hie you to egypt
[she giveth saturnine a letter] saturninus .
exit julia what , gone without a word ?
a virtuous maid , the daughter of a count that died some twelvemonth since , then leaving her in the
i would he had boarded me .
on this ascension-day , remember well , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
sorrow so royally in you appears that i will deeply put the fashion on , and wear it in my
negligent student !
this is kind i offer .
master ' s as soon as i can .
no more words , we beseech you .
sound , music .
campeius .
o clitus !
let frantic talbot triumph for a while and like a peacock sweep along his tail ; we ' ll pull
good proteus , go with me to my chamber , in these affairs to aid me with thy counsel .
but it is doubtful yet whether caesar will come forth today or no , for he is superstitious grown of
i should make very forges of my cheeks , that would to cinders burn up modesty , did i but
they say so most that most his humours know .
' o , you should not rest between the elements of air and earth but you should pity me !
o monstrous villain !
enter a third gentleman .
therefore love moderately : long love doth so ; too swift arrives as tardy as too slow .
madam , not yet .
i was not born a yielder , thou proud scot ; and thou shalt find a king that will revenge
yet sinn ' d i not but in mistaking .
i knew him , and i know him ; so i leave him to him that made him proud-the pope
i leave him to your gracious acceptance , whose trial shall better publish his commendation .
hadst thou narcissus in thy face , to me thou wouldst appear most ugly .
my lord , he will drive you out of your revenge and turn all to a merriment , if you
sits down .
in memory of her , when she is dead , her ashes , in an urn more precious than the
no , bolingbroke ; if ever i were traitor , my name be blotted from the book of life ,
buck ?
thy love ; and , my good friend , thy voluntary oath lives in this bosom , dearly cherished .
hamlet .
since from thee going , he went wilful-slow , towards thee i ' ll run , and give him leave
who sues , and kneels , and says ' god save the queen ' ?
thou mayst , thou shalt ; i will not go with thee ; i will instruct my sorrows to be
conrade , i say !
i ' ll be no longer guilty , of this sin ; this sanguine coward , this bed-presser , this
here he is , and here i yield him ; and i beseech your grace , let it be book
if not- why , in a moment look to see the blind and bloody with foul hand defile the locks
great lord of warwick , if we should recount our baleful news and at each word ' s deliverance stab
enter haberdasher what news with you , sir ?
come , sir ; did you set these women on to slander lord angelo ?
go , go : you are a couterfeit cowardly knave .
your tale , sir , would cure deafness .
[reads] ' when thou canst get the ring upon my finger , which never shall come off , and show
your sweet hue , which methinks still doth stand page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
good morrow , masters .
[within] by my troth , your town is troubled with unruly boys .
txt when they were ready to set out for london , a man of my lord cardinal ' s ,
how now , sir proteus , are you crept before us ?
o , joy ' s e ' en made away ere ' t can be born !
say , henry , shall i have my right , or no ?
a street enter sebastian and antonio sebastian .
and think upon this business .
tarre them to controversy .
, like civil war , be blind with tears and break o ' ercharg ' d with grief .
who else ?
my lord , you take us even at the best .
re-enter guiderius with cloten ' s head but , see , thy brother .
i know by that same eye there ' s some good news .
thought .
studies in your service .
how fairly this lord strives to appear foul !
draught oxen , and make you plough up the wars .
great duke of lancaster , i come to the from plume-pluck ' d richard , who with willing soul adopts
if the living be enemy to the grief , the excess makes it soon mortal .
i ' ll go hide me .
of this make no conclusion , lest you say your queen and i are devils .
strong and great in substance and in power .
why , how should she be murther ' d ?
d his knife , and fell asleep , as cerberus at the thracian poet ' s feet .
the honour is sacred which he talks on now , supposing that i lack ' d it .
no hearing , no feeling , but my sir ' s song , and admiring the nothing of it .
a monastery enter duke and friar thomas duke .
your will pass , i shall both find your lordship judge and juror , you are so merciful .
that i did love thee , caesar , o , ' tis true !
if it be so to do good service , never let me be counted serviceable .
your lordship , though not clean past your youth , hath yet some smack of age in you , some
mistress made it one upon my cheek ; she is so hot because the meat is cold , the meat
in his tail .
come , leave your tears ; a brief farewell .
enter eros eros .
but yet thou art my flesh , my blood , my daughter ; or rather a disease that ' s
, start from their spheres , thy knotted and combined locks to part , and each particular hair to stand
our general himself makes a mistress of him , sanctifies himself with ' s hand , and turns up the
[to goneril] art not asham ' d to look upon this beard ?
they shall have wars and pay for their presumption .
you ' ll kiss me hard , and speak to me as if i were a baby still .
madam , madam- cleopatra .
since thou hast sought to make us break our vow- which we durst never yet- and with strain ' d
txt that antony speak in his funeral .
from you , to sparkle in the spirits of my daughter , that she may quickly come .
affliction .
you told a lie , an odious , damned lie ; upon my soul , a lie , a wicked
the future comes apace ; what shall defend the interim ?
him by his voice .
lend me thy sword .
thus part we rich in sorrow , parting poor .
rent off thy silver hair , thy other hand gnawing with thy teeth ; and be this dismal sight the
speak with me the which he promised .
i do not like the tower , of any place .
shake even at the crying of your nation ' s crow , thinking this voice an armed englishman- shall that
could my good brother suffer you to do it ?
a noble fellow , i warrant him .
this shows you are above , you justicers , that these our nether crimes so speedily can venge !
home i will no more return till angiers and the right thou hast in france , together with that pale
because the king , forsooth , will have it so .
yea , but ' tis like that they will know us by our horses , by our habits , and
stand i condemn ' d for pride and scorn so much ?
o , thou didst prophesy the time would come that i should wish for thee to help me curse that
there ' s something in his soul o ' er which his melancholy sits on brood ; and i do
enter dennis dennis .
and malcontents , dread prince of plackets , king of codpieces , sole imperator , and great general of trotting
presently we ' ll try .
now this masque was cried incomparable ; and th ' ensuing night made it a fool and beggar .
this be damascus ; be thou cursed cain , to slay thy brother abel , if thou wilt .
a lady wall ' d about with diamonds !
the devil fiddle ' em !
the duke is ent ' ring ; therefore , hence , away .
marcius would have all from you ; marcius , whom late you have nam ' d for consul .
you may convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty and yet seem cold , the time you may so hoodwink
and that is the wavering commons ; for their love lies in their purses ; and whoso empties them ,
shall we , upon the footing of our land , send fair-play orders , and make compromise , insinuation ,
neighbour makes us early stirrers , which is both healthful and good husbandry .
some eight or ten .
my soul grows sad with troubles ; sing and disperse ' em , if thou canst .
call philostrate .
not so much noise , my lords .
it is well done , and fitting for a princes descended of so many royal kings .
[exit servant] i ' ll know his pleasure ; may be he will relent .
my lords , you are appointed for that office ; the due of honour in no point omit .
something too much of this i there is a play to-night before the king .
what , ho , brabantio !
time moves .
txt his answer was , ' the worse .
yet once methought it lifted up it head and did address itself to motion , like as it would speak
a sister i bequeath you , whom no brother did ever love so dearly .
then take my king ' s defiance from my mouth- the farthest limit of my embassy .
o , were it but my life !
and thy years full well befits , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
no , rather i abjure all roofs , and choose to wage against the enmity o ' th ' air
in that you brook it ill , it makes him worse ; therefore , for god ' s sake ,
o , ten times faster venus ' pigeons fly to seal love ' s bonds new made than they are
can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain ; the blood is hot that must be cool ' d for this
i spy .
is not able to taste , his tongue to conceive , nor his heart to report , what my dream
, that only to stand high in your account i might in virtues , beauties , livings , friends ,
oman , forbear .
look , where he comes !
' d me in the field by tewksbury .
; and all be as it is .
don john , his bastard brother .
true , true ; and now you will be my purgation , and let me loose .
, and welcome to my house .
' first demand of him how many horse the duke is strong .
and how do you ?
rage must be withstood : give me his gage-lions make leopards tame .
such a wagoner as phaeton would whip you to the west and bring in cloudy night immediately .
the sin upon my head , dread sovereign !
here ' s my glove ; give me another of thine .
kings !
yet hear me , countrymen ; yet hear me speak .
world , or else this glutton be , to eat the world ' s due , by the grave and
the cardinal places himself under the king ' s feet on his right side king .
so help me god , as i have watch ' d the night- ay , night by night- in studying
give with thy trumpet a loud note to troy , thou dreadful ajax , that the appalled air may pierce
she gives it out that you shall marry her .
o day !
thy fair name .
no , my good lord , he is in presence here .
all hail , macbeth , that shalt be king hereafter !
farewell , worthy lord .
hamlet , son to the former , and nephew to the present king .
yes- mercy , if you report him truly .
who then persuaded you to stay at home ?
i cannot now speak .
as swift as lead , sir .
here is sir diomed .
for your part , to you our swords have leaden points , mark antony ; our arms in strength of
how mean you that ?
of king polixenes , it should here be laid , either for life or death , upon the earth of
him , my self , and thee i am forsaken , a torment thrice three-fold thus to be crossed :
re-enter ford , page , caius , and sir hugh evans ford .
thou know ' st our reasons urg ' d upon the way .
lies level to our wish .
seem they religious ?
be a good counsellor , or no ?
in this point charge him home , that he affects tyrannical power .
- what , ostler !
put up thy sword betime ; or i ' ll so maul you and your toasting-iron that you shall think
this found i on my tent this morning .
exit a servant wolsey .
or old grub , time out o ' mind the fairies ' coachmakers .
will be more mild and tractable .
' tis since the nuptial of lucentio , come pentecost as quickly as it will , some five-and-twenty years ,
if by this crime he owes the law his life , why , let the war receive ' t in
no , harry , harry , ' tis no land of thine ; thy place is fill ' d ,
therefore , merchant , i ' ll limit thee this day to seek thy help by beneficial hap .
you are dull , casca , and those sparks of life that should be in a roman you do want
if i were fair , thisby , i were only thine .
go bear this letter to my lord of lancaster ; this to the prince ; this to the earl of
we may pick a thousand sallets ere we light on such another herb .
hate , ' gainst any of us an , that will the king severely prosecute ' gainst us , our
where is thy lady ?
i ' ll make the motion .
brac ' d that shall reverberate all as loud as thine : sound but another , and another shall ,
a tongue in every wound of caesar that should move the stones of rome to rise and mutiny .
sorrows in ungrateful rome .
[kneels .
banish ' d duke .
get me a taper in my study , lucius .
why is time such a niggard of hair , being , as it is , so plentiful an excrement ?
the king enacts more wonders than a man , daring an opposite to every danger .
how would you live , pompey- by being a bawd ?
but in our circumstance and course of thought , ' tis heavy with him ; and am i then reveng
take in the topsail .
sovereign ' s sovereign to ride on ; and for the world- familiar to us and unknown- to lay apart
' tis most nobly spoken .
even in their wives ' and children ' s sight , be hang ' d up for example at their
no , my good lord ; he hath forsook the court , broken his staff of office , and dispers
, the choir , with all the choicest music of the kingdom , together sung ' te deum .
fear not , my lord ; that power that made you king hath power to keep you king in spite
i will write against it .
beatrice , [and attendants] .
of either , madam .
approach , sir andrew .
dog coins gold .
then you must undertake to slander him .
i wish we may , but yet have i a mind that fears him much , and my misgiving still
yield up their deer to th ' stand o ' th ' stealer ; and ' tis gold which makes
wherein have you played the knave with fortune , that she should scratch you , who of herself is a
d by him , i would not have been so fidius ' d for all the chests in corioli and
by my regard , but kill ' d none so .
a knave teach me my duty !
rest , rest , perturbed spirit !
i think alexander the great was born in macedon ; his father was called philip of macedon , as i
but in the midst of this bright-shining day i spy a black , suspicious , threat ' ning cloud that
confound .
sweet , so would i .
the queen falls .
and you , sir .
wherein is he good , but to taste sack and drink it ?
demetrius , i beg the ancient privilege of athens : as she is mine i may dispose of her ;
grace it .
[falls into the pit] quintus .
now , richard , i am with thee here alone .
come , come ; we ' ll couch i ' th ' castle ditch till we see the light of
and new pervert a reconciled maid .
when , lucius , when ?
before page ' s house enter mistress page , with a letter mrs .
sir , list to me : i am my father ' s heir and only son ; if i may
marry , sir , they praise me and make an ass of me .
y ' have said , sir .
i ran it through , even from my boyish days to the very moment that he bade me tell it
' er one falls ; he murder cries , and help from athens calls .
as a friend .
there was none such in the army of any sort .
nay , then i will not ; you shall have the mustard , or else you get no beef of
you are she .
let me hear no more .
to do that office of thine own good will which tired majesty did make thee offer- the resignation of thy
his art and yet not damnable .
my father ' s honours live in me , nor wrong mine age with this indignity .
pardon me , princely henry , and the rest : this dastard , at the battle of patay , when
exit queen .
which is the side that i must go withal ?
by your leave , sir .
now , good cesario , but that piece of song , that old and antique song we heard last night
i ' ll ha ' thee burnt .
i am sure , sweet kate , this kindness merits thanks .
and mantles on him , whilst i wore his sword philippan .
cousin of somerset , join you with me , and all together , with the duke of suffolk , we
speak ere thou diest .
therefore , good heavens , hear patiently my purpose .
exeunt stanley and catesby how now , hastings !
dost thou entreat me , hector ?
" jamy , " " " " " bates , soldier in the king ' s army court , "
sweet flower , with flowers thy bridal bed i strew (o woe !
religious love put out religion ' s eye .
we ' ll talk of that hereafter .
means to give you battle presently .
and here in sight of rome , to saturnine , king and commander of our commonweal , the wide world
a march of twelve score .
now , sir , what have you dream ' d of late of this war ' s purpose ?
i have but with a cursorary eye o ' erglanced the articles ; pleaseth your grace to appoint some of
she cannot be so much without true judgment (having so swift and excellent a wit as she is priz '
will our youth lead on to higher fields , and draw no swords but what are sanctified .
celerity is never more admir ' d than by the negligent .
him that disobeys !
- are nothing to your english .
txt and revel it as bravely as the best , with silken coats and caps , and golden rings ,
rambures .
_num_ so are you to my thoughts as food to life , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' the fourth turn ' d on the toe , and down he fell .
beg a hair of him for memory , and , dying , mention it within their wills , bequeathing it
this is ercles ' vein , a tyrant ' s vein : a lover is more condoling .
thou dost shame that bloody spoil .
when last i was at exeter , the mayor in courtesy show ' d me the castle and call '
in faith , secrets !
in my profession ?
do serve you with hearts create of duty and of zeal .
exeunt buckingham , mayor , and citizens catesby .
i would i could not think it .
aediles .
i know his soul is in heaven , fool .
yet here , laertes ?
was that my father that went hence so fast ?
thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight .
england , this nurse , this teeming womb of royal kings , fear ' d by their breed , and
o exceeding puppet !
therefore take heed how you impawn our person , how you awake our sleeping sword of war- we charge you
take him to prison ; and see our pleasure herein executed .
truth , and that no woman has ; nor never none shall mistress be of it , save i alone
all the commerce that you have had with troy as perfectly is ours as yours , my lord ; and
this weaves itself perforce into my business .
true , clifford ; and that ' s richard duke of york .
now , hal , what time of day is it , lad ?
tranio , i saw her coral lips to move , and with her breath she did perfume the air ;
heart obey my tongue .
is romeo slaught ' red , and is tybalt dead ?
o foul revolt of french inconstancy !
why do you dress me in borrow ' d robes ?
txt guardsman .
tedious ; for in all the play there is not one word apt , one player fitted .
to aufidius thus page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
go with me to the vault .
let all the tears that should bedew my hearse be drops of balm to sanctify thy head ; only compound
all take hands .
proceed and that , without delay , their arguments be now produc ' d and heard .
my royal father , cheer these noble lords , and hearten those that fight in your defence .
say you chose him more after our commandment than as guided by your own true affections ; and that your
no glory lives behind the back of such .
why say you so ?
back like hallowmas or short ' st of day .
duke humphrey ; ' tis that they seek ; and they , in seeking that , shall find their deaths
' the riot of the tipsy bacchanals , tearing the thracian singer in their rage .
tutor ' d by you , and their daughters profit very greatly under you .
keep thy foot out of brothel , thy hand out of placket , thy pen from lender ' s book
tush , tush , man !
sweet villain !
so white , and such a traitor !
citizens !
my cousin vernon !
she ' s the worse for all this .
thy father ; conspirant ' gainst this high illustrious prince ; and from th ' extremest upward of thy head
' sblood , there is something in this more than natural , if philosophy could find it out .
what do you think ?
i will fetch you light and paper and ink .
you mistake , sir ; you mistake , sir .
love ' s weak childish bow she lives unharm ' d .
the augurers say they know not , they cannot tell ; look grimly , and dare not speak their knowledge
court , the heart , to th ' seat o ' th ' brain ; and , through the cranks
give way there , and go on .
, will not offend thee .
a plague upon antenor !
' tis said they eat each other .
when he hath lam ' d me , i shall beg with it from door to door .
let me not name it to you , you chaste stars !
a need greater than shows itself at the first view to you that know them not .
how the knave jowls it to the ground , as if ' twere cain ' s jawbone , that did
well , she look ' d yesternight fairer than ever i saw her look , or any woman else .
outwards so commended that maidens ' eyes stuck over all his face .
i should live , all debts are clear ' d between you and i , if i might but see
mum , mum !
- fellow , you !
i will return again into the house and desire some conduct of the lady .
for such means , though peril to my modesty , not death on ' t , i would adventure .
hath fed of that worm .
and he will bless that cross with other beating ; between you i shall have a holy head .
sure he that made us with such large discourse , looking before and after , gave us not that capability
of their love .
when she was young you woo ' d her ; now in age is she become the suitor ?
[within] what a coil is there , dromio ?
yours .
that would avoid dispraise paints itself black , to imitate her brow .
exit re-enter maria olivia .
avoid then , fiend !
is my father well ?
- that she shall have , besides an argosy that now is lying in marseilles road .
i think we do know the sweet roman hand .
sir , sir , be patient .
is it not hero ?
txt i have one friend alive : thou wouldst disprove me .
to bordeaux , york !
[aside] doctors doubt that ; if anne page be my daughter , she is , by this , doctor caius
zounds , who is there ?
by , and then his state empties itself , as doth an inland brook into the main of waters .
by my troth , i kiss thee with a most constant heart .
be of good cheer ; mother , how fares your grace ?
] [enter antonio ' s son with a musician , and others .
noble she was , and thought i stood engag ' d ; but when i had subscrib ' d to
our emperor ; for well i know the common voice do cry it shall be so .
man ?
husband ?
slay !
[dies] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
suppos ' d sincere and holy in his thoughts , he ' s follow ' d both with body and
our royal master ' s murther ' d .
sir , i will tell you ; since i am charg ' d in honour , and by him that
prince john is this morning secretly stol ' n away .
txt woodville .
it doth , it doth , it doth .
pinch him , fairies , mutually ; pinch him for his villainy ; pinch him and burn him and turn
hath this lovely face rul ' d like a wandering planet over me , and could it not enforce them
love ' s wings to fly , and when the flight is made to one so dear , of such
i ' ll in to urge his hatred more to clarence with lies well steel ' d with weighty arguments
if it be , sir , i pray you eat none of it .
and when mine oratory drew toward end i bid them that did love their country ' s good cry '
and you , good brother father .
it is no matter , now i ha ' t again .
enter the lord chief justice and servant page .
there , there , hortensio , will you any wife ?
his hand to wield a sceptre ; and himself likely in time to bless a regal throne .
this is to give a dog , and in recompense desire my dog again .
if she find him not , to england send him ; or confine him where your wisdom best shall think
have a mind presages me such thrift that i should questionless be fortunate .
no more words ; let ' s have her .
o gentle proteus , love ' s a mighty lord , and hath so humbled me as i confess there
to france .
' d , and stormed at .
lead in your ladies , ev ' ry one .
what is this forest call ' d hastings .
true , sir ; i was in love with my bed .
there ' s more depends on this than on the value .
marry , before he fell down , when he perceived the common herd was glad he refused the crown ,
[starting] help me , lysander , help me ; do thy best to pluck this crawling serpent from my breast
my master seeks not me ; therefore , i am no sheep .
i have a health for you .
nay , i ' ll come ; if i lose a scruple of this sport let me be boil '
have you not hurt your head ?
>> scene iv .
in warwickshire i have true-hearted friends , not mutinous in peace , yet bold in war ; those will i
pleasure to command me in .
i do invest you jointly in my power , preeminence , and all the large effects that troop with majesty
have too much blood in him .
i would to god some scholar would conjure her , for certainly , while she is here , a man
i charge you , get you home .
sot , didst see dick surgeon , sot ?
anon !
st forth in lamentation .
his life there .
txt this true which they so seem to fear .
exit with the body second murderer .
follow me , ned .
txt is as our earing .
as well as one so great and so forlorn may hold together .
no , nor i neither ; but most wonderful that she should so dote on signior benedick , whom she
lysander riddles very prettily .
ay , very well , my lord .
therefore this project should have a back or second , that might hold if this did blast in proof .
let thy blood be thy direction till thy death .
beauty ten times louder than beauty could , display ' d .
i thought you had been willing to resign .
enter a courtezan courtezan .
hath she no husband that will take pains to blow a horn before her ?
what , must our mouths be cold ?
of my tongue all that impedes thee from the golden round , which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem to
a father , and a gracious aged man , whose reverence even the head-lugg ' d bear would lick ,
lo , in this right hand , whose protection is most divinely vow ' d upon the right of him
is it sir robert ' s son that you seek so ?
how long will a man lie i ' th ' earth ere he rot ?
well , my good lord , i have inform ' d them so .
i warrant your honour .
re-enter pisanio and ladies so , so .
to the hearers , sir .
but yet let me lament , with tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts , that thou , my
a husband , and then have to ' t afresh .
" hark !
nothing can come of nothing .
nay , i pray you let me go .
ay , my noble lord .
i am asham ' d that thou hast power to shake my manhood thus ; that these hot tears ,
we will spare for no wit , i warrant you .
but that ' s no matter , the greater part carries it .
, have misdemean ' d yourself , and not a little , toward the king first , then his laws
, when nature brought him to the door of death ?
come , i ' ll drink no proofs nor no bullets .
beauty brief in goodness ; but grace , being the soul of your complexion , shall keep the body of
[exit bardolph] how now !
poor knave , i blame thee not , thou art o ' erwatch ' d .
what chance is this that suddenly hath cross ' d us ?
lady , will you walk a bout with your friend ?
so fair , and i am done .
than would make up his message .
the augurer tells me we shall have news tonight .
' have i no friend ?
fool , there was never man so notoriously abus ' d ; i am as well in my wits ,
half a share .
do as i bid thee , or rather do thy pleasure .
therefore take heed , as hymen ' s lamps shall light you .
now the best at barnet field , will thither straight , for willingness rids way ; and as we march
if my uncle , thy banished father , had banished thy uncle , the duke my father , so thou
dear sir , ere long i ' ll visit you again .
that last is berowne , the merry mad-cap lord ; not a word with him but a jest .
but believe me not ; and yet i lie not .
you are too bitter to your country-woman .
for god ' s sake , lords , give signal to the fight .
you mistake ; the musician likes me not .
o that i had him , with six aufidiuses , or more- his tribe , to use my lawful sword
goneril with a white beard ?
if thou beest trinculo , come forth ; i ' ll pull the by the lesser legs ; if any
, but keeps you from dishonour in doing it .
believe me , i had rather have lost my purse full of crusadoes ; and , but my noble moor
then sit we down and let us all consult .
yes , good griffith ; i were malicious else .
but , poor old man , thou prun ' st a rotten tree that cannot so much as a blossom
the duke of exeter has very gallantly maintain ' d the pridge ; the french is gone off , look
now , by this light , were i to get again , madam , i would not wish a better
and hang a calf ' s-skin on those recreant limbs .
(they whistle .
so , have you done ?
i thank thee for that jest ; here ' s a garment for ' t .
go presently inquire , and so will i , where money is ; and i no question make to have
my countryman , but yet i know him not .
our scene is alt ' red from a serious thing , and now chang ' d to ' the beggar
know where .
alas , the tender boy , in passion mov ' d , doth weep to see his grandsire ' s
poins !
we ' ll bury him ; and then , what ' s brave , what ' s noble , let
ten is the hour that was appointed me to watch the coming of my punish ' d duchess .
o , if you raise this house against this house , it will the woefullest division prove that ever fell
[strikes her] if that be jest , then an the rest was so .
i cannot , lord ; i have important business , the tide whereof is now .
exeunt gower and fluellen king henry .
especially he hath incurred the everlasting displeasure of the king , who had even tun ' d his bounty to
gracious madam , i that do bring the news made not the match .
i will not be long from you .
lord bassianus lies beray ' d in blood , all on a heap , like to a slaughtered lamb ,
they lie in view , but have not spoke as yet .
our hint of woe is common ; every day , some sailor ' s wife , the masters of some
his grave .
even as a flatt ' ring dream or worthless fancy .
than thou , the shadow of succession ; for of no right , nor colour like to right , he
harvest-home .
here she comes , curst and sad .
therefore , when he sees reason of fears , as we do , his fears , out of doubt ,
now , madam , summon up your dearest spirits .
even so .
; nor aught so good but , strain ' d from that fair use , revolts from true birth ,
shall she live to betray this guilt of ours- a long-tongu ' d babbling gossip ?
sir , here is newly come to court laertes ; believe me , an absolute gentleman , full of most
can make the curstest shrew .
these tardy tricks of yours will , on my life , one time or other break some gallows ' back
exeunt sebastian and antonio gonzalo .
[aside] an ' twould , you ' d carry half .
[aside] that such an ass should owe them .
valentinus , rowland , and to crassus , and bid them bring the trumpets to the gate ; but send
[singing] do me right , and dub me knight .
it then remains that you do speak to the people .
he holds me well , the better shall my purpose work on him .
therefore , you clown , abandon- which is in the vulgar leave- the society- which in the boorish is company-
dost thou conjure for wenches , that thou call ' st for such store , when one is one too
be patient ; they are friends-ratcliff and lovel .
in truth , i know it is a sin to be a mocker , but he- why , he hath
by boy , servant by servant .
jove and my stars be praised !
' and then he drew a dial from his poke , and , looking on it with lack-lustre eye ,
methinks my lord should be religious , and know the office that belongs to such .
these should be hours for necessities , not for delights ; times to repair our nature with comforting repose ,
for then i ' ll marry warwick ' s youngest daughter .
this assurance ; if not , to signior gremio .
that i may swear beauty doth beauty lack , if that she learn not of her eye to look .
which short-arm ' d ignorance itself knows is so abundant scarce , it will not in circumvention deliver a fly
ah , heavens , it is a most pathetical nit !
ay , those attires are best ; but , gentle nurse , i pray thee leave me to myself to-night
' s vows , and those are mine ; you give away myself , which is known mine ; for
you shall not go , my lord .
a ripe age .
peaseblossom !
but flowers distilled though they with winter meet , leese but their show , their substance still lives sweet .
enter hubert [aside] hubert , what news with you ?
we stood to ' t in good time .
see what humour he is in ; and i will bring the doctor about by the fields .
a stonecutter or a painter could not have made him so ill , though he had been but two hours
, and like a mountain cedar reach his branches to all the plains about him ; our children ' s
where yond pine does stand i shall discover all .
obey , and go with me ; for thou must die .
i ' ll drink no more than will do me good , for no man ' s pleasure , i
nothing sweet boy , but yet like prayers divine , i must each day say o ' er the very
my hat to a halfpenny , pompey proves the best worthy .
' tis past , my liege ; and i beseech your majesty to make it natural rebellion , done i
no , not to lose it all as thou hast done .
enter desdemona , iago , and attendants .
[within] qui est la ?
[waking] and run through fire i will for thy sweet sake .
where scotland ?
ah , my tender babes !
sound a flourish .
send quickly to sir john to know his mind .
against thee , upon pain of life .
why ask you ?
[within] ho , daughter !
know , then , that some of us are gentlemen , such as the fury of ungovern ' d youth
and make a vassal of him .
let me ask you one word in private .
and to make us no better thought of , a little help will serve ; for once we stood up
what , are they broken ?
look , here ' s thy love : my foot and her face see .
now ' tis awake , takes note of what is done , and , like a prophet , looks in
o night with hue so black !
ay , but the case is alter ' d .
yea , troilus ?
] jul .
lo , citizens , he says he is content .
brother john bates , is not that the morning which breaks yonder ?
o caesar- caesar .
her eye discourses ; i will answer it .
why , how now , lords , your wrathful weapons drawn here in our presence !
do ' t .
needs must i like it well .
if you read this line , remember not , the hand that writ it , for i love you so
purpose is not executed .
, and blunt the sword that guards the peace and safety of your person ; nay , more , to
txt use my legs ?
our own doth little advantage .
txt edm .
come , shall we hear this music ?
-me .
' remember who commended thy yellow stockings , ' - olivia .
these may be counterfeits ; let ' s think ' t unsafe to come in to the cry without more
write from us to him , post-post-haste dispatch .
make a dearth in this revolting land .
one dowle that ' s in my plume ; my fellow-ministers are like invulnerable .
be thought a fool .
the people love me , and the sea is mine ; my powers are crescent , and my auguring hope
thou liest .
, we should take root here where we sit , or sit state-statues only .
rhyme : very ominous endings !
gramercies , tranio , well dost thou advise .
who is this ?
a many of our bodies shall no doubt find native graves ; upon the which , i trust , shall
by my troth , well met .
my lord of york , try what your fortune is .
he so near to hermione hath done hermione that they say one would speak to her and stand in hope
be this the whetstone of your sword .
make a riot on the gentle brow of true sincerity ?
live in peace , ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers ' sons shall ill become the flower of england '
dost thou think so , spirit ?
come , i cannot cog , and say thou art this and that , like a many of these lisping
mourn ' d for her ; writ to my lady mother i am returning ; entertain ' d my convoy
one word in secret .
direction .
<<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library , inc
back : the world is not thy friend , nor the world ' s law ; the world affords no
i pray thee hold thy peace .
this castle hath a pleasant seat ; the air nimbly and sweetly recommends itself unto our gentle senses .
[a flourish with drums and trumpets .
i had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad- and to travel for
i would always have one play but one thing .
a foolish figure !
madam , they are for you .
pauca , pauca ; slice !
yet look up , behold , that you in pity may dissolve to dew , and wash him fresh again
this is mistress anne page .
page] i love thee and none but thee ; help me away .
praised be god , and not our strength , for it !
count , take of me my daughter , and with her my fortunes .
for mine own good all causes shall give way .
it is a man ' s voice .
yet , pucelle , hold thy peace ; if talbot do but thunder , rain will follow .
enter a gentleman .
with my master ' s ship ?
what though you fled from that great face of war , whose several ranges frighted each other ?
txt thy company , which erst was irksome to me , i will endure ; and i ' ll employ
, but if that flower with base infection meet , the basest weed outbraves his dignity : for sweetest things
the king ' s disease-my project may deceive me , but my intents are fix ' d , and will
where is the king ?
and just against thy heart make thou a hole , that all the tears that thy poor eyes let fall
there is no sure foundation set on blood , no certain life achiev ' d by others ' death .
dissolve , and , like this insubstantial pageant faded , leave not a rack behind .
the volscian camp before rome enter menenius to the watch on guard first watch .
i ' ll call him presently , my noble lord .
here comes your cousin .
loathsome smells , and shrieks like mandrakes torn out of the earth , that living mortals , hearing them ,
he is a very proper man .
mother , you have my father much offended .
nature , and flowing o ' er with arts and exercise .
i bear antonio , that i follow thus a losing suit against him .
mine honour , aught , my bond to wedlock or my love and duty , against your sacred person ,
that he bears all things fairly and shows good husbandry for the volscian state , fights dragon-like , and does
go to , hold your tongue .
i do not strain at the position- it is familiar-but at the author ' s drift ; who , in
the prayers of holy saints and wronged souls , like high-rear ' d bulwarks , stand before our faces ;
dear .
so holy writ in babes hath judgment shown , when judges have been babes .
cassius , go you into the other street and part the numbers .
-there ' s a simple putting off .
bring forth so great an object .
where be his quiddits now , his quillets , his cases , his tenures , and his tricks ?
a fine spot , in good faith .
general , be advised , he comes to bad intent .
well said , my masters ; and welcome all .
tell him i humbly desire the valiant ajax to invite the most valorous hector to come unarm ' d to
i fear me you ' ll be in till then .
in faith , my lord , not i .
young ned , for thee thine uncles and myself have in our armours watch ' d the winter ' s
dejected havior of the visage , together with all forms , moods , shapes of grief , ' that can
txt hold up thy hand , make signal of thy hope .
' d with me !
did some service ; of such note , indeed , that , were i ta ' en here , it
ring pickle .
my husband and my lord , my lord and husband ; i am your wife in all obedience .
and will you yet call yourself young ?
earth for war .
a shirt and a smock .
sweet hero !
there are the players .
but , as we often see , against some storm , a silence in the heavens , the rack stand
under the colour of commending him i have access my own love to prefer ; but silvia is too fair
i prithee now , my son , go to them with this bonnet in thy hand ; and thus far
[reads] ' i will imitate the honourable romans in brevity .
but is this law ?
i ' th ' pyramid ; they know by th ' height , the lowness , or the mean ,
villainous thoughts , roderigo !
now , princes , for the service i have done , th ' advantage of the time prompts me aloud
sin .
contend against those honors deep and broad wherewith your majesty loads our house .
round even to faultiness .
pray you , go and vetch me in my closet un boitier vert-a box , a green-a box .
patience , good lady ; wizards know their times : deep night , dark night , the silent of the
twain .
bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou perform ' d , my ariel ; a grace it had ,
no , madam , he does nothing but smile .
you wrong me , sir , thus still to haunt my house .
nurse .
he ' ll tickle it for his concupy .
as well they may upbraid me with my crown , because , forsooth , the king of scots is crown
sister ; the woman low , and browner than her brother .
thou art the grave where buried love doth live , hung with the trophies of my lovers gone , who
even at this sight my heart is turn ' d to stone ; and while ' tis mine it shall
what , man !
this youth that you see here i snatch ' d one half out of the jaws of death , reliev
the sheriff with a most monstrous watch is at the door .
i am able now , methinks , out of a fortitude of soul i feel , to endure more miseries
at rhodes , at cyprus , and on other grounds christian and heathen , must be belee ' d and
follow , good cousin warwick ; if that the soldier strike him , as i judge by his blunt bearing
i come to know what prisoners thou hast ta ' en , and to survey the bodies of the dead
great thanks , great pompey .
tax of impudence , a strumpet ' s boldness , a divulged shame , traduc ' d by odious ballads
for france , ' tis ours ; and we will keep it still .
stop their marches fore we are inflam ' d .
be to me , though thy hard heart say no , nothing so kind , but something pitiful !
why dost thou look so pale ?
txt enter davy davy .
commend me to your honourable wife ; tell her the process of antonio ' s end ; say how i
i do assure you , my lord , he is very great in knowledge , and accordingly valiant .
i cannot tell .
by computation and mine host ' s report i could not speak with dromio since at first i sent him
please it your majesty , this is the man that doth accuse his master of high treason ; his words
i am not for this ambling .
what features ?
pray now , your news ?
no longer from head to foot than from hip to hip : she is spherical , like a globe ;
although the cheer be poor , ' twill fill your stomachs ; please you eat of it .
than as a very pretence and purpose of unkindness .
d before my perfect honour , swore to cymbeline i was confederate with the romans .
early tomorrow will we rise and hence .
for the ways are dangerous to pass , i do desire thy worthy company , upon whose faith and honour
i ' ll tell thee , hubert , half my power this night , passing these flats , are taken
what , urge you your petitions in the street ?
urge doubts to them that fear .
some heavenly power guide us out of this fearful country !
there is no tongue that moves , none , none i ' th ' world , so soon as yours
flesh of muttons , beefs , or goats .
helen .
if ever he return , and i can speak to him , i will open my lips in vain ,
berowne , read it over .
but what said jaques ?
some other time for that .
another part of the wood enter titania , with her train titania .
you have won a happy victory to rome ; but for your son- believe it , o , believe it
where i have learnt me to repent the sin of disobedient opposition to you and your behests , and am
how now , signior launce !
farewell , faint-hearted and degenerate king , in whose cold blood no spark of honour bides .
thee down , call warwick patron , and be penitent ?
txt and look how many grecian tents do stand hollow upon this plain , so many hollow factions .
since the torch is out , lie down , and stray no farther .
my gracious lord !
and nightly , meadow-fairies , look you sing , like to the garter ' s compass , in a ring
wast not the way ?
honour that good convenience claims .
a south-west blow on ye and blister you all o ' er !
i ' ll speak to him .
i shall , king harry .
whilst i am bound to wonder , i am bound to pity too .
against my will i am sent to bid you come in to dinner .
let me make men know page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my good lord !
lysander !
now trust me , madam , it came hardly off ; for , being ignorant to whom it goes ,
txt that may with foul intrusion enter in and dwell upon your grave when you are dead ; for slander
well then , once in my days i ' ll be a madcap .
sins abuse my divination , success to th ' roman host .
lord angelo , having affairs to heaven , intends you for his swift ambassador , where you shall be an
god bless you , captain parolles .
fear of the queen ' s speed , is gone .
s clerk .
s company !
the coast of kent alarum .
hath less power to bite the man that mocks at it and sets it light .
enter king , rosencrantz , and guildenstern .
such fair ostents of love as shall conveniently become you there .
return you thither ?
sails ; the seas and winds , old wranglers , took a truce , and did him service .
i have done as you have done- that ' s what i can ; induc ' d as you have
heavens make our presence and our practices pleasant and helpful to him !
while i was there .
why , so i am- in mind ; and that ' s enough .
and here i stand .
ay , sir , they be ready ; the oats have eaten the horses .
what shouts are these ?
o , no ; forbear !
in kissing , do you render or receive ?
to some shade , and fit you to your manhood .
d to death !
but ere we could arrive the point proposed , caesar cried , " help me , cassius , or i
why stay we to be baited with one that wants her wits ?
nay , that i can deny by a circumstance .
i have lov ' d thee- leontes .
come , i ' ll flesh ye !
stay , father !
nay , pray thee come ; or if thou wilt hold longer argument , do it in notes .
he does hear me ; and that he does i weep .
, in whose fresh regard weak sights their sickly radiance do amend ; the heaven-hued sapphire and the opal blend
if of life you keep a care , shake off slumber , and beware .
indeed , i think the young king loves you not .
he hath , my lord , of late made many tenders of his affection to me .
treason , my lord- lavinia is surpris ' d !
' twas this flesh begot those pelican daughters .
i think nothing , my lord .
from a pound to a pin ?
toy , a trick , a baby ' s cap .
i would i had your bond ; for i perceive a weak bond holds you ; i ' ll not
ay , mistress ; and petruchio is the master , that teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long , to tame
will ' a stand to ' t ?
your unfortunate son , bertram .
give every man thine ear , but few thy voice ; take each man ' s censure , but reserve
s son .
txt thou know ' st ' tis common .
) ' twixt two extremes of passion , joy and grief , burst smilingly .
a warlike soil , mocking the air with colours idly spread , and find no check ?
your fights ; give fire ; she is my prize , or ocean whelm them all !
[miranda sleeps] come away , servant ; come ; i am ready now .
thou hast need of more rags to lay on thee , rather than have these off .
take your rapier , jack ; i vill tell you how i vill kill him .
fence-three veneys for a dish of stew ' d prunes -and , i with my ward defending my head ,
[aside] amen ; for i am that way going to temptation where prayers cross .
let it come , i ' faith , and i ' ll pledge you all ; and a fig for
twenty to one then he is shipp ' d already , and i have play ' d the sheep in
and for cassio , let me be his undertaker .
safer than trust too far .
fellow , where we may take him and disgrace him for it .
what is thy name ?
cassio knows you not .
from you , to do yourself good , and not to grace me .
o you flatterers !
if i do feign , you witnesses above punish my life for tainting of my love !
to help king edward in his time of storm , as every loyal subject ought to do .
be more expressive to them ; for they wear themselves in the cap of the time ; there do muster
katherina , you may stay ; for i have more to commune with bianca .
that he would rather have antonio ' s flesh than twenty times the value of the sum that he did
txt fortune reigns in gifts of the world , not in the lineaments of nature .
fourth soldier .
i had rather than forty pound i were at home .
how ' gree you now ?
in government .
i have a pain upon my forehead here .
yes , master , clear as day , i thank god and saint alban .
make no compare between that love a woman can bear me and that i owe olivia .
how goest ?
not that adam that kept the paradise , but that adam that keeps the prison ; he that goes in
of any thing the image , tell me , that hath kept with thy remembrance ?
exit belarius .
lucina lent not me her aid , but took me in my throes , that from me was posthumus ripp
a hall in leonato ' s house .
the glass that now begins to run finish the process of his sandy hour , these eyes that see thee
when night-dogs run , all sorts of deer are chas ' d .
goes slow and stately by them .
son , i have overheard what hath pass ' d between you and your sister .
achilles will not to the field to-morrow .
what , john rugby !
[within] who calls there ?
why , tell me , is not this my cambio ?
strong as heaven itself : the bonds of heaven are slipp ' d , dissolv ' d , and loos
he is very near by this .
will this gear ne ' er be mended ?
is little hope of life in him .
servingmen come forth with napkins .
three corrupted men- one , richard earl of cambridge , and the second , henry lord scroop of masham ,
how long is ' t since she went to milford haven ?
i prithee , bear some charity to my wit ; do not think it so unwholesome .
well , go thy ways , old lad , for thou shalt ha ' t .
well , honor is the subject of my story .
go one , and call the jew into the court .
thy father ' s exchequer .
but what care i for words ?
txt enter don pedro , [john the] bastard , leonato , friar [francis] , claudio , benedick , hero ,
yet shall you have all kindness at my hand that your estate requires and mine can yield .
- you are a princox- go !
was assur ' d to her ; told me what privy marks i had about me , as , the
, whose banish ' d sense thou has repeal ' d , a second time receive the confirmation of my
first herald .
sir , mark antony will e ' en but kiss octavia , and we ' ll follow .
she that i spake of , our great captain ' s captain , left in the conduct of the bold
bear witness , heaven , i have my wish for ever .
their youthful sap , at height decrease , and wear their brave state out of memory .
deny ' t .
the people are abus ' d ; set on .
such matter ?
close , in the name of jesting !
, to work exceeding miracles on earth .
because i cannot flatter and look fair , smile in men ' s faces , smooth , deceive , and
thou wot , wot thou !
eyes , and study too , the causer of your vow ; for where is author in the world teaches
except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds , or memorize another golgotha , i cannot tell- but i am
well then , the peace , which you before so urg ' d , lies in his answer .
' s further pleasure be known unto us .
yet you are amaz ' d , but this shall absolutely resolve you .
better than a churlish turf of france .
my lord , when shall we go to cheapside , and take up commodities upon our bills ?
i ' ll not to bed to-night ; let me alone .
' sblood , do you think i am easier to be play ' d on than a pipe ?
a spirit ?
wherefore do you look upon that poor and broken bankrupt there ?
o happy vantage of a kneeling knee !
what , wife , i say !
came they not by you ?
the copy of your speed is learn ' d by them , for when you should be told they do
be moderate , be moderate .
what of his heart perceive you in his face by any livelihood he show ' d to-day ?
i have been studying how i may compare this prison where i live unto the world and , for because
folded the writ up in the form of th ' other , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
this shall determine that .
a conquering part , to steel a strong opinion to themselves ?
come , sir john .
then let it do at once the thing why thou hast drawn it .
, sir , a son for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed .
prove it so , let fortune go to hell for it , not i .
lives he ?
a thing slipp ' d idly from me .
the king is a good king , but it must be as it may ; he passes some humours and
nay , lay thee down and roar ; for thou hast kill ' d the sweetest innocent that e '
now bind my brows with iron ; and approach the ragged ' st hour that time and spite dare bring
enter leonato (governor of messina) , hero (his daughter) , and beatrice (his niece) , with a messenger .
now by my mother ' s son , and that ' s myself , it shall be moon , or
my old dame will be undone now for one to do her husbandry and her drudgery .
if this prove a vision of the island , one dear son shall i twice lose .
yea , from the table of my memory i ' ll wipe away all trivial fond records , all saws
lust , are not the things they go under ; many a maid hath been seduced by them ; and
not so , friend ; honour and lordship are my titles .
how much thou wrong ' st me , heaven be my judge .
is not true .
will tempt the frailty of our powers , presuming on their changeful potency .
was this face the face that every day under his household roof did keep ten thousand men ?
i and my fellows are ministers of fate ; the elements of whom your swords are temper ' d may
i know not that , when he knows what i know .
feed not thy sovereign ' s foe , my gentle earth , nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense
forgive me , country , and sweet countrymen and , lords , accept this hearty kind embrace .
why this ?
enter the duke of burgundy and his forces now in the rearward comes the duke and his .
he lives not now that knows me to be in love ; yet i am in love ; but a
would you speak with me ?
fortune , that arrant whore , ne ' er turns the key to th ' poor .
it must and shall be so ; content thyself .
a true subject ; and thy father is to give me thanks for it .
tell him i ' ll knock his leek about his pate upon saint davy ' s day .
his blows are well dispos ' d .
o ' erpow ' r ' d ; and wilt thou , pupil-like , take the correction mildly , kiss
red as any rose , in good truth , la !
when they him spy , as wild geese that the creeping fowler eye , or russet-pated choughs , many in
marry , sir , such claim as you would lay to your horse ; and she would have me as
i have almost matter enough in me for such an embassage ; and so i commit you-- claud .
- compare our faces and be judge yourself .
courage as rous ' d with rage , with rage doth sympathise , and with an accent tun ' d
hoar the flamen , that scolds against the quality of flesh and not believes himself .
[within] if thy name be called luce -luce , thou hast answer ' d him well .
to his mistress , for whom he now is banish ' d- her own price proclaims how she esteem '
my mind presageth happy gain and conquest .
what , does the cuckold scorn me ?
nay , pray be patient ; if you refuse your aid in this so never-needed help , yet do not
are these things then necessities ?
' d , disgrac ' d his kingly glory .
in spite of your heart , i think .
why , that ' s the way to choke a gibing spirit , whose influence is begot of that loose
but thou wouldst not think how ill all ' s here about my heart .
i pray you , will you take him by the arm ?
peace ; i have done .
i am satisfied in nature , whose motive in this case should stir me most to my revenge .
(within) hamlet !
i ' ll be your purse-bearer , and leave you for an hour .
if i know more of any man alive than that which maiden modesty doth warrant , let all my sins
for it comes to pass oft that a terrible oath , with a swaggering accent sharply twang ' d off
crown may be recover ' d .
this palt ' ring becomes not rome ; nor has coriolanus deserved this so dishonour ' d rub , laid
the gods have well prevented it , and rome sits safe and still without him .
you must call forth the watch that are their accusers .
we are for you ; sit i ' th ' middle .
one out .
in disgrace .
but it shall not be so long ; this wrestler shall clear all .
how likes hortensio that ?
- not all the whips of heaven are large enough- what !
my heart on thy every part .
thou art our admiral , thou bearest the lantern in the poop- but ' tis in the nose of thee
one word , good friend .
i do , my lord .
second watchman .
and in the height of this bath , when i was more than half-stew ' d in grease , like
never such a pow ' r for any foreign preparation was levied in the body of a land .
what a pair of spectacles is here !
follower .
why yet there want not many that do fear in deep of night to walk by this herne ' s
pity hath engend ' red ; and therefore sit you down in gentleness , and take upon command what help
txt " brutus , thou sleep ' st : awake and see thyself !
cornets .
call coriolanus .
our brother is imprison ' d by your means , myself disgrac ' d , and the nobility held in
wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war and shame thine honourable age with blood ?
thine ' s too heavy to mount .
i play the noble housewife with the time , to entertain it so merrily with a fool .
i shall between this and supper tell you most strange things from rome , all tending to the good of
i never gave you aught .
what are they that would speak with me ?
lord , how we lose our pains !
still have i tarried .
sir , as i told you always , her beauty and her brain go not together ; she ' s
enter fenton and anne page how now , master fenton !
i could endure anything before but a cat , and now he ' s a cat to me .
the dungeon of the castle enter king richard king richard .
i had rather than a thousand pound he were out of the house .
i pray draw near .
you may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar .
french-crown-colour beard , your perfect yellow .
the other motive why to a public count i might not go is the great love the general gender bear
bosom there and speak his very heart .
i did hear the galloping of horse .
if i could meet that fancy-monger , i would give him some good counsel , for he seems to have
which is the wiser here , justice or iniquity ?
' d ten times o ' er , goes to the feast , and for his ordinary pays his heart
fairer prove your honour than in my thought it lies !
your page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
field , and crows are fatted with the murrion flock ; the nine men ' s morris is fill '
i am famish ' d in his service ; you may tell every finger i have with my ribs .
castiliano vulgo !
, though great ones are their object .
so , i am satisfied .
at large , sweeten the bitter mock you sent his majesty , he ' ll call you to so hot
our revels now are ended .
as near the dawning , provost , as it is , you shall hear more ere morning .
you are welcome , sir ; adieu !
marry , this is miching malhecho ; it means mischief .
were it not glory that we more affected than the performance of our heaving spleens , i would not wish
the clerk is answered .
she did play false , the fault was hers ; which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands that
' tis common .
beguiles our lips of all rejoindure , forcibly prevents our lock ' d embrasures , strangles our dear vows even
state and crown to henry bolingbroke .
not on thy sole , but on thy soul , harsh jew , thou mak ' st thy knife keen
cry you aloud .
to fright the souls of fearful adversaries , he capers nimbly in a lady ' s chamber to the lascivious
france , hast thou yet more blood to cast away ?
you have abus ' d me .
tear him for his bad verses , tear him for his bad verses .
, sailors , messengers , officers , gentlemen , musicians , and attendants <<this electronic version of the complete works
but to speak that in words which his eye hath disclos ' d ; i only have made a mouth
i do begin to have bloody thoughts .
touching our person seek we no revenge ; but we our kingdom ' s safety must so tender , whose
come on .
from the weaker band .
this tune goes manly .
; the moor is with child by you , launcelot .
exit duchess .
but you are all recreants and dastards , and delight to live in slavery to the nobility .
doth kiss king richard ' s hand , and sends allegiance and true faith of heart to his most royal
it is here , hamlet .
txt besides the running banquet of two beadles that is to come .
i will not dispraise your sister cassandra ' s wit ; but- troilus .
reclaim ' d to your obedience fifty fortresses , twelve cities , and seven walled towns of strength , beside
these things , indeed , you have articulate , proclaim ' d at market crosses , read in churches ,
show his eyes , and grieve his heart ; come like shadows , so depart !
the noble menelaus .
presently do thine own fortunes that obedient right which both thy duty owes and our power claims ; or i
show the mood of a much troubled breast , and i do fearfully believe ' tis done what we so
; say to thyself ' from their abominable and beastly touches i drink , i eat , array myself ,
they that have the voice of lions and the act of hares , are they not monsters ?
come , you promis ' d me a tawdry-lace , and a pair of sweet gloves .
parolles .
good my lord of lancaster , i am not here against your father ' s peace ; but , as
either his notion weakens , his discernings are lethargied- ha !
, commit them to the fortune of the sea .
well may i get aboard !
rapine and murder , you are welcome too .
yet do thy worst old time : despite thy wrong , my love shall in my verse ever live young
it the face to sweeten of the whole dungy earth .
charge , making a treaty where there was a yielding- this admits no excuse .
whose help i mean to chastise it .
i will not be denied .
, liberality , and such like , the spice and salt that season a man ?
aid for such disguise as haply shall become the form of my intent .
we lost a jewel of her , and our esteem was made much poorer by it ; but your son
if the young dace be a bait for the old pike , i see no reason in the law of
enter his lady .
what , are you married ?
sweet practiser , thy physic i will try , that ministers thine own death if i die .
caught of me ?
how strangely ?
it shame .
well , i will look further into ' t , and i have a disguise to sound falstaff .
' lords .
are you our daughter ?
, villain , thou mightst have been an emperor ; but where the bull and cow are both milk-white ,
but what talk we of fathers when there is such a man as orlando ?
under correction , sir , we know whereuntil it doth amount .
have you eyes you cannot call it love ; for at your age the heyday in the blood is tame
to england , if you will .
and cassandra laugh ' d .
to this her mother ' s plot she seemingly obedient likewise hath made promise to the doctor .
under this thick-grown brake we ' ll shroud ourselves , for through this laund anon the deer will come ;
give it pallas .
what i should think of this cannot tell : but this i think , there ' s no man is
adieu , good queen ; i must attend on caesar .
thus strangers may be hal ' d and abus ' d .
held up the very life of my dear friend .
if ' a be in debt and theft , and a sergeant in the way , hath he not reason
her world with sorrow ' s wind and rain .
, we will not hand a rope more .
eyes .
that you may , fair lady , perceive i speak sincerely and high notes ta ' en of your many
prithee , nuncle , be contented !
all solemn things should answer solemn accidents .
so your sweet majesty , looking awry upon your lord ' s departure , find shapes of grief more than
now he ' s coming , and not a hair upon a soldier ' s head which will not prove
did you find me in yourself , sir , or were you taught to find me ?
now , by the sky that hangs above our heads , i like it well .
seize us ?
now would i give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of barren ground-long heath , brown furze ,
britaine .
studied to misuse me so .
trust your word .
i ' ll follow thee a month , devise with the where thou shalt rest , that thou mayst hear
i trust ere long to choke thee with thine own , and make thee curse the harvest of that corn
our separation so abides and flies that thou , residing here , goes yet with me , and i ,
my lord , my answer is- ' to lancaster ' ; and i am come to seek that name in
what , do you shake at that ?
exit gratiano .
your office , sergeant : execute it .
wherefore , bold peasant , dar ' st thou support a publish ' d traitor ?
why , why is this ?
a second grissel , and roman lucrece for her chastity .
enter sir hugh evans evans .
if then that friend demand why brutus rose against caesar , this is my answer : not that i loved
admitted a private whisper- no , not with such friends that thought them sure of you .
pray , sir , in what ?
; and shall the figure of god ' s majesty , his captain , steward , deputy elect , anointed
before baptista ' s house enter tranio as lucentio , and the pedant dressed like vincentio tranio .
how now , dame partlet the hen ?
i cannot say your worships have deliver ' d the matter well , when i find the ass in compound
kings are no less unhappy , their issue not being gracious , than they are in losing them when they
mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope , whereto thy speech serves for authority , the like of him .
grandam , one night as we did sit at supper , my uncle rivers talk ' d how i did
twenty-three days they have been absent ; ' tis good speed ; foretells the great apollo suddenly will have the
; at which time would i , being but a moonish youth , grieve , be effeminate , changeable ,
that ' s the end .
the hangman thank for being yare about him .
answer to us .
then die a calf , before your horns do grow .
' st of good ones- sitting sadly hearing us praise our loves of italy for beauty that made barren the
withdraw thee , wretched margaret .
me ; all his senses have but human conditions ; his ceremonies laid by , in his nakedness he appears
the people will remain uncertain whilst ' twixt you there ' s difference ; but the fall of either makes
the virtuous lady , countess of auvergne , with modesty admiring thy renown , by me entreats , great lord
[they fight] enter warwick ; clifford flies richard .
a jewel in a ten-times barr ' d-up chest is a bold spirit in a loyal breast .
year of fruitful land , all which shall be her jointure .
there ' s one grape yet ; i am sure thy father drunk wine-but if thou be ' st not
come to me , tyrrel , soon at after supper , when thou shalt tell the process of their death
my good lord , not your demand ; it values not your asking .
: he made trial of you only .
] what in your own part can you say to this ?
[they all bustle about coriolanus] all .
txt that are written down old with all the characters of age ?
show , contain , and nourish , all the world , else none at all in aught proves excellent .
there is my pledge ; accept it , somerset .
for any benefit that points to me , either in hope or present , i ' d exchange for this
a husband ?
i have bewept a worthy husband ' s death , and liv ' d with looking on his images ;
i will attend upon your lordship ' s leisure .
farewell , my sons ; see that you make her sure .
in the mean time , against thou shalt awake , shall romeo by my letters know our drift ; and
i think of as many matters as he ; but i give heaven thanks , and make no boast of
prey ; submissive fall his princely feet before , and he from forage will incline to play .
god save richard , england ' s royal king !
txt lucius .
, resolv ' d , be by some certain king purg ' d and depos ' d .
well , .
if thou didst , then behold that compound .
exeunt rosalind , celia , and corin phebe .
there ' s an eye wounds like a leaden sword .
thus margaret ' s curse falls heavy on my neck .
exit cardinal .
' fear we broadsides ?
-ho , awake !
' heigh-ho !
in syracuse was i born , and wed unto a woman , happy but for me , and by me
a hundred marks , my kate does put her down .
please you to march ; and four shall quickly draw out my command , which men are best inclin '
you will not own it .
privy council .
rather make my country ' s high pyramides my gibbet , and hang me up in chains !
teach thy necessity to reason thus : there is no virtue like necessity .
newer proof , to try an older friend , a god in love , to whom i am confined .
let ' s draw our weapons .
she is too big , i hope , for me to compass .
we shall present our services to a fine new prince one of these days ; and then you ' d
flesh .
lead it ; as thus : alexander died , alexander was buried , alexander returneth into dust ; the dust
mine in store that thou wilt never render to me more !
i crave our composition may be written , and seal ' d between us .
hearts .
a blank , my lord .
for that i have not wash ' d my nose that bled , or foil ' d some debile wretch
three times hath henry bolingbroke made head against my power ; thrice from the banks of wye and sandy-bottom '
why , then , this may be yours ; for this is but one .
tut , that ' s a foolish observation .
will stand to in a month .
all bond and privilege of nature , break !
henry and dame margaret kneel ' d to me , and on my head did set the diadem .
[to miranda] speak not for him .
grievingly i think the peace between the french and us not values the cost that did conclude it .
but for a satisfaction of my thought ; no further harm .
[to iago .
upon my sword .
there is my purse to cure that blow of thine .
that doit that e ' er i wrested from the king , or any groat i hoarded to my use
what wouldst thou write of me , if thou shouldst praise me ?
what , master , read you , first resolve me that .
that such a slave as this should wear a sword , who wears no honesty .
taffeta phrases , silken terms precise , three-pil ' d hyperboles , spruce affectation , figures pedantical- these summer-flies have
txt hundred too .
my gracious sovereign , now in devonshire , as i by friends am well advertised , sir edward courtney and
restores his heart .
the woods .
york as mother and reverend looker-on of two fair queens .
he would have tickl ' d you othergates than he did .
not be man to me ; for indeed three such antics do not amount to a man .
exit fabian my lord , so please you , these things further thought on , to think me as well
the noble duke hath sworn his coming is but for his own ; and for the right of that we
an ass .
glorious supposition think he gains by death that hath such means to die .
and credence page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he refused it , the rabblement hooted and clapped their chopped hands and threw up their sweaty nightcaps and uttered
did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself ?
i am glad to see you in this merry vein .
[sets down the basket] cleopatra .
my crown is in my heart , not on my head ; not deck ' d with diamonds and indian
now art thou sociable , now art thou romeo ; now art thou what thou art , by art as
if you have writ your annals true , ' tis there that , like an eagle in a dove-cote ,
then was jack falstaff , now sir john , boy , and page to thomas mowbray , duke of norfolk
tell him from me that he hath done me wrong , and therefore i ' ll uncrown him ere '
in mercy so deal with my soul as i in duty love my king and country !
ask him some questions in his accidence .
martius .
so please your highness , the queen being absent , ' tis a needful fitness that we adjourn this court
o , you and i have heard our fathers say there was a brutus once that would have brook '
you are deceiv ' d , my substance is not here ; for what you see is but the smallest
would i had a rod in my mouth , that i might answer thee profitably !
we have done our obsequies .
be patient , for the world is broad and wide .
i see you are obsequious in your love , and i profess requital to a hair ' s breadth ;
i am transformed , master , am not i ?
th ' assault you have made to her chastity you shall answer me with your sword .
txt but , till the king come forth , and not till then , unto southampton do we shift our
officer .
i pray you , sir , what saucy merchant was this that was so full of his ropery ?
i gave thee mine before thou didst request it ; and yet i would it were to give again .
brutus and lucilius converse apart .
come , away ; this case of that huge spirit now is cold .
story .
is it ended , then ?
the virtue of your name is not here passable .
to th ' elephant .
and i pray thee now tell me , for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love
pray heaven he sound not my disgrace !
pride ; whilst i , by looking on the praise of him , see riot and dishonour stain the brow
how oft hast thou with perjury cleft the root !
d ; for that ' s the utmost of his pilgrimage .
you are as good as a chorus , my lord .
look what thou want ' st shall be sent after thee .
as will stop the eye of helen ' s needle , for whom he comes to fight .
their cheeks are paper .
fair thoughts be your fair pillow .
yea , even i alone .
[aside] he is there .
everyone that does so is a traitor and must be hanged .
what do you call your knight ' s name , sirrah ?
that set me on .
call in the messengers sent from the dauphin .
in faith , i lie ; my thoughts were like unbridled children , grown too headstrong for their mother .
an if there be page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and in his praise have almost stamp ' d the leasing ; therefore , fellow , i must have leave
[the king dies] salisbury .
more light and light- more dark and dark our woes !
take him away .
here ' s some good pastime toward ; that wench is stark mad or wonderful froward .
be flay ' d out of it .
yea , but our valuation shall be such that every slight and false-derived cause , yea , every idle ,
enough from court too .
if somerset be unworthy of the place , let york be regent ; i will yield to him .
here is a water , look ye .
i writ at random , very doubtfully .
come , ho !
you may take him at your pleasure ; i will be near to second your attempt , and he shall
come on , a god ' s name ; once more toward our father ' s .
my sister may receive it much more worse , to have her gentleman abus ' d , assaulted , for
o , peace , peace !
why do you weep so oft , and beat your breast , and cry ' o clarence , my unhappy
o , ' tis a fault too too off with the crown and with the crown his head ; and
death i never meant him any ill , nor the king , nor the queen ; and therefore , peter
you are a fishmonger .
prince & poins .
why then , rejoice therefore .
go in their hose and doublets .
thou , conspir ' d with that irregulous devil , cloten , hath here cut off my lord .
the question of cordelia and her father requires a fitter place .
now , travers , what good tidings comes with you ?
enter king , helena , and attendants parolles .
would set an ox-head to your lion ' s hide , and make a monster of you .
why do you stay so long , my lords of france ?
now , dian , from thy altar do i fly , and to imperial love , that god most high
you will turn good husband now , pompey ; you will keep the house .
now , gods , stand up for bastards !
you are , though there were no further danger known but the modesty which is so lost .
if you tickle us , do we not laugh ?
nobly he yokes a smiling with a sigh , as if the sigh was that it was for not being
alcibiades , thou art a soldier , therefore seldom rich .
man as mark antony ; and he is man of no estimation in the world ; but i did see
fare thee well , nymph ; ere he do leave this grove , thou shalt fly him , and he
tell me- but truly- but then speak the truth- do you not love my sister ?
i ' ll give it , sir : and therefore spare my life .
striving , shakes the old beldame earth and topples down steeples and mossgrown towers .
try all the friends thou hast in ephesus ; beg thou , or borrow , to make up the sum
she says your worship means to make a puppet of her .
cassandra , call my father to persuade .
as a lion , churlish as the bear , slow as the elephant-a man into whom nature hath so crowded
well , i must of another errand to sir john falstaff from my two mistresses .
him a man ; and though thou livest and breathest , yet art thou slain in him .
o ' the earth , and yet are on ' t ?
but this is from my commission .
' tis like the commons , rude unpolish ' d hinds , could send such message to their sovereign ;
come , to this gear .
he ' ll make a proper man .
and then , sir , does ' a this- ' a does- what was i about to say ?
come you , sir .
do i not breathe a man ?
txt enter biondello .
judge me , you gods !
drown ' d whom thus we stray to find , and the sea mocks our frustrate search on land .
i know not what to say .
beat .
o sweet bully bottom !
the falcon as the tercel , for all the ducks i ' th ' river .
no doubt , no doubt ; and so shall clarence too ; for they that were your enemies are his
have i laid my brain in the sun , and dried it , that it wants matter to prevent so
ill-spirited worcester !
first , pardon me , my lord .
fear we shall not win him to it .
i dare , and do defy thee for a villain .
yet , by your gracious patience , i will a round unvarnish ' d tale deliver of my whole course
follow , i pray you .
use means for her recovery .
had answer ' d for his deed .
how now , mistress ford !
thy own wish wish i thee in every place .
marry , my lord , lest by a multitude the new-heal ' d wound of malice should break out ,
where is our uncle ?
it is indeed .
- beseech you , sir , desire my man ' s abode where i did leave him .
he ' s coming , madam ; i hear him .
your mind is all as youthful as your blood .
wondrous !
do not you know my lady ' s foot by th ' squier , and laugh upon the apple of
go to him , madam , speak to him .
why , i ' ll exhibit a bill in the parliament for the putting down of men .
come , will this wood take fire ?
farewell , and thanks .
take wealth and lives together ; do villainy , do , since you protest to do ' t , like
here are letters for you .
if thy greatness will revenge it on him-for i know thou dar ' st , but this thing dare not-
txt upon the dunghill .
open ' t .
re-enter mariana and isabella welcome , how agreed ?
counsel with weak fear as you , my lord , or any scot that this day lives .
there tell the king he may inquire us out .
effect than in their countenance .
o monstrous , monstrous !
what , i ' th ' storm ?
on each side her stood pretty dimpled boys , like smiling cupids , with divers-colour ' d fans , whose
, one of the two gentlemen proteus , " " " " " antonio , father to proteus thurio ,
you have been always called a merciful man , partner .
what said northumberland as touching richmond ?
come here , pistol ; stand behind me .
you , i pray desire her call her wisdom to her .
it is to be recovered .
here prince edward stands , king henry ' s son .
trust nobody , for fear you be betray ' d .
come , bring her away .
for aught i see , this city must be famish ' d , or with light skirmishes enfeebled .
let them come before master constable .
- yield !
burgundy .
i will anon ; first let us go to dinner .
tear him , tear him !
second prentice .
robb ' st me of a moiety .
pray be not sick , for you must be our huswife .
brave followers , yonder stands the thorny wood which , by the heavens ' assistance and your strength , must
pleas ' d .
about that which concerns your grace and us- the crown of england , father , which is yours .
and must we be divided ?
they now are in my pow ' r ; and in these fits i leave them , while i visit
let me pass the same i am , ere ancient ' st order was or what is now receiv '
a will be here to-morrow , or i am deceiv ' d by him that in such intelligence hath seldom
may they perceive ' s intent !
the seventh and last .
so foolish sorrows bids your stones farewell .
i should fear those that dance before me now would one day stamp upon me .
o ' erturn it topsy-turvy down .
[so haply slander-] whose whisper o ' er the world ' s diameter , as level as the cannon to
i .
where is that damned villain , tranio , that fac ' d and brav ' d me in this matter
-[aside to pedro] stalk on , stalk on ; the fowl sits .
our soldiers stand full fairly for the day .
we ' ll keep no great ado- a friend or two ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter , below , multitudes , with halters about their necks clifford .
enter achilles and patroclus achilles .
come , sir , come ; i ' ll wrestle with you in my strength of love .
pearl .
i give my hand .
what would you more ?
' tis a good silling , i warrant you , or i will change it .
sir humphrey stafford and his brother are hard by , with the king ' s forces .
enter dercetas and a guard first guard .
what a sleep were this for your advancement !
she dwells so securely on the excellency of her honour that the folly of my soul dares not present itself
and call them pillars that will stand to us ; and if we thrive , promise them such rewards as
hadst not thou been by , a fellow by the hand of nature mark ' d , quoted and sign
shall be my wife your dowry greed on ; and will you , nill you , i will marry you
straight satisfy yourself : if she be in her chamber or your house , let loose on me the justice
you are kindly met , sir .
marry , as i told you before , john and robert , be ready here hard by in the brew-house
i have a desire to hold my acquaintance with thee , or rather my knowledge , that i may say
say that i slew them not ?
bound in with diamonds- and threw it towards thy land .
will it do well ?
set down , set down your honourable load- if honour may be shrouded in a hearse ; whilst i awhile
- prepare my horses .
you have some cause , they have not .
i have seen nothing .
well , sir , the poor distressed lear ' s i ' th ' town ; who sometime , in
child herself , for she will breed it like a fool !
now , hamlet , hear .
marry , sir , be better employed , and be nought awhile .
and let his knights have colder looks among you .
stand here , make a good show on ' t ; this shall end without the perdition of souls .
a cry of women within .
i come but in , as others do , to try with him the strength of my youth .
what bestow of him ?
he hath wrong ' d me ; indeed he hath ; at a word , he hath , believe me
he covets less than misery itself would give , rewards his deeds with doing them , and is content to
twenty times made pause to sob and weep that all the standers-by had wet their cheeks page _num_ complete works
he is much changed .
- may ' t be ?
how died my master , strato ?
the senate till another time , when caesar ' s wife shall meet with better dreams .
your good voice , sir ; what say you ?
why he more than another ?
women are not in their best fortunes strong ; but want will perjure the ne ' er-touch ' d vestal
thou didst love york , and i am son to york .
i never spake with her in all my life .
' tis well consented .
is ' t most certain ?
what ' s gone and what ' s past help should be past grief .
defend himself , and to approve henry of hereford , lancaster , and derby , to god , his sovereign
but with the inundation of the eyes what rocky heart to water will not wear ?
but for william cook- are there no young pigeons ?
no farther than the tower ; and , as i guess , upon the like devotion as yourselves , to
when she will take the rein , i let her run ; but she ' ll not stumble .
young romeo is it ?
now , for i know the britaine richmond aims at young elizabeth , my brother ' s daughter , and
he , sir .
and seat themselves at a table hastings .
[reads] ' wonder not , nor admire not in thy mind , why i do call thee so , for
thus war hath given thee peace , for thou art still .
give your worship good morrow .
rome ' s readiest champions , repose you here in rest , secure from worldly chances and mishaps !
' tis more than time .
you guard like men , ' tis well ; but , by your leave , i am an officer of
or hath mine uncle beaufort and myself , with all the learned council of the realm , studied so long
, that i in your sweet thoughts would be forgot , if thinking on me then should make you woe
but come what sorrow can , it cannot countervail the exchange of joy that one short minute gives me in
shalt hear it .
] ah , mine own lord , what have i seen to-night !
deeds .
to cheat me so .
long live the king !
all thy safety were remotion , and thy defence absence .
him not by any token of presumptuous suit , nor would i have him till i do deserve him ;
txt turned into a maid ; for they are all girdled with maiden walls that war hath never ent '
by and by .
to you , whose star-like nobleness gave life and influence to their whole being !
note notes , forsooth , and nothing !
there ' s meed for meed , death for a deadly deed .
do not thou , when thou art king , hang a thief .
but there are other strict observances , as : not to see a woman in that term , which i
one of your lordship ' s pages .
' s ravishing strides , towards his design moves like a ghost .
is he found guilty ?
how well resembles it the prime of youth , trimm ' d like a younker prancing to his love !
what if it tempt you toward the flood , my lord , or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
o , what a noble mind is here o ' erthrown !
why , sir , his hide is so tann ' d with his trade that ' a will keep out
he ?
[writes] quickly .
[shows her her letter to edmund .
away , my disposition , and possess me some harlot ' s spirit !
success unto our valiant general , and happiness to his accomplices !
arrest thee of high treason , in the name of our most sovereign king .
ne ' er from france arriv ' d more happy men .
enter , at one door , cominius with the romans ; at another door , marcius , with his arm
he hot my shin , and , by my troth , i cannot abide the smell of hot meat since
yes , when his holy state is touch ' d so near .
it cannot be .
back you shall not to the house , unless you undertake that with me which with as much safety you
thyreus .
no hare , sir ; unless a hare , sir , in a lenten pie , that is something stale
as it hath power , but as it is suffer ' d .
i know not , gentlemen , what you intend , who else must be let blood , who else is
and we will nothing waste till you return .
o tiger ' s heart wrapp ' d in a woman ' s hide !
what was ' t that mov ' d pale cassius to conspire ?
bind thy brothers in , that the united vessel of their blood , mingled with venom of suggestion- as ,
i think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation .
your judgments , my grave lords , must give this cur the lie ; and his own notion- who wears
where is kind hastings ?
our souls religiously confirm thy words .
peace be in this place !
s metaphor .
, becomes a sun , and makes your son a shadow .
an ' t had been a green hair i should have laugh ' d too .
not yet .
and his fiend-like queen , who , as ' tis thought , by self and violent hands took off her
no , i can better play the orator .
uncouple in the western valley ; let them go .
shall thou feed on death , that feeds on men , and death once dead , there ' s no
treasons capital , confess ' d and proved , have overthrown him .
april ' s first-born flowers and all things rare , that heaven ' s air in this huge rondure hems
mine action and thine own ?
nor you the lady .
what were his marks ?
further leisure yicld them further means for their advantage and your highness ' loss .
falls in a trance .
consul .
why , york , what is it , my lord ?
my husband say that she was false !
though we upon this mountain ' s basis by took stand for idle speculation- but that our honours must not
say it be , ' tis true .
cesario , come ; for so you shall be while you are a man ; but when in other habits
look , york : i stain ' d this napkin with the blood that valiant clifford with his rapier '
no , my lord , i ' ll fight .
o , thou art a perpetual triumph , an everlasting bonfire-light !
in england but little for my profit ; can you think , lords , that any englishman dare give me
guildenstern , courtier .
montague , heads of two houses at variance with each other .
why , i have patience to endure all this .
' s visage and pious action we do sugar o ' er the devil himself .
breed for barren metal of his friend ?
the king hath heard them ; to the which as yet there is no answer made .
in giving him our own voices with our own tongues ; therefore follow me , and i ' ll direct
her son is gone , we know not how nor where .
heaven is above all yet : there sits a judge that no king can corrupt .
weary se ' nnights nine times nine shall he dwindle , peak , and pine ; though his bark cannot
he that comforts my wife is the cherisher of my flesh and blood ; he that cherishes my flesh and
i slew thy father ; call ' st thou him a child ?
not i , my lord , unless i did bleed too .
' warwick and the rest following them the drum playing and trumpet sounding , re-enter warwick and the rest ,
' mine integrity being counted falsehood shall , as i express it , be so receiv ' d .
that tongue that tells the story of thy days , (making lascivious comments on thy sport) cannot dispraise , but
i would have you solus .
god give his lordship joy !
call him again , sweet prince , accept their suit .
his love and wisdom , approv ' d so to your majesty , may plead for amplest credence .
did .
thou anon shalt hear of me again ; till when , go seek thy fortune .
truth of this appear .
without the town , by moonlight ; there will we rehearse ; for if we meet in the city ,
antonio !
anon , anon .
what does he say of brutus ?
when we shall hear the rain and wind beat dark december , how , in this our pinching cave ,
what shall be done to him ?
three of the carriages , in faith , are very dear to fancy , very responsive to the hilts ,
to fight i will , but not to fly the foe .
d much how to forget that learning ; but , sir , now it did me yeoman ' s service
father and my loving lord !
pray you , where lies sir proteus ?
from you .
myself am struck in years , i must confess ; and if i die to-morrow this is hers , if
txt a thought which , quarter ' d , hath but one part wisdom and ever three parts coward ,
sort , draw them to tiber banks , and weep your tears into the channel , till the lowest stream
there was never a truer rhyme .
brutus , come apace , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
what say you , uncle ?
i do know her spirit , and will not trust one of her malice with a drug of such damn
we are mended , or whether better they , or whether revolution be the same .
any other form , or that i do not yet , and ever did , and ever will , though
what thing ?
what , thou ?
i come to answer thy best pleasure ; be ' t to fly , to swim , to dive into
compass come , love alters not with his brief hours and weeks , but bears it out even to the
weaker than you may call to comfort you , for i have lost my daughter .
the carriages , sir , are the hangers .
he did receive his letters , and is coming , and bid me say to you by word of mouth-
the beauty that is borne here in the face the bearer knows not , but commends itself to others '
out o ' your wits and hearing too ?
i dare be bound he ' s true and shall perform all parts of his subjection loyally .
you have serv ' d me well , and kings have been your fellows .
; this is unwonted which now came from him .
if thou love file , practise an answer .
what touches us ourself shall be last served .
by mine honour , i will ; and when i break that oath , let me turn monster ; therefore
mouldy and bullcalf : for you , mouldy , stay at home till you are past service ; and for
o imogen , imogen , imogen !
ah , what a sign it is of evil life where death ' s approach is seen so terrible !
found with it , which they know to be his character ; the majesty of the creature in resemblance of
haberdasher .
this world is not for aye , nor ' tis not strange that even our loves should with our fortunes
clifford , i say , come forth and fight with me .
bring us to him , and chance it as it may .
i ' ll warrant we ' ll unkennel the fox .
shall i so much dishonour my fair stars on equal terms to give him chastisement ?
what is the news ?
i am so far already in your gifts- all .
thereon i pawn my credit and mine honour .
to th ' trunk again , and shut the spring of it .
pray ' rs come in , if thou vouchsafe them .
well , call him hither ; we are reconcil ' d , and the first view shall kill all repetition
the swiftest harts have posted you by land , and winds of all the comers kiss ' d your sails
, down !
him ; a man cannot swear , but it checks him ; a man cannot lie with his neighbour '
deliver the pigeons to the emperor from you .
seven hundred pounds , and possibilities , is goot gifts .
ay , but thou usest to forswear thyself .
you ' ll remember your brother ' s excuse ?
i may disjoin my hand , but not my faith .
here , to whom expressly i bring greeting too .
i will not give my part of this sport for a pension of thousands to be paid from the sophy
if we have lost so many tenths of ours to guard a thing not ours , nor worth to us
your houses !
love thee after .
i see no reason , if i wear this rose , [putting on a red rose] that any one should
ah , villain , thou wilt betray me , and get a thousand crowns of the king by carrying my
great is his comfort in this earthly vale , although by his sight his sin be multiplied .
where we lay , our chimneys were blown down , and , as they say , lamentings heard i '
st degree ; all several sins , all us ' d in each degree , throng to the bar ,
o barbarous beastly villains like thyself !
herein you war against your reputation , and draw within the compass of suspect th ' unviolated honour of your
hear me , people ; peace !
crows and daws , crows and daws !
txt let not the royal bed of denmark be a couch for luxury and damned incest .
a silly answer , and fitting well a sheep .
attend the lords of france and burgundy , gloucester .
o , sir , you must ; and therefore i beseech you look forward on the journey you shall go
this pitch , as ancient writers do report , doth defile ; so doth the company thou keepest .
pella for taking bribes here of the sardians , wherein my letters , praying on his side , because i
the thing it was shall reasons find of settled gravity ; against that time do i ensconce me here within
their fair leaves spread , but as the marigold at the sun ' s eye , and in themselves their
when would you use it ?
; and , for the ord ' ring your affairs , to sing them too .
if she be up , i ' ll speak with her ; if not , let her lie still and
claribel .
but the safer when ' tis back ' d with france .
my honour ' s at the stake ; which to defeat , i must produce my power .
i have no mind to isbel since i was at court .
tell thy mistress how the case stands with her ; do ' t as from thyself .
shot of five pence , thou shalt have five thousand welcomes .
most rightly said !
why she was dead ere thou wast born .
exit scene _num_ another part of the island enter caliban , stephano , and trinculo stephano .
away to britain post i in this design .
i know it well , sir .
is , and in the hottest day prognostication proclaims , shall he be set against a brick wall , the
i come to have thee thrust me out of doors .
it cannot be thus long ; the sides of nature will not sustain it .
but how prevail ' d you ?
the british pow ' rs are marching hitherward .
o jesu , this is excellent sport , i ' faith !
bald .
and liberal largess , are grown somewhat light , we are enforc ' d to farm our royal realm ;
if after two days ' shine athens contain thee , attend our weightier judgment .
be plain , queen margaret , and tell thy grief ; it shall be eas ' d , if france
yes , warwick , i remember it to my grief ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
in the third degree of drink , he ' s drown ' d ; go look after him .
mine , else surely his had equall ' d .
thanks to your highness .
shall have your full time of imprisonment , and your deliverance with an unpitied whipping , for you have been
jew , and not worth the name of a christian .
fold it over and over , ' tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to your lover .
to be relinquish ' d of the artists- parolles .
they are the faction .
honesty , that they pass by me as the idle wind which i respect not .
of us must pompey presently be sought , or else he seeks out us .
take all and wean it ; it may prove an ox .
women are made to bear , and so are you .
the rest do nothing- with this word ' stand , stand !
corresponsive and fulfilling bolts , sperr up the sons of troy .
of war blows in our ears , then imitate the action of the tiger : stiffen the sinews , summon
wilt thou slay thyself ?
by ' r lady , thirty years .
you are undone .
marry , i thank your worship for it .
out , strumpet !
she is my essence , and i leave to be if i be not by her fair influence foster '
slaughter ' d him .
ay , the heads of the maids , or their maidenheads .
at that that i have kill ' d , my lord- a fly .
bear mine to him , and so depart in peace ; be thou as lightning in the eyes of france
, for in his tomb lie my affections ; and with his spirits sadly i survive , to mock the
wherefore do you thus ?
bushy , bagot , and their complices , the caterpillars of the commonwealth , which i have sworn to weed
i will follow .
shape that ever penury , in contempt of man , brought near to beast .
am i not stay ' d for ?
i would exult , man ; you know he brought me out o ' favour with my lady about a
i will tell the king all , every word- yea , and his son ' s pranks too ; who
what is ' t o ' clock ?
peace be with us , lest we be heavier !
the pasture sheets , the barks of trees thou brows ' d .
all are punish ' d .
fare with your departed souls ?
what ' s this but libelling against the senate , and blazoning our unjustice every where ?
o , let me teach you how to knit again this scattered corn into one mutual sheaf , these broken
presently a riding suit , no costlier than would fit a franklin ' s huswife .
we will .
d , cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold were publicly enthron ' d ; at the feet sat page
' tis he should hear me speak .
if it be found so , some will dear abide it .
i shall ere long have knowledge of my success .
a gallery in the palace enter gardiner , bishop of winchester , a page with a torch before him ,
ah , the immortal passado !
txt i can shake off at pleasure .
bordeaux with his power to fight with talbot ; as he march ' d along , by your espials were
; and thereupon give me your daughter .
[aside] o , ' tis too true !
behaviour , what wert thou till this man show ' d thee ?
the roof o ' th ' chamber with golden cherubins is fretted ; her andirons- i had forgot them- were
things hid and barr ' d , you mean , from common sense ?
the rest of your foes , o gods , the senators of athens , together with the common lag of
o me , my heart , my rising heart !
never spoke before .
to critic and to flatterer stopped are : mark how with my neglect i do dispense .
has the king this ?
exit thyreus cleopatra .
, bestow your su ' d-for tongues ?
come up into my chamber .
we page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the gracious duncan was pitied of macbeth ; marry , he was dead .
hume .
tush , tush !
cry ' good joy .
fare you well , your suit is cold .
how hast thou offended ?
breath infect breath , that their society , as their friendship , may be merely poison !
shame , i ' ll strike thee dead .
never , till caesar ' s three and thirty wounds be well avenged , or till another caesar have added
amongst them all whose eyes are on this sovereign lady fix ' d one do i personate of lord timon
winchester .
i say , to buy his favour , i extend this friendship ; if he will take it , so
add something more , but that is in my thought , whose love to you (though words come hindmost) holds
enter buckingham and old clifford , attended buckingham .
gloucester , we ' ll meet to thy cost , be sure ; thy heart-blood i will have for this
i remember .
the foul fiend haunts poor tom in the voice of a nightingale .
why , masters , my good friends , mine honest neighbours , will you undo yourselves ?
when i protest true loyalty to her , she twits me with my falsehood to my friend ; when to
to the duke of york henry , earl of richmond , a youth lord rivers , brother to lady grey
this is mere falsehood .
her ; and , where i thought the remnant of mine age should have been cherish ' d by her
[puts a bracelet on her arm] imogen .
this ?
i have the best armour of the world .
and that my lord of norfolk ?
husht , master !
would stir it up where it wanted , rather than lack it where there is such abundance .
an outcast quite abjur ' d .
second herald .
now , master gower , what news ?
a very fair warning .
can you not conceive ?
, as it were , replication , or rather , ostentare , to show , as it were , his
i , beyond all limit of what else i ' th ' world , do love , prize , honour
now , pray , sir , get you gone ; you have done a brave deed .
whiles lions war and battle for their dens , poor harmless lambs abide their enmity .
ring the alarum bell !
i hear some noise .
see them here , by doubtful fear my joy of liberty is half eclips ' d .
soldiers francis , a drawer lady northumberland lady percy , percy ' s widow hostess quickly , of the boar
we like not this : thou dost forget thyself .
exit provost duke .
for your king , your country , and your lives ; and so , farewell , for i must hence
if i were mad i should forget my son , or madly think a babe of clouts were he .
thou toad , thou toad , where is thy brother clarence ?
conspirators .
in this she manifests herself to my love , and with a kind of injunction drives me to these habits
exeunt re-enter petruchio petruchio .
now , the rotten diseases of the south , the guts-griping ruptures , catarrhs , loads o ' gravel in
the lunatic , the lover , and the poet , are of imagination all compact .
have i affected wealth or honour ?
i speak to subjects , and a subject speaks , stirr ' d up by god , thus boldly for
but when your countenance filled up his line , then lacked i matter , that enfeebled mine .
txt but as th ' unthought-on accident is guilty to what we wildly do , so we profess ourselves to
and welcome more common ; for that ' s nothing but words .
off a fairy in white ; and fenton steals away anne page .
o , step between her and her fighting soul conceit in weakest bodies strongest works .
dear thanks !
fair ?
therefore , good brutus , be prepared to hear , and since you know you cannot see yourself so well
how is ' t with you , my lord ?
beseech you- archidamus .
be of good cheer ; they shall no more prevail than we give way to .
this so !
he needs will be absolute milan .
dishonourable boy !
[aside] ay , by my faith , the field is honourable , and there was he born , under a
not i , sir .
but , soft !
now , warwick , wilt thou ope the city gates , speak gentle words , and humbly bend thy knee
; and speak of frays like a fine bragging youth ; and tell quaint lies , how honourable ladies sought
you shall do small respect , show too bold malice against the grace and person of my master , stocking
time was i did him a desired office , dear almost as his life ; which gratitude through flinty tartar
alack , alack !
leave us never an understanding friend .
alas , master , what shall i do ?
txt feeding on that which doth preserve the ill , th ' uncertain sickly appetite to please : my reason
faith , like enough .
there is not enough leek to swear by .
before high heaven as makes the angels weep ; who , with our speens , would all themselves laugh mortal
am , have , and will be- though all the world should crack their duty to you , and throw
where dwell ' st thou ?
content you , gentlemen ; i will compound this strife .
at nine i ' the morning here we ' ll meet again .
my stronger guilt defeats my strong intent , and , like a man to double business bound , i stand
edmund , how now ?
txt that floated with thee on the fatal raft ?
yea , so familiar !
never was seen so black a day as this .
txt gobbo .
in his sum of age ; some , of violated vows ' twixt the souls of friend and friend ;
' confess ' and ' love ' had been the very sum of my confession .
scarce any joy did ever so long live ; no sorrow but kill ' d itself much sooner .
is he not wounded ?
sister , let us dine , and never fret .
exeunt lucius and marcus titus .
good sentences , and well pronounc ' d .
txt to attend the emperor ' s person carefully .
nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship .
they swore that you were well-nigh dead for me .
pray you pass with your best violence ; i am afeard you make a wanton of me .
you may , by marrying .
cleopatra mardian , " " " seleucus , " " " diomedes , " " " a soothsayer a clown
my lord , i did intend it .
[aside to gloucester] i think he means to beg a child of her .
to varro and to isidore he owes nine thousand ; besides my former sum , which makes it five and
my wretched father ; yet thus far we are one in fortunes : both page _num_ complete works of william
can hardly think you my master .
i am not mad-i would to heaven i were !
marry , sir , i come to speak with sir john falstaff from master slender .
let him shun castles : safer shall he be upon the sandy plains than where castles mounted stand .
harry duke of hereford , rainold lord cobham , that late broke from the duke of exeter , his brother
txt her dotage now i do begin to pity ; for , meeting her of late behind the wood ,
, civil gentlewoman !
exeunt paulina and ladies with hermione apollo , pardon my great profaneness ' gainst thine oracle .
that now sweno , the norways ' king , craves composition ; nor would we deign him burial of his
it wears , sir , as it grows .
my lord of gloucester , now ye grow too hot : it was the pleasure of my lord the king
ay , in the temple , in the town , the field , you do me mischief .
doth my life besiege .
shall i read it to you ?
i stood like a man at a mark , with a whole army shooting at me .
up once again ; put spirit in the french ; if they miscarry , we miscarry too .
nay , but ask my opinion too of that .
i dare not say he lies anywhere .
and so farewell until i meet thee next .
god keep me from false friends !
what have you , my good friends , deserved at the hands of fortune that she sends you to prison
exit lucentio .
if thou dost perform , confound thee , for thou art a man !
got pless it and preserve it as long as it pleases his grace and his majesty too !
must be ?
an ' t please you , sir , to undertake the business for us , here is that gold i
i pray you all , stand up .
under silvia ' s window enter eglamour eglamour .
master page , good master page , sit .
who keeps the gate here , ho ?
madam , madam !
where is your sister , and hortensio ' s wife ?
if any of my kinsmen find thee here .
scene _num_ before prospero ' s cell enter ferdinand , hearing a log ferdinand .
' who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves .
flourish and colours .
ay ; what ' s the matter ?
ill rest betide the chamber where thou liest !
a friend i ' th ' court is better than a penny in purse .
i the great toe ?
not this , but troubles of the marriage-bed .
to teach others how they should prepare .
this is his second fit ; he had one yesterday .
he will come to her in yellow stockings , and ' tis a colour she abhors , and cross-garter '
what i would have spoke was beastly dumb ' d by him .
thieves .
in his love toward her ever most kind and natural ; with him the portion and sinew of her fortune
they do you wrong to put you so oft upon ' t .
th ' rest and takes it thankfully .
you shall do marvell ' s wisely , good reynaldo , before you visit him , to make inquire of
drinks no other drink but tears , brew ' d with her sorrow , mesh ' d upon her cheeks
i shall obey you ; and for your part , ophelia , i do wish that your good beauties be
that thought abuses you .
penalty .
jack falstaff , valiant jack falstaff , and therefore more valiant being , as he is , old jack falstaff
as good cause as one would desire ; therefore weep .
txt hath heard of great augustus .
the rogue fled from me like quick-silver .
some water , here , what , ho !
wretched shall france be only in my name .
haply this life is best , if quiet life be best ; sweeter to you that have a sharper known
by your dread ' verily , ' one of them you shall be .
maria writ the letter , at sir toby ' s great importance , in recompense whereof he hath married her
durst thou have look ' d upon him being awake , and hast thou kill ' d him sleeping ?
thou shalt have a share in our purchase , as i and a true man .
armado , a soldier , a man of travel , that hath seen the world ; but let that pass
wherein ?
there let him sleep till day .
what , nurse , i say !
will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts ?
some other .
, ever since the death of hermione , visited that removed house .
' tis meet i should be used so , very meet .
' merry and tragical !
golden lads and girls all must , as chimney-sweepers , come to dust .
setting thy womanhood aside , thou art a beast to say otherwise .
flood-gate and o ' erbearing nature that it engluts and swallows other sorrows , and it is still itself .
i ' ll fetch her .
d on , yet they page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
fear you the boar , and go so unprovided ?
before titus ' house enter tamora , and her two sons , demetrius and chiron , disguised tamora .
corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices , because you want the grace that others have , you judge it
i doubt not of your wisdom .
a rendezvous , a home to fly unto , if that the devil and mischance look big upon the maidenhead
txt cow ' s dugs that her pretty chopt hands had milk ' d ; and i remember the wooing
but , say , what to thine old news ?
i went to this pernicious caitiff deputy .
let me be resolved .
comfort , good comfort !
nay , now dispatch ; ' twas i that stabb ' d young edward- but ' twas thy heavenly face
then , my lord , unto your grace do i in chief address the substance of my speech .
die , margaret , for henry weeps that thou dost live so long .
why , thou wert better in thy grave than to answer with thy uncover ' d body this extremity of
o , where hath our intelligence been drunk ?
this cardinal ' s more haughty than the devil .
prithee , come ; will you ?
those blots that do with me remain , without thy help , by me be borne alone .
froth and scum , thou liest .
and so perchance may he be .
so is the queen , that most desir ' d the match .
[aside] and yet he loves himself : is ' t not strange ?
that headless man i thought had been my lord .
, when they marry , they get wenches .
but let me conjure you by the rights of our fellowship , by the consonancy of our youth , by
do you perceive the gastness of her eye ?
with a true heart and brother-love i do it .
jew .
but now return we to the false duke humphrey .
if there be such valour in the bearing , what make we abroad ?
so above me .
will do with a fellow that never had the ache in his shoulders !
how now , my love !
what is ' t ?
so now , fair prince of troy , i bid good night ; ajax commands the guard to tend on
my life ; thou hast no husband yet , nor i no wife .
there lay he , stretch ' d along like a wounded knight .
o fearful meditation , where alack , shall time ' s best jewel from time ' s chest lie hid
dispatch , i say , and find the forester .
holy shrine ?
i am not in a sportive humour now ; tell me , and dally not , where is the money
, and farewell , king !
methinks i am a prophet new inspir ' d , and thus expiring do foretell of him : his rash
henceforth guard thee well ; for i ' ll not kill thee there , nor there , nor there ;
the ring , when nought would be accepted but the ring , you would abate the strength of your displeasure
write down master gentleman conrade .
txt would he were wasted , marrow , bones , and all , that from his loins no hopeful branch
my uncle ' s spirit is in these stones .
camillo .
exeunt attendants gaoler .
did not you hear a cry ?
your honours all , i do refer me to the oracle : apollo be my judge !
what sense had i of her stol ' n hours of lust ?
i will dry-beat you with an iron wit , and put up my iron dagger .
' say they .
ay , or drinking , fencing , swearing , quarrelling , drabbing .
have i scap ' d love-letters in the holiday-time of my beauty , and am i now a subject for
i would be friends with you , and have your love , forget the shames that you have stain '
' tis hid .
not seen of late ?
if it were yours by none of all these ways , how could you give it him ?
patience , good sir .
[aside to antonio] i say , to-night ; no more .
fleance .
stops .
this kiss , if it durst speak , would stretch thy spirits up into the air .
i am not bid to wait upon this bride .
arraign her first .
climb o ' er the house to unlock the little gate .
pardon , sir ; error : he is not quantity enough for that worthy ' s thumb ; he is
no , hector is not a better man than troilus .
a glass did break i ' th ' wrenching .
' father , ' she says , ' though in me you behold the injury of many a blasting hour
but when contention and occasion meet , by jove , i ' ll play the hunter for thy life with
exit bastard elinor .
hasten his musters and conduct his pow ' rs .
if beauty , wisdom , modesty , can settle the heart of antony , octavia is a blessed lottery to
for michael cassio , i dare be sworn i think that he is honest .
i think good thoughts , whilst other write good words , and like unlettered clerk still cry amen , to
bad news , my lord : morton is fled to richmond ; and buckingham , back ' d with the
if you are hir ' d for meed , go back again , and i will send you to my
spaces cannot parallel .
the lords at pomfret , when they rode from london , were jocund and suppos ' d their states were
no , madam ; so it stead you , i will write , please you command , a thousand times
you speak of him when he was less furnish ' d than now he is with that which makes him
it will make wise men mad .
] that it might please you to give quiet pass through your dominions for this enterprise , on such regards
him one of the other twins was bound , whilst i had been like heedful of the other .
he is but mad yet , madonna , and the fool shall look to the madman .
where ' s captain margaret , to fence you now ?
' ] enter the mayor of london , attended mayor .
and are you grown so high in his esteem because i am so dwarfish and so low ?
but room , fairy , here comes oberon .
known unto these , and to myself disguis ' d !
ay , lordly sir ; for what are you , i pray , but one imperious in another ' s
stanley , i will requite thy forwardness .
blind .
into a thousand that i have forgotten .
sir , i will be as good as my word .
huswifes that he heard the carmen whistle , and sware they were his fancies or his good-nights .
i hope , sir , your good worship will be my bail .
' tis fit , worthy the owner and the owner it .
the black prince , sir ; alias , the prince of darkness ; alias , the devil .
let me be recorded by the righteous gods , i am as poor as you .
with all my heart , so thou canst get a wife .
caesar and lepidus have made wars upon pompey .
it is qui , quae , quod ; if you forget your qui ' s , your quae ' s
from whom hast thou this great commission , france , to draw my answer from thy articles ?
the queen shall be acquainted forthwith for what you come .
not stingless too .
yet come again ; for thou perhaps mayst move that heart which now abhors to like his love .
thou hast mistaken his letter .
this peace is nothing but to rust iron , increase tailors , and breed ballad-makers .
if i could shake off but one seven years from these old arms and legs , by the good gods
- o nurse , how shall this be prevented ?
our late noble master !
my age was never tainted with such shame .
thank your majesty .
i thank you for your music , gentlemen .
your husband ' s coming hither , woman , with all the officers in windsor , to search for a
no , not i !
to my inheritance of free descent .
heaven keep that monster from othello ' s mind !
_num_ that thou art blamed shall not be thy defect , for slander ' s mark was ever yet the
which may make you and him to rue at th ' other .
no , no ; o lord , sir , no !
nay , they will be kin to us , or they will fetch it from japhet .
and this is false you burden me withal .
i did , sir thomas , and left him at primero with the duke of suffolk .
[drinks] the master , the swabber , the boatswain , and i , the gunner , and his mate ,
hand to hell .
th ' art indeed the best ; thou counterfeit ' st most lively .
, the noble gentleman gave up the ghost .
how now , you dog ?
come , charmian .
has spoken like a traitor and shall answer as traitors do .
are not these large enough ?
brief , i pray you ; for you see it is a busy time with me .
tush , gremio !
a subtle orator , and lewis a prince soon won with moving words .
the slip , sir , the slip .
this is a soldier ' s kiss .
cast it off .
boy , this shall not excuse the injuries that thou hast done me ; therefore turn and draw .
sirrah , you were best take my coxcomb .
now , as thou art a gentleman of blood , advise me where i may have such a ladder .
princely richard and to buckingham .
the king doth keep his revels here to-night ; take heed the queen come not within his sight ; for
first , mighty liege , tell me your highness ' pleasure , what from your grace i shall deliver to
a dirty farm in that nook-shotten isle of albion .
when valour preys on reason , it eats the sword it fights with .
how does he love me ?
his rage , skill , fury , and impetuosity .
in good time , sir , what ' s that ?
my surveyor is false .
beshrew me , the knight ' s in admirable fooling .
would it were mortal poison , for thy sake !
i sat me down ; devis ' d a new commission ; wrote it fair .
as they say , with honourable parts , proportion ' d as one ' s thought would wish a man-
the cutter was as another nature , dumb ; outwent her , motion and breath left out .
an ' t be my destiny , so ; an ' t be not , so .
stabs him .
the inside of a church !
txt roses ; for pale they look with fear , as witnessing the truth on our side .
cuckold !
my downfall .
they have sent me such a man i would have wish ' d for .
come , you rascal !
i ' ll give no blemish to her honour , none .
some four or five attend him- all , if you will , for i myself am best when least in
no , not to live .
good my lord , if i have any grace or power to move you , his present reconciliation take ;
then , thrice-gracious queen , more than your lord ' s departure weep not-more is not seen ; or if
let ' s away ; follow me .
for your fair sakes have we neglected time , play ' d foul play with our oaths ; your beauty
come , audrey .
that had it .
come , you deceive yourself : ' tis he that sends us to destroy you here .
i have a wife who i protest i love ; i would she were in heaven , so she could
that gave their country liberty .
which friends , sir , as it were , durst not- look you , sir- show themselves , as we
the boar ' s head tavern in eastcheap enter francis and another drawer francis .
give her the bastard .
for death doth hold us in pursuit .
pray let us follow ' em .
deliver , like free and honest men , our just opinions and comforts to your cause .
it standeth north-north-east and by east from the west corner of thy curious-knotted garden .
many and hearty thankings to you both .
are you so hasty now ?
cheeks by faults are bred , and fears by pale white shown .
since i have your good leave to go away , i will make haste ; but , till i come
well conceited , davy- about thy business , davy .
the cause of this fair gift in me is wanting , and so my patent back again is swerving .
good time encounter her !
[aside] i had rather lose the battle than that sister should loosen him and me .
from hence to help our fielded friends !
cordelia , daughter to lear .
to-morrow then i will expect your coming ; to-night i take my leave .
such a man ; she thank ' d me , and bade me , if i had a friend that
well , what is your accusative case ?
mine on hers , so hers is set on mine , and all combin ' d , save what thou
exeunt servants , mayor , &c .
your vessels and your spells provide , your charms and everything beside .
honor .
not altogether so .
saffron wings , upon my flow ' rs diffusest honey drops , refreshing show ' rs ; and with each
re-enter othello .
o that our fathers would applaud our loves , to seal our happiness with their consents !
friends now fast sworn , whose double bosoms seems to wear one heart , whose hours , whose bed ,
smacks it not something of the policy ?
nor from mine own weak merits will i draw the smallest fear or doubt of her revolt ; for she
bolt ; the strong-bas ' d promontory have i made shake , and by the spurs pluck ' d up
what a beast am i to slack it !
executors , the knavish crows , fly o ' er them , all impatient for their hour .
[they stand aside] enter bianca , and lucentio as cambio lucentio .
i may not , verily .
true ; and a goose for his discretion .
if it be poisoned , ' tis the lesser sin , that mine eye loves it and doth first begin
and once dispatch ' d him in an embassy to germany , there with the emperor to treat of high
help , angels !
i am perplex ' d and know not what to say .
blood , all in gore-blood .
myself ; within my sword ' s length set him ; if he ' scape , heaven forgive him too
i am , my lord , but as my betters are that led me hither .
look , look , titinius : are those my tents where i perceive the fire ?
and longaville was for my service born .
bifold authority !
death , i fear me ; swooning destruction ; or some joy too fine , too subtle-potent , tun '
of him .
itself in thee ; for thy desires are wolfish , bloody , starv ' d and ravenous .
present blusters .
upon his death-bed he by will bequeath ' d his lands to me , and took it on his death
viands we do not throw in unrespective sieve , because we now are full .
is earth ; of earth we make loam ; and why of that loam (whereto he was converted) might they
grave sir , hail !
' item : she can wash and scour .
' tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise in .
' tis france , for england .
then let them anatomize regan .
bear worcester to the death , and vernon too ; other offenders we will pause upon .
to some enterprise that hath a stomach in ' t ; which is no other , as it doth well
here is return ' d my lord of westmoreland .
' tis certain then for cyprus .
; and when the doctor spies his vantage ripe , to pinch her by the hand , and , on
, he might at some great and trusty business in a main danger fail you .
gall , worse than gall , the daintiest that they taste !
skill be more to blazon it , then sweeten with thy breath this neighbour air , and let rich music
vexeth him ?
it is held that valour is the chiefest virtue and most dignifies the haver .
iago from behind wounds cassio in the leg , and exit .
marry , he told me so himself ; and he said he car ' d not who knew it .
txt rather our state ' s defective for requital than we to stretch it out .
mine honour is my life ; both grow in one ; take honour from me , and my life is
o heaven , were man but constant , he were perfect !
song guiderius .
o happy man !
meiny , straight took horse , commanded me to follow and attend the leisure of their answer , gave me
farewell , sweet queen .
in smithfield shall be burnt to ashes , and you three shall be strangled on the gallows .
god will revenge it .
, nym , and pistol .
exit demetrius .
how hast thou injur ' d both thyself and or us !
exeunt all but pisanio pisanio .
or covetous of praise .
and , prince of wales , so dare we venture thee , albeit considerations infinite do make against it .
marry , and did , sir ; namely , no time to recover hair lost by nature .
for confirmation that i am much more than my out-wall , open this purse and take what it contains .
by th ' mass , and ' tis like a camel indeed .
in the zeal of that which it presents .
tavern reckonings , memorandums of bawdy houses , and one poor pennyworth of sugar candy to make thee long-winded- if
procure me music ready when he wakes , to make a dulcet and a heavenly sound ; and if he
where is polonius ?
say that i did all this for love of her .
beshrew thy very heart !
conceit upon her father .
he hath a great infection , sir , as one would say , to serve- launcelot .
but join you together as they join wainscot ; then one of you will prove a shrunk panel , and
if this be so , the gods do mean to strike me to death with mortal joy .
saturninus .
be you constant in the accusation , and my cunning shall not shame me .
there ' s none protector of the realm but i .
away ; the gentles are at their game , and we will to our recreation .
and here comes claudio ' s pardon .
i do arrest you in his highness ' name , and here commit you to my lord cardinal to keep
so i hear .
her own shall bless her : her foes shake like a field of beaten corn , and hang their heads
than a mortal seeming .
o the gods !
there ' s a medlar for thee ; eat it .
the doer ' s thrift .
nay , sir , but hear me on .
those that will hear me speak , let ' em stay here ; those that will follow cassius , go
exeunt some of them follow me , soldiers ; we ' ll devise a mean to reconcile you all unto
night is noon .
acquaint my daughter no further with anything you know than comes from her demand out of the letter .
well , i cannot tell .
but these offers , which serve not for his vantage , he shakes off ; and so should you .
but are you so much in love as your rhymes speak ?
thou knowest sir john cannot endure an apple-john .
i am sorry , madam , i have hurt your kinsman ; but , had it been the brother of
in his weeds of peace ; to talk with him , and to behold his visage , even to my
a liberal hand .
miracle in nature , making them lightest that wear most of it ; so are those crisped snaky golden locks
i know not how they sold themselves ; but thou , like a kind fellow , gavest thyself away gratis
here , signior tranio , this bird you aim ' d at , though you hit her not ; therefore
i was sure your lordship did not give it me .
he hath the jewel of my life in hold , his youngest daughter , beautiful bianca ; and her withholds
i will make bold to send them to you only for this night ; i must aboard to-morrow .
give me your hand , master bardolph .
i will go meet the ladies .
' s fertility from wholesome flowers .
nor other satisfaction do i crave but only , with your patience , that we may taste of your wine
is it so , sir ?
it is not a confident brow , nor the throng of words that come with such more than impudent sauciness
how can that be , when you have the voice of the king himself for your succession in denmark ?
having in that perished vessel the dowry of his sister .
, whilst we breathe , take time to do him dead .
he hath been all this day to look you .
demetrius loves her , and he loves not you .
then need i not to fear the worst of wrongs , when in the least of them my life hath
i ' ll have my bond .
by my fay , a goodly nap .
your veins ; and my thrice-puissant liege is in the very may-morn of his youth , ripe for exploits and
how shall we part with them in setting forth ?
exit queen margaret .
, not for such contempt .
o sweet paulina , make me to think so twenty years together !
us speak our free hearts each to other .
is that the chain you promis ' d me to-day ?
fool , i will go with you to lord timon ' s .
dearly , my delicate ariel .
a league from epidamnum had we sail ' d before the always-wind-obeying deep gave any tragic instance of our harm
think you so , sir ?
what time o ' day ?
i have thought upon it ; it shall be so .
why , master mayor , why stand you in a doubt ?
i know that a woman is a dish for the gods , if the devil dress her not .
had i plantation of this isle , my lord- antonio .
longer than i prove loyal to your grace let me not live to look upon your grace .
nor must not then be yielded to in this .
i shall be pinch ' d to death .
my worthy lord , if ever tamora were gracious in those princely eyes of thine , then hear me speak
i will incontinently drown myself .
uncurls page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
consider him well .
but i will be a bridegroom in my death , and run into ' t as to a lover '
to maintain , i would allow him odds and meet him , were i tied to run afoot even to
heaven and our lady gracious hath it pleas ' d to shine on my contemptible estate .
signior ?
call your executioner , and off with barnardine ' s head .
impatient of my absence , and grief that young octavius with mark antony have made themselves so strong- for with
marcus , for thy sake , and thy brother ' s here , and at my lovely tamora ' s
that starve with nothing .
i shall no more to sea , to sea , here shall i die ashore- this is a very scurvy
what , juliet !
these are their brethren , whom your goths beheld alive and dead ; and for their brethren slain religiously they
what wouldst thou do with the world , apemantus , if it lay in thy power ?
their brazen caves ; and bid them blow towards england ' s blessed shore , or turn our stern upon
if you will bless me , sir , and give me leave , i ' ll take the better care
as dissolute as desperate ; yet through both i see some sparks of better hope , which elder years may
would i were in an alehouse in london !
dowry .
where art thou , keeper ?
have record , trial did draw bias and thwart , not answering the aim , and that unbodied figure of
' tis said he holds you well ; and will be led at your request a little from himself .
come , what talk you of marcius ?
mind , that thou mayst stand t ' enjoy thy banish ' d lord and this great land !
enter clifford and his son queen .
lapis .
hath incens ' d the duke : it is because no one should sway but he ; no one but
marry , god defend his grace should say us nay !
you all look strangely on me ; and you most .
the roof of this court is too high to be yours , and welcome to the wide fields too base
for ' tis a sign of love ; and love to richard is a strange brooch in this all-hating world
[aside] he need not fear the sword , for his coat is of proof .
[to duke] to you i give myself , for i am yours .
they use to do the players in the theatre , i am no true man .
whip as madmen do ; and the reason why they are not so punish ' d and cured is that
if after every tempest come such calms , may the winds blow till they have waken ' d death !
, what shall be said to thee ?
fit to furnish me to-morrow ?
bosoms as dogs upon their masters , worrying you .
i found it in my chamber ; and he himself confess ' d but even now that there he dropp
o foolish cressid !
know , sir , that i am call ' d hortensio .
justice !
what says he ?
wert thou as young as i , juliet thy love , an hour but married , tybalt murdered , doting
when a man ' s over-lusty at legs , then he wears wooden nether-stocks .
thou hadst a clarence too , and richard kill ' d him .
come , i ' ll to my chamber .
couch we awhile , and mark .
come , desdemona , i have but an hour of love , of worldly matters and direction , to spend
why , i will see thee at philippi then .
but yet i run before my horse to market .
pie , for then the man ' s date is out .
please you , sir , the king , your father , was reputed for a prince most prudent , of
not i , sir ; pray you keep on .
but i perceive men must learn now with pity to dispense ; for policy sits above conscience .
very beams will dry those vapours up , for every cloud engenders not a storm .
in honest plainness thou hast heard me say my daughter is not for thee ; and now , in madness
know you not how your state stands i ' th ' world , with the whole world ?
did not go forth of us , ' twere all alike as if we had them not .
the pommel of coesar ' s falchion .
where ' s malvolio ?
[beats him .
sir , call to mind that i have been your wife in this obedience upward of twenty years , and
expect victorious life than death and honour .
and presently go with me to my chamber , to take a note of what i stand in need of
enter hotspur , worcester , douglas , vernon .
[exeunt don pedro , don juan , and claudio .
the fit is momentary ; upon a thought he will again be well .
of the servant ' s damnation .
i will hide me in the arbour .
to the high topgallant of my joy must be my convoy in the secret night .
, left the liver white and pale , which is the badge of pusillanimity and cowardice ; but the sherris
this door is open ; he is gone this way .
in troth , i think thou wouldst not .
unless i have mista ' en his colours much- which well i am assur ' d i have not done-
what kind o ' man is he ?
how now , woolsack ?
tell him he hath made a match with such a wrangler that all the courts of france will be disturb
but for a fine , quaint , graceful , and excellent fashion , yours is worth ten on ' t
at scone .
dear maid , kind sister , sweet ophelia !
first praise me , and again say no ?
nativity once in the main of light , crawls to maturity , wherewith being crowned , crooked eclipses ' gainst
' the third he caper ' d , and cried ' all goes well .
you shall find some that will thank you , making just report of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow the king
and let worse follow worse , till the worst of all follow him laughing to his grave , fiftyfold a
he ; i know him .
if i profane with my unworthiest hand this holy shrine , the gentle fine is this : my lips ,
for she did speak in starts distractedly .
' d not with any but with us .
base , fearful , and despairing henry !
i ' ll say yon grey is not the morning ' s eye , ' tis but the pale reflex
well , what worst ?
now have i done a good day ' s work .
why should we pay tribute ?
over-eying of his odd behaviour , for yet his honour never heard a play , you break into some merry
the sum of all i can , i have disclos ' d .
of a certain knight that swore by his honour they were good pancakes , and swore by his honour the
the bird is dead that we have made so much on .
it is extempore , from my mother wit .
happy return be to your royal grace !
enter in skirmish , the retainers of gloucester and winchester , with bloody pates king henry .
and doth affection breed it ?
for there was never yet fair woman but she made mouths in a glass .
god bless you , sir .
speak quickly , or i shoot .
he shall die , an it be but for pleading so well for his life .
exeunt petruchio , katherina , and grumio baptista .
for sleeping england long time have i watch ' d ; watching breeds leanness , leanness is an gaunt .
let us make the assay upon him ; if he care not for ' t , he will supply us
but more of thy news !
an thou dost , i ' ll canvass thee between a pair of sheets .
no , nor thy tailor , rascal , who is thy grandfather ; he made those clothes , which ,
three , my most gracious lord .
the trumpet sounds retreat ; the day is ours .
another ; therefore let men take heed of their company .
our fortune lies upon this jump .
i am perfect that the pannonians and dalmatians for their liberties are now in arms , a precedent which not
be assur ' d , madam , with his next vantage .
didst speak him fair ?
a match !
you ; which , being consider ' d , have mov ' d us and our council that you shall
a lies asleep , then dreams he of another benefice .
besides , his cote , his flocks , and bounds of feed , are now on sale ; and at
heaven and fortune still rewards with plagues .
though i did wish him dead , i hate the murderer , love him murdered .
all the household servants fled with him to bolingbroke .
he hath no friends but what are friends for fear , which in his dearest need will fly from him
our breach of duty this way is business of estate , in which we come to know your royal pleasure
i ' ll see it truly done , my lord of york .
that had , give ' t these fellows to whom ' tis instant due .
where is your son ?
one that knows the law , go to !
my mother ' s son , sir .
against the ground] for there it is , crack ' d in a hundred shivers .
what a caterwauling do you keep here !
henry .
you might have pinch ' d a placket , it was senseless ; ' twas nothing to geld a codpiece
too high a region , he knows too much .
shows now .
my love is thine to teach .
and henceforward all things shall be in common .
how , sir , how ?
, though not the fish- was , when at the relation of the queen ' s death , with the
fair lords , your fortunes are alike in all that in your country ' s service drew your swords ;
why , sir , what ' cerns it you if i wear pearl and gold ?
think of that -a man of my kidney .
i have a kinsman who is bound for italy ; he embark ' d at milford ; to whom being
txt hath ta ' en thy life by some indirect means or other ; for , i assure thee ,
' your love says , like an honest gentleman , " where is your mother ?
my lord sebastian , the truth you speak doth lack some gentleness , and time to speak it in ;
the complaints i hear of thee are grievous .
i will bestow you where you shall have time to speak your bosom freely .
thou basest thing , avoid ; hence from my sight if after this command thou fraught the court with thy
ah , aunt , you wept not for our father ' s death !
when the oracle- thus by apollo ' s great divine seal ' d up- shall the contents discover , something
keep thou the napkin , and go boast of this ; and if thou tell ' st the heavy story
great caesar- caesar .
say ' henry king of england , come into the court .
are slanders ; sixth and lastly , they have belied a lady ; thirdly , they have verified unjust things
what is the success ?
[giving letters] the provost knows our purpose and our plot .
angels and ministers of grace defend us !
then keep thy vow , sirrah , when thou meet ' st the fellow .
poor tom shall lead thee .
shylock , there ' s thrice thy money off ' red thee .
to go out of my dialect , which you discommend so much .
yes , caliban her son .
heart !
that most delicate lodging .
, the worth of many a knight from tawny spain lost in the world ' s debate .
and now we three have spoke it , it skills not greatly who impugns our doom .
then , sir , this paper is the history of my knowledge touching her flight .
laus deo , bone intelligo .
approach the chamber , and destroy your sight with a new gorgon .
do not draw back your hand ; i ' ll take no more , and you in love shall not
you have crafted fair !
fear no colours ; go with me to dinner .
saint denis bless this happy stratagem !
why , i arn sorry for thee , gentle silvius .
to thee .
exit rugby host .
, their head , their true descent ; and then will i be general of your woes page _num_ complete
bless you , fair shrew .
and who ?
love doth approach disguis ' d , armed in arguments ; you ' ll be surpris ' d .
i am very proud , revengeful , ambitious ; with more offences at my beck than i have thoughts to
i fear no uncles dead .
nay , yet there ' s more in this .
here i am .
what may the king ' s whole battle reach unto ?
i pray you , husband , be not so disquiet ; the meat was well , if you were so
txt that in the dole of blows your son might drop .
i will repeat them : a , e , i- moth .
i knew he was not in his perfect wits .
whiles you chid me , i did love ; how then might your prayers move !
but how made he escape ?
inverness .
now , how dost thou look now ?
camillo- preserver of my father , now of me ; the medicine of our house- how shall we do ?
- light to my chamber , ho !
will ' t please your mightiness to wash your hands ?
and their cares , digest things rightly touching the weal o ' th ' common , you shall find no
, making but reservation of yourselves still your own foes- deliver you as most abated captives to some nation that
that ' s meat and drink to me now .
but do not so .
, valiant and virtuous , full of haughty courage , such as were grown to credit by the wars ;
she sings .
now , sirs .
exit warwick .
a cockatrice hast thou hatch ' d to the world , whose unavoided eye is murderous .
thy wit is as quick as the greyhound ' s mouth--it catches .
>> _num_ the merry wives of windsor page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i will not speak with her .
is not the king ' s name twenty thousand names ?
stay , jaques , stay .
alcibiades banish ' d !
had i not four , or five , women once , that tended me ?
could not you find out that by her attributes ?
now shall my friend petruchio do me grace , and offer me disguis ' d in sober robes to old
tell the empress from me i am of age to keep mine own- excuse it how she can .
, had slipp ' d our claim until another age .
what do you talk of ?
maria once told me she did affect me ; and i have heard herself come thus near , that ,
all is confirm ' d , my lord , which was reported .
wives are a yoke of his discarded men ; very rogues , now they be out of service .
i told him you were coming : page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and doves will peck in safeguard of their brood .
thou know ' st she has rais ' d me from my sickly bed .
' tis true .
but let him come !
salving thy amiss , excusing thy sins more than thy sins are : for to thy sensual fault i bring
i ' th ' name of something holy , sir , why stand you in this strange stare ?
he was ; i heard the proclamation .
and treasonous .
provide thee two proper palfreys , black as jet , to hale thy vengeful waggon swift away , and find
these are the youths that thunder at a playhouse and fight for bitten apples ; that no audience but the
nine or ten times i had thought to have yerk ' d him here under the ribs .
nay , you were a fragment of cneius pompey ' s , besides what hotter hours , unregist ' red
therefore go back .
txt gentleman .
not mine , in good sooth .
txt enter george george .
_num_ who will believe my verse in time to come if it were filled with your most high deserts ?
so picked that the toe of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls his kibe
_num_ is it thy will , thy image should keep open my heavy eyelids to the weary night ?
would not die in that man ' s company that fears his fellowship to die with us .
the king from eltham i intend to steal , and sit at chiefest stern of public weal .
let thine own hands take away her life ; i shall give thee opportunity at milford haven ; she hath
my hands , here in the view of men i will unfold some causes of your deaths : you have
' the rugged pyrrhus , he whose sable arms , black as his purpose , did the night resemble when
yea , marry , there ' s the point ; but if without him we be thought too feeble ,
the coloquintida .
re-enter le beau le beau .
, him will i tear out of that cruel eye where he sits crowned in his master ' s spite
well i know the man .
yes ; ' tis the list of those that claim their offices this day , by custom of the coronation
- a lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing ; for there is not a more fearful wild-fowl than
a lover may bestride the gossamer that idles in the wanton summer air , and yet not fall ; so
but i can tell you that of late this duke hath ta ' en displeasure ' gainst his gentle niece
enter , at a distance , king edward , gloucester , clarence , and soldiers king edward .
yes , sir .
luck .
it is not to be question ' d that they had gather ' d a wise council to them of
sir , i did never win of you before .
cease , gentle queen , these execrations , and let thy suffolk take his heavy leave .
watch and rob our passengers , which he , young wanton and effeminate boy , takes on the point of
upon the love you bear me , get you in .
where is it , jack ?
o tybalt , tybalt , the best friend i had !
what should that bode ?
to counterfeit oppression of such grief that words seem ' d buried in my sorrow ' s grave .
[the senators descend and open the gates] enter a soldier as a messenger page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
yet have i gold flies from another coast- i dare not say from the rich cardinal , and from the
thou ' rt condemn ' d ; but , for those earthly faults , i quit them all , and
pause there , morocco , and weigh thy value with an even hand .
i had rather than forty shillings i had my book of songs and sonnets here .
, nor to one place ; nor is my whole estate upon the fortune of this present year ; therefore
i told him that your father was at venice , and that you look ' d for him this day
well , god-a-mercy .
, doth root up his country ' s peace .
exit escalus .
madam , there is alighted at your gate a young venetian , one that comes before to signify th '
cozen ' d him of it .
enrag ' d with grief , are thrice themselves .
in our land by the name of pitch .
into forfeit ; he arrests him on it , and follows close the rigour of the statute to make him
enter macbeth , seyton , and soldiers , with drum and colors .
take from them now the sense of reck ' ning , if th ' opposed numbers pluck their hearts from
ay , that ' s the first thing that we have to do ; to free king henry from imprisonment
as water is in water .
calls your worship ?
bride !
if thou be ' st as poor for a subject as he ' s for a king , thou art
o , this is trim !
one may read , shall be engrav ' d the sack of orleans , the treacherous manner of his mournful
all , all , all , cry shame against me , yet i ' ll speak .
rest below , bowing his head against the steepy mount to climb his happiness , would be well express '
throws up [another skull] .
iachimo , thou didst accuse him of incontinency ; thou then look ' dst like a villain ; now ,
, the priest let fall the book ; and as he stoop ' d again to take it up ,
why did you laugh then , when i said ' man delights not me ' ?
of the east , when he perceives the envious clouds are bent to dim his glory and to stain the
it may chance cost some of our lives , for he will stab .
farewell , my sovereign .
prohibit it !
methinks i could cry thee amen ; and yet my conscience says she ' s a good creature , and
favour , only convey me where thou art commanded .
your means are very slender , and your waste is great .
what need you note it ?
persever not , but hear me , mighty kings .
if thou have power to raise him , bring him hither , and i ' ll be sworn i have
be brisk awhile , and the longer liver take all .
yea , dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth ?
if there is one , i shall make two in the company .
but issued from the progeny of kings ; virtuous and holy , chosen from above by inspiration of celestial grace
but safer triumph is this funeral pomp that hath aspir ' d to solon ' s happiness and triumphs over
sirrah , i say , forbear .
o lord , they fight !
then sigh not so , &c .
sweet knight , i kiss thy neaf .
to this add defiance ; and tell him , for conclusion , he hath betrayed his followers , whose condemnation
me leave , i faint .
night , went all afoot in summer ' s scalding heat , that thou might ' st repossess the crown
what mean these masterless and gory swords to lie discolour ' d by this place of peace ?
will you pleasure me ?
wouldst anything with me ?
citizen .
beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold .
' d take us in , displace our heads where- thank the gods !
do you know , sirrah , where lieutenant cassio lies ?
o my most sacred lady , temptations have since then been born to ' s , for in those unfledg
but , mighty lord , this merry inclination accords not with the sadness of my suit .
sicilia , for whose sight i have a woman ' s longing .
on with your vizards !
i care not an she were a blackamoor ; ' tis all one to me .
to her disposition , being addicted to a melancholy as she is , that it cannot but turn him into
away , before !
but done by chance .
sir , sir , sir- brabantio .
what ' s your offence ?
my anger .
ah , gentle clifford , kill me with thy sword , and not with such a cruel threat ' ning
she speaks , yet she says nothing .
of weeping souls , thy womb let loose to chase us to our graves .
, sir john , take all , or half , for easing me of the carriage .
txt the forest enter orlando and oliver orlando .
; and to conclude , they are lying knaves .
o , keep me from their worse than killing lust , and tumble me into some loathsome pit , where
lord mortimer of scotland hath sent word that douglas and the english rebels met the eleventh of this month at
natural brother .
the doors are broke .
renew , renew !
if knife , drugs , serpents , have edge , sting , or operation , i am safe .
think .
where is the provost ?
we are yet but young in deed .
well , and how ?
so shall all the couples three ever true in loving be ; and the blots of nature ' s hand
doth any here know me ?
it is a quarrel most unnatural , to be reveng ' d on him that loveth thee .
' why , everything adheres together , that no dram of a scruple , no scruple of a scruple ,
o madam , yonder is heavy news within between two soldiers and my young lady .
throne , one phoenix at this hour reigning-there .
which way ?
why then , my horns are his horns , whether i wake or sleep .
can he speak , hear , know man from man , dispute his own estate ?
i will not answer thee with words , but blows .
what , buckingham and clifford , are ye so brave ?
early in the morning see thou deliver it to my lord and father .
i would my father look ' d but with my eyes .
exeunt duke , senators , and officers .
i , i , i myself sometimes , leaving the fear of god on the left hand , and hiding
if this news be true , poor queen and son , your labour is but lost ; for warwick is
' tis a girl , promises boys hereafter .
sir , we are undone ; these are the villains that all the travellers do fear so much .
contented with one wife , nor how to use your brothers brotherly , nor how to study for the people
exit the end <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world
pardon , good mercutio .
she is spread of late into a goodly bulk .
pitiful to the eye , the mere despair of surgery , he cures , hanging a golden stamp about their
i cannot now prove constant to myself without some treachery us ' d to valentine .
you to imagine- enter a messenger with letters .
' tis not so now .
txt a balance more replete .
mercury , was likewise a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles .
sound trumpets ; and set forward , combatants .
pass ' d him unelected .
i ' ll have grounds more relative than this .
should they not , well might they fester ' gainst ingratitude and tent themselves with death .
exeunt agamemnon and menelaus achilles .
i do not know , maecenas .
she ' s going away .
if the midnight bell did with his iron tongue and brazen mouth sound on into the drowsy race of night
go thou away ; i ' ll follow instantly .
his purse ; supported his estate ; nay , timon ' s money has paid his men their wages .
first patrician .
my good name ?
in great measure .
sir hugh send-a you ?
he is welcome too .
contending with the fretful elements ; bids the wind blow the earth into the sea , or swell the curled
i am half afraid he will have need of washing ; so throwing him into the water will do him
ah , ha !
but my uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceiv ' d .
church , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my lord , your promise for the earldom- king richard .
prithee , honey-sweet husband , let me bring thee to staines .
to move is to stir , and to be valiant is to stand .
exeunt king , longaville , and dumain berowne .
no more do yours .
sweet honey greek , tempt me no more to folly .
go wide .
lords , i am hot with haste in seeking you .
didst thou not hear their shouts ?
sweet lord , who ' s a-field today ?
nor is not , sure .
lady grey .
what , will our mother come ?
again aloft the flood , and can give audience to any tongue , speak it of what it will .
but if all aim but this be levell ' d false , the supposition of the lady ' s death
no , i thank you , forsooth , heartily ; i am very well .
what ' s the noise ?
do not the rebels need soldiers ?
it would seem strange unto him when he wak ' d .
if you , hortensio , or , signior gremio , you , know any such , prefer them hither ;
i pray you give me leave .
how are they escoted ?
the ear of all their conference .
' tis well for thee that , being unseminar ' d , thy freer thoughts may not fly forth of
keep her ignorant of her good , to make her heavenly comforts of despair when it is least expected .
unhappy fortune !
come your ways , sir ; come .
for love of god , forbear him !
to any count ; to all counts ; to what is man .
the poison of that lies in you to temper .
enter richard and clifford richard .
' why , she may command me : i serve her ; she is my lady .
my lord of gloucester hath convey ' d him hence .
it ; but the great one that goes upward , let him draw thee after .
txt the prison , in the absence of the duke .
the spirit of wantonness is sure scar ' d out of him ; if the devil have him not in
servants , daughters , wives , even where his raging eye or savage heart without control lusted to make a
if that the king have any way your good deserts forgot , which he confesseth to be manifold , he
txt luciana .
come on , assay- there ' s one gone to the harbor ?
had the chain or no .
it shall advantage more than do us wrong .
you shall have leave .
sinews fall away , so will this base and envious discord breed .
commend me to thy mistress .
le foot et le count !
the citizens are up , and tybalt slain .
before page ' s house enter fenton and anne page fenton .
before emilia here i give thee warrant of thy place , assure thee , if i do vow a friendship
hang the trifle , woman ; take the honour .
see thou dissemble not .
i do forgive thy robbery gentle thief although thou steal thee all my poverty : and yet love knows it
] nor our strong sorrow upon the foot of motion .
and till she stoop she must not be full-gorg ' d , for then she never looks upon her lure
i lay with cassio lately and , being troubled with a raging tooth , i could not sleep .
methinks i should revive the soldiers ' hearts , because i ever found them as myself .
was fasten ' d to ' t .
i thank him that he cuts me from my tale , for i profess not talking .
i say a devil .
' march .
for time is like a fashionable host , that slightly shakes his parting guest by th ' hand ; and
here ' s a few flowers ; but ' bout midnight , more .
scruple : your scope is as mine own , so to enforce or qualify the laws as to your soul
is , that old age , that in layer-up of beauty , can do no more spoil upon my face
none , but to maintain my opinion .
will you not eat your word ?
how low am i ?
what glory our achilles shares from hector , were he not proud , we all should wear with him ;
a pox o ' that !
i have a gammon of bacon and two razes of ginger , to be delivered as far as charing cross
; there shall you have me .
i smell a device .
i thank you , honest gentlemen .
voluptuously surfeit out of action .
seeming , seeming !
thus did i keep my person fresh and new , my presence , like a robe pontifical , ne '
what , not a whore ?
for that you must but say i could not help it .
at thee , hurt thee not ; nor , i am sure , there is not force in eyes page
a place .
when thou shalt strangely pass , and scarcely greet me with that sun thine eye , when love converted from
all happiness bechance to thee in milan !
i forgive thee for a witch .
o jupiter !
which is he ?
let ' s withdraw , my lord .
why , that ' s my fortune too ; therefore i ' ll stay .
' tis well , sir , that you hunted for yourself ; ' tis thought your deer does hold you
must he needs die ?
[aside] i ' ll no more drumming .
stouter champion never handled sword .
past question ; for thou seest it will not curl by nature .
i shall- against the moor ; for i do know , the state , however this may gall him with
but , conscience , conscience !
quoth who ?
o , that her hand , in whose comparison all whites are ink writing their own reproach ; to whose
set on your foot , and with a heart new-fired i follow you , to do i know not what
it shall ; only reserv ' d , you claim no interest in any of our towns of garrison .
the lethe of thy angry soul thou drown the sad remembrance of those wrongs which thou supposest i have done
and so , my lord protector , see them guarded and safely brought to dover ; where inshipp ' d
this concurs directly with the letter : she sends him on purpose , that i may appear stubborn to him
he speaks plain cannon-fire , and smoke and bounce ; he gives the bastinado with his tongue ; our ears
what is my offence ?
i would it had been two !
a master ; one who , in rebellion with himself , will have all that are his so too .
full half an hour .
' -why have they dar ' d to march so many miles upon her peaceful bosom , frighting her pale-fac
before the castle enter northumberland , lady northumberland , and lady percy northumberland .
o , name him not ; let us not break with him , for he will never follow anything that
her husband ' s to aleppo gone , master the tiger ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
no deeper wrinkles yet ?
petitions , to eat , look you , this leek ; because , look you , you do not love
i do embrace your offer ; and dispose for henceforth of poor claudio .
kind and dear princess !
it ' s more than i know , i ' ll be sworn .
usances ; still have i borne it with a patient shrug , for suff ' rance is the badge of
then , madam , i thought you would not back again .
o , this is counter , you false danish dogs !
it rains downright .
, nor wash dish .
o heavy times , begetting such events !
txt gent .
can thy spirit wonder a great man should decline ?
spring when daisies pied and violets blue and lady-smocks all silver-white and cuckoo-buds of yellow hue do paint the meadows
madam , ' twas ariadne passioning for theseus ' perjury and unjust flight ; which i so lively acted with
sure , and stop their mouths if they begin to cry .
well , and gave the tongue a helpful ornament- a virtue that was never seen in you .
' the second , silver , which this promise carries : ' who chooseth me shall get as much as
since it is bankrupt of his majesty .
enter duke , disguised as before mariana .
you might have rhym ' d .
none , since the curfew rung .
ay , sir , i have them at my fingers ' ends ; marry , now i let go your
and therefore take the present time , with a hey , and a ho , and a hey nonino ,
how you cross my father !
go , brew me a pottle of sack finely .
that more than all the world i did respect her .
well-liking wits they have ; gross , gross ; fat , fat .
txt and , veiled in them , did win whom he would maim .
be pold , i pray you ; follow me into the pit ; and when i give the watch-ords ,
i am a roman ; and my services are , as you are , against ' em .
were he in favor as in humor alter ' d .
a song the whilst bassanio comments on the caskets to himself tell me where is fancy bred , or in
by this white beard , i ' d fight with thee to-morrow .
the thrush and the jay , are summer songs for me and my aunts , while we lie tumbling in
the black ' st news that ever thou heard ' st .
i will come last .
come not within these doors ; within this roof the enemy of all your graces lives .
sweet and sour , as husbands have .
o lord , have mercy on us , wretched sinners !
so turns she every man the wrong side out and never gives to truth and virtue that which simpleness and
tell their gold i ' th ' field , and bawds and whores do churches build : then shall the
' exchange the bad for better .
he is a god , and knows what is most right .
i love thee not ; i care not for thee , kate .
do i speak you fair ?
my best way is to creep under his gaberdine ; there is no other shelter hereabout .
how canst thou thus , for shame , titania , glance at my credit with hippolyta , knowing i know
look therefore , lewis , that by this league and marriage thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour ;
no , forbear ; the lethargy must have his quiet course .
prithee , emilia , go know of cassio where he supp ' d tonight .
' s reported by this gentleman ; and , on my trust , a man that never yet did ,
with thy approach i know my comfort comes along .
where is my lady ?
he wants advice .
you shall be welcome , madam , to my court .
ay , sweetheart , and i ' ll come to thee .
therefore thou shalt vow by that same god- what god soe ' er it be that thou adorest and hast
at lovers ' perjuries , they say jove laughs .
so the gods bless me , when all our offices have been oppress ' d with riotous feeders , when
another part of the plain enter diomedes and a servant diomedes .
without his roe , like a dried herring .
let me embrace thee , sour adversity , for wise men say it is the wisest course .
it was his bidding ; therefore , good emilia , give me my nightly wearing , and adieu .
brief , i recover ' d him , bound up his wound , and , after some small space ,
her own youth , hath blister ' d her report .
but make amends now .
what eyes hath love put in my head , which have no correspondence with true sight , or if they
and therefore , like a cipher , yet standing in rich place , i multiply with one ' we thank
] what , ho !
' troilus .
, all is as she will ; and truly she deserves it ; for if there be a kind woman
as a wife .
, which without note here ' s many else have done , you shout me forth in acclamations hyperbolical ,
yet i made shift to cast him .
now the wasted brands do glow , whilst the screech-owl , screeching loud , puts the wretch that lies in
the imputation of his wickedness , by your rule , should be imposed upon his father that sent him ;
i ' ll lay my life , with my disposer cressida .
his semblable , yea , himself , timon disdains .
sir , octavius is already come to rome .
why , what need we commune with you of this , but rather follow our forceful instigation ?
besides , they are our outward consciences and preachers to us all , admonishing that we should dress us fairly
he shows his reason for that : to have a dispatch of complaints ; and to deliver us from devices
now bless thyself ; thou met ' st with things dying , i with things new-born .
how goes it now , sir ?
it was the death of him .
there is no goodness in the worm .
a drum ?
vex not yourself , nor strive not with your breath ; for all in vain comes counsel to his ear
, with wanton paris sleeps-and that ' s the quarrel .
nay , my good soldier , up ; my gentle marcius , worthy caius , and by deed-achieving honour newly
and what is it ?
seek these suitors .
he is in earnest .
not already .
brother , for in that name doth nature plead- quintus .
calling .
txt bolder ; his lordship knows me well and loves me well .
or wherefore dost abuse it , if thou hast it ?
quarrel .
to me the difference forges dread ; your greatness hath not been us ' d to fear .
a wonder , master !
me , to wed this shepherd ; keep your word , silvius , that you ' ll marry her if
yes , faith , sir .
look , sirs , if you can find the huntsman out that should have murdered bassianus here .
who does he accuse ?
what should this mean ?
if thou dost shed one drop of christian blood , thy lands and goods are , by the laws of
i do believe statist though i am none , nor like to be , that this will prove a war
thou know ' st not gold ' s effect .
i ' faith , his hair is of a good colour .
we miss .
name himself , even like those that are kin to the king ; for they never prick their finger but
is the senate possess ' d of this ?
promis ' d gift , which but attends thy naming .
our basest beggars are in the poorest thing superfluous .
a scroll , and written round about .
the earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she ; she is the hopeful lady of my earth .
disinherit him , which argued thee a most unloving father .
prithee say on .
but what prevention ?
the sevenfold shield of ajax cannot keep the battery from my heart .
, none were enough .
seal up the mouth of outrage for a while , till we can clear these ambiguities and know their spring
interjections ?
but let us hence , my sovereign , to provide a salve for any sore that may betide .
what , up and down , carv ' d like an appletart ?
where be these warders that they wait not here ?
now to seem to affect the malice and displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he dislikes-
the play ' s the thing wherein i ' ll catch the conscience of the king .
o titus , see , o , see what thou hast done !
hear me , recreant !
had we done so at first , we had droven them home with clouts about their heads .
another part of the field .
why do you make such faces ?
i prithee , spare .
ten chas ' d by one are now each one the slaughterman of twenty .
my lord , there ' s an army gathered together in smithfield .
bring me to octavius .
among ourselves give him allowance for the better man ; for that will physic the great myrmidon , who broils
' day to my fearful soul is the determin ' d respite of my wrongs ; that high all-seer which
having determin ' d of the volsces , and to send for titus lartius , it remains , as the
exeunt sc_ _num_ scene ii .
txt of my mouth , my heart in my belly , ere i should come by a fire to thaw
here .
pless my soul , how full of chollors i am , and trempling of mind !
splitting wind makes flexible the knees of knotted oaks , and flies fled under shade-why , then the thing of
for ever should they be expuls ' d from france , and not have tide of an earldom here .
doth thy other mouth call me ?
re-enter lucius .
third servant .
txt cleomenes , " " " dion , " " " polixenes , king of bohemia florizel , his son
not proud you have , but thankful that you have .
exeunt mariana and isabella duke .
art thou gone so ?
or what are you ?
and as i truly fight , defend me heaven !
he is defil ' d that draws a sword on thee .
i would fain see the man that has but two legs that shall find himself aggrief ' d at this
is that the utter most ?
' priscian a little scratch ' d ; ' twill serve .
which of you , if you were a prince ' s son , being pent from liberty as i am
[to goneril] post speedily to my lord your husband , show him this letter .
who call ' d here of late ?
tribunes .
thou pretty , because little .
a sprite .
familiar style ; and the hardest voice of her behaviour , to be english ' d rightly , is '
why , he sent her none .
he words me , girls , he words me , that i should not be noble to myself .
o , sir , upon her nose , an o ' er embellished with rubies , carbuncles , sapphires ,
signior , no .
follow me this jest now till thou hast worn out thy pump , that , when the single sole of
silence ; no more .
i ' ll make thee an example .
answer me like men .
hang her , witch !
come , let me see what task i have to do .
they know their duties .
i have sent to bid cassio come speak with you .
; others to hear the city abus ' d extremely , and to cry ' that ' s witty !
this tongue hath parley ' d unto foreign kings for your behoof .
i have five hundred crowns , the thrifty hire i sav ' d under your father , which i did
much upon him .
-the end- <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library
enter a messenger messenger .
things , some less , some more .
o , let me think on hastings , and be gone to brecknock while my fearful head is on !
what follows if we disallow of this ?
but no more sights !
nature and a bloody .
follow ' d .
a king !
my lord , as i was sewing in my closet , lord hamlet , with his doublet all unbrac '
i ' ll fetch some flax and whites of eggs to apply to his bleeding face .
i fear me both are false .
ask me what question thou canst possible , and i will answer unpremeditated .
god bless thy lungs , good knight !
no news of them ?
i forget ; but these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours , most busy , least when i do
this i ' ll do for you .
sir , you have wrestled well , and overthrown more than your enemies .
i do perceive these poor informal women are no more but instruments of some more mightier member that sets them
you may know by their trumpets .
juliet , on thursday early will i rouse ye .
marcus andronicus , so i do affy in thy uprightness and integrity , and so i love and honour thee
most admirable !
deed .
past the mid season .
well done , my lord .
alexander iden , that ' s my name ; a poor esquire of kent that loves his king .
it is true .
] _num_ .
he hath a heart as sound as a bell ; and his tongue is the clapper , for what his
o , let him pass !
non , ere the sun advance his burning eye the day to cheer and night ' s dank dew to
why may not imagination trace the noble dust of alexander till he find it stopping a bunghole ?
he forbids it , being free from vainness and self-glorious pride ; giving full trophy , signal , and ostent
get you gone , be strong and prosperous in this resolve .
, and quarter ' d in her heart-he doth espy himself love ' s traitor .
handless , hack ' d and chipp ' d , come to him , crying on hector .
enter puck here comes my messenger .
and , madam , there is order ta ' en for you : with all swift speed you must away
not in the roll of common men .
o jupiter , no blood !
so should you be .
exit , guarded king henry .
i am all patience .
txt you must return and mend it .
themselves .
enter servants with a basket mrs .
it is almost morning , and yet i am sure you are not satisfied of these events at full .
here comes the countess ; now heaven walks on earth .
am i or that or this for what he ' ll utter that will speak anything ?
this was a great argument of love in her toward you .
thou canst not , cardinal , devise a name so slight , unworthy , and ridiculous , to charge me
of all the horses- whereof we have ta ' en good , and good store- of all the treasure in
i would it were hell pains for thy sake , and my poor doing eternal ; for doing i am
gentleman , [giving him a chain from her neck] wear this for me ; one out of suits with fortune
from rumour ' s tongues they bring smooth comforts false , worse than true wrongs .
myself and beaufort had him in protection ; and we , i hope , sir , are no murderers .
now , fellow , fellow .
heaven , i will tear thee joint by joint and strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs .
txt gentleman , i will live to be thankful to thee for ' t .
be factious for redress of all these griefs , and i will set this foot of mine as far as
and with what wing the staniel checks at it !
have the pioneers given o ' er ?
exit catesby buckingham .
[throws up a skull .
old , i ' th ' swathing clothes the other , from their nursery were stol ' n ; and
txt bestride the rock ; the tide will wash you off , or else you famish- that ' s a
i may not go in without your worship ; they will not sit till you come .
enter doctor butts cranmer .
i am at a word ; follow .
doth she not count her blest , unworthy as she is , that we have wrought so worthy a gentleman
why , warwick , hath thy knee forgot to bow ?
' d in dishonour .
the penance of her tongue ?
item , you sent a large commission to gregory de cassado , to conclude , without the king ' s
find me to marry me with octavius caesar , and companion me with my mistress .
' nay , but first let me see , let me see , let me see .
ay , he said so , to make us fight cheerfully ; but when our throats are cut he may
householder ; and which is more , as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in messina , and
how if your husband start some other where ?
that was your garland .
base men that use them to so base effect !
sometimes she driveth o ' er a soldier ' s neck , and then dreams he of cutting foreign throats
with him , the earl of surrey , bearing the rod of silver with the dove , crowned with an
let him take thee and hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians ; follow his chariot , like the greatest
an if it do , take it for thy labour ; an if it make twenty , take them all
she sent for you by dromio home to dinner .
the codpiece that will house before the head has any , the head and he shall louse : so beggars
we go wrong , we go wrong .
happy were england would this virtuous prince take on his grace the sovereignty thereof ; but , sure , i
why did i marry ?
i thought ye would never have given out these arms till you had recovered your ancient freedom .
enter dumain , with a paper longaville .
this man is pyramus , if you would know ; this beauteous lady thisby is certain .
i confess it is my shame to be so fond , but it is not in my virtue to amend
' i thought to have told thee of it ; but i fear ' d lest i might anger thee
o me !
if in his death the gods have us befriended ; great troy is ours , and our sharp wars are
o , learn ' d indeed were that astronomer that knew the stars as i his characters- he ' d
way of common trade , where subjects ' feet may hourly trample on their sovereign ' s head ; for
for valour , is not love a hercules , still climbing trees in the hesperides ?
_num_ poor soul the centre of my sinful earth , my sinful earth these rebel powers array , why dost
hang ' d .
prithee , get thee further .
txt grumio curtis a pedant daughters to baptista katherina , the shrew bianca a widow tailor , haberdasher , and
, may stand forth face to face and freely urge against me .
indeed , i weigh not you ; and therefore light .
even so as with a man by his own alms empoison ' d , and with his charity slain .
the people do admit you , and are summon ' d to meet anon , upon your approbation .
beetles black , approach not near ; worm nor snail do no offence .
to pay our wonted tribute , from the which we were dissuaded by our wicked queen , whom heavens in
i have ' t .
have an apology for that purpose .
look here , iago , all my fond love thus do i blow to heaven .
in the behalf of a good play !
ay , so i thought .
nobody ; i myself .
more villain thou .
i know this act shows horrible and grim .
light , ho , here !
a great man , i ' ll warrant ; i know by the picking on ' s teeth .
shall we stand up here and see them as they pass toward ilium ?
i will go learn more of it .
stay , lords and gentlemen , and pluck no more till you conclude that he upon whose side the fewest
what make you from home ?
a crutch , a crutch !
[within] who calls ?
all is uneven , and everything is left at six and seven .
quick , come .
here ' s a fellow frights english out of his wits .
where is that devil ' s butcher , hard-favour ' d richard ?
to be so tickled they would change their state and situation with those dancing chips , o ' er whom
caesar ' s house enter octavius caesar , reading a letter ; lepidus , and their train caesar .
but when my glass shows me my self indeed beated and chopt with tanned antiquity , mine own self-love quite
i am confessor to angelo , and i know this to be true ; therefore prepare yourself to death .
give me my boots , i say ; saddle my horse .
soon at five o ' clock , please you , i ' ll meet with you upon the mart ,
such a sebastian was my brother too ; so went he suited to his watery tomb ; if spirits can
' tis good you know not that you are his heirs , for if you should , o , what
isle ?
txt if hairs be wires , black wires grow on her head : i have seen roses damasked , red
did you by indirect and forced courses subdue and poison this young maid ' s affections ?
corin .
turn awry and lose the name of action .
would have ent ' red troy .
french possess the salique land until four hundred one and twenty years after defunction of king pharamond , idly suppos
now , mistress , profit you in what you read ?
brutus goes into the pulpit .
to suckle fools and chronicle small beer .
, and art nothing but the composition of a knave , beggar , coward , pander , and the son
have we done aught amiss , show us wherein , and , from the place where you behold us pleading
a most unworthy and unnatural lord can do no more .
the shrieve of yorkshire overthrown .
i smell a man of middle earth .
will be a clipper .
upon your father ' s funeral .
she died , my lord , but whiles her slander liv ' d .
receive it so .
that virtuous lady bona , thy fair sister , to england ' s king in lawful marriage .
this wimpled , whining , purblind , wayward boy , this senior-junior , giant-dwarf , dan cupid ; regent of
but these cannot i command to any utt ' rance of harmony .
which i will do with confirm ' d countenance .
o , come in , equivocator .
that is hot ice and wondrous strange snow .
well , by my will we shall admit no parley .
i will corrupt the grecian sentinels to give thee nightly visitation .
why , then , we ' ll make exchange .
aguecheek .
well , well , well- gentlewoman .
draw , you rascal !
- my honourable lord , i will most humbly take my leave of you .
fortune love you !
, mighty and to be fear ' d , than my condition , which hath been smooth as oil ,
a fool , and a physician ?
i warrant you , sir , the white cold virgin snow upon my heart abates the ardour of my liver
heavy burden ne ' er delivered .
call hither clifford ; bid him come amain , to say if that the bastard boys of york shall be
i have no tongue , sir .
i charge thee speak !
o in what sweets dost thou thy sins enclose !
, than bear so low a sail to strike to thee .
was there ever heard a better , that my master , being scribe , to himself should write the letter
exeunt all but troilus and ulysses troilus .
marry , sir , they have committed false report ; moreover , they have spoken untruths ; secondarily , they
' his browny locks did hang in crooked curls ; and every light occasion of the wind upon his lips
likeness of a filly foal ; and sometime lurk i in a gossip ' s bowl in very likeness of
so god help montague as he proves true !
draw , archers , draw your arrows to the head !
no , regan , thou shalt never have my curse .
here comes my man .
now , before the gods , i am asham ' d on ' t .
, popilius , publius , and others .
therefore , beseech you- you that will be less fearful than discreet ; that love the fundamental part of state
' tis much deep ; and it should seem by th ' sum your master ' s confidence was above
his child in the arms of an attendant lucius .
i would not be so sick though for his place .
i must be patient .
enter caesar ; antony , for the course ; calpurnia , portia , decius , cicero , brutus , cassius
[aside to menas] i think th ' art mad .
to-morrow be in readiness to go- excuse it not , for i am peremptory .
i am sorry , madam ; for the news i bring is heavy in my tongue .
behold her topp ' d ?
go about it .
welcome home .
, shall win the wager which we will propose .
fume and the receipt of reason a limbeck only .
little honour to be much believ ' d , and most pernicious purpose !
some twenty of them fought in this black strife , and all those twenty could but kill one life .
i have heard of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on others to taste their valour ; belike
some devil whisper curses in my ear , and prompt me that my tongue may utter forth the venomous malice
where is the rascal cook ?
i see thee yet , in form as palpable as this which now i draw .
enough , speak no more of him ; you ' ll be whipt for taxation one of these days .
peace be with him !
i have , my lord .
exeunt from above bolingbroke .
by my hand , i swear , and my father ' s soul , the work ish ill done ;
so at his sight away his fellows fly ; and at our stamp here , o ' er and o
exeunt [carriers] .
maecenas .
our soldiers shall march through .
, to force a spotless virgin ' s chastity , to reave the orphan of his patrimony , to wring
my noble partner you greet with present grace and great prediction of noble having and of royal hope , that
i came yonder at eton to marry mistress anne page , and she ' s a great lubberly boy .
' sdeath !
the palace flourish of trumpets ; then hautboys .
about the wood go swifter than the wind , and helena of athens look thou find ; all fancy-sick she
upon my honour- ham .
my daughter ' s mother thinks it with her soul .
caesar ; and that , having in sicily sextus pompeius spoil ' d , we had not rated him his
, thou goest foremost .
if i , my lord , for my opinion bleed , opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt and keep
and love exceeds man ' s might ; that dwells with gods above .
' tis not his new-made bride shall succour him ; and as for clarence , as my letters tell me
all kent hath yielded ; nothing there holds out but dover castle .
none does offend , none- i say none !
seest thou this letter ?
help me hence , ho !
henceforth , do what thou wilt ; i rather will suspect the sun with cold than thee with wantonness .
and when she speaks , is it not an alarum to love ?
repays he my deep service with such contempt ?
re-enter salisbury salisbury .
[touching her eyes] be as thou wast wont to be ; see as thou was wont to see .
i will wish her speedy strength , and visit her with my prayers ; but i cannot go thither .
lo , where he comes !
i ' th ' night ?
life to ' t than the grave does to the dead ; for her male issue or died where they
no , madam , i do but read madness .
to do you service , am become as new into the world , strange , unacquainted- i do beseech you
take but good note , and you shall see in him the triple pillar of the world transform ' d
good cousin , be advis ' d ; stir not to-night .
the earth ' s a thief , that feeds and breeds by a composture stol ' n from gen '
if this had not been a gentlewoman , she should have been buried out o ' christian burial .
henceforth i ' ll bear affliction till it do cry out itself ' enough , enough , ' and die
starveling .
enough to purchase what you have made known .
i summon your grace to his majesty ' s parliament , holden at bury the first of this next month
name him .
he was expected then , but not approach ' d .
the field ; and at this day to the monument of that andronici done sacrifice of expiation , and slain
all this we swear .
villain , take my purse .
say , say , who gave it thee ?
alas , what does this gentleman conceive ?
play the maid ' s part : still answer nay , and take it .
follow you .
for everything is seal ' d and done that else leans on th ' affair .
enter old talbot led by a servant talbot .
by whom , camillo ?
is there no derogation in ' t ?
he meant he did me none-the more my spite .
encounter me with orisons , for then i am in heaven for him ; or ere i could give him
i thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a lion .
o , where ?
o my poor brother !
about !
down her delicate cheek .
ay , and her father is make her a petter penny .
the sun sets weeping in the lowly west , witnessing storms to come , woe , and unrest ; thy
the french camp near dover .
and , sowing the kernels of it in the sea , bring forth more islands .
enter one with an officer carry this mad knave to the gaol .
this ' maid ' not serve your turn , sir .
th ' imperious seas breed monsters ; for the dish , poor tributary rivers as sweet fish .
the very rats instinctively have quit it .
when the moon shone , we did not see the candle .
we are very sorry for ' t .
o , this will make my mother die with grief !
touch me not so near : i had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth than it should do
no , my good lord ; for that is not forgot page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
they pass directly before the cardinal , and gracefully salute him a noble company !
re-enter flavius , with the casket timon .
lechery ?
i am young , but something you may deserve of him through me , and wisdom to offer up a
hail to you , provost !
have thy desire .
misery ' s love , o , come to me !
what infinite heart ' s ease must kings neglect that private men enjoy !
this is pity now , that hang ' d and drawn and quarter ' d there should be in such
some beast rear ' d this ; here does not live a man .
then but english henry will be lord , and thou be thrust out like a fugitive ?
your guests are coming .
[sings] o , no , no , no , no , you dare not .
his feathers are but borrow ' d , for he ' s disposed as the hateful raven .
do if thou shouldst depart , leaving thee living in posterity ?
prepar ' d i was not for such a business ; therefore am i found so much unsettled .
rare words !
and stay , good nurse , behind the abbey wall .
and prove a bald jerkin .
' princess of france .
that will be music .
let him answer me .
iachimo !
she kneels , and makes show of protestation unto him .
exeunt biondello , tranio , and pedant , as fast as may be lucentio .
txt act ii .
our virtues would be proud if our faults whipt them not ; and our crimes would despair if they were
nothing ill come near thee !
fearing dying pays death servile breath .
extraordinary pleasure .
fell fault of my accursed sons- accursed if the fault be prov ' d in them- saturninus .
diomedes .
i tell you , captain , if you look in the maps of the ' orld , i warrant you
txt madam , farewell .
believe me , lords , for flying at the brook , i saw not better sport these seven years '
how now , abhorson , what ' s the news with you ?
that you may ruminate .
i thank thee , gentle percy ; and be sure i count myself in nothing else so happy as in
dogs , easily won to fawn on any man !
but come what may , i do adore thee so that danger shall seem sport , and i will go
enter capulet and nurse .
[wall holds up his fingers] thanks , courteous wall .
oft have i seen a timely-parted ghost , of ashy semblance , meagre , pale , and bloodless , being
you ' re pow ' rfull at it .
i have looked upon the world for four times seven years , and since i could distinguish betwixt a benefit
with mine officer !
tremblingly she stood , and on the sudden dropp ' d .
i think thou dost ; and , indeed , with most painful feeling of thy speech .
bane to those that for my surety will refuse the boys !
but believe you this , my lord , that not long ago one of his men was with the lord
be not acknown on ' t ; i have use for it .
which since you come too late of our intent , yet witness what you hear we did intend .
brother , farewell .
here is a coil with protestation !
txt and meet me suddenly at salisbury .
, but tickles still the sore .
here ' s agamemnon , an honest fellow enough , and one that loves quails , but he has not
they begin to smoke me ; and disgraces have of late knock ' d to often at my door .
o thou dull moor !
would i were sleep and peace , so sweet to rest !
and , sister , as the winds give benefit and convoy is assistant , do not sleep , but let
txt enter gloucester gloucester .
enter king and queen , aumerle , bushy , green , bagot , ross , and willoughby york .
thus and mir ' d with infamy , i might have said , ' no part of it is mine
dion .
no , my good lord .
vere is dat knave , rugby ?
txt the least of all these signs were probable .
ay , in despite of all that shall withstand you .
exeunt here alarum .
he so takes on yonder with my husband ; so rails against all married mankind ; so curses an eve
i know not what to do .
exit tamora .
that death ' s unnatural that kills for loving .
is sir john falstaff here ?
his health beseech you ?
what we ?
' wife .
the law hath yet another hold on you .
that ' s a fair thought to lie between maids ' legs .
here , man .
pucelle , that witch , that damned sorceress , hath wrought this hellish mischief unawares , that hardly we escap
a knave should have some countenance at his friend ' s request .
camillo- as you are certainly a gentleman ; thereto clerk-like experienc ' d , which no less adorns our gentry
a fair pair of heels and run from it ?
what should you do , but knock ' em down by th ' dozens ?
you say you ' ll marry me , if i be willing ?
then bid them prepare dinner .
your hearts are mighty , your skins are whole , and let burnt sack be the issue .
fellow , why dost thou show me thus to th ' world ?
and so falls it out with rivers , vaughan , grey ; and so ' twill do with some men
ay , but these english are shrewdly out of beef .
his counsel now might do me golden service ; for though my soul disputes well with my sense that this
shall be joyful of thy company .
come , go with us , speak fair ; you may salve so , not what is dangerous present ,
[march within .
' ll enforce it from thee by a sharp torture .
i care not , and let him take ' t at worst ; for their knives care not , while
gard ' ner , for telling me these news of woe , pray god the plants thou graft ' st
advise thee , aaron , what is to be done , and we will all subscribe to thy advice .
tell him his fears are shallow , without instance ; and for his dreams , i wonder he ' s
lurks within .
enter lucullus servant .
let ' s talk of graves , of worms , and epitaphs ; make dust our paper , and with
thou ' lt be afraid to hear it .
even like a man new haled from the rack , so fare my limbs with long imprisonment ; and these
ay , sir , and done too , for this time .
sound trumpets .
y ' are excus ' d .
is she not passing fair ?
this she deliver ' d in the most bitter touch of sorrow that e ' er i heard virgin exclaim
suit the action to the word , the word to the action ; with this special observance , that you
i thought i should have seen some hercules , a second hector , for his grim aspect and large proportion
s worthy of it .
' via !
what , man ?
shylock , albeit i neither lend nor borrow by taking nor by giving of excess , yet , to supply
your cousin , in the latter end , and she must be blind too .
what infectiously itself affects , without some image of th ' affected merit .
txt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene iv .
cressid .
dost thou understand me ?
that is the sum of all , leonato .
will follow .
nay , if an oily palm be not a fruitful prognostication , i cannot scratch mine ear .
as i shall find the time to friend , i will .
he hath not yet made wanton the night with her , and she is sport for jove .
as nearly as i may , i ' ll play the penitent to you ; but mine honesty shall not
and rocky hard , where thou thyself dost air-the queen o ' th ' sky , whose wat ' ry
mighty sir , these two young gentlemen that call me father , and think they are my sons , are
' but , for mine own part , my lord , i could be well contented to be there ,
, so were you .
not sound ?
i pray you , one of you question yond man if he for gold will give us any food ;
[coming from the throne] warwick .
do not weep , do not weep .
wake duncan with thy knocking !
a prating coxcomb ?
to hornpipes .
second accent of his ordinance .
i pray you , sir , put it up again .
when i said i would die a bachelor , i did not think i should live till i were married
my good knave costard , exceedingly well met !
the same , sir .
both of you know banquo was your enemy .
fight valiantly to-day ; and yet i do thee wrong to mind thee of it , for thou art fram
therefore , your best appointment make with speed ; to-morrow you set on .
she was not , sure .
will never be , to him that is most true .
sweet phebe , do not scorn me ; do not , phebe .
eldest son ' s son , infortunate in nothing but in thee .
tut , i can counterfeit the deep tragedian ; speak and look back , and pry on every side ,
didst thou not say he lied ?
her burning lust .
' s certain , or forswear to wear iron about you .
forbear , and eat no more .
with grim destruction .
i am glad you did not nurse him ; though he does bear some signs of me , yet you
[to parolles] good tom drum , lend me a handkercher .
the fool will eat no supper that night .
and , to humour the ignorant , call the deer the princess kill ' d a pricket .
come , my dear love , the purchase made , the fruits are to ensue ; that profit ' s
ay , but these rags are no part of the duke : jove sometime went disguis ' d , and
the gods , out of my misery , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
fairwell , revolted fair !
, and cease timon .
diet , as i told you- froth .
nor any one .
the dangers of the days but newly gone , whose memory is written on the earth with yet appearing blood
graces will appear , and there ' s an end .
horrible sight !
why , masters , have your instruments been in naples , that they speak i ' the nose thus ?
behind the arras i ' ll convey myself to hear the process .
on what occasion , god he knows , not i , the queen your mother and your brother york have
i pray thee stay with us , go not to wittenberg .
do you think so ?
how do you ?
then , england ' s ground , farewell ; sweet soil , adieu ; my mother , and my nurse
the combat , to see us here unarm ' d .
you understand me , sir .
her alight and her troth plight , and aroint thee , witch , aroint thee !
and he wept when at philippi he found brutus slain .
for , oh , love ' s bow shoots buck and doe ; the shaft confounds not that it wounds
too old to be engag ' d to young .
' s romeo ?
and so , good night .
is ' t far you ride ' !
grates me the sum .
shall we imbrue ?
what is it else ?
thus do all traitors ; if their purgation did consist in words , they are as innocent as grace itself
m- malvolio ; m- why , that begins my name .
how long shall i be patient ?
' to be rul ' d by my conscience , i should stay with the jew my master , who-
show like gilt twopences to me , and i , in the clear sky of fame , o ' ershine
thou marshal ' st me the way that i was going , and such an instrument i was to use
alas , good kate , i will not burden thee !
for , good king henry , thy decay i fear .
ride , ride , messala .
belike you slew great number of his people .
in the country .
we have yet many among us can gripe as hard as cassibelan .
] no , no , my lord !
and this man is now become a god , and cassius is a wretched creature and must bend his body
let him be punish ' d , sovereign , lest example breed , by his sufferance , more of such
no kiss .
out , ye rogue !
o , let us pay the time but needful woe , since it hath been beforehand with our griefs .
now will i hence to seek my lovely moor , and let my spleenful sons this trull deflower .
[giving him a shilling] costard .
now get you to my lady ' s chamber , and tell her , let her paint an inch thick
fie , fie , thou shamest thy shape , thy love , thy wit , which , like a usurer
i know you have a gentle , noble temper , a soul as even as a calm .
blood , the father rashly slaughter ' d his own son , the son , compell ' d , been
what , pindarus !
will you beat down the door ?
then if she fear , or be to blame , by this you shall not know ; for still her
o , then , i see you will part but with light gifts : in weightier things you ' ll
txt aemilius , a noble roman sons to tamora : alarbus demetrius chiron aaron , a moor , beloved by
they did so , to the amazement of mine eyes that look ' d upon ' t .
give me leave to speak .
this ford ' s wife ; use your art of wooing , win her to consent to you ; if
what hidden woman ' s fear there will- we ' ll have a swashing and a martial outside , as
everywhere .
d and black as hell , whereto it goes .
what a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of england , to mope with his fat-brain ' d followers
' a tedious brief scene of young pyramus and his love thisby ; very tragical mirth .
senators on the bench .
then , that without the knowledge either of king or council , when you went ambassador to the emperor ,
join mine eldest daughter and my joy to him forthwith in holy wedlock bands .
[to richmond] thou quiet soul , sleep thou a quiet sleep ; dream of success and happy victory .
so let him land , and solemnly see him set on to london .
i never heard such a drawling , affecting rogue .
o lord , have mercy upon me , i shall never be able to fight a blow !
offense , and he does chide with you .
hang him , swaggering rascal !
-prithee stand further off .
the glowworm shows the matin to be near and gins to pale his uneffectual fire .
duke of clarence , third son to the third edward , king of england .
god and saint george for us !
and know you , lord , i ' ll nothing do on charge : to her own worth she shall
had wak ' d after long sleep , will make me sleep again ; and then , in dreaming ,
pray you , speak no more to me : i will leave all as i found it , and there
on the bat ' s back i do fly after summer merrily .
were it not pity that this goodly boy should lose his birthright by his father ' s fault , and
txt there dwelt a man in babylon , lady , lady .
on prospero .
exeunt worthies king .
why , look you , how you storm !
if their means are no better) , their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession
up the rift .
one kiss shall stop our mouths , and dumbly part ; thus give i mine , and thus take i
but wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens ?
mad composition !
this superficial tale is but a preface of her worthy praise .
some of your french crowns have no hair at all , and then you will play bare-fac ' d .
you shall not budge i you go not till i set you up a glass where you may see the
my voice is ragged ; i know i cannot please you .
why , then it sorts ; brave warriors , let ' s away .
he that runs fastest gets the ring .
o good old man , how well in thee appears the constant service of the antique world , when service
i humbly give you leave to depart ; and if a merry meeting may be wish ' d , god
brother , a word !
brother of gloucester , at saint albans ' field this lady ' s husband , sir richard grey , was
no more , pistol ; i would not have you go off here .
then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh , and waxen in their mirth , and neeze , and
do this .
if to-morrow be a fair day , by eleven of the clock it will go one way or other .
how chance the prophet could not at that time have told me , i being by , that i should
abusing of god ' s patience and the king ' s english .
it is best put finger in the eye , an she knew why .
fare thee well ; commend me to thy honourable virtuous lord , my very exquisite friend .
more than their even-christen .
i ' ll be with thee straight .
you ' ll make a mutiny among my guests !
star-like rise , as great in fame as she was , and so stand fix ' d .
; and will to-morrow with his trumpet call mid-way between your tents and walls of troy to rouse a grecian
a known truth to pass a thousand nothings with , should be once heard and thrice beaten .
when our actions do not , our fears do make us traitors .
but seven years since , in syracuse , boy , thou know ' st we parted ; but perhaps ,
where is the number of our english dead ?
pleas ' d you to do ' t at peril of your soul , were equal poise of sin and
ay , my lord .
strumpet , thy words condemn thy brat and thee .
from north to south , austria and france shoot in each other ' s mouth .
died he not in his bed ?
exit catesby fill me a bowl of wine .
whoreson dog !
that i was proud on--mine so much that i myself was to myself not mine , valuing of her--why ,
i ' ll yet follow the wounded chance of antony , though my reason sits in the wind against me
what is ' pourquoi ' - do or not do ?
richard except , those whom we fight against had rather have us win than him they follow .
some say he ' s mad ; others , that lesser hate him , do call it valiant fury ;
and am not i a prelate of the church ?
and prayer .
a noble wish .
smooth my way upon their headless necks ; and , being a woman , i will not be slack to
txt was it so precious to me as ' tis now .
like eagles having lately bath ' d ; glittering in golden coats like images ; page _num_ complete works of
good report .
be just , and fear not ; let all the ends thou aim ' st at be thy country '
how tall was she ?
an antony , that i might do you service so good as you have done .
why rather , sleep , liest thou in smoky cribs , upon uneasy pallets stretching thee , and hush '
are you acquainted with the difference that holds this present question in the court ?
do you hear , cassio ?
but a good heart , kate , is the sun and the moon ; or , rather , the sun
by my sword , beatrice , thou lovest me .
see else yourself : there is no malice in this burning coal ; the breath of heaven hath blown his
a deflow ' red maid !
and so am i for ganymede .
o eastern star !
o ratcliff , i fear , i fear .
so swift a pace hath thought that even now you may imagine him upon blackheath ; where that his lords
these weeds are memories of those worser hours .
howe ' er thou art a fiend , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i thank my noble lord .
and too soon marr ' d are those so early made .
enter agamemnon , ulysses , diomedes , nestor , ajax , menelaus , and calchas calchas .
my courage try by combat if thou dar ' st , and thou shalt find that i exceed my sex
when will this fearful slumber have an end ?
my ships are ready , and my people did expect my hence departure two days ago .
had he been ta ' en , we should have heard the news ; had he been slain , we
but after many ceremonies done he calls for wine : ' a health !
yea , so that our great king himself doth woo me oft for my confections ?
with the dowager , sometimes our brother ' s wife .
not so ; even through the hollow eyes of death i spy life peering ; but i dare not say
hast thou slain him , then ?
sir , i am a true labourer : i earn that i eat , get that i wear ; owe
fury and great rage of heart suddenly made him from my side to start into the clust ' ring battle
what , have you lost your wits ?
the poisoner with some three or four mutes , comes in again , seem to condole with her .
o seigneur dieu , je m ' en oublie !
they ' ll sit by th ' fire and presume to know page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
city , dardan , and tymbria , helias , chetas , troien , and antenorides , with massy staples and
purpose to jerusalem .
slaves and fools , pluck the grave wrinkled senate from the bench and minister in their steads .
london to call a present court of parliament .
mouth .
and , for a retreat- how swiftly will this feeble , the woman ' s tailor , run off !
or are they spare in diet , free from gross passion or of mirth or anger , constant in spirit
i was beaten myself into all the colours of the rainbow ; and was like to be apprehended for the
i do disdain thy courtesy , proud troyan .
britain is a world by itself , and we will nothing pay for wearing our own noses .
they are near the city ?
how goes the world with thee ?
and that was all ?
well , what then ?
if this inducement move her not to love , send her a letter of thy noble deeds ; tell her
well , i ' ll be revenged as i may .
scratching could not make it worse an ' twere such a face as yours were .
care keeps his watch in every old man ' s eye , and where care lodges sleep will never lie
re-enter gentleman with the gaoler now , good sir , you know me , do you not ?
my passion , a woman ' s gentle heart but not acquainted with shifting change as is false women '
i would fain see them meet , that that same young troyan ass that loves the whore there might send
where is my wife ?
absolute commission .
exit enter antonio and officers viola .
somerville .
by some senators .
earth ' s god and body ' s fost ' ring patron ' - costard .
" give me , " quoth i .
o sweet my mother , cast me not away !
, i was not sick of any fear from thence .
very list , the very utmost bound of all our fortunes .
you and yours , god punish me with hate in those where i expect most love !
greatness !
how fares my gracious lord ?
what means , and where they keep , what company , at what expense ; and finding by this encompassment
most maculate thoughts , master , are mask ' d under such colours .
st their deserts .
better would it fit achilles much to throw down hector than polyxena .
my bed was ever to thy son as true as thine was to thy husband ; and this boy liker
poor thing is here .
thou spak ' st it , that thou wert cause of noble gloucester ' s death .
die !
o , well done !
the lion ' s part .
go , fellow , get thee home , provide some carts , and bring away the armour that is there
your noble son is mad .
for polixenes , with whom i am accus ' d , i do confess i lov ' d him as
o , remember , god , to hear her prayer for them , as now for us !
you ' st hear the belly ' s answer .
lord , we know what we are , but know not what we may be .
why , that they have ; and bid them so be gone .
with fairest flowers , whilst summer lasts and i live here , fidele , i ' ll sweeten thy sad
[flourish] suffolk .
but be he as he will , yet once ere night i will embrace him with a soldier ' s
safety .
i am half through : the one part suffered , the other will i do .
now , what ' s the business ?
dost fall ?
labour ' d after him to the mountain ' s top even on their knees and hands , let him
king ; wherein was read how that the cardinal did entreat his holiness to stay the judgment o ' th
here is your servant .
romeo will answer it .
a keen guest .
[pulling simple out] rugby , my rapier !
sir , i shall not be slack ; in sign whereof , please ye we may contrive this afternoon ,
unless the fear of death doth make me dote , i see my son antipholus , and dromio .
will you sit down with me ?
o pity !
this is the air ; that is the glorious sun ; this pearl she gave me , i do feel
s air : let them say more that like of hearsay well , i will not praise that purpose not
speak sweetly , man , although thy looks be sour .
be not afraid , though you do see me weapon ' d ; here is my journey ' s end
i do hell pains , yet for necessity of present life , i must show out a flag and sign
let him that makes but trifles of his eyes first hand me .
be an honest woman of her word .
i spake unto this crown as having sense , and thus upbraided it : ' the care on thee depending
you are plebeians , if they be senators ; and they are no less , when , both your voices
when , i am very sure , if they should speak , would almost damn those ears which , hearing
while i remain above the ground you shall hear from me still , and never of me aught but what
is three long hours ; yet she is not come .
now let richmond and elizabeth , the true succeeders of each royal house , by god ' s fair ordinance
thou turn ' st mine eyes into my very soul , and there i see such black and grained spots
the senate house .
thus have we swept suspicion from our seat and made our footstool of security .
arm .
none in the world ; but return with an invention , and clap upon you two or three probable lies
thou knowest my lodging .
he is wise , and , on my life , hath stol ' n him home to bed .
good den , good den .
for these two heads do seem to speak to me , and threat me i shall never come to bliss
and france in choler parted ?
she will , take all , pay all , go to bed when she list , rise when she list
i stay too long .
him by his large and portly size .
corrupt my saint to be a devil : wooing his purity with her foul pride .
chill be plain with you .
ring the alarum bell .
exit paris .
a million !
how art thou prov ' d judas ?
are you so gospel ' d , to pray for this good man and for his issue , whose heavy
mere prattle without practice is all his soldiership .
majesty and plodded like a man for working-days ; but i will rise there with so full a glory that
scale of dragon , tooth of wolf , witch ' s mummy , maw and gulf of the ravin '
thy husband is thy lord , thy life , thy keeper , thy head , thy sovereign ; one that
a pox upon him !
here on this molehill will i sit me down .
it was .
alas , poor romeo , he is already dead !
within a month , ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears had left the flushing in her galled eyes
and , if not so , how should i wrong a brother ?
then should the warlike harry , like himself , assume the port of mars ; and at his heels ,
" moor , she was chaste ; she loved thee , cruel moor ; so come my soul to bliss
i think honourable .
for ' tis not life that i have begg ' d so long ; page _num_ complete works of william
purpose so barr ' d , it follows nothing is done to purpose .
yet may your pains six months be quite contrary !
o , pale !
ay , sir ; where lies that ?
a castle in view drums .
and falstaff ' s boy with her !
, who half an hour since came from the dauphin , and brings from him such offers of our peace
nay , i will !
why , that is spoken like a toward prince .
rather an ' t please you , it is the disease of not listening , the malady of not marking
would all those flatterers were thine enemies then , that then thou mightst kill ' em , and bid me
speak softly , wake her not .
why , she hath given you a letter .
, and hanged must ' a be- a damned death !
this is the very painting of your fear ; this is the air-drawn dagger which you said led you to
lest she should be denied .
of this matter is little cupid ' s crafty arrow made , that only wounds by hearsay .
call her in .
the british camp , near dover .
there is no tarrying here ; the hart achilles keeps thicket .
harry of hereford , lancaster , and derby , am i ; who ready here do stand in arms to
keep good quarter and good care to-night ; the day shall not be up so soon as i to try
presumptuous dame , ill-nurtur ' d eleanor !
so fare you well , my little good lord cardinal .
have you come by night , and stol ' n my love ' s heart from him ?
be you content .
o my good lord , that comfort comes too late , ' tis like a pardon after execution : that
' for lo , his passion , but an art of craft , even there resolved my reason into tears
can proceed that toucheth us whereof i shall not have intelligence .
was this easy ?
fathers , from hence trust not your daughters ' minds by what you see them act .
and pardon me , my gentle gratiano , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
for his rare success in arms great earl of washford , waterford , and valence , lord talbot of goodrig
but is this true , sir ?
ne ' er let my heart know merry cheer indeed till all the andronici be made away .
, and stable bearing , as i perceive she does .
go , philostrate , stir up the athenian youth to merriments ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o bon dieu !
why , this is lunatics .
must leave ere long .
them keep it till thy sins be ripe , and then hurl down their indignation on thee , the troubler
realm , depos ' d the rightful king , sent his poor queen to france , from whence she came
become the touches of sweet harmony .
but , roderigo , if thou hast that in thee indeed , which i have greater reason to believe now
mori .
o , that ' s sudden !
with those legions which i have spoke of , whereunto your levy must be supplyant .
it was the very day that young hamlet was born- he that is mad , and sent into england .
shall we see this wrestling , cousin ?
how but well ?
in the tower .
please it your majesty , this is the day appointed for the combat ; and ready are the appellant and
my mother dead !
hast thou , spirit , perform ' d to point the tempest that i bade thee ?
frown on the upper hand .
hath he a sister ?
antony is come into the field .
i am made without him , so i ' ll stand , if the king please ; his curses and
how in one house should many people , under two commands , hold amity ?
you cavil , widow ; i did mean my queen .
i ' ll fetch him presently .
and that his bags shall prove .
rubb ' d nor stopp ' d .
heaven give your spirits comfort !
so foolish a bird ?
there ' s a countenance !
antony ' s camp near actium enter cleopatra and enobarbus cleopatra .
er him and all that he enjoys ; for this down-trodden equity we tread in warlike march these greens before
they are lecherous .
he was dispos ' d to mirth ; but on the sudden a roman thought hath struck him .
i ' ll tell thee .
into a strumpet ' s fool .
by gar , i will cut all his two stones ; by gar , he shall not have a stone
say his name , good friend .
his ashes honour .
what should he do here ?
[a dance] exeunt epilogue epilogue .
upon thy princely warrant i descend to give thee answer of thy just demand .
clog the foot of a flea , i ' ll eat the rest of th ' anatomy .
o that it were to do !
i weigh it lightly , were it heavier .
my dear othello !
i am sure hanging ' s the way of winking .
a time .
i am in love !
give me .
men grow hard-hearted and will lend nothing for god ' s sake .
you will endeavour for your french part of such a boy ; and for my english moiety take the word
enter montgomery with drum and soldiers gloucester .
so to most noble caesar .
unless philosophy can make a juliet , displant a town , reverse a prince ' s doom , it helps
ha , cousin , is it not ?
audience !
what fool is she , that knows i am a maid and would not force the letter to my view
ry that he hath devised in these three chests , of gold , silver , and lead- whereof who chooses
the treacherous instrument is in thy hand , unbated and envenom ' d .
enter silvia peace !
the very spirit of plantagenet !
[strikes him .
when i came hither to transport the tidings , which i have heavily borne , there ran a rumor of
me ' - paulina .
can sodden water , a drench for sur-rein ' d jades , their barley-broth , decoct their cold blood to
i made unto the noise , when soon i heard the crying babe controll ' d with this discourse :
these three days have i watch ' d if i could see them .
murderous caitiff to the stake ; he that conceals him , death .
mischief nor build their evils on the graves of great men , for then my guiltless blood must cry against
why , an otter .
a thousand welcomes !
the goths have gathered head ; and with a power of high resolved men , bent to the spoil ,
there is no remedy , sir , but you must die .
what may you be ?
their scanted courtesy .
well may it sort that this portentous figure comes armed through our watch , so like the king that was
snow that lies on dian ' s lap !
_num_ farewell !
out , fool !
i will not choose what many men desire , because i will not jump with common spirits and rank me
if the assassination could trammel up the consequence , and catch , with his surcease , success ; that but
>> scene : athens and the neighbouring woods act i .
who taught thee how to make me love thee more , the more i hear and see just cause of
what sin you do to save a brother ' s life , nature dispenses with the deed so far that
hide fox , and all after .
>> _num_ the first part of king henry the fourth by william shakespeare dramatis personae king henry the fourth .
sure , this robe of mine does change my disposition .
ben .
o nature , what hadst thou to do in hell when thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend in
stormy hate ; sharp buckingham unburdens with his tongue the envious load that lies upon his heart ; and dogged
but she herself is hit lower .
garment had been made for me ; therefore i know she is about my height .
of your complexion .
nay , but fellow , fellow- enter coriolanus with aufidius coriolanus .
o my brave emperor , this is fought indeed !
are masters to their females , and their lords ; then let your will attend on their accords .
o , i have lost my reputation !
then leave him out .
how long hast thou to serve , francis ?
i have received a letter this page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
here , peter , i drink to thee ; and be not afraid .
for justice .
where be our men ?
for my poor self , i am combined by a sacred vow , and shall be absent .
that title .
enter antony but here comes antony .
his honesty rewards him in itself ; it must not bear my daughter .
yet at last she concluded with a sigh , thou wast the proper ' st man in italy .
shall have your bosom on this wretch , grace of the duke , revenges to your heart , and general
now stand you on the top of happy hours , and many maiden gardens yet unset , with virtuous wish
air .
shall we tell our husbands how we have serv ' d him ?
pray what is ' t ?
down with them !
my father compounded with my mother under the dragon ' s tail , and my nativity was under ursa major
before a hovel .
, tarrying in mulberry shade , his dagger drew , and died .
ay , madam , well ; for i was bred and born not three hours ' travel from this very
what handkerchief ?
but there remains a scruple in that too ; for though her father be the king of naples , duke
what exploit ' s in hand ?
o , how , how ?
: describe adonis and the counterfeit , is poorly imitated after you , on helen ' s cheek all art
who in want a hollow friend doth try , directly seasons him his enemy .
good cheer !
you speak to casca , and to such a man that is no fleering tell-tale .
thou dost belie him , percy , thou dost belie him !
live roderigo , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
but what linsey-woolsey has thou to speak to us again ?
thou hast the odds of me ; therefore no more .
say that she rail ; why , then i ' ll tell her plain she sings as sweetly as a
i would i had bestowed that time in the tongues that i have in fencing , dancing , and bear-baiting
, and putrefy the air .
have no cunning in protestation ; only downright oaths , which i never use till urg ' d , nor
' holofernes .
shall i let them in ?
enter banquo and fleance , bearing a torch before him .
i know our country disposition well ; in venice they do let heaven see the pranks they dare not show
' tis not the first time you were overshot .
the roman camp flourish .
dost thou say so ?
i tell you , he that can lay hold of her shall have the chinks .
now she is become as black as i .
o eglamour , thou art a gentleman- think not i flatter , for i swear i do not- valiant ,
and liegemen to the dane .
sport in their intents , extremely stretch ' d and conn ' d with cruel pain , to do you
than is prometheus tied to caucasus .
i humbly do entreat your highness ' pardon ; my haste made me unmannerly .
yea , and the best person too ; and he is a very paramour for a sweet voice .
free and clear from any image of offence done to any man .
come on , lay it by ; and let ' s first see moe ballads ; we ' ll buy
come , come , no more of this unprofitable chat .
i prithee stay .
that i was duller than a great thaw ; huddling jest upon jest with such impossible conveyance upon me that
o , the lord preserve thy grace !
in these times you stand on distance , your passes , stoccadoes , and i know not what .
i think he be transform ' d into a beast ; for i can nowhere find him like a man
o monstrous !
enter tubal solanio .
if men could be contented to be what they are , there were no fear in marriage ; for young
tanta est erga te mentis integritas , regina serenis-sima- queen katharine .
o , ay , what else ?
be not uncertain , for , by the honour of my parents , i have utt ' red truth ;
my lady would not lose him for more than i ' ll say .
] enter bardolph , running .
plight .
brother , she is not worth what she doth , cost the keeping .
so am i given in charge , may ' t please your grace .
' tis figur ' d in my tongue .
a most royal one : the centurions and their charges , distinctly billeted , already in th ' entertainment ,
that e ' er this tongue of mine that laid the sentence of dread banishment on yon proud man should
; suffer ' t , and live with such as cannot rule nor ever will be rul ' d .
, for keeping my house and lands , and wife and all , from me .
if all the wine in my bottle will recover him , i will help his ague .
exit provost and you , my noble and well-warranted cousin , whom it concerns to hear this matter forth ,
and now declare , sweet stem from york ' s great stock , why didst thou say of late thou
he was my father ; and he is thrice a villain that says such a father begot villains .
by the hand , but then you ' ll think- which i protest against- i am assisted by wicked powers
if thou neglect ' st , or dost unwillingly what i command , i ' ll rack thee with old
within thine own bud buriest thy content , and tender churl mak ' st waste in niggarding : pity the
[supported by benvolio] .
sweet lord longaville , rein thy tongue .
o , would the quarrel lay upon our heads , and that no man might draw short breath to-day but
a lemon .
alas , who knows ?
make my wars on you .
choose your revenge yourself ; impose me to what penance your invention can lay upon my sin .
i tell thee , daughter , i sprang not more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child than
there will she hide her to listen our propose .
thou that so stoutly hath resisted me , give me thy gold , if thou hast any gold ; for
drag back our expedition .
come , let us go ; we will include all jars with triumphs , mirth , and rare solemnity .
here is more news .
practice .
fulvia thy wife is dead .
rome will despise her for this foul escape .
what would my lord ?
i forgive all .
here deliver , subscrib ' d by th ' consuls and patricians , together with the seal o ' th
you are retired , as if you were a feasted one , and not the hostess of the meeting .
brutus and cassius are levying powers ; we must straight make head ; therefore let our alliance be combined ,
all these are servants to deceitful men .
methink ' st thou art a general offence , and every man should beat thee .
call here my varlet ; i ' ll unarm again .
my lord , will you be true ?
i would not fall out with thee .
madam , he comforts you can make you greater than the queen of goths .
; there thou mayst brain him , having first seiz ' d his books ; or with a log batter
stay not , be gone .
and on to-morrow bid them march away .
txt enter oberon at one door , with his train , and titania , at another , with hers oberon
my most dear gloucester !
sword hath ended him .
sir , i will pronounce your sentence : you shall fast a week page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
waste : then can i drown an eye (unused to flow) for precious friends hid in death ' s dateless
tyrannous breathing of the north shakes all our buds from growing .
the death of antony is not a single doom ; in the name lay a moiety of the world .
back with ships made cities , condemn myself to lack the courage of a woman ; less noble mind than
very well met , and well come .
txt sinks down to death , oppressed with melancholy .
as i am a true spirit , welcome !
i do remember them to well : thou kill ' dst my husband henry in the tower , and edward
us ' d with fearful flight- make war with him that climb ' d unto their nest , offering their
be lost , yet it shall be tempest-toss ' d .
' tis true , indeed ; the collusion holds in the exchange .
it shall be possible .
distaff to a lance , gilded pale looks , part shame , part spirit renew ' d ; that some
o , wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied ?
but is there no sequel at the heels of this mother ' s admiration ?
in his heart , and that is there which looks with us to break his neck .
] " and let me the canakin clink , clink ; and let me the canakin clink .
with you presently .
and balthazar antipholus of ephesus .
' tis well borne up .
[a confused noise within : mercy on us !
bliss be upon you !
get me a ladder .
how mightily sometimes we make us comforts of our losses !
when cowardice pursues and valour flies .
, in the course of gratitude , but be a diligent follower of mine .
this skull hath lien you i ' th ' earth three-and-twenty years .
i am undone by his going ; i warrant you , he ' s an infinitive thing upon my score
see , magic of bounty , all these spirits thy power hath conjur ' d to attend !
can he be there in person ?
certainly , sir , i can .
come on , come on .
, should make a start o ' er seas and vanquish you ?
me tell you , it will ne ' er be well- ' twill not , sir thomas lovell , take
most heartily i do beseech the court to give the judgment .
so he doth you , my lord , and said this other day you ought him a thousand pound .
would , by beholding him , have wash ' d his knife with gentle eye-drops .
come , bitter conduct ; come , unsavoury guide !
father , you cannot disinherit me .
so i think you are .
you that are thus so tender o ' er his follies will never do him good , not one of
seest thou not , i say , what a deformed thief this fashion is ?
this law and female bar .
they circle posthumus round as he lies sleeping sicilius .
think ' st thou i jest ?
another part of the plain enter antony and enobarbus antony .
no ; many a pound of mine own proper store , because i would not tax the needy commons ,
courtezan .
let ' s from this place .
to-morrow , sir ; best first go see your lodging .
i shall answer that better to the commonwealth than you can the getting up of the negro ' s belly
proceed , cominius .
go to , charm your tongue .
it is fifteen years since i saw my country ; though i have for the most part been aired abroad
then tell me , patroclus , what art thou ?
exeunt bertram and parolles enter lafeu lafeu .
o worthy fool !
to lay his weary bones among ye ; give him a little earth for charity !
no , let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp , and crook the pregnant hinges of the knee where thrift
txt enter flavius , to timon flavius .
pride peep through each part of him .
madam , i heard her speak : she is low-voic ' d .
here ' s his lordship now .
valentine .
shall we go seek benedick and tell him of her love ?
murder of a guiltless king and lofty proud encroaching tyranny- burns with revenging fire , whose hopeful colours advance our
is not this a lamentable thing , that of the skin of an innocent lamb should be made parchment ?
there ' s gold to pay thy soldiers .
how doth my dear morsel , thy mistress ?
good morrow , prince ; good morrow , claudio .
thou hast hit it .
come , follow us ; we ' ll be thy good masters .
i shall forget , to have thee still stand there , rememb ' ring how i love thy company .
sir , it calls , i fear , too many curses on their heads that were the authors .
no , no ; the noblest deer hath them as huge as the rascal .
i pray you , be content ; ' tis but his humor : the business of the state does him
why , his masculine whore .
this may flies do , when i from this must fly ; they are free men , but i am
there ' s my gauntlet ; i ' ll prove it on a giant .
o heart , lose not thy nature ; let not ever page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
mistress of my heart , and in the sacred pantheon her espouse .
st to have him grant thee .
who dares not stand his foe i ' ll be his friend ; for if he ' ll do as
d her .
your neighbour ' s bed .
ursula , waiting gentlewoman attending on hero .
o , who can give an oath ?
and of other motions , as promising her marriage , and things which would derive me ill will to speak
so , let ' s see- it was told me i should be rich by the fairies .
i never saw a fellow worse bested , or more afraid to fight , than is the appellant , the
[kneels] alonso .
one to me .
what corruption in this life that it will let this man live !
thou foolish thing !
what duke should that be comes so secretly ?
this evening coming .
she is a woman , therefore may be woo ' d ; she is a woman , therefore may be
you are seen , orsino ' s mistress , and his fancy ' s queen .
o despiteful love !
this looks not like a nuptial .
then i repent not .
what music ?
so we ' ll live , and pray , and sing , and tell old tales , and laugh at
o , now , who will behold the royal captain of this ruin ' d band walking from watch to
i am stung like a tench .
and so adieu , sweet jude !
slip down , not one accompanying his declining foot .
his knights grow riotous , and himself upbraids us on every trifle .
whereon , a treacherous army levied , one midnight fated to th ' purpose , did antonio open the gates
[strikes him] katherina .
say , good caesar , that i some lady trifles have reserv ' d , immoment toys , things of
thou hast no hands to wipe away thy tears , nor tongue to tell me who hath martyr ' d
off with ' t while ' tis vendible ; answer the time of request .
none that i more love than myself .
lead me from hence , i faint .
phrase ; or say ' tis not your seal , not your invention ; you can say none of this
but fly you must ; uncurable discomfit reigns in the hearts of all our present parts .
first , lean thine aged back against mine arm ; and , in that ease , i ' ll tell
come with me , fool , come .
, but wenches ' suitors ; when every case in law is right , no squire in debt nor no
well , and what of him ?
no , i serve not thy master .
and blunt his natural edge with profits of the mind , study and fast .
exeunt clarence , brakenbury , and guard gloucester .
do so , i think , should we encounter as often as we eat .
i made a little fault in great .
and i by this will be a gainer too , for bending all my loving thoughts on thee , the
once , took fire and heat away from the best-temper ' d courage in his troops ; for from his
if by your art , my dearest father , you have put the wild waters in this roar , allay
if you will patiently dance in our round , and see our moonlight revels , go with us ; if
he ' s walking in the garden- thus , and spurns the rush that lies before him ; cries '
let it be who it is , for romans now have thews and limbs like to their ancestors .
play the men .
father .
arrogant winchester , that haughty prelate whom henry , our late sovereign , ne ' er could brook !
you think of him too much .
angry guardant stood alone , tend ' ring my ruin and assail ' d of none , dizzy-ey ' d
the king is full of grace and fair regard .
hal , if thou see me down in the battle and bestride me , so !
a cunning man did calculate my birth and told me that by water i should die ; yet let not
a good wit will make use of anything .
[she falls the sword] take up the sword again , or take up me .
fairer than she is , she may more suitors have , and me for one .
ay , there , there .
speak truly on thy knighthood and thy oath ; as so defend thee heaven and thy valour !
arm you against your other enemies , i ' ll make a peace between your soul and you .
good sirs , take heart .
nay , forsooth , my friends , they that must weigh out my afflictions , they that my trust must
i must talk of murders , rapes , and massacres , acts of black night , abominable deeds , complots
cricket , to windsor chimneys shalt thou leap ; where fires thou find ' st unrak ' d , and
i have deliver ' d to lord angelo , a man of stricture and firm abstinence , my absolute power
he has almost supp ' d .
, yea , to die upon the bed my father died , to lie close by his honest bones ;
the son and heir of old tiberio .
your cradle promis ' d , but to be still hot summer ' s tanlings and the shrinking slaves of
stayest thou to vex me here ?
, raise up the organs of her fantasy sleep she as sound as careless infancy ; but those as sleep
even so great men great losses should endure .
redeem him , give up your body to such sweet uncleanness as she that he hath stain ' d ?
i am here , brother , full of heaviness .
france .
of sorrow or of joy ?
, let ' s hew his limbs till they be clean consum ' d .
cleopatra .
well , hie thee to thy lord ; i kiss his hand ; my letter will resolve him of my
she cannot love , nor take no shape nor project of affection , she is so self-endeared .
he will bear you easily and reins well .
here comes the little villain .
if you deny them , all the land will rue it .
how many goodly creatures are there here !
exit servant now , by mine honour , by my life , my troth , i will appeach the villain
could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow , we would as willingly give cure as know .
here comes your father .
preposterous ass , that never read so far to know the cause why music was ordain ' d !
very like a whale .
o , my dear lord !
out with wondrous potency .
i cannot speak of this .
belike , something- i know not what- i ' ll love thee much- let me unseal the letter .
dare you speak ?
an infidel !
hear me , my love .
do you think i would deny her ?
o , then belike she was old and gentle ; and you rode like a kern of ireland , your
i kiss his dirty shoe , and from heart-string i love the lovely bully .
o ' er many books together ; he is furnished with my opinion which , bettered with his own learning-the
if i fly , marcius , halloa me like a hare .
i will name you the degrees .
i read that i profess , ' the art to love .
and hath challeng ' d thee .
souls and bodies hath he divorc ' d three ; and his incensement at this moment is so implacable that
an thou shouldst , thou ' dst anger ladies .
seem to die ere sick .
the trumpery in my house , go bring it hither for stale to catch these thieves .
that i beheld ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[enter servant] take this fellow in , and send for his master with a pursuivant presently .
o my friends , i have one word to say to you .
advance our standards , set upon our foes ; our ancient word of courage , fair saint george , inspire
such wine and sugar of the best and the fairest , that would have won any woman ' s heart
sweet doctor , you shall be my bedfellow ; when i am absent , then lie with my wife .
and so will i , and write home for it straight .
prithee , man , look cheerly .
a tapster is a good trade ; an old cloak makes a new jerkin ; a wither ' d serving-man
for the which i hear what they say of him .
indeed the riches of it .
these good fellows will bring thee where i am .
enter kent and a gentleman .
lorenzo .
counsel , lucetta ; gentle girl , assist me ; and , ev ' n in kind love , i
a cittern-head .
he is able to pierce a corslet with his eye , talks like a knell , and his hum is
there ' s a fearful point !
thou ever young , fresh , lov ' d , and delicate wooer , whose blush doth thaw the consecrated
no , no ; by god ' s good grace , his son shall reign .
lay out , lay out .
it is not lost ; but what an if it were ?
catesby , i come .
as strange as the thing i know not .
unworthiness , thou diest .
condemn ' d by the king ' s own mouth , thereon his execution sworn .
hubert .
this is all .
soft you ; a word or two before you go .
under the walls of alexandria alarum .
bring you the maid , you shall not lack a priest .
abergavenny .
scratch my head , peaseblossom .
, angiers , and of you .
then can i grieve at grievances foregone , and heavily from woe to woe tell o ' er the sad
txt that led calm henry , though he were a king , as doth a sail , fill ' d
you are an ass , you are an ass .
who thou wilt .
a sauce to sugar .
tell me , thou unknown power- first witch .
write , write , rinaldo , to this unworthy husband of his wife ; let every word weigh heavy of
the moor ' s abused by some most villainous knave , some base notorious knave , some scurvy fellow .
prepare , i say .
note this : the king is weary of dainty and such picking grievances ; for he hath found to end
d it , i must tell you that , before my daughter told me) , what might you , or
sweet pandarus !
but what trade art thou ?
[drums afar off ] hark !
nay , i care not for such words ; no , no .
ay , if money were as certain as your waiting , ' twere sure enough .
" clitus .
and now is this vice ' s dagger become a squire , and talks as familiarly of john a gaunt
mouths the gimmal ' d bit lies foul with chaw ' d grass , still and motionless ; and their
let us entreat , by honour of his name whom worthily you would have now succeed , and in the
now , my titania ; wake you , my sweet queen .
then this is mine opinion : that king lewis becomes your enemy for mocking him about the marriage of the
let the justices make you and fortune friends ; i am for other business .
remedy .
i would be sorry , sir , but the fool should be as oft with your master as with my
i shall not look upon his like again .
plantagenet , for all the claim thou lay ' st , think not that henry shall be so depos '
so , bassianus , you have play ' d your prize : god give you joy , sir , of
a message well sympathiz ' d- a horse to be ambassador for an ass .
whither away , sir john fastolfe , in such haste ?
abject scorn of me ; but with these nails i ' ll pluck out these false eyes that would behold
offices , untrodden stones ?
doubt it not , worthy lord .
ere they lack ' d power to cross you .
country , be out of love with your nativity , and almost chide god for making you that countenance you
he cares not ; he ' ll obey conditions .
of wales afterwards king edward v richard , duke of york , brothers to the king george , duke of
i look ' d ' a should have sent me two and twenty yards of satin , as i am
excellent well .
ainsi dis-je ; d ' elbow , de nick , et de sin .
then , if we lose this battle , you are contented to be led in triumph thorough the streets of
sweetly in force unto her fair life ' s end .
the court , of all he dies possess ' d unto his son lorenzo and his daughter .
porter .
we shall all be shent .
on your allegiance , out of the chamber with her !
licentious measure , making your wills the scope of justice ; till now , myself , and such page _num_
view of many , mine , being one , may stand in number , though in reck ' ning none
the duke cannot deny the course of law ; for the commodity that strangers have with us in venice ,
here was sir john bracy from your father .
the knight sir john is there ; and , i beseech you , be ruled by your well-willers .
make haste , lest mine be about your ears ere it be out .
why , your dolphin is not lustier .
urge neither charity nor shame to me .
let go that rude uncivil touch ; thou friend of an ill fashion !
plains wear tewksbury flourish .
mine was not bridled .
tender yourself more dearly , or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase , running it thus) you
come to thy grandam , child .
before , i lov ' d thee as a brother , john ; but now , i do respect thee
construe my speeches better , if you may .
one word more , good lady .
cancel his bond of life , dear god , i pray , that i may live and say ' the
hear from .
then , since the case so stands as now it doth , i think it best you married with the
this wild river break , and stand unshaken yours .
great nephew , he dives into the king ' s soul and there scatters dangers , doubts , wringing of
we must all to the wars .
john , and westmoreland , and stafford , fled the field ; and harry monmouth ' s brawn , the
but with a rearward following tybalt ' s death , ' romeo is banished ' - to speak that word
prove that ever i dress myself handsome till thy return .
the traitor ?
my son corrupts a well-derived nature with his inducement .
mine own as i will kneel to him with thanks .
go make thyself like a nymph o ' th ' sea ; be subject to no sight but thine and
why came i hither but to that intent ?
so that skill in the weapon is nothing without sack , for that sets it a-work ; and learning ,
, being the agents or base second means , the cords , the ladder , or the hangman rather ?
awake , thou coward majesty !
shepherdess dorcas , " other lords , gentlemen , ladies , officers , servants , shepherds , shepherdesses scene :
' celia .
not hercules could have knock ' d out his brains , for he had none ; yet i not doing
a lower but loving likelihood , were now the general of our gracious empress- as in good time he may-
least .
i ' ll see her damn ' d first ; to pluto ' s damn ' d lake , by
warwick or himself be quite suppress ' d .
make me not offended in your distrust .
what is his honesty ?
well , it shall be so .
i ' ll follow , stephano .
why , hark ye , hark ye !
speak , if you can .
fillet of a fenny snake , in the cauldron boil and bake ; eye of newt and toe of frog
a man is well holp up that trusts to you !
; thither write , my queen , and with mine eyes i ' ll drink the words you send ,
>> scene : britain ; italy act i .
and is not this an honourable spoil ?
were our tears wanting to this funeral , these tidings would call forth their flowing tides .
true ; made the lame to leap and fly away .
thomas the earl of surrey and himself , much about cock-shut time , from troop to troop went through the
or merit for the gift ; the other is not a thing for sale , and only the gift of
how say you ?
under what captain serve you ?
he had , my lord ; and that it was which caus ' d our swifter composition .
, thorough fire , i do wander every where , swifter than the moon ' s sphere ; and i
mine eye , my heart thy picture ' s sight would bar , my heart , mine eye the freedom
from her sweet brother ' s body , and bid her wipe her weeping eyes withal .
noble and young , when thy first griefs were but a mere conceit , ere thou hadst power or we
her vine , the merry cheerer of the heart , unpruned dies ; her hedges even-pleach ' d , like
that the world may witness that my end was wrought by nature , not by vile offence , i '
thou marvel ' st at my words , but hold thee still : things bad begun make strong themselves by
there was , mine host , an old fat woman even now with , me ; but she ' s
o god , seest thou this , and bearest so long ?
penurious band .
' tis gone .
let my presumption not provoke thy wrath , for i am sorry that with reverence i did not entertain thee
you are too hard for me .
your grace may do your pleasure .
i have a little money for thee .
the bay .
my lord , your brother john is ta ' en in flight , and brought with armed men back to
of nile , whose breath rides on the posting winds and doth belie all corners of the world .
strew ' d with sweets , which they distil now in the curbed time , to make the coming hour
marry , sir , the pittie-ward , the park-ward ; every way ; old windsor way , and every way
but why unkindly didst thou leave me so ?
i warrant you .
exeunt the duchess and the other prisoners , guarded mine eyes are full of tears , my heart of grief
of money-bags to-night .
i do but stay behind to do the office for thee of revenge , and then my soul shall wait
- i am glad to see thee well .
presently away ; for to strange sores strangely they strain the cure .
-here she is now ; swear the oaths now to her that you have sworn to me .
' plantagenet , i will ; and like thee , nero , play on the lute , beholding the towns
' tis good for men to love their present pains upon example ; so the spirit is eased ; and
do poor tom some charity , whom the foul fiend vexes .
serve the king , and-prithee lead me in .
in other accents do this praise confound by seeing farther than the eye hath shown .
eros .
exeunt [gloucester and edmund] .
matter of marriage was the charge he gave me , but dreadful war shall answer his demand .
he cries for you , and vows , if he can take you , to scorch your face , and
that fellow handles his bow like a crow-keeper .
exeunt demetrius and chiron wind horns .
o that this blossom could be kept from cankers !
fly , lords , and save yourselves : for warwick bids you all farewell , to meet in heaven .
' " among the many that mine eyes have seen , not one whose flame my heart so much as
all prisoners , sir , in the line-grove which weather-fends your cell ; they cannot budge till your release .
for man or master .
abhorr ' d ends ; so he that in this action contrives against his own nobility , in his proper
do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty only for praise sake , when they strive to be lords o '
they mock thee , clifford ; swear as thou wast wont .
return again , and take an oath with thee .
this is othello ' s ancient , as i take it .
are you mov ' d , my lord ?
monstrous state .
where is my cousin your son ?
- lie drown ' d and soak ' d in mercenary blood ; so do our vulgar drench their peasant
mend and charge home , or , by the fires of heaven , i ' ll leave the foe and
stoop unto the sovereign mercy of the king ; but since i cannot , be it known unto you i
hold , for your lives !
austria ' s head lie there , while philip breathes .
let the king know , as soon he shall by me , that thus the cardinal does buy and sell
mistress , ' respice finem , ' respect your end ; or rather , to prophesy like the parrot ,
; for maids well summer ' d and warm kept are like flies at bartholomew-tide , blind , though they
self were happier than thou art , if ten of thine ten times refigured thee : then what could death
at whose hands he hath good usage and great liberty ; and often but attended with weak guard comes hunting
envy at- ye blew the fire that burns ye .
good morrow , antony .
o monstrous world !
speak , cousin ; or , if you cannot , stop his mouth with a kiss and let not him
youth , thou bear ' st thy father ' s face ; frank nature , rather curious than in haste
farewell , chatillon .
by the king than by that red-tail ' d humble-bee i speak of .
she that was ever fair and never proud , had tongue at will and yet was never loud , never
o mischief strangely thwarting !
in thy foul throat thou liest : queen margaret saw thy murd ' rous falchion smoking in his blood ;
shows off your wonder ; but yet speak .
why , fare thee well ; here is some gold for thee .
you that look pale and tremble at this chance , that are but mutes or audience to this act ,
the broken rancour of your high-swol ' n hearts , but lately splinter ' d , knit , and join
she will , she will !
another part of the plain sound retreat .
saint .
what may i call your name ?
he that rewards me , god reward him !
my lord ' s knave !
madam , before you touch the instrument to learn the order of my fingering , i must begin with rudiments
so old but she may learn ; happier than this , she is not bred so dull but she can
you charge me most unjustly .
what woman in the city do i name when that i say the city-woman bears the cost of princes on
this is the tune of our catch , play ' d by the picture of nobody .
i muse why she ' s at liberty .
txt that i profess myself in banqueting to all the rout , then hold me dangerous .
is he dead , my ethiopian ?
, i kill thee , make thee away , translate thy life into death , thy liberty into bondage .
it was : his queen , his queen !
let them be hunted soundly .
let me speak .
lo , here she comes .
come , cousin , canst thou quake and change thy colour , murder thy breath in middle of a word
seven ?
they charg ' d him even as those should do that had deserv ' d his hate , and therein
the king being in danger , enter prince of wales .
say , earl of suffolk , if thy name be so , what ransom must i pay before i pass
well said ; come on .
it away yourself .
an excellent device !
great king , within this coffin i present thy buried fear .
so , putting him to rage , you should have ta ' en th ' advantage of his choler and
and warwick shall disprove it .
i am perjured most , for all my vows are oaths but to misuse thee : and all my honest
she is daughter to this famous duke of milan , of whom so often i have heard renown but never
well ; and there begins my sadness .
romeo , son to montague .
so do i , my lord ; they are entirely welcome .
i fear these stubborn lines lack power to move .
what you shall know meantime of stirs abroad , i shall beseech you , sir , to let me be
i shall .
i shall find you anon .
the one of them contains my picture , prince ; if you choose that , then i am yours withal
here lies the east .
panthino .
looks pale , killing their fruit with frowns ?
after her , after her .
there is a gentleman , my dear friend ; and i fear not mine own shame as much as his
i am accurs ' d to rob in that thief ' s company .
i know his trumpet .
villains , for shame you could not beg for grace .
figuring that they their passions likewise lent me of grief and blushes , aptly understood in bloodless white and the
ay , by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven .
alarum , retreat , excursions .
therefore much drink may be said to be an equivocator with lechery : it makes him , and it mars
he ' ll never yield to that .
signior hortensio , i have often heard of your entire affection to bianca ; and since mine eyes are witness
o , behold , the riches of the ship is come on shore !
i will play three myself .
' twere that all the miseries which nature owes were mine at once .
txt and could of men distinguish , her election hath scald thee for herself .
how shall i know thee again ?
six barbary horses against six french swords , their assigns , and three liberal-conceited carriages : that ' s the
speaks any other word but my name .
that silk will i go buy .
when were you wont to use my sister thus ?
come on , sirrah ; hold up your head ; answer your master ; be not afraid .
but , for me , what case stand i in ?
go to , a bargain made ; seal it , seal it ; i ' ll be the witness .
rinaldo , you did never lack advice so much as letting her pass so ; had i spoke with her
of syracuse .
grapple thee unto a pagan shore , where these two christian armies might combine the blood of malice in a
indifferently for all ; and at my suit , sweet , pardon what is past .
good master snare , let him not scape .
her eyes are fierce ; but thine do comfort , and not burn .
are fled to him .
do not assume my likeness .
the heavens have bless ' d you with a goodly son to be your comforter when he is gone .
desire him not to flatter with his lord , nor hold him up with hopes ; i am not for
and those that you ' ll procure from king leontes ?
i ' ll prove the contrary , if you ' ll hear me speak .
then , my queen , in silence sad , trip we after night ' s shade .
not yet old enough for a man , nor young enough for a boy ; as a squash is before
and so we wept ; and there was the first gentleman-like tears that ever we shed .
alone he ent ' red the mortal gate of th ' city , which he painted with shunless destiny ;
my lord , i have considered with myself the tide of this most renowned duke , and in my conscience
rebels , and their power grows strong .
upon my life , then , you took the wrong .
go , some of you ; whoe ' er you find attach .
' hath he forgot he is his sovereign ?
nay , good ajax .
all things that are are with more spirit chased than enjoyed .
' then music with her silver sound page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' ll obey .
his father ' s door .
' to th ' pope .
the duke in council ?
this brand she quenched in a cool well by , which from love ' s fire took heat perpetual ,
opens the gate .
the messengers from our sister and the king corn .
though no man lesser fears the greeks than i , as far as toucheth my particular , yet , dread
what ' s your will nurse .
if you beat us out of it , it is yours ; if you fall in the adventure , our
go , bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns .
that is my home of love , if i have ranged , like him that travels i return again ,
exeunt mistress page , mistress ford , and mistress quickly page .
i will try confusions with him .
think on lord hastings .
receive the ring again .
what , you come for money ?
they are both forsworn .
buzz , buzz !
dromio of ephesus .
splitting the air with noise .
hearts can mend : all tongues (the voice of souls) give thee that due , uttering bare truth , even
for it is unpeopled ?
i know ' t- my sister ' s .
farewell , thou lob of spirits ; i ' ll be gone .
gross , o ' er-reaching as this ?
the fashion of the world is to avoid cost , and you encounter it .
thunder .
i would not lose so great an honour as one man more methinks would share from me for the best
madam wife , they say that i have dream ' d and slept above some fifteen year or more .
give me pardon , sir .
you peers , continue this united league .
o inhuman dog !
leontes .
tut , sir , i could have told you more .
e ' en that you have there .
shall i have audience ?
thou dar ' st as well be hang ' d .
by the lord , this love is as mad as ajax : it kills sheep ; it kills me- i
but whither shall we then ?
enter silvia see where she comes .
call her again .
, ' it is as hard to come as for a camel to thread the postern of a small needle
do .
which i with sword will open .
attends he here , or no ?
osr .
look what thy soul holds dear , imagine it to lie that way thou goest , not whence thou com
rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest , and do it with unwash ' d hands too .
i fear ' d to show my father julia ' s letter , lest he should take exceptions to my
not yours to reserve .
sing willow , willow , willow .
for who is living , if those two are gone ?
pray you peruse that letter .
lead him off .
the mere word ' s a slave , debauch ' d on every tomb , on every grave a lying
pray god it be , sir .
a dreadful rock ?
such it seems as may beseem a monarch like himself .
nay , come away .
then , brutus , i have much mistook your passion , by means whereof this breast of mine hath buried
alas , how is ' t with you , that you do bend your eye on vacancy , and with
good sir toby !
give her this jewel ; say my love can give no place , bide no denay .
; father , i may not wish the fortune thine ; grandam , i will not wish thy wishes thrive
advantage feeds him fat while men delay .
a king , become a banish ' d man , and forc ' d to live in scotland a forlorn
without her .
asleep , my love ?
enter clarence , with drum and colours warwick .
health to you , valiant sir , during all question of the gentle truce ; but when i meet you
what ' s the cause ?
take him hence .
thou bastard of my grandfather !
see where he is , who ' s with him , what he does .
brother , though i be youngest , give me leave .
are you crept hither to see the wrestling ?
, king edward the third .
quiet thy cudgel : thou dost see i eat .
or shall we bite our tongues , and in dumb shows pass the remainder of our hateful days ?
soon may i hear and see him !
she turn ' d to folly , and she was a whore .
now his important blood will nought deny that she ' ll demand .
[exit moonshine] now die , die , die , die , die .
see how the surly warwick mans the wall .
and buried , gentle tyrrel ?
the crickets sing , and man ' s o ' er-labour ' d sense repairs itself by rest .
i ' ll to the friar to know his remedy .
and from your womb where you imprisoned were he is enfranchised and come to light .
he will print them , out of doubt ; for he cares not what he puts into the press when
father ' d he is , and yet he ' s fatherless .
thy fury .
pompey the huge !
what says my aesculapius ?
no ; i eat not lords .
o , sir , i will not be so hard-hearted ; i will give out divers schedules of my beauty
i love a ballad but even too well , if it be doleful matter merrily set down , or a
fear no more the heat o ' th ' sun nor the furious winter ' s rages ; thou thy
conquerors ; if you do free your children from the sword , your children ' s children quits it in
continent , as chaste , as true , as i am now unhappy ; which is more than history can
how am i false ?
caitiff on the ground , may seem as shy , as grave , as just , as absolute , as
exit euphronius [to thyreus] to try thy eloquence , now ' tis time .
is it concluded he shall be protector ?
if he swagger , let him not come here .
a chapel in paulina ' s house enter leontes , polixenes , florizel , perdita , camillo , paulina ,
this a consul ?
save the thing from death this is but scratch ' d withal .
thou shalt not choose but go ; do not deny .
shall kate be my wife ?
take note , take note , o world , to be direct and honest is not safe .
this is a man , old , wrinkled , faded , withered , and not a maiden , as thou
touch ' d you the bastardy of edward ' s children ?
yes , my conscience , he did us great good .
what ' s he that goes there ?
nothing ?
perge , good master holofernes , perge , so it shall please you to abrogate scurrility .
be page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
is it two days ago since i beat thee and tripp ' d up thy heels before the king ?
, ashore at windsor ?
whither you will , so i were from your sights .
marry , my uncle clarence ' angry ghost .
forth , servant in arms to harry king of england ; and thus he would open your city gates ,
the whom , i see , there ' s no disjunction to be made but by , as heavens forfend
and what hear there for welcome but my groans ?
mine shall sum my count , and make my old excuse ' proving his beauty by succession thine .
my brother ' s love , the devil , and my rage .
it appears so , by his weapons .
no , that were pity ; i would entreat you rather to put on your boldest suit of mirth ,
then tell us , shall your city call us lord in that behalf which we have challeng ' d it
[to an officer] go bear this lance to thomas , duke of norfolk .
crying , " o dear cassio !
i left out one thing which the queen confess ' d , which must approve thee honest .
i hardly yet have learn ' d to insinuate , flatter , bow , and bend my knee .
here , my lord , a trifle of our love .
txt awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth ; turn melancholy forth to funerals ; the pale companion is
aidless came off , and with a sudden re-enforcement struck corioli like a planet .
you , that did my ripe thoughts in my brain inhearse , making their tomb the womb wherein they grew
indeed he hath play ' d on this prologue like a child on a recorder- a sound , but not
near elsinore .
new nap upon it .
how now , my pretty knave ?
why then , let them alone till they are sober .
other .
pluck thein asunder .
her lord , her governor , her king .
i thank you all ; for doughty-handed are you , and have fought not as you serv ' d the
what trade , thou knave ?
the best thing in him is his complexion ; and faster than his tongue did make offence , his eye
tell her i send to her my kind commends ; take special care my greetings be delivered .
enter two senators with others , on the walls of corioli tullus aufidius , is he within your walls ?
i am glad to see your worship .
nay , stay not to expostulate ; make speed ; or else come after .
i speak not to that railing hecate , but unto thee , alencon , and the rest .
no love , my love , that thou mayst true love call , all mine was thine , before thou
[reads] ' so it is , besieged with sable-coloured melancholy , i did commend the black oppressing humour to the
o valentine , this i endure for thee !
done you bold and saucy wrongs ; but if you know not this , my manners tell me we have
exeunt shallow and slender caius .
then say at once if i maintain ' d the truth ; or else was wrangling somerset in th '
do but start and echo with the clamour of thy drum , and even at hand a drum is ready
eleven buckram men grown out of two !
or , by jupiter- i will not ask again .
there is no force in the decrees of venice .
welcome , gentlemen !
caesar gets money where he loses hearts .
for this pains casaer hath hang ' d him .
thou took ' st a beggar , wouldst have made my throne a seat for baseness .
nay , if you melt , then will she run mad .
were it my cue to fight , i should have known it without a prompter .
tell me , was he arrested on a band ?
yet speak , morton ; tell thou an earl his divination lies , and i will take it as a
we have , sir .
grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
this swears he , as he is a prince , is just ; and as i am a gentleman i
as thick as hail came post with post , and every one did bear thy praises in his kingdom '
bastard hand stabb ' d julius caesar ; savage islanders pompey the great ; and suffolk dies by pirates .
my name is thyreus .
, and honourable carriage , had his necessity made use of me , i would have put my wealth into
were he my brother , nay , my kingdom ' s heir , as he is but my father '
shadow ; and to your shadow will i make true love .
this nor hurts him nor profits you a jot ; forbear it , therefore ; give your cause to heaven
a whoreson achitophel !
o lord , sir !
sir , i cannot .
they are here about the court , and , as i think , they have already order this night to
not a word .
there ' s no more valour in that poins than in a wild duck .
didst thou hear me ?
and bowl ' d to death with turnips .
fran .
stay not thy compliment ; i forgive thy duty .
yes , ' tis emilia .
a noble spirit , as yours was put into you , ever casts such doubts as false coin from it
fare thee well ; commend me to them both .
i pray thee let me look on that again .
can you make no use of your discontent ?
i swounded at the sight .
i pray thee , good leonardo , think on this .
and leave us , publius , lest that the people rushing on us should do your age some mischief .
, each one already blazing by our meeds , should notwithstanding join our lights together and overshine the earth ,
thou art no atlas for so great a weight ; and , weakling , warwick takes his gift again ;
let him be sent , great princes , and he shall buy my daughter ; and her presence shall quite
sweet air !
he does obey every point of the letter that i dropp ' d to betray him .
may well be said becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid , so far be distant ; and good night
to-morrow toward london back again to look into this business thoroughly and call these foul offenders to their answers ,
[within] let him walk from whence he came , lest he catch cold on ' s feet .
sister , show ' d bashful sincerity and comely love .
from all hollow bias-drawing , bids thee with most divine integrity , from heart of very heart , great hector
so shalt thou sinew both these lands together ; and , having france thy friend , thou shalt not dread
finsbury .
exit lafeu .
anon , anon , sir .
for what ?
that treats of happiness by virtue specially to be achiev ' d .
gorgon , the other way ' s a mars .
the wars hath so kept you under that you must needs be born under mars .
must there no more be done ?
marry , ill to like him that ne ' er it likes .
i pray you pardon me ; i will hereafter make known to you why i have done this .
thou wilt not murther me ?
it shall be said his judgement ruled our hands ; our youths and wildness shall no whit appear , but
obsequiously lament th ' untimely fall of virtuous lancaster .
and nothing can we can our own but death and that small model of the barren earth which serves as
it pleas ' d your majesty to turn your looks of favour from myself and all our house ; and
there is so hot a summer in my bosom that all my bowels crumble up to dust .
by flattery hath he won the commons ' hearts ; and when he please to make commotion , ' tis
pay her the debt you owe her , and unpay the villainy you have done with her ; the one
his practices .
, and therefore we admire , what thou dost foist upon us that is old , and rather make them
in practice let us put it presently .
i pray thee go to the casement and see if you can see my master , master doctor caius ,
there thou speak ' st reason .
come hither , good-man bald-pate .
my exile the want of breeding , the certainty of this hard life ; aye hopeless to have the courtesy
not yet ?
give me your neaf , mounsieur mustardseed .
txt to calm this tempest whirling in the court ; and let the emperor dandle him for his own .
where be thy two sons ?
master brook ; but the peaking cornuto her husband , master brook , dwelling in a continual ' larum of
skills not much ; we ' ll fit him to our turn- and he shall be vincentio of pisa ,
good morrow to your lordship .
to climb steep hills requires slow pace at first .
a pox damn you , you muddy rascal !
is she not , then , beholding to the man that brought her for this high good turn so far
this have i rumour ' d through the peasant towns between that royal field of shrewsbury and this worm-eaten hold
tell us , old man , how shall we be employ ' d ?
these tidings would well comfort cassius .
you have not been abed , then ?
been suborn ' d to grate on you that you should seal this lawless bloody book of forg ' d
noise ; mistress tearsheet would fain hear some music .
, indeed , cannot abide ' em ; they are very ill-favour ' d rough things .
' s souls amazeth .
how ' scaped killing when i cross ' d you so ?
sir , pardon me in what i have to say .
yet hear me speak .
ay , greek ; and that shall be divulged well in characters as red as mars his heart inflam '
then clarence is at hand ; i hear his drum .
enter cassius .
where he arrives he moves all hearts against us .
do not say so , lysander ; say not so .
to thee be worship !
most manifest , and not denied by himself .
sleep with it now !
ho , ho !
i appeal to your own conscience , sir , before polixenes came to your court , how i was in
you know your own degrees ; sit down .
, nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk ; but thou with mildness entertain ' st thy wooers
what other harm have i , good lady , done but spoke the harm that is by others done ?
all may be well enough .
fury , fury !
txt enter tullus aufidius with attendents aufidius .
go waken juliet ; go and trim her up .
change it , change it ; be not so holy-cruel .
see where they come ; we will behold his death .
i will not sup to-night .
his servants .
darkling stand the varying shore o ' th ' world .
gone , but that so much of earth and water wrought , i must attend , time ' s leisure
yes , my good lord , i ' ll follow presently .
enter diomedes , below how now !
judge ' s clerk .
go to the douglas and deliver him up to his pleasure , ransomless and free .
casca first , then the other conspirators and marcus brutus stab caesar .
you are deceiv ' d ; my child is none of his : it was alencon that enjoy ' d
who by repentance is not satisfied is nor of heaven nor earth , for these are pleas ' d ;
if she come in , she ' ll sure speak to my wife .
go home , be merry , give consent to marry paris .
do you yield , sir , or shall i sweat for you ?
captain .
nipping cold ; so cares and joys abound , as seasons fleet .
o , ay ; and pities them .
did as a prophet weep what it foresaw in hector ' s wrath .
are you content to stay ?
i must excuse myself , master ford .
we have guided by thee hitherto , and of thy cunning had no diffidence ; one sudden foil shall never
portia , adieu !
his father revell ' d in the heart of france , and tam ' d the king , and made
o , o , o !
and say , what store of parting tears were shed ?
salt as wolves in pride , and fools as gross as ignorance made drunk .
both , my good host , to go along with me .
to lose itself in a fog ; where being three parts melted away with rotten dews , the fourth would
' air to stick .
i will proclaim my name about the field .
thou cold-blooded slave , hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side , been sworn my soldier , bidding
txt utter your gravity o ' er a gossip ' s bowl , for here we need it not .
but since , so jump upon this bloody question , you from the polack wars , and you from england
pray you walk near ; i ' ll speak with you anon .
thou dost infect mine eyes .
amen , if you love her ; for the lady is very well worthy .
[ within : do you hear , master porter ?
but come on , contract us fore these witnesses .
i pray thee , good camillo , be no more importunate : ' tis a sickness denying thee anything ;
if you will take a homely man ' s advice , be not found here ; hence , with your
canst thou remember a time before we came unto this cell ?
i do love nothing in the world so well as you .
the loving haste of these our friends , something against our meanings , have prevented- because , my lord ,
all things are ready , if our minds be so .
but thou must needs be sure my spirit and my place have in them power to make this bitter to
o miserable age !
nay , answer if you can ; the frenchmen are our enemies .
who- not the duke ?
the heavens give safety to your purposes !
the earl of westmoreland , seven thousand strong , is marching hitherwards ; with him prince john .
in our defences .
we ' ll execute your purpose , and put on a form of strangeness as we pass along .
danger do environ thee , commend thy grievance to my holy prayers , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
between .
mark the music .
or in my life what comfort , when i am dead to my husband ?
sweet , adieu !
' tis the french dauphin sueth to thee thus .
please your highness to take the urgent hour .
as many as you please .
there ' s no jesting ; there ' s laying on ; take ' t off who will , as
i would you knew ford , sir , that you might avoid him if you saw him .
is carlisle living , to abide thy kingly doom , and sentence of his pride .
rather than so , come , fate , into the list , and champion me to the utterance !
not so , sir , neither ; i know my duty .
thee heir , and his high sceptre yields to the possession of thy royal hand .
she can persuade .
cold , appear like death ; and in this borrowed likeness of shrunk death thou shalt continue two-and-forty hours ,
' n it from her ?
that sleeve is mine that he ' ll bear on his helm ; were it a casque compos ' d
we will here part .
his purpose .
txt falstaff .
what wouldst thou have to athens ?
charge that no man should disturb your rest , in pain of your dislike or pain of death , yet
division of each several crime , acting it many ways .
the fated sky gives us free scope ; only doth backward pull our slow designs when we ourselves are dull
- seek out the traitor gloucester .
take him hence , the whole world shall not save him .
from the organ-pipe of frailty sings his soul and body to their lasting rest .
jocund health that denmark drinks to-day but the great cannon to the clouds shall tell , and the king '
good to see .
[aside] if ' twere a substance , you would , sure , deceive it page _num_ complete works of william
punk , as tib ' s rush for tom ' s forefinger , as a pancake for shrove tuesday ,
o madness of discourse , that cause sets up with and against itself !
you cannot make gross sins look clear : to revenge is no valour , but to bear .
did he break out into tears ?
which gentlemen have .
ay , my commander .
i hope he is .
because that like a jack thou keep ' st the stroke betwixt thy begging and my meditation .
much retired from court , and is less frequent to his princely exercises than formerly he hath appeared .
shall know all , that you are like to know , theseus .
from the christening .
the ox hath therefore stretch ' d his yoke in vain , the ploughman lost his sweat , and the
hogshead .
then she bears some breadth ?
give it me .
have you the chain about you ?
her love is not the hare that i do hunt ; why writes she so to me ?
not utter what thou dost not know , and so far will i trust thee , gentle kate .
it likely thou wilt undertake a thing like death to chide away this shame , that cop ' st with
die with looking on his life .
why , he comes in like a perjure , wearing papers .
' tis but so , i warrant .
dear kate , you and i cannot be confin ' d within the weak list of a country ' s
the conscience , fears , and despairs-and all these for his marriage ; and out of all these to restore
place beneath .
you say that you ' ll have phebe , if she will ?
- old fond eyes , beweep this cause again , i ' ll pluck ye out , and cast you
thou art not what thou seem ' st .
honest gentleman that ever i should live to see thee dead !
of anger ; they were parted by gentlemen at hand .
rashly- and prais ' d be rashness for it ; let us know , our indiscretion sometime serves us well
his horns without a case .
kind uncle york , the latest news we hear is that the rebels have consum ' d with fire our
so could i too .
a segregation of the turkish fleet .
exit haberdasher petruchio .
if the cat will after kind , so be sure will rosalinde .
which is the merchant here , and which the jew ?
thou shalt not sigh , nor hold thy stumps to heaven , nor wink , nor nod , nor kneel
now mercy goes to kill , and shooting well is then accounted ill ; thus will i save my credit
crave death more willingly than mercy ; ' tis my deserving , and i do entreat it .
poison ' d-ill-fare !
that by killing of villains thou wast born to conquer my country .
go comfort your cousin .
hath she forsworn me ?
gloucester , whate ' er we like , thou art protector and lookest to command the prince and realm .
remember me in all humility unto his highness ; say his long trouble now is passing out of this world
she hath made me four and twenty nosegays for the shearers- three-man song-men all , and very good ones ;
at dinner .
o you hard hearts , you cruel men of rome , knew you not pompey ?
leave her thus .
we , ignorant of ourselves , beg often our own harms , which the wise pow ' rs deny us
him prune himself and bristle up the crest of youth against your dignity .
by gar , with all my heart .
iden , kneel down .
at home and be hang ' d !
since his exile she hath despis ' d me most , forsworn my company and rail ' d at me
wretch whom nature is asham ' d almost t ' acknowledge hers .
leaving no heir begotten of his body- i was the next by birth and parentage ; for by my mother
and i accept the combat willingly .
with three or four loggerheads amongst three or fourscore hogsheads .
my father , in his habit as he liv ' d !
where is that slave which told me they had beat you to your trenches ?
margery jourdain .
lift up thy brow , renowned salisbury , and with a great heart heave away this storm ; commend these
who came ?
enter troilus and ulysses , at a distance ; after them thersites ulysses .
go , sirrah , find him out .
then let the trumpets sound the tucket sonance and the note to mount ; for our approach shall so much
this is most strange , that she that even but now was your best object , the argument of your
philip , my liege , so is my name begun : philip , good old sir robert ' s wife
what will become of me now , wretched lady ?
came from her , master brook , like a poor old woman .
now go some and pull down the savoy ; others to th ' inns of court ; down with them
they that mean virtuously and yet do so , the devil their virtue tempts and they tempt heaven .
the question is concerning your marriage .
may it please your honour , my lord hath sent- lucius .
txt to sue to live , i find i seek to die ; and , seeking death , find life
and bring me word how ' tis with her .
he therefore sends you , meeter for your spirit , this tun of treasure ; and , in lieu of
the reverence of the grave wearers .
tell him from his all-obeying breath i hear the doom of egypt .
[whispers] there is no more but so : say it is done , and i will love thee and prefer
longaville .
on the alps it is reported thou didst eat strange flesh , which some did die to look on .
while it was smiling in my face , have pluck ' d my nipple from his boneless gums and dash
' d , new-added , and encouraged ; from which advantage shall we cut him off if at philippi we
sir john , sir john , do not yourself wrong .
, the sole drift of my purpose doth extend not a frown further .
soft , son !
i ' ll once more feast the rascals .
richard be restored to his blood .
belike , for joy the emperor hath a son .
his ascension is more sweet than our blest fields .
i prais ' d her as i rated her .
hath not my gait in it the measure of the court ?
come , atropos , i say !
then give me leave ; for losers will have leave to ease their stomachs with their bitter tongues .
appear in every thing may bring my ruin !
exit ulysses ajax .
and as he errs , doting on hermia ' s eyes , so i , admiring of his qualities .
you all speak plainly your opinions of our hopes- and first , lord marshal , what say you to it
sound alarum troilus .
that of common sons .
where ' s our general ?
shadow .
how much unlook ' d for is this expedition !
i thank thee , most imperious agamemnon .
i charge thee , satan , hous ' d within this man , to yield possession to my holy prayers
come , let ' s away .
i do beg your good will in this case .
will thou go ?
tell .
your vassal , am something nearer .
proud of employment , willingly i go .
burning night , when subtle greeks surpris ' d king priam ' s troy .
he hath indeed better bett ' red expectation than you must expect of me to tell you how .
away before ever he saw those pancackes or that mustard .
putting all affairs else in oblivion , as if there were nothing else to be done but to see him
what ' s the news ?
' thou art sworn , eros , that , when the exigent should come- which now is come indeed- when
by him that made me , i ' ll maintain my words on any plot of ground in christendom .
then feed and be fat , my fair calipolis .
' tis a knavish piece of work ; but what o ' that ?
txt serving-man .
nay , but how dearly he adores mark antony !
come , he hath hid himself among these trees to be consorted with the humorous night .
bolder , though not so subtle .
a breakfast , nor befitting this first meeting .
or fruitful object be in eye of imogen , that best could deem his dignity ?
if the balance of our lives had not one scale of reason to poise another of sensuality , the blood
and i am your rosalind .
lysander , keep thy hermia ; i will none .
txt lord hastings was , for her delivery ?
bear me company and go with me ; if not , to hide what i have said to thee ,
most noble timon , call the man before thee .
my lord bassanio gave his ring away unto the judge that begg ' d it , and indeed deserv '
if he have power , then vail your ignorance ; if none , awake your dangerous lenity .
nay , be brief ; i see into thy end , and am almost a man already .
she makes it strange ; but she would be best pleas ' d to be so ang ' red with
stafford .
o brave touch !
sore hurt and bruis ' d .
though cassio did some little wrong to him , as men in rage strike those that wish them best ,
is he come home yet ?
neither good nor harm ; but he seeks their hate with greater devotion than they can render it him ,
of her strong displeasure .
o , now you look like hubert !
your advocate .
wrong , come not near our fairy queen .
my foolish rival , that her father likes only for his possessions are so huge , is gone with her
consent , and for thy honour give consent , thy daughter shall be wedded to my king , whom i
prevent it , resist it , let it not be so , lest child , child ' s children ,
exit [cornwall , led by regan] .
sink rome , and their tongues rot that speak against us !
you taught me language , and my profit on ' t is , i know how to curse .
and for a minister of my intent i have seduc ' d a headstrong kentishman , john cade of ashford
this is the pit and this the elder-tree .
exeunt act v .
the heir of alencon , katharine her name .
have i not all their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the next month , and
cease to lament for that thou canst not help , and study help for that which thou lament ' st
to feed my humour , wish thyself no harm .
when your lordship sees the bottom of his success in ' t , and to what metal this counterfeit lump
egypt .
one calls within , ' juliet .
the rabble call him lord ; and , as the world were now but to begin , antiquity forgot ,
or shall i say her uncle ?
we ' ll all assist you ; he that flies shall die .
the welcome ever smiles , and farewell goes out sighing .
the latter end of a sea-coal fire .
what says this leaden casket ?
i fear it much ; and i do fear besides that i shall lose distinction in my joys ; as
mistress ford , your sorrow hath eaten up my sufferance .
what , pray you , became of antigonus , that carried hence the child ?
the times , and spend his prodigal wits in bootless rhymes , and shape his service wholly to my hests
as a vessel of thy law ' s fury ; and shall , at the least of thy sweet notice
stay , slave ; i must employ thee .
exit [with carrier] .
let me be your servant ; though i look old , yet i am strong and lusty ; for in
dukedom of lancaster .
alack , no remedy !
only , good master , while we do admire this virtue and this moral discipline , let ' s be
observe her ; stand close .
well , go to , i will .
, i fear we should have seen decipher ' d there more rancorous spite , more furious raging broils ,
time .
, prodigious , patch ' d with foul moles and eye-offending marks , i would not care , i then
cause o ' th ' king unhandled , and is posted , as the agent of our cardinal , to
thou stick ' st a dagger in me- i shall never see my gold again .
you are in the right .
malcolm the worthy thane of ross .
it will be light , my lord , that you may bear it under a cloak that is of any
you do not !
no ; that it is too little .
your promise .
for when his headstrong riot hath no curb , when rage and hot blood are his counsellors when means and
stand forth , dame eleanor cobham , gloucester ' s wife : in sight of god and us , your
but what shall i gain by young arthur ' s fall ?
marry , this well carried shall on her behalf change slander to remorse .
wrong have chose as umpire of their mutiny .
they fight and peter strikes him down] horner .
as , deathsmen , you have rid this sweet young prince !
give her the right you should have giv ' n her cousin , and so dies my revenge .
yes ; i do think that you might pardon him .
beyond the infinite and boundless reach of mercy , if thou didst this deed of death , art thou damn
pray , speak what has happen ' d .
he did ; myself did hear it .
; if any power pities wretched tears , to that i call !
woman , i should your lordship .
and , to be short , for not appearance and the king ' s late scruple , by the main
my lord of cambridge here- you know how apt our love was to accord to furnish him with an appertinents
note how she quotes the leaves .
[aside to gardiner] give me your hand : much joy and favour to you ; you are the king '
me was i bold , to trust those tables that receive thee more : to keep an adjunct to remember
to bed , to bed ; there ' s knocking at the gate .
; and now am i , unhappy messenger , to plead for that which i would not obtain , to
whither so late ?
at flow .
urge me no more , i shall forget myself ; have mind upon your health , tempt me no farther
being thus benetted round with villanies , or i could make a prologue to my brains , they had begun
farewell , thou latter spring !
i ' ll give thee , friend , an armour all of gold ; it was a king ' s
then whither goest ?
i will discharge upon her , sir john , with two bullets .
was ever gentleman thus griev ' d as i ?
i ' th ' cause against your city , in part for his sake mov ' d .
and hay-stacks in the night , and bid the owners quench them with their tears .
come , montague ; for thou art early up to see thy son and heir more early down .
carbonado ' d .
marry , sir , thus : those precepts cannot be served ; and , again , sir- shall we sow
all ' s one .
i am very glad to see you .
say ' a day ' without the ' ever .
the wars their bulwark , that have before gored the gentle bosom of peace with pillage and robbery .
this dagger hath mista ' en , for , lo , his house is empty on the back of montague
for the queen , i ' ll take her to my guard .
a hill stood smiling to behold his lion ' s whelp forage in blood of french nobility .
i ' ll save you that labour , sir .
fare thee well .
was not that cassio parted from my wife ?
sweet proteus , no ; now let us take our leave .
now by my seat ' s right royal majesty , wert thou not brother to great edward ' s son
they are coming from the field .
i hope i shall know your honour better .
we to ourselves prove false , by being once false for ever to be true to those that make us
but heaven in thy creation did decree , that in thy face sweet love should ever dwell , whate '
thanks , noble titus , father of my life .
any good part to intermingle with them .
a stoup of wine .
fly , health shall live free , and sickness freely die .
you take from me a great part of myself ; use me well in ' t .
woe is my heart that the poor soldier that so richly fought , whose rags sham ' d gilded arms
symbols of redeemed sin , his soul is so enfetter ' d to her love , that she may make
frenchmen .
after that things are set in order here , we ' ll follow them with all the power we have
strike now , or else the iron cools .
a street enter mistress page , mistress quickly , and william mrs .
your worship says very true .
why , of mankind .
give me your hand , and let me feel your pulse .
well then , legitimate edgar , i must have your land .
carried to colmekill , the sacred storehouse of his predecessors and guardian of their bones .
so from thy soul ' s love didst thou love her brothers , and from my heart ' s love
give me a torch .
[exit rugby] an honest , willing , kind fellow , as ever servant shall come in house withal ; and
i would have him nine years akilling .
make against me , of this direful murther ; and here i stand , both to impeach and purge myself
if thou wert the lion , the fox would beguile thee ; if thou wert the lamb , the fox
remember , lords , your oaths to henry sworn , either to quell the dauphin utterly , or bring him
you must not put another scandal on him , that he is open to incontinency .
, master brook , there was the rankest compound of villainous smell that ever offended nostril .
whose do you think it was ?
but , that my lady beatrice should know me , and not know me !
come , cousin silence .
dote .
was uprear ' d to execution .
and , i think , if my breast had not been made of faith , and my heart of steel
to what issue wail this come ?
being that i flow in grief , the smallest twine may lead me .
you as much as the full moon doth the cinders of the element , which show like pins ' heads
get thee a good husband and use him as he uses thee .
lands thou hast lie in a pitch ' d field .
txt all europe .
heart means no ill .
ask god for temp ' rance ; that ' s th ' appliance only which your disease requires .
we are wise girls to mock our lovers so .
and be assur ' d you ' ll find a difference , as we his subjects have in wonder found
whence at first she weigh ' d her anchorage , cometh andronicus , bound with laurel boughs , to re-salute
there be many caesars ere such another julius .
they have overborne their continents .
let ' s call more help to have them bound again .
for my own part , i must needs confess i have received some small kindnesses from him , as money
why droops my lord , like over-ripen ' d corn hanging the head at ceres ' plenteous load ?
wipe thou thine eyes ; have comfort .
the skies are painted with unnumber ' d sparks ; they are all fire and every one doth shine ;
what is ' t that you took up so gingerly ?
, and others gonzalo .
if he will touch the estimate .
why , what a brood of traitors have we here !
say you can swim ; alas , ' tis but a while !
the general is content to spare thee yet ; and , hoodwink ' d as thou art , will lead
he has no children .
shall a few sprays of us , the emptying of our fathers ' luxury , our scions , put in
[the king takes his seat and whispers lovell , who goes to the cardinal] wolsey .
save his majesty !
; if that be true , i shall see my boy again ; for since the birth of cain ,
titus kills him .
[aside] if they have overheard me now- why , hanging .
holy seems the quarrel upon your grace ' s part ; black and fearful on the opposer .
please you , farther .
it is a creature that i teach to fight , to wind , to stop , to run directly on
posthorse up to heaven .
it is but so so .
you mistake my love ; i gave it freely ever ; and there ' s none can truly say he
; how far i have proceeded , or how far further shall , is warranted by a commission from the
within a ken our army lies- upon mine honour , all too confident to give admittance to a thought of
marcius coming home ?
we are the empress ' sons .
father , be quiet ; he shall stay my leisure .
of motion , this commodity , makes it take head from all indifferency , from all direction , purpose ,
doth this become your place , your time , and business ?
this is the very ecstasy of love , whose violent property fordoes itself and leads the will to desperate undertakings
' quoth i ' what , man , be o ' good cheer .
or wilt thou sleep ?
dost thou hear , balthasar ?
well , i say troilus is troilus .
my lord , i must confess i know this woman ; and five years since there was some speech of
my heart is ready to crack with impatience .
; if not , your pardon and my return page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
most like i did , for i was dead .
i ' ll kiss thy foot ; i ' ll swear myself thy subject .
i do affect the very ground , which is base , where her shoe , which is baser , guided
yea , bloody cloth , i ' ll keep thee ; for i wish ' d thou shouldst be colour
i love not to see wretchedness o ' er-charged , and duty in his service perishing .
before i be convict by course of law , to threaten me with death is most unlawful .
[he beats biondello] biondello .
o , very well ; i have perus ' d the note .
enter lady macbeth , reading a letter .
if you will live , lament ; if die , be brief , that our swift-winged souls may catch the
great mark antony is now a widower .
i tell thee , fellow , he that doth naught with her , excepting one , were best to do
from time to time i have acquainted you with the dear love i bear to fair anne page ; who
a gentler judgment vanish ' d from his lips- not body ' s death , but body ' s banishment
he is , my lord , an hour ago .
ergo , thou liest .
their crests and like deceitful jades sink in the trial .
his wind with fear and horrid flight .
txt antony .
' a calls me e ' en now , my lord , through a red lattice , and i could
we shall proceed with angelo .
being so far provok ' d as i was in france , i would abate her nothing , though i
no abuse , hal ; none , ned , none ; no , faith , boys , none .
master lorenzo !
it serves you well , my lord , to say so much .
master , for my hand , both our inventions meet and jump in one .
i call thee by the most modest terms , for i am one of those gentle ones that will use
now mercury endue thee with leasing , for thou speak ' st well of fools !
o strange !
this man hath had good counsel !
have you chose this man ?
" the rump-fed ronyon cries .
how now , good lady !
my niece is already in the belief that he ' s mad .
i would have , as one should say , one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed ,
what news abroad ?
o , pardon , sir , it doth , and yongrey lines that fret the clouds are messengers of day
forget page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exit doctor .
re-enter the .
believe it , for you know it .
this is thy office .
throw thy glove , or any token of thine honour else , that thou wilt use the wars as thy
i embrace these conditions ; let us have articles betwixt us .
com ' st thou again for ransom ?
make that good .
accursed be that tongue that tells me so , for it hath cow ' d my better part of man
woo ' d the slimy bottom of the deep and mock ' d the dead bones that lay scatt '
good my lords , be friends .
he nam ' d sebastian .
about your neck , like an usurer ' s chain ?
to me , and to the state of my great grief , let kings assemble ; for my grief '
if you love her , you cannot see her .
there is not a white hair in your face but should have his effect of gravity .
remembrance of such places , and goes to them by his note .
he saw me , and yielded ; that i may justly say with the hook-nos ' d fellow of rome-i
' as ' twere i ' th ' father ' s person ; kisses the hands of your fresh princess
he that depends upon your favours swims with fins of lead , and hews down oaks with rushes .
redress and not as our confusion , all thy powers shall make their harbour in our town till we have
a slave .
' tis mine ; and this will witness outwardly , as strongly as the conscience does within , to th
him will make him say i mov ' d him to those arms .
the worser that you give me the addition whose want even kills me .
is all thy comfort shut in gloucester ' s tomb ?
quick , quick , good hands .
now will i lead you to the house , and show you the lass i spoke of .
ah , would the scandal vanish with my life , how happy then were my ensuing death !
see them delivered over to execution and the hand of death .
who shall i command , sir ?
i warrant you , sir ; let me alone .
now i feed myself with most delicious poison .
or i apt , and my saying pretty ?
enter parolles bertram .
not black in my mind , though yellow in my legs .
night and silence- who is here ?
come on , panthino ; you shall be employ ' d to hasten on his expedition .
well , i will proclaim myself what i am ; i will now take the lecher ; he is at
go with me to my house , and hear thou there how many fruitless pranks this ruffian hath botch '
where ' s my cousin cressid ?
in thee fair and admir ' d .
better witness back than words , which we , on like conditions , will have counter-seal ' d .
what means your lordship ?
fulfill ' d .
my jerkin is a doublet .
txt enter another gentleman here comes a gentleman that happily knows more .
i ey ' d them even to their ships .
what thou seest when thou dost wake , do it for thy true-love take ; love and languish for his
down with the capulets !
we cannot live on grass , on berries , water , as beasts and birds and fishes .
wisdom ?
which else would post until it had return ' d these terms of treason doubled down his throat .
- what do you read , my lord ?
and not the worst of the three but jumps twelve foot and a half by th ' squier .
the deck , with glove , or hat , or handkerchief , still waving , as the fits and stirs
just as high as my heart .
go hang yourself , you naughty mocking uncle .
take therefore shipping ; post , my lord , to france ; agree to any covenants ; and procure that
enter norfolk norfolk .
masters all , be quiet ; put up your swords .
when we were chosen tribunes for the people- brutus .
marry , well bethought !
or keep it as a cistern for foul toads to knot and gender in !
you said so much before , and yet you fled .
do not talk of him but as a property .
come , get you down stairs .
they ne ' er car ' d for us yet .
to shame the guise o ' th ' world , i will begin the fashion- less without and more within
the deed .
i would these dewy tears were from the ground .
in my stars i am above thee ; but be not afraid of greatness .
i frown upon him , yet he loves me still .
o this learning , what a thing it is !
in what chapter of his bosom ?
there have been , or i am much deceiv ' d , cuckolds ere now ; and many a man
no , truly .
let us entreat you stay till after dinner .
a pack of blessings light upon thy back ; happiness courts thee in her best array ; but , like
his speech sticks in my heart .
sir , my circumstances , being so near the truth as i will make them , must first induce you
god ' s benison go with you and with those that would make good of bad and friends of foes
my language ?
o , what a noble combat hast thou fought between compulsion and a brave respect !
thee of , and pays it thee again , he lends thee virtue , and he stole that word ,
bright star of venus , fall ' n down on the earth , how may i reverently worship thee enough
with courtesy and with respect enough , but not with such familiar instances , nor with such free and friendly
nay , gentle romeo , we must have you dance .
i am not a day of season , for thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail in me at
he calls us back .
the bitterness of absence sour , when you have bid your servant once adieu .
i thought the king had more affected the duke of albany than cornwall .
here is neither cheer , sir , nor welcome ; we would fain have either .
now he weighs time even to the utmost grain ; that you shall read in your own losses , if
' od ' s my little life , i think she means to tangle my eyes too !
might so have rated my expense as i had leave of means .
txt one door ; and a father that hath kill ' d his son , at another door son .
lay hands on the villain ; i believe ' a means to cozen somebody in this city under my countenance
ay , marry , sir , now it begins to work .
, for since each hand hath put on nature ' s power , fairing the foul with art ' s
marcellus ?
the remembrance of her father never approaches her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all livelihood from her
no , wench ; it eats and sleeps and hath such senses as we have , such .
for where is she so fair whose uneared womb disdains the tillage of thy husbandry ?
the bastard , his half-brother james gurney , servant to lady faulconbridge peter of pomfret , a prophet king philip
your guest , then , madam : to be your prisoner should import offending ; which is for me less
and yet run ' st toward him still .
the holy maid with child !
these two antipholus ' , these two so like , and these two dromios , one in semblance- besides her
come , give me that .
come , follow us ; we are to speak in public ; for this business will raise us all .
txt and i myself secure in grace and favour .
how was this seal ' d ?
[to ferdinand and miranda] give me your hands .
i take ' t ' tis later , sir .
enter the ghosts of rivers , grey , and vaughan ghost of rivers .
what , i , my lord ?
a pleasing cordial , princely buckingham , is this thy vow unto my sickly heart .
please you , i ' ll tell you as we pass along , that you will wonder what hath fortuned
marriage , so it please my lord .
in scorn , ' i would be consul , ' says he ; ' aged custom but by your voices
, ye bloody homicides ; murder not then the fruit within my womb , although ye hale me to a
' and , by my holidam , the pretty wretch left crying , and said ' ay .
bring with them .
the kinder we , to give them thanks for nothing .
god witness with me , i have wept for thine .
with adorations , fertile tears , with groans that thunder love , with sighs of fire .
txt grossness .
writ down in our duty to let you know of it .
sir , the maid loves you , and all shall be well .
txt for any suit of pounds ; and you , o fate !
fetch him off , i pray you ; he speaks nothing but madman .
you shall have the drum struck up this afternoon ; ' tis as it were parcel of their feast ,
why did he so ?
why , i say nothing .
well , shepherd , well , this is a letter of your own device .
as he is striking , holds his infant up , and hangs resolv ' d correction in the arm that
o , ' tis foul in her .
i conjure thee , by all the parts of man which honour does acknowledge , whereof the least is not
i ' ll swear for ' em .
o , true , good catesby .
with amber bracelets , beads , and all this knav ' ry .
eastward hill .
, and twenty pounds of money , which must be paid to master brook ; his horses are arrested for
full oft ' tis seen our means secure us , and our mere defects prove our commodities .
enter the guard cranmer .
madam , i ' ll take my leave .
white investments figure innocence , the dove , and very blessed spirit of peace- wherefore you do so ill translate
i have heard of the lady , and good words went with her name .
this lord go to him !
the dauphin is preparing hitherward , where god he knows how we shall answer him ; for in a night
would throw them off and say you found them in mine honesty .
blue , my lord .
is this your perfectness ?
- beloved regan , thy sister ' s naught .
txt that kitchen ' d me for you to-day at dinner ; she now shall be my sister , not
peep through thy marble mansion .
come , you spirits that tend on mortal thoughts , unsex me here and fill me from the crown to
a street enter speed and launce severally speed .
been our innocent self ?
but why did he swear he would come this morning , and comes not ?
an i have not forgotten what the inside of a church is made of , i am a peppercorn ,
how canst thou make me satisfaction ?
nay , take away this scolding crookback rather .
god save you , madam !
sharp stakes pluck ' d out of hedges they pitched in the ground confusedly to keep the horsemen off from
so it must fall out to him or our authorities .
no ; this is diomed ' s cressida .
but , sirs , be sudden in the execution , withal obdurate , do not hear him plead ; for
i am thinking , brother , of a prediction i read this other day , what should follow these eclipses
a good note ; that keeps you from the blow of the law .
friendship .
the bridegroom he is come already : make haste , i say .
o thou that dost inhabit in my breast , leave not the mansion so long tenantless , lest , growing
i remember one said there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury , nor no matter
i am a poor fellow , sir .
terrible hell make war upon their spotted souls for this offence !
i hope so , sir ; for i have about me many parcels of charge .
' d destruction .
show me a villain that hath done a rape , and i am sent to be reveng ' d on
o .
it is as lawful , for we would give much , to use violent thefts and rob in the behalf
hurt and mischief ; thereto witness may my surname , coriolanus .
happy earth thy hell fill ' d it with cursing cries and deep exclaims .
enter prologue .
i told your majesty as much before .
one day too late , i fear me , noble lord , hath clouded all thy happy days on earth
i think the sun where he was born drew all such humors from him .
whither wander you ?
' d , let my tongue blister , and never to my red-look ' d anger be the trumpet any
tell him , catesby , his ancient knot of dangerous adversaries to-morrow are let blood at pomfret castle ; and
sing , boy ; my spirit grows heavy in love .
whose wraths to guard you from- which here , in this most desolate isle , else falls upon your heads-is
i do think i saw ' t this morning ; confident i am last night ' twas on mine arm
madam , i come to whet your gentle thoughts on his behalf .
dead , sir .
up , sir , go with me .
the wills above be done , but i would fain die dry death .
an earthly tongue .
and held in idle price to haunt assemblies where youth , and cost , a witless bravery keeps .
your face , my thane , is as a book where men may read strange matters .
then make your garden rich in gillyvors , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you have seen cruel proof of this man ' s strength ; if you saw yourself with your eyes ,
fear boys with bugs .
and caesar shall go forth .
and was he not in england prisoner ?
you are too swift , sir , to say so : is that lead slow which is fir ' d
i gave him no order ; i gave him the stuff .
o , would you had had her !
and we will live to see their day and them our fortune give .
him as a dish fit for the gods , not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds ; and
this is some priory .
i do not see them bleed .
and when i am king- as king i will be all .
be my sword , my arms torn and defac ' d , and i proclaim ' d a coward through
to know straight our purpose : choughs ' language , gabble enough , and good enough .
i pray now , keep below .
those that are in extremity of either are abominable fellows , and betray themselves to every modern censure worse than
i will take your counsel .
that i neither feel how she should be loved , nor know how she should be worthy , is the
but , my good lord , i wot not by what power- but by some power it is- my love
please you to hear cominius speak ?
on her feet , died every day she lived .
tell him you are sure all in bohemia ' s well- this satisfaction the by-gone day proclaim ' d .
he is sure possess ' d , madam .
sir , i must have that diamond from you .
, acquaintance , custom , and condition , made tame and most familiar to my nature ; and here ,
here , here will i remain with worms that are thy chambermaids .
artemidorus .
all these ; and at all these wards i lie at , at a thousand watches .
alive .
he is a good sprag memory .
txt dog .
is he at home ?
txt so great a charge from thine own custody ?
red by .
what danger or what sorrow can befall thee , so long as edward is thy constant friend and their true
to medicine a healthful state which rank of goodness would by ill be cured .
not cherish ' d by our virtues .
gentleman , especially against his very friend .
methinks he hath no drowning mark upon him ; his complexion is perfect gallows .
to prove him tyrant this reason may suffice , that henry liveth still ; but were he dead , yet
o worthy goth , this is the incarnate devil that robb ' d andronicus of his good hand ; this
i hope better .
go , one of you , find out the forester ; for now our observation is perform ' d ,
, which ever and anon he gave his nose , and took ' t away again ; who therewith angry
; i have kept of them tame , and know their natures .
and do but see his vice ; ' tis to his virtue a just equinox , the one as long
like true subjects , sons of your progenitors , go cheerfully together and digest your angry choler on your enemies
to fear the foe , since fear oppresseth strength , gives , in your weakness , strength unto your foe
' i fear me , lords , for all this flattering gloss , he will be found a dangerous protector
fair philomel , why she but lost her tongue , and in a tedious sampler sew ' d her mind
of that i shall have also cause to speak , and from his mouth whose voice will draw on more
our meeting is bridgenorth ; and , harry , you shall march through gloucestershire ; by which account , our
shall be mistress , and command him wholly .
will hardly speed .
what is thisby ?
he took me by the wrist and held me hard ; then goes he to the length of all his
if timon stay at home .
allow ' d by order of law a furr ' d gown to keep him warm ; and furr '
so , my good window of lattice , fare thee well ; thy casement i need not open , for
prove a villain and hate the idle pleasures of these days .
it is ; and lo where youthful edward comes .
my foot and spurn upon thee , beggar , for thy boldness .
him that does me this wrong .
thus has he , and many more of the same bevy that i know the drossy age dotes on ,
heard you of nothing strange about the streets ?
i pray you , sirs , lie in my tent and sleep ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
tis predominant ; and ' tis pow ' rfull , think it , from east , west , north ,
what were i best to say ?
is ' t not a brave man ?
come , to the port .
though in some part enforced to digress , which at more leisure i will so excuse as you shall well
look not to the ground , ye favourites of a king ; are we not high ?
enter pandulph king philip .
are ye so hot , sir ?
o jupiter , how weary are my spirits !
what , with a torch ?
faint .
war ; but at his nurse ' s tears he whin ' d and roar ' d away your victory
are not these woods more free from peril than the envious court ?
though there the people had more absolute pow ' r- i say they nourish ' d disobedience , fed the
the torture .
for well i wot the empress never wags but in her company there is a moor ; and , would
what players are they ?
what will hap more to-night , safe scape the king !
] alas , poor yorick !
the emperor brings the arrows in his hand that titus shot at him saturninus .
there is my bond of faith , to tie thee to my strong correction .
she ariseth] queen margaret .
now ' tis true , i must be here confin ' d by you , or sent to naples .
i would you had never seen him !
there ' s little can be said in ' t ; ' tis against the rule of nature .
come , come , you talk .
of all the days i ' th ' year , i came to ' t that day that our last
faces like mummers , set up the bloody flag against all patience , and , in roaring for a chamber-pot
crown with her ; and all the priests and friars in my realm shall in procession sing her endless praise
men must not walk too late .
yoke of sovereignty , which fondly you would here impose on me ; if to reprove you for this suit
peace , you rogue , no more o ' that .
where ' s poins , hal ?
go to ; let that be mine .
[aside] i ' ll win this lady margaret .
the grosser manner of these world ' s delights he throws upon the gross world ' s baser slaves ;
where run ' st thou so fast ?
king of england isabel , queen of france katherine , daughter to charles and isabel alice , a lady attending
welcome , brave warwick !
never afflict yourself to know the cause ; but let his disposition have that scope that dotage gives it .
know that it was he in the times past which held you so under fortune , which you thought had
nay , an you begin to rail on society once , i am sworn not to give regard to you
humble weed ; how in his suit he scorn ' d you ; but your loves , thinking upon his
a course more promising than a wild dedication of yourselves to unpath ' d waters , undream ' d shores
his peremptory ' shall , ' being but the horn and noise o ' th ' monster ' s ,
, or else we damn thee .
be granted .
o , i am spoil ' d , undone by villains !
tell me thine first .
yet i should kill thee with much cherishing .
but to prevent the tyrant ' s violence- for trust not him that hath once broken faith- i ' ll
gentlemen , content ye ; i am resolv ' d .
' my daughter !
at this time he will allow no speech- which i do guess you do not purpose to him- and as
beseech you , sir , were you present at this relation ?
exeunt costard and jaquenetta nathaniel .
whence camest thou , worthy thane ?
go , gratiano , run and overtake him ; give him the ring , and bring him , if thou
so much for this , sir ; now shall you see the other .
when did you lose your daughter ?
what is granted them ?
i exchang ' d and ransomed .
if not of hell , the heavens , sure , favour him alencon .
pardon , caesar !
, he could wish himself in thames up to the neck ; and so i would he were , and
becoming of their woe , that every tongue says beauty should look so .
she bears a duke ' s revenues on her back , and in her heart she scorns our poverty ;
with you ; and , which became him like a prince indeed , he made a blushing cital of himself
he ' s too big to go in there .
he eats nothing but doves , love ; and that breeds hot blood , and hot blood begets hot thoughts
what ring gave you , my lord ?
' tis here !
enter polonius , rosencrantz , and guildenstern .
madam , your penance done , throw off this sheet , and go we to attire you for our journey
is jack cade slain ?
and , in faith , my lord , i spoke mine .
let vultures vile seize on his lungs also !
stay and her displeasure fly ; she that in wisdom never was so frail to change the cod ' s
dat it is not be de fashion pour le ladies of france- i cannot tell vat is baiser en anglish
sweet , sweet , sweet nurse , tell me , what says my love ?
ay ; is ' t not strange ?
o knight , thou lack ' st a cup of canary !
you must contrary me !
] enter sheriff and the carrier .
that drug-damn ' d italy hath out-craftied him , and he ' s at some hard point .
the gates of mercy shall be all shut up , and the flesh ' d soldier , rough and hard
i am glad thy father ' s dead .
that song tonight will not go from my mind ; i have much to do but to go hang my
all this wrong , hir ' d to it by your brother .
[exit gentleman] what can be their business with me , a poor weak woman , fall ' n from favour
i ' ll call upon you ere you go to bed and tell you what i know .
forsooth , five years , and as much as topage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o , no , you shall not go .
sir , i hope my words disbench ' d you not .
e ' en at hand , alighted by this ; and therefore be not- cock ' s passion , silence
welcome , good clarence ; this is brother-like .
and is it i that drive thee from the sportive court , where thou wast shot at with fair eyes
give me life ; which if i can save , so ; if not , honour comes unlook ' d
the emperess , the midwife , and yourself .
we must to france together ; why the devil should we keep knives to cut one another ' s throats
the which no warrant can defend me .
, if praises may go back again , stood challenger on mount of all the age for her perfections .
eve ' s flesh as any in illyria .
how many things by season season ' d are to their right praise and true perfection !
but , come ; our dance , i pray .
most radiant , exquisite , and unmatchable beauty- i pray you tell me if this be the lady of the
and fear not , lords- and you , lavinia .
not slake mine ire nor ease my heart .
why , what of that ?
rugby , come to the court with me .
ay , that it shall , i ' faith .
drowsy spirits .
a veil over her face ; also young lucius , and others titus .
txt and suffer ' d my command .
nay , it is possible enough to judgement .
or like a whale .
some must sleep : thus runs the world away .
now , by this maiden blossom in my hand , i scorn thee and thy fashion , peevish boy .
if i have lost it , i should have lost the worth of it in gold .
which their investments show , but mere implorators of unholy suits , breathing like sanctified and pious bawds , the
what hath it done that it in golden letters should be set among the high tides in the calendar ?
how is it with you , my most fair bianca ?
still dwell in his musings ; but i am afraid his thinkings are below the moon , not worth his
ay , now am i in arden ; the more fool i ; when i was at home i was
for duty , and for loyalty .
alas , my lord , how can she be with him ?
why then , i will .
didst thou ?
] that , trusted home , might yet enkindle you unto the crown , besides the thane of cawdor .
he sends you not to murder me for this , for in that sin he is as deep as i
thy dinner .
do bravely , horse ; for wot ' st thou whom thou mov ' st ?
the commons , like an angry hive of bees that want their leader , scatter up and down and care
a fico for the phrase !
no perfection in reversion shall have a praise in present .
owl or fatal raven .
be pleased then to pay that duty which you truly owe to him that owes it , namely , this
and greater far than my weak-hearted enemies dare offer .
o , reform it altogether !
now unto thy bones good night !
a vice , and to defend ourselves it be a sin when violence assails us .
d best man i ' th ' field , and for his meed was brow-bound with the oak .
come , sister , you shall be the priest , and marry us .
now , eros .
of roses were thinly scattered , to make up a show .
methought their souls whose bodies richard murder ' d came to my tent and cried on victory .
why wither not the leaves that want their sap ?
let them play .
by accident i had a feigned letter of my master ' s then in my pocket , which directed him
he ' s as tall a man as any ' s in illyria .
for god ' s sake , let him have them ; to keep them here , they would but stink
most tall .
how say you to that , malvolio ?
faith , we hear fearful news .
glend .
farewell , cicero .
truths would be tales , where now half tales be truths .
, and executing th ' outward face of royalty with all prerogative .
be in love , may sigh it off .
' till i have no wife , i have nothing in france .
i am weary of you .
why , i was writing of my epitaph ; it will be seen to-morrow .
of my redemption thence and portance in my travels ' history ; wherein of antres vast and deserts idle ,
but , to the rest .
' tis late .
, take it before .
pray you look not sad , nor make replies of loathness ; take the hint which my despair proclaims .
; our sufferance is a gain to them .
me till each circumstance of place , time , fortune , do cohere and jump that i am viola ;
the clouds methought would open and show riches ready to drop upon me , that , when i wak '
too much , would make much more , and top extremity .
you will , chops ?
i would not have my right rosalind of this mind ; for , i protest , her frown might kill
alack , for lesser knowledge !
' brief sounds determine of my weal or woe .
god b ' wi ' ye , fare ye well !
' at this .
home again discarded faith .
mowbray .
the duke ' s palace enter proteus proteus .
shall not regreet our fair dominions , but tread the stranger paths of banishment .
, away with her to the deanery , and dispatch it quickly .
d than spotted livers in the sacrifice .
i pray you , uncle , give me this dagger .
not for it .
, but found their courage worthy his frowning at .
angelo .
now , by the world- queen elizabeth .
if we can do this , cupid is no longer an archer ; his glory shall be ours , for
twenty crowns ?
head .
the view , gored mine own thoughts , sold cheap what is most dear , made old offences of affections
quaint in green she shall be loose enrob ' d , with ribands pendent , flaring ' bout her head
o , an the heavens were so pleased that thou wert but my bastard , what a joyful father wouldst
this day i breathed first : time is come round , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he is to disputable for my company .
a maid , or plot the way to do it ; accuse some innocent , and forswear myself ; set
[aside] marry , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i am bound to thee forever .
, and i remain a pinch ' d thing ; yea , a very trick for them to play at
do catch .
go , tell the count rousillon and my brother we have caught the woodcock , and will keep him muffled
or here , or at the capitol .
she is stirring , sir .
that what you speak is in your conscience wash ' d as pure as sin with baptism .
everlasting leiger .
let it come down .
your cause !
mayor , farewell ; thou dost but what thou mayst .
but shall we make the welkin dance indeed ?
to make of monsters , and things indigest , such cherubins as your sweet self resemble , creating every bad
besides , our hands are hard .
on the french .
i ' ll bring him to you .
there ' s percy .
yet tell her of it .
little enough ; so every true man ' s apparel fits your thief .
but he ' s deceiv ' d ; we are in readiness .
i fear thou wilt once more come again for a ransom .
, and mounch ' d .
habit , more moving , delicate , and full of life , into the eye and prospect of his soul
o well-a-day , mistress ford , having an honest man to your husband , to give him such cause of
in my true complaint , and given me justice , justice , justice , justice .
come , give us a taste of your quality .
hang thee , young baggage !
should i go to church and see the holy edifice of stone , and not bethink me straight of dangerous
whoa-ho-hoa !
she will die ere she make her love known , and she will die , if he woo her ,
and to expound his beastly mind to us , he hath a court he little cares for , and a
enemies with me too .
stand , an you be a man .
let ' s see thy face .
now we are undone and brought to nothing .
that ' s insculp ' d upon .
for the benefit of silence , would thou wert so too !
and here is my speech .
our opinions she should be preferr ' d ; for what is wedlock forced but a hell , an age
most sure and vulgar .
so should i be a great deal of his act .
now i ' ll stand to it , the pancakes were naught and the mustard was good , and yet
my queen !
thus much the business is : we have here writ to norway , uncle of young fortinbras , who ,
first , that without the king ' s assent or knowledge you wrought to be a legate ; by which
tooth !
yonder , sir , he walks .
you cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers , that bear this heavy mutual load of moan , now cheer each other
but come thy ways , we ' ll go along together , and ere we have thy youthful wages spent
from their fixed beds of lime had been dishabited , and wide havoc made for bloody power to rush upon
[keeping some gold] enter alcibiades , with drum and fife , in warlike manner ; and phrynia and timandra alcibiades
thus , while the vulture of sedition feeds in the bosom of such great commanders , sleeping neglection doth betray
my certainty , put myself into my mortal preparation ; and by midnight look to hear further from me .
before the walls of athens trumpets sound .
mend upon the world .
in their own confines , with forked heads have their round haunches gor ' d .
' expectancy and rose of the fair state , the glass of fashion and the mould of form , th
come , good athenian .
as my father shall specifypage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
then crushing penury persuades me i was better when a king ; then am i king ' d again ;
nothing but inexplicable dumb shows and noise .
we must not only arm t ' invade the french , but lay down our proportions to defend against the
judge when you hear .
exit boy pandarus .
govern these ventages with your fingers and thumbs , give it breath with your mouth , and it will discourse
o isis !
sirrah , what ' s thy name ?
' come , lords , we trifle time away ; i long to have this young one made a christian
bear free and patient thoughts .
without the walls of florence page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[to belarius] thou art my brother ; so we ' ll hold thee ever .
why , this will do helen ' s heart good now , ha !
what , no attendance ?
to speak .
a fine woman !
now all the blessings of a glad father compass thee about !
fie , thou dishonest satan !
thou hast no faith left now , unless thou ' dst two , and that ' s far worse than
my lord , ' tis rated as those which sell would give ; but you well know things of like
be it my wrong you are from me exempt , but wrong not that wrong with a more contempt .
each side ; accompanied with sir thomas lovell , sir nicholas vaux , sir william sandys , and common people
another part of the forest enter silvius and phebe silvius .
is ' t a verdict ?
utter love .
to bring , uncle .
enter brutus and cassius , and a throng of citizens .
witless else her son .
y ' are much deceiv ' d .
' why , it carries it .
o , so light a foot will ne ' er wear out the everlasting flint .
unmannerly , to bring a slovenly unhandsome corse betwixt the wind and his nobility .
but with thanks to god for such a royal lady , spake one the least word that might be to
, but their children ' s end , naught could remove , is now the two hours ' traffic of
for charitable prayers , shards , flints , and pebbles should be thrown on her .
what ' s your metaphor ?
give you good morrow !
and living too ; for now his son is duke .
would chatter this way and contemn with mows the other ; nor i ' th ' judgment , for idiots
i think no usurer but has a fool to his servant .
a canopy borne by four of the cinque-ports ; under it the queen in her robe ; in her hair
what , is my richard both in shape and mind transform ' d and weak ' ned ?
i know , iago , thy honesty and love doth mince this matter , making it light to cassio .
either my eyesight fails , or thou look ' st pale .
howl , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and how do yours ?
in which , good friar , i shall desire your help .
when i said ' a mother , ' methought you saw a serpent .
a quarrel , ho , already !
let in the maid , that out a maid never departed more .
measure our weapon .
my soul shall thine keep company to heaven ; tarry , sweet soul , for mine , then fly abreast
, and two other lords boyet .
is bushy , green , and the earl of wiltshire dead ?
if cassio do remain , he hath a daily beauty in his life that makes me ugly ; and besides
i was enforc ' d to send it after him ; i was beset with shame and courtesy ; my
then to sea , boys , and let her go hang !
txt but i will tell you at some meeter season .
a hall in cymbeline ' s palace enter in state , cymbeline , queen , cloten , and lords at
it cannot be ; some villains of my court are of consent and sufferance in this .
all wide-stretched honours that pertain , by custom and the ordinance of times , unto the crown of france .
- undone , undone !
for myself , son , i purpose not to wait on fortune till these wars determine ; if i can
and in disgrace bespoke him thus : ' contaminated , base , and misbegotten blood i spill of thine ,
let it be so !
wolves and bears , they say , casting their savageness aside , have done like offices of pity .
and as for these , whose ransom we have set , it is our pleasure one of them depart ;
thou shalt not need .
you shall not know by what strange accident i chanced on this letter .
lo , here in one line is his name twice writ : ' poor forlorn proteus , passionate proteus ,
good , an god will !
let gallows gape for dog ; let man go free , and let not hemp his windpipe suffocate .
exit bottom .
[ within] mistress tearsheet !
exeunt , above , duchess and hume , guarded ; below , witch , southwell and bolingbroke , guarded york
if our betters play at that game , we must not dare to imitate them : faults that are rich
a plague on thee !
exchange me for a goat when i shall turn the business of my soul to such exsufflicate and blown surmises
that the contents will show .
i ' ll serve this duke : thou shalt present me as an eunuch to him ; it may be
i doubt whether their legs be worth the sums that are given for ' em .
are princes , barons , lords , knights , squires , and gentlemen of blood and quality .
if my lady have not call ' d up her steward malvolio , and bid him turn you out of
my lord , you know i love you .
d in his haste , half breathless , panting forth from goneril his mistress salutations ; deliver ' d letters
better state .
such unconstant starts are we like to have from him as this of kent ' s banishment .
away , away , corrupters of my faith !
juliet !
, the lustre of the better yet to show shall show the better , by showing the worst first .
thou shalt to prison .
your son ' s my father ' s friend ; he takes his part to draw upon an exile !
then let us take a ceremonious leave and loving farewell of our several friends .
how the ladies and i have put him down !
it is your music , madam , of the house .
every hymn that able spirit affords , in polished form of well refined pen .
and without any danger .
here comes one .
is more than need .
how can this be ?
when i am cold he heats me with beating ; when i am warm he cools me with beating .
be it so ; go back .
thou hast no more brain than i have in mine elbows ; an assinico may tutor thee .
from france to england .
much more , in this great work- which is almost to pluck a kingdom down and set another up- should
worse and worse ; she will not come !
you to my friend ; an you be not , hang , beg , starve , die in the streets
you must not know where he sups .
marry , not without the prince be willing ; for indeed the watch ought to offend no man , and
look , what will serve is fit .
- to knit their souls- on whom there is no more dependency but brats and beggary- in self-figur ' d
husband , i cannot pray that thou mayst win ; uncle , i needs must pray that thou mayst lose
what counsel give you ?
the world full fourteen weeks before the course of time .
our great competitor .
tell these sad women ' tis fond to wail inevitable strokes , as ' tis to laugh at ' em
drink some wine ere you go .
her worth that he does weigh too light .
; if thy speech be sooth , i care not if thou dost for me as much .
what say you to young master fenton ?
him encamp his soldiers where they are .
how fares your majesty ?
my boy a bastard !
dear general , i never gave you cause .
coragio , bully-monster , coragio !
then , venom , to thy work .
before calchas ' tent enter diomedes diomedes .
why , if it be so , i will marry her upon any reasonable demands .
there is a friend of mine come to town tells me there is three cozen-germans that has cozen ' d
who meets us here ?
give me your hand ; come you from old bellario ?
then we ' ll shift our ground .
the music plays .
hortensio , have you told him all her faults ?
now the witch take me if i meant it thus !
thanks to my lord .
it yet has felt no age nor known no sorrow .
, yet an arch-villain keeps him company .
outside the duke ' s palace , under silvia ' s window enter proteus proteus .
why , they will allow us ne ' er a jordan , and then we leak in your chimney ,
to epidamnum ; till my factor ' s death , and the great care of goods at random left ,
txt for you must know we have with special soul elected him our absence to supply ; lent him our
how was it ?
you ' ll not confess , you ' ll not confess .
_num_ or i shall live your epitaph to make , or you survive when i in earth am rotten ,
pardon me , gracious lord ; some sudden qualm hath struck me at the heart , and dimm ' d
to seek her on the mountains near to milford ; where , in a frenzy , in my master '
and think we think ourselves unsatisfied , till he hath found a time to pay us home .
stay , dog , for thou shalt hear me .
: the king already hath married the fair lady .
is ' t possible that on so little acquaintance you should like her ?
i heard myself proclaim ' d , and by the happy hollow of a tree escap ' d the hunt
westminster abbey dead march .
i must perforce .
their nurse , euriphile , whom for the theft i wedded , stole these children upon my banishment ; i
thou sleepest .
now jove afford you cause !
through the house give glimmering light , by the dead and drowsy fire ; every elf and fairy sprite hop
' praise her but for this her without-door form , which on my faith deserves high speech , and straight
exit cleopatra ' tis well th ' art gone , if it be well to live ; but better '
is this the man ?
ah , good old mantuan !
loyal to possession and left me in reputeless banishment , a fellow of no mark nor likelihood .
that , having this obtain ' d , you presently attend his further pleasure .
but most of all agreeing with the proclamation .
i will confess what i know without constraint ; if ye pinch me like a pasty , i can say
no contraries hold more antipathy than i and such a knave .
vice in her ears which horsehairs and calves ' guts , nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to boot ,
where is this viper that would depopulate the city and be every man himself ?
never did young man fancy with so eternal and so fix ' d a soul .
come away .
[to norfolk and suffolk] we are busy ; go .
-why are you drawn ?
; and for my wife i know not how it stands .
whiles we shut the gate upon one wooer , another knocks at the door .
it harrows me with fear and wonder .
o lord bless me , i pray god !
when on my three-foot stool i sit and tell the warlike feats i have done , his spirits fly out
wear it , enjoy it , and make much of it .
winter .
but in a few , signior hortensio , thus it stands with me : antonio , my father , is
peace , good tickle-brain .
first note that he is near you in descent , and should you fall he is the next will mount
prithee go in thyself ; seek thine own ease .
and their gross painting might be better used , where cheeks need blood , in thee it is abused .
did the fatal brand althaea burnt unto the prince ' s heart of calydon .
a platform before the castle .
rome , for whom we stand a special party , have by common voice in election for the roman empery
and wouldst thou have me cast my love on him ?
master , will you win your love with a french brawl ?
o , know ' st thou not his looks are my soul ' s food ?
so please you .
txt are with a most indissoluble tie forever knit .
my foes ?
and tell us what occasion of import hath all so long detain ' d you from your wife , and
what ill request did brutus make to thee ?
would i were dead , but that methinks already- what was he that did make it ?
go , go , my people .
and water never appear in him , but only in patient stillness while his rider mounts him ; he is
for his heart , and leave eighteen .
faith , he is gone unto the taming-school .
and his page a t ' other side , that handful of wit !
pray you tell him i am his fortune ' s vassal and i send him the greatness he has got
hit .
o my lord , my lord , forgive my fearful sails !
for it can never be they will digest this harsh indignity .
i have made you mad ; and even with such-like valour men hang and drown their proper selves .
we coursed him at the heels and had a purpose to be his purveyor ; but he rides well ,
once a day i ' ll visit the chapel where they lie ; and tears shed there shall be my
see many a fair french city for one fair french maid that stands in my way .
or if they sing , ' tis with so dull a cheer , that leaves look pale , dreading the
for i am never able to deal with my master , he hath learnt so much fence already .
i thank thee , good tubal .
thou art a soldier only .
his life i gave him , and did thereto ad my love without retention or restraint , all his in
why came not the slave back to me when i call ' d him ?
thou dost mean something .
the next time i do fight i ' ll make death love me ; for i will contend even with
enough to serve mine own turn .
' ' let him shun castles ; safer shall he be upon the sandy plains than where castles mounted stand
to call ' horum ' ; fie upon you !
this is my doing now : ' nay , ' said i ' will you cast away your child on
we three to hear it and end it between them .
froth .
or , if thou wilt not , be but sworn my love , and i ' ll no longer be
marry , were they .
give her no token but stones , for she ' s as hard as steel .
soldier ' s flask , is get afire by thine own ignorance , and thou dismemb ' red with thine
not scape censure , nor the redresses sleep , which , in the tender of a wholesome weal , might
couple it with something ; make it a word and a blow .
get me some poison , iago , this night .
the quotidian of love upon him .
how well my comfort is reviv ' d by this !
[offers kent his cap .
[to camillo] is it not too far gone ?
let me hear from you .
it were a tedious difficulty , i think , to bring them to that prospect .
truly the lady fathers herself .
do all men kill the things they do not love ?
think ye see the very persons of our noble story as they were living ; think you see them great
before page ' s house enter justice shallow , slender , and sir hugh evans shallow .
o cassio , whence came this ?
if it be prov ' d !
up and call itself your brother .
ay , if his enemy deliver it ; therefore it must with circumstance be spoken by one whom she esteemeth
let me clip ye in arms as sound as when i woo ' d , in heart as merry as
txt let him that was the cause of this have pow ' r to take off so much grief from
cressid comes forth to him .
he strives luciana .
lucius ' servant .
brother awak ' d an evil nature ; and my trust , like a good parent , did beget of
well , that fault may be mended with a breakfast .
i shall think the worse of fat men as long as i have an eye to make difference of men
man clerk of chatham mayor of saint albans saunder simpcox , an impostor alexander iden , a kentish gentleman jack
' i ' ll be sworn thou art ; thy tongue , thy face , thy limbs , actions ,
most memorable line , [gives a paper] in every branch truly demonstrative ; willing you overlook this pedigree .
dost thou know me ?
edward ' s seven sons , whereof thyself art one , were as seven vials of his sacred blood ,
my mother , you say- ros .
thou hast found mine ; but how , is to be question ' d ; for i saw her ,
i must away to-day before night come .
thee by jove ' s side .
no matter , sir , what i have heard or known .
no more be done .
we turn not back the silks upon the merchant when we have soil ' d them ; nor the remainder
d the soldiers ' pay ; by means whereof his highness hath lost france .
how one man eats into another ' s pride , while pride is fasting in his wantonness !
groans out for ha !
a breath , how quickly were it gone !
the use of tongue , a kind of excellent dumb discourse .
you keep a constant temper .
revenge is come to join with him , and work confusion on his enemies .
you see it lawful then .
he professes to have received no sinister measure from his judge , but most willingly humbles himself to the determination
who now the price of his dear blood doth owe ?
" " " " don adriano de armado , fantastical spaniard sir nathaniel , a curate holofernes , a schoolmaster
gone to be friends !
see , see , thou hast shot off one of taurus ' horns .
hamlet , hamlet !
he lets me feed with his hinds , bars me the place of a brother , and as much as
' d and lands restor ' d again be freely granted ; if not , i ' ll use the
will it be ever thus ?
' th ' winter .
mistress page and i will look some linen for your head .
[a short alarum] hark , countrymen !
that is true in love .
, i ' ll perform it to the last article .
their pricks at my footfall ; sometime am i all wound with adders , who with cloven tongues do hiss
rage ; but when his fair course is not hindered , he makes sweet music with th ' enamell '
be comforted .
[dies .
nail , finger .
thou shalt not bail them ; see thou follow me .
; therefore let ' s follow .
denied that honourable man !
welcome him , then , according to his worth- silvia , i speak to you , and you , sir
know , cade , we come ambassadors from the king unto the commons whom thou hast misled ; and here
had i as many mouths as hydra , such an answer would stop them all .
am i a lord and have i such a lady ?
o , such a day , so fought , so followed , and so fairly won , came not till
, even by thine own fair eyes , wherein i see myself- portia .
therefore , my lord protector , give consent that margaret may be england ' s royal queen .
bid him farewell ; commit him to the grave ; do them that kindness , and take leave of them
sandys .
by jove himself , it makes the consuls base ; and my soul aches to know , when two authorities
parts more exquisite than lady , ladies , woman .
look what i have said i will avouch ' t in presence of the king .
odds with his own gravity and patience that ever you saw .
took heel to do ' t , and yet died too !
' tis so , i cannot reprove it ; and wise , but for loving me--by my troth , it
by reaping .
complete works of william shakespeare .
the holy privilege of blessed sanctuary !
masters , do you serve god ?
eyes ?
shame : the one my duty owes ; but my fair name , despite of death , that lives upon
what ' s the news , my lord ?
the shepherd seeks the sheep , and not the sheep the shepherd ; but i seek my master , and
well , then , who dost thou mean shall be her king ?
but how cam ' st thou by this ring ?
i ' ll willingly to him ; to gain his colour i ' d let a parish of such cloten
three great ones of the city , in personal suit to make me his lieutenant , off-capp ' d to
royal lear , whom i have ever honour ' d as my king , lov ' d as my father
delay it not ; i ' ll have him hence to-night .
that ' s my humour .
if thou ' lt see a thing to talk on when thou art dead and rotten , come hither .
fate , show thy force : ourselves we do not owe ; what is decreed must be ; and be
whither should i fly ?
well , better wits have worn plain statute-caps .
here is my hand ; the premises observ ' d , thy will by my performance shall be serv '
he talks well .
i pray you dissuade him from her ; she is no equal for his birth .
fellow , thank god , and the good wine in thy master ' s way .
o thou good kent , how shall i live and work to match thy goodness ?
txt can tell .
nam ' d- what is it ?
you are my all the world , and i must strive , to know my shames and praises from your
threats approach ' d the opening of his mouth ; but suddenly , seeing orlando , it unlink ' d
that the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird .
sweet ganymede !
i think it doth .
he is attended with a desperate train , and what they may incense him to , being apt to have
so , so , my lord .
i think my husband hath some special suspicion of falstaff ' s being here , for i never saw him
no .
re-enter servant servant .
our ears vouchsafe it .
who , the lord timon ?
was there a wise woman with thee ?
marg .
a persecutor i am sure thou art .
in this detested , dark , blood-drinking pit .
-yet , soft !
if you shall cleave to my consent , when ' tis , it shall make honor for you .
[to tranio] but , gentle sir , methinks you walk like a stranger .
is not parchment made of sheepskins ?
go , you wild bedfellow , you cannot soothsay .
the gaudy , blabbing , and remorseful day is crept into the bosom of the sea ; and now loud-howling
may iden live to merit such a bounty , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
to clouds more clouds with his deep sighs ; but all so soon as the all-cheering sun should in the
d to do so .
i no further offend you than becomes me for my good .
as th ' art a man , give me the cup .
where ' s my knave ?
as i am from giving him cause ; and that , i hope , is an unmeasurable distance .
the great duke .
i mean not cuckold-mad ; but , sure , he is stark mad .
publish her : she bore mind that envy could not but call fair .
sea of glory ; but far beyond my depth .
farewell ; commend me to my kind lord .
run away for shame , alisander .
what sir ?
txt not anne , but a postmaster ' s boy .
lay hands upon him .
i would your grace would give us but an hour of private conference .
and now how abhorred in my imagination it is !
first were we sad , fearing you would not come ; now sadder , that you come so unprovided .
most jealous and too doubtful soul may live at peace .
i ' ll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders before i ' ll see the crown so
enter three or four servitors give me thy hand , thou has been rightly honest .
i love you better .
she looks us like a thing more made of malice than of duty ; we have noted it .
shall revenge his death before i stir .
have burst their cerements ; why the sepulchre wherein we saw thee quietly inurn ' d , hath op '
enter gloucester , and servants with torches .
against your grace in your retirement , i had swing ' d him soundly .
well are you welcome to the open air .
you three , berowne , dumain , and longaville , have sworn for three years ' term to live with
i ' ll to the king ; a thousand businesses are brief in hand , and heaven itself doth frown
world draw thy breath in pain , to tell my story .
enter beatrice .
at saint gregory ' s well .
with our royal fleet .
within my mouth you have engaol ' d my tongue , doubly portcullis ' d with my teeth and lips
the tempter or the tempted , who sins most ?
but when they shall see , sir , his crest up again and the man in blood , they will
' and shall !
sea , and is in full commission here for cyprus .
more dying then .
an two men ride of a horse , one must ride behind .
enter hamlet and horatio .
pray you , tread softly , that the blind mole may not hear a foot fall ; we now are
bid him levy straight the greatest strength and power that he can make page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
why , valentine , what braggardism is this ?
as i intend to prosper and repent , so thrive i in my dangerous affairs of hostile arms !
make your full reference freely to my lord , who is so full of grace that it flows over page
he bounds from the earth as if his entrails were hairs ; le cheval volant , the pegasus , chez
coming from sardis , on our former ensign two mighty eagles fell , and there they perch ' d ,
if i were a woman , i would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleas ' d
my herald is return ' d .
here , catch this casket ; it is worth the pains .
tear thy flesh and bones .
gall of goat and slips of yew sliver ' d in the moon ' s eclipse , nose of turk
what ' s worse than murderer , that i may name it ?
then , as in grateful virtue i am bound to your free heart , i do return those talents ,
ay , or more than we should seek after ; for we know enough if we know we are the
i am much too venturous in tempting of your patience , but am bold ' ned under your promis '
hero , daughter to leonato .
, to pluck his indignation on thy head by the misprizing of a maid too virtuous for the contempt of
now i have taken heart thou vanishest .
hear me , good madam .
your majestee entendre bettre que moi .
go , good partner , go get you to francis seacoal ; bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to
and , to be blest , let us with care perform his great behest .
war !
so , so ; rub on , and kiss the mistress how now , a kiss in fee-farm !
merry note , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[flourish .
thus knightly clad in arms ; against what man thou com ' st , and what thy quarrel .
slew the duke ' s brother .
look in the chronicles : we came in with richard conqueror .
shall i seem crest-fallen in my father ' s sight ?
there were none principal ; they were all like one another as halfpence are ; every one fault seeming monstrous
son , the young prince of sicilia camillo , lord of sicilia antigonus , " " " page _num_ complete
good mine host o ' th ' garter , a word with you .
o-sixpence that i had a wednesday last to pay the saddler for my mistress ' crupper ?
it was some fiend .
your lady is one of the fairest that i have look ' d upon .
in what kind , let ' s know , is this exaction ?
not i , my lord , by heaven !
instant there ' s nothing serious in mortality .
if knowledge be the mark , to know thee shall suffice ; well learned is that tongue that well can
yes , by saint anne do i .
come on , you thick-lipp ' d slave , i ' ll bear you hence ; for it is you
' that is an old device , and it was play ' d when i from thebes came last a
tedious it were to tell , and harsh to hear ; sufficeth i am come to keep my word ,
haunted , and worms will not come to thee .
yet is the kindness but particular ; ' twere better she were kiss ' d in general .
god-a-mercy , that thou wilt believe me ; but a plague break thy neck for frighting me !
who ' s here ?
your sweet hand .
in a rebellion , when what ' s not meet , but what must be , was law , then
or am i mad , hearing him talk of juliet to think it was so ?
txt did my heart love till now ?
what dost thou say ?
[kneels] york .
then pardon me for reprehending thee , for thou hast done a charitable deed .
well , what has he done ?
is it not like the king ?
txt all will be ours , now bloody talbot ' s slain .
no , madam ; we have cull ' d such necessaries as are behooffull for our state to-morrow .
what , dear sir , thus raps you ?
here ' s a million of manners .
txt timon .
then be it as you will ; for ' tis my right , and henry but usurps the diadem .
i will send for him , and question him yourself .
not show us whiles it was ours .
why , what is he ?
other course you please , which the time shall more favorably minister .
fortune is painted blind , with a muffler afore her eyes , to signify to you that fortune is blind
favour .
, mount on my swiftest horse , and i ' ll direct thee how thou shalt escape by sudden flight
ay , so i did indeed .
to fear the worst oft cures the worse .
txt this night he meaneth with a corded ladder to climb celestial silvia ' s chamber window , myself in
as suits the greatness of his person .
txt for you have but mistook me all this while .
do not , for one repulse , forgo the purpose that you resolv ' d t ' effect .
sirs , you four shall front them in the narrow lane ; ned poins and i will walk lower .
and drowse , whiles night ' s black agents to their preys do rouse .
if the dull brainless ajax come safe off , we ' ll dress him up in voices ; if he
camillo , not for bohemia , nor the pomp that may be thereat glean ' d , for all the
why should that gentleman that rode by travers give then such instances of loss ?
ah , beastly creature , the blot and enemy to our general name !
i beg for justice , which thou , prince , must give .
but that you shall not say i yield , being silent , i would not speak .
macbeth shall sleep no more .
unhappy were you , madam , ere i came ; but by my coming i have made you happy .
welcome , my friends all !
his goodness , tied it by letters-patents .
commend me to the prison , pompey .
i doubt not of his temperance .
come , fellow soldier , make thou proclamation .
unbind my sons , reverse the doom of death , and let me say , that never wept before ,
now , as thou lov ' st me , do him not that wrong to bear a hard opinion of
' tis like you would not feast him like a friend ; and ' tis well seen he found an
the shrill-gorg ' d lark so far cannot be seen or heard .
when our deep plots do pall ; and that should learn us there ' s a divinity that shapes our
' tis a hard bondage to become the wife page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
silk hair , your bugle eyeballs , nor your cheek of cream , that can entame my spirits to your
this ornament of knighthood-yea or no .
nay , take them .
txt prospero .
assault we lost twelve hundred men ; myself and divers gentlemen beside were there surpris ' d and taken prisoners
the complete armour that thou wear ' st !
farewell , sour annoy !
requited but with that surname- a good memory and witness of the malice and displeasure which thou shouldst bear me
like a shepherd approach the fold and cull th ' infected forth , but kill not all together .
txt till half an hour hence .
incessant services .
a plague of all drums !
in thy affair .
i do but say what she is .
you put me off with limber vows ; but i , though you would seek t ' unsphere the stars
i do not ask you much ; i beg cold comfort ; and you are so strait and so ingrateful
her audit (though delayed) answered must be , and her quietus is to render thee .
then re-enter lucius and iachimo , with imogen lucius .
my good master , i will yet do you service .
come , your answer in broken music- for thy voice is music and thy english broken ; therefore , queen
my chaff and corn shall fly asunder ; for i know there ' s none stands under more calumnious tongues
[enter a messenger .
farewell , good friar ; i prithee pray for me .
the art of our necessities is strange , that can make vile things precious .
, because the king is certainly possess ' d of all our purposes .
close by , my master .
th ' art an honest man .
so you shall ; and where th ' offence is let the great axe fall .
for i am sure , when he shall see our army , he ' ll drop his heart into the
till noon ?
but do not love thyself ; then thou wilt keep my tears for glasses , and still make me weep
in such a night stood dido with a willow in her hand upon the wild sea-banks , and waft her
go tell him of this .
of .
and we will mend thy wages .
re-enter messala , with brutus , young cato , and others .
consider it not so deeply .
prithee , fellow , remember my name is menenius , always factionary on the party of your general .
your blust ' ring land .
look , as i blow this feather from my face , and as the air blows it to me again
for that which we have fled during the life , let us not wrong it dead .
yet much unhappily .
our general ' s wife is now the general .
one of the greatest in the christian world shall be my surety ; fore whose throne ' tis needful ,
i will go meet him .
o peter , thou hast prevail ' d in right !
i stand for sacrifice ; the rest aloof are the dardanian wives , with bleared visages come forth to view
come away !
do we all holy rites : let there be sung ' non nobis ' and ' te deum ' ;
well , we leave that to the proof .
keep it , fellow ; and wear it for an honour in thy cap till i do challenge it .
but know i come not to hear such flattery now , and in my presence they are too thin and
come , vial .
camillo with him ?
a naughty house .
is he so young a man and so old a lifter ?
lift up your countenance , as it were the day of celebration of that nuptial which we two have sworn
which delivered o ' er to the voice , the tongue , which is the birth , becomes excellent wit
here comes ancient pistol and his wife .
of love and wealth as shall to thee blot out what wrongs were theirs and write in thee the figures
ay , that ' s my boy !
my women , come ; you have leave .
deposed bodies to the ground ?
o then , belike , you fancy riches more : you will have gremio to keep you fair .
where learn ' d you this , fool ?
have drink .
his letters bears his mind , not i , my lord .
ah , poor my lord , what tongue shall smooth thy name when i , thy three-hours wife , have
know , worthy prince , sir valentine , my friend , this night intends to steal away your daughter ;
gods and goddesses , all the whole synod of them !
[they talk aside] re-enter autolycus page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i cannot love him ; let him send no more- unless perchance you come to me again to tell me
thus ever did rebellion find rebuke .
takes prisoner pyrrhus ' ear .
i would have broke mine eyestrings , crack ' d them but to look upon him , till the diminution
yet still it ' s strange what cloten ' s being here to us portends , or what his death
, " " " " " lorenzo , in love with jessica shylock , a rich jew tubal , a
his father to singing-man of windsor- thou didst swear to me then , as i was washing thy wound ,
[raises his voice .
and if thou prate of mountains , let them throw millions of acres on us , till our ground ,
i know the shape of ' s leg ; this is his hand , his foot mercurial , his martial
but , by the forge that stithied mars his helm , i ' ll kill thee everywhere , yea ,
i say i am your mother , and put you in the catalogue of those that were enwombed mine .
enter the messenger as before come hither , sir .
and why should caesar be a tyrant then ?
there ' s best ' s son , the tanner of wingham- george .
thou wast whelp ' d a dog , and thou shalt famish dog ' s death .
o me , what hast thou done ?
god almighty !
bonfire .
doubt not , my lord , i ' ll play the orator as if the golden fee for which i
has not so much wit- achilles .
didst bring in wonder to wait on treason and on murder ; and whatsoever cunning fiend it was that wrought
father , and wife , and gentlemen , adieu .
and we two will rail against our mistress the world , and all our misery .
such tricks hath strong imagination that , if it would but apprehend some joy , it comprehends some bringer of
why do you say ' thwack our general ' ?
well , we will leave you then till dinner-time .
whither goes vaux so fast ?
, i swear the best-regarded virgins of our clime have lov ' d it too .
, the royal banner , and all quality , pride , pomp , and circumstance of glorious war !
a fish : he smells like a fish ; a very ancient and fish-like smell ; kind of not-of-the-newest poor-john
there needs no ghost , my lord , come from the grave to tell us this .
say he is sick .
hear ye , yedward : if i tarry at home and go not , i ' ll hang you for
d nature in my form , which , howsoever rude exteriorly , is yet the cover of a fairer mind
no , no , no , son was misled with a snipt-taffeta fellow there , whose villainous saffron would have
now will he be mocking .
i doubt it not .
you mistake ; i mean the pound- a pinfold .
enter diomedes , troilus following soft !
than i have been since the first cock .
would you would bear your fortune like a man !
pardon , dear madam ; ' tis a passing shame that i , unworthy body as i am , should
feather-bed-here are simple scapes .
; such a hare is madness the youth , to skip o ' er the meshes of good counsel the
sir nathaniel , will you hear an extemporal epitaph on the death of the deer ?
o dainty duck !
' sblood , i am as melancholy as a gib-cat or a lugg ' d bear .
the palace .
all ' s done , my lord .
he never did encounter with glendower .
; my pray ' rs to heaven for you ; my loyalty , which ever has and ever shall be
we are tougher , brother , than you can put us to ' t .
you hear disproved to her eyes , till she herself confess it .
troth , i think your other rebato were better .
keeper , i prithee sit by me awhile ; my soul is heavy , and i fain would sleep .
laud be to god !
now here a period of tumultuous broils .
coriolanus !
o agamemnon , let it not be so !
but for a kingdom any oath may be broken : i would break a thousand oaths to reign one year
edmund , keep you our sister company .
say , that i may honour thee .
other door , bassianus and lavinia , with others saturninus .
o , holy sir , my reverend father , let it not be so !
what , are you mad , that you do reason so ?
i must hear from thee every day in the hour , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
were he meal ' d with that which he corrects , then were he tyrannous ; but this being so
so doth the greater glory dim the less : a substitute shines brightly as a king until a king be
scant not my cups , and make as much of me as when mine empire was your fellow too ,
terras astrea reliquit , be you rememb ' red , marcus ; she ' s gone , she ' s
marcius , numa ' s daughter ' s son , who , after great hostilius , here was king ;
enter chorus chorus .
it is a day turn ' d strangely .
thou has a grim appearance , and thy face bears a command in ' t ; though thy tackle '
even he , biondello .
exit agamemnon .
enter , below , brabantio , in his nightgown , and servants with torches .
when it appears to you where this begins , turn your displeasure that way , for our faults can never
enter reignier below reignier .
what change is this , sweet love ?
the spirit of deep prophecy she hath , exceeding the nine sibyls of old rome : what ' s past
txt forehead , crying ' peer-out , peer-out !
yearly will i do this rite .
harlot even here between the chaste unsmirched brows of my true mother .
you are their heir ; you sit upon their throne ; the blood and courage that renowned them runs in
madam , he swore that he did hold me dear as precious eyesight , and did value me above this
why faint you , lords ?
from seventeen years till now almost four-score here lived i , but now live here no more .
for he hath heard of our confederacy , and ' tis but wisdom to make strong against him .
pray thee , corporal , stay ; the knocks are too hot , and for mine own part i have
o , ' tis the curse in love , and still approv ' d , when women cannot love where
o for a fine thief of the age of two-and-twenty or thereabouts !
a kind , achilles ; and now is the cur , ajax prouder than the cur achilles , and will
i ' ll do ' t .
whip me , ye devils , from the possession of this heavenly sight !
and tender preservation of our person , would have him punish ' d .
mark , silent king , the moral of this sport- how soon my sorrow hath destroy ' d my face
but fare ye well ; ' tis partly my own fault , which death , or absence , soon shall
look , where he comes .
stones prate of my whereabout , and take the present horror from the time , which now suits with it
here is a path to ' t ; ' tis some savage hold .
but my revenge will come .
one inch of delay more is a south sea of discovery .
alas , sir , i never came there .
ground .
deiphobus .
we are not , sir , nor are we like to be ; the stars , i see , will
the devil damn thee black , thou cream-faced loon !
plucks down achilles ' plumes .
[aside to gloucester] come with thy two-hand sword .
what have i done ?
exit old lady .
in his bed ?
dost thou think i ' ll grace thee with that robbery , thy stol ' n name coriolanus , in
i have known thee these twenty-nine years , come peascod-time ; but an honester and truer-hearted man -well fare thee
i ' ll to my book ; for yet ere supper time must i perform much business appertaining .
did you such a thing ?
his promises fly so beyond his state that what he speaks is all in debt ; he owes for ev
i had rather be a pedlar .
friend , suitor to portia solanio , friend to antonio and bassanio salerio , " " " " " gratiano
bid gloucester think of this , and he will weep .
no peace !
roman gods confound you both !
thus it remains , and the remainder thus .
saw you my daughter ?
this is your devoted friend , sir , the manifold linguist , and the amnipotent soldier .
parti-colour ' d lambs , and those were jacob ' s .
ride you this afternoon ?
for a villain ' s accusation .
' let the volsces plough rome and harrow italy ; i ' ll never be such a gosling to obey
why , sir , what am i , sir , that i should knock you here , sir ?
i humbly thank your highness and am right glad to catch this good occasion most throughly to be winnowed where
go , wash thy face , and draw the action .
welcome , queen margaret : i can express no kinder sign of love than this kind kiss .
master brook , i will first make bold with your money ; next , give me your hand ; and
faster than spring-time show ' rs comes thought on thought , and not a thought but thinks on dignity .
forever and forever farewell , brutus !
service improper for a slave .
unshown is often left unlov ' d .
a woman i forswore ; but i will prove , thou being a goddess , i forswore not thee :
that fear attends her not .
hark you , he swears ; by jupiter he swears .
exit olivia .
come , let ' s return again , and suffice ourselves with the report of it .
i would not ha ' your distemper in this kind for the wealth of windsor castle .
txt which any print of goodness wilt not take , being capable of all ill !
well , the gods are above ; time must friend or end .
beguiled , which labouring for invention bear amis the second burthen of a former child !
cut it to pieces .
where ' s your knife ?
to fright the animals , and to kill them up in their assign ' d and native dwelling-place .
no , pandarus .
know , my loving lord , the marquis dorset , as i hear , is fled to richmond , in
and life no longer than thy love will stay , for it depends upon that love of thine .
thirty-three years have i but gone in travail of you , my sons ; and till this present hour my
txt and widow to prince arthur .
not complete of , say he is not she ; and she again wants nothing , to name want ,
you weigh me not ?
the fishermen that walk upon the beach appear like mice ; and yond tall anchoring bark , diminish ' d
s hope who strongly hath set footing in this land .
are nothing novel , nothing strange , they are but dressings of a former sight : our dates are brief
cut with edge of penny cord and vile reproach .
joshua , yourself ; myself , alexander ; this gallant gentleman , judas maccabaeus ; this swain , because of
and indent with fears page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
when went there by an age since the great flood but it was famed with more than with one man
it fits not with this hour .
' ring humbleness , say this : ' fair sir , you spit on me on wednesday last , you
the great .
raise all my kindred .
exeunt rosaline and katharine costard .
if it were so- sicinius .
complexions , all agreeing in earnestness to see him .
liking .
exit westmoreland mowbray .
shall i hear from you anon ?
- ' bone ' for ' bene .
also and your daughter .
do , then ; but i ' ll not hear .
to the block than these knees bow to any save to the god of heaven and to my king ;
i wish your horses swift and sure of foot , and so i do commend you to their backs .
, point against point rebellious , arm ' gainst arm , curbing his lavish spirit ; and , to conclude
who , i rob ?
if not , why cease you till you are so ?
yet , since it is but green , it should be put to no apparent likelihood of breach , which
y ' are welcome , gentlemen .
it is as bitter upon thy tongue as in my thought .
an if we live , we live to tread on kings ; if die , brave death , when princes
, ' ay , by gogs-wouns ' quoth he , and swore so loud that , all amaz ' d
and , if thou canst for blushing , view this face , and bite thy tongue that slanders him with
this concludes : my mother ' s son did get your father ' s heir ; your father ' s
one aloof stand sentinel .
the tailor stays thy leisure , to deck thy body with his ruffling treasure .
does the rumour hold for true that he ' s so full of gold ?
what ' s his weapon ?
a hall in timon ' s house enter two of varro ' s men , meeting lucius ' servant ,
what care i who calls me well or ill , so you o ' er-green my bad , my good
and enter in our ears like great triumphers in their applauding gates .
destiny unshunnable , like death .
i know a man that had this trick of melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song .
and , besides , the king hath not deserv ' d my service nor your loves , who find in
some flesh away , which all this while had bled ; and now he fainted , and cried , in
but if thou live to see like right bereft , this fool-begg ' d patience in thee will be left
see , here he comes , and i must ply my theme .
and what to me , my love ?
my clown , who wants but something to be a reasonable man , grew so in love with the wenches
i minded him how royal ' twas to pardon when it was less expected ; he replied , it was
' we pray you throw to earth this unprevailing woe , and think of us as of a father ;
open your mouth ; this will shake your shaking , i can tell you , and that soundly ; you
before corioli enter marcius , titus lartius , with drum and colours , with captains and soldiers .
i true !
his own impatience takes from aufidius a great part of blame .
bianca , get thee in .
i pray thee sort thy heart to patience ; these few days ' wonder will be quickly worn .
choler does kill me that thou art alive ; i swoon to see thee .
julia whom i lov ' d ; and notwithstanding all her sudden quips , the least whereof would quell a
and pleasant game ; a mess of russians left us but of late .
i hear their drum .
as lief be a brownist as a politician .
and , for myself , most part of all this night , within her quarter and mine own precinct i
, i have spoke with one that in her sex , her years , profession , wisdom , and constancy
you do mistake me , sir .
there is no way but this , sir andrew .
the berard that protects the bear .
list ; an old hat , and the humour of forty fancies prick ' d in ' t for a
enter page fool .
re-enter the abbess , with antipholus of syracuse and dromio of syracuse abbess .
edmund mortimer .
consider , sir , the chance of war .
i will dispatch you severally- you to lord lucius ; to lord lucullus you ; i hunted with his honour
the red plague rid you for learning me your language !
thy deeds ; but i ' ll report it where senators shall mingle tears with smiles ; where great patricians
what private griefs they have , alas , i know not , that made them do it .
how goes it with my brave mark antony ?
grow , for i have none .
i love to hear her speak , yet well i know , that music hath a far more pleasing sound
on him for ' t !
prithee , good griffith , tell me how he died .
so do not i .
of men , men would forsake the gods .
cality !
thither shall it , then ; and happily may your sweet self put on the lineal state and glory of
which , slanderer , he imitation callspage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
no fault could you make which you have not redeem ' d ; indeed , paid down more penitence than
, and twice to-day pick ' d out the dullest scent ; trust me , i take him for the
s rouse ; there falling out at tennis ' ; or perchance , ' i saw him enter such a
yes , i accept her , for she well deserves it ; and here , to pledge my vow ,
[charmian dies] re-enter dolabella dolabella .
exeunt [lear , kent , and attendants] .
other lords and barons , knights and squires , full fifteen hundred , besides common men .
how poor are they that have not patience !
i ' ll rather be unmannerly than troublesome .
ay , two hours together .
my barge stays ; your lordship shall along .
well , let ' s away and say how much is done .
benefactors .
drink , servant-monster , when i bid thee ; thy eyes are almost set in thy head .
stick pins on .
shall they make their ransom on the sand , or with their blood stain this discoloured shore .
pandarus !
here comes monsieur le beau .
be mad , good master ; cry ' the devil !
for us , dear uncle , the winter coming on , and sickness growing upon our soldiers , we will
and i this .
my dear master , my captain and my emperor , let me say , before i strike this bloody stroke
behold our patroness , the life of rome !
so say i , madam , if he run away , as i hear he does the danger is in
her mainmast , and anon swallowed with yeast and froth , as you ' d thrust a cork into a
but , if ever the duke return , as our prayers are he may , let me desire you to
nick .
each his several way .
so may your highness , and yet punish too .
predecessors since deucalion ; though peradventure some of the best of ' em were hereditary hangmen .
the bosom creep of that same noble prelate well-belov ' d , the archbishop .
a tabor and pipe ; no , the bagpipe could not move you .
have patience , gentle friends , i must not read it ; it is not meet you know how caesar
speak what ?
i am but mad north-north-west .
' to me ?
she took the ring of me ; i ' ll none of it .
say no more ; howe ' er the business goes , you have made fault i ' th ' boldness
trip no further , pretty sweeting ; journeys end in lovers meeting , every wise man ' s son doth
sure , when i shall see this gentleman , thy speeches will bring me to consider that which may unfurnish
by my hopes , this present enterprise set off his head , i do not think a braver gentleman ,
re-enter anne page shallow .
an if thou hast the mettle of a king , being wrong ' d as we are by this peevish
but to answer you as you would be understood : he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk
thou mayst revenge .
your age .
lord marquess , kneel down .
what disease hast thou ?
, hath something seiz ' d his wish ' d ability , he had himself the lands and waters '
yet i well remember the favours of these men .
i understand thee well ; and be thou sure , when he shall come to his account , he knows
hail to thee , noble master !
- they grow , and set them on lud ' s town .
[sings] his eyes do show his days are almost done .
would god that any in this noble presence were enough noble to be upright judge of noble richard !
, and put him to the sword ; and to the skirts of this wild wood he came , where
i have , but what of him ?
well , somewhat we must do .
let go !
enter edgar .
horses .
if not , the foul opinion you had of her pure honour gains or loses your sword or mine ,
henceforward i am ever rul ' d by you .
come hither , gardiner .
myself myself confound !
i will fetch off my bottle , though i be o ' er ears for my labour .
as they say , ' when the age is in , the wit is out .
well , sir , my mistress is the sweetest lady .
would bear you living flowers , much liker than your painted counterfeit : so should the lines of life that
come , we ' ll have you merry ; i ' ll bring you where you shall hear music ,
well , sir , we must have you find your legs .
approach thou like the rugged russian bear , the arm ' d rhinoceros , or the hyrcan tiger ; take
mon .
three in egypt cannot make better note .
would you , my lord , aught with the general ?
no more , i say .
; and on his grave-stone this insculpture , which with wax i brought away , whose soft impression interprets for
o , this it is that makes your lady mourn !
' pistol .
the villain is much lighter heel ' d than i .
when they fall , as being slippery standers , the love that lean ' d on them as slippery too
valour , to appear this morning to them .
not till after midnight ; for he is dieted to his hour .
the one ne ' er got me credit , the other mickle blame .
i think withal there would be hands uplifted in my right ; and here from gracious england have i offer
you are so strongly in my purpose bred , that all the world besides methinks are dead .
sir andrew aguecheek ?
let him be told so ; lest , perchance , he think we dare not move the question of our
you men of angiers , open wide your gates and let young arthur , duke of britaine , in ,
if i be not sent away post , i will see you again ere i go .
would be rid of him devise his speedy taking off .
well , you are come to me in happy time , the rather for i have some sport in hand
cure it , easy .
but heavenly rosalind !
and , nevil , this i do assure myself , richard shall live to make the earl of warwick the
king ' s tent ; wherefore the king most worthily hath caus ' d every soldier to cut his prisoner
can fulvia die ?
we would so , and then go a-bat-fowling .
they respect not us .
i will about it ; better three hours too soon than a minute too late .
, more ready to cry out ' who knows what follows ?
tell her my love , more noble than the world , prizes not quantity of dirty lands ; the parts
i would i had thy inches .
out on thee , murderer , thou kill ' st my heart !
i have touch ' d the highest point of all my greatness , and from that full meridian of my
welcome ; fall to .
you do yet taste some subtleties o ' th ' isle , that will not let you believe things certain
_num_ that time of year thou mayst in me behold , when yellow leaves , or none , or few
ere thou report ' st it .
now help , or woe betide thee evermore !
dost thou hear me , old friend ?
he would make this a bloody day to somebody .
when thou dost pinch thy bearer , thou dost sit like a rich armour worn in heat of day that
i will chop her into messes .
what treasure had he , my lord ?
thy gown ?
john of gaunt , henry the fourth , whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest ; and , after
dost understand the word ?
to satisfy , if of my freedom ' tis the main part , take no stricter render of me than
finely put off !
now hear our english king ; for thus his royalty doth speak in me .
enter gloucester , brought in by two or three .
legion of angels .
why ask i that ?
west of this place , down in the neighbour bottom .
you are in the right !
' s sake .
peace here ; grace and good company !
madam , came nothing else along with that ?
no , faith , die by attorney .
my lord of york , it better show ' d with you page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exeunt all but lafeu and parolles who stay behind , commenting of this wedding lafeu .
in faith , it is exceedingly well aim ' d .
whereupon i will show you a chamber and a bed ; which bed , because it shall not speak of
but hark you , margaret no princely commendations to my king ?
if you do love rosalind so near the heart as your gesture cries it out , when your brother marries
then never trust me if i be afeard .
richard plantagenet , my lord , will come .
upon that were my thoughts tiring when we encount ' red .
[seats himself between anne bullen and another lady] if i chance to talk a little wild , forgive me ;
what comfort is for claudio ?
_num_ so shall i live , supposing thou art true , like a deceived husband , so love ' s
this grisly beast , which lion hight by name , the trusty thisby , coming first by night , did
nay , but i know ' tis so : i saw him arrested ; saw him carried away ; and
here , if it like your honour .
never did mockers waste more idle breath .
from this day to the ending of the world , but we in it shall be remembered- we few ,
but there is little reason in your grief ; therefore ' twere reason you had manners now .
i ' ll meet thee , pyramus , at ninny ' s tomb .
deed that hath dishonoured all our family ; unworthy brother and unworthy sons !
an your waist , mistress , were as slender as my wit , one o ' these maids ' girdles
enter antonio bassanio .
you know me well .
where is that slave , thy brother ?
go to , farewell .
my hearty friends , you take me in too dolorous a sense ; for i spake to you for your
and ' mollis aer ' we term it ' mulier ' ; which ' mulier ' i divine is this
i will hear you , master fenton ; and i will , at the least , keep your counsel .
o proper stuff !
cassio ' s a proper man .
i told her so , my lord , on your displeasure ' s peril , and on mine , she
i embrace it freely , and will this brother ' s wager frankly play .
- his moorship ' s ancient .
let this friar be found .
txt in self-same manner doth accuse my husband ; and charges him , my lord , with such a time
and sleep , that sometimes shuts up sorrow ' s eye , steal me awhile from mine own company .
exit costard scene ii .
but the bottom of the news is , our general is cut i ' th ' middle and but one
he were an excellent man that were made just in the midway between him and benedick .
weeping and wailing over tybalt ' s corse .
twice did he turn his back , and purpos ' d so ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
for the form- in some form .
do thou but think what ' tis to cram a maw or clothe a back from such a filthy vice
>> scene _num_ .
' steal ' foh !
o , give me leave .
you see , sweet maid , we marry a gentler scion to the wildest stock , and make conceive a
thou dar ' st not , for thy own .
you are my true and honorable wife , as dear to me as are the ruddy drops that visit my
to each of you one fair and virtuous mistress fall , when love please .
haply , when i shall wed , that lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry half my love
farewell , kinsman .
o pomfret , pomfret !
excellent .
my bosom ' s lord sits lightly in his throne , and all this day an unaccustom ' d spirit
hark , how they joy !
most sure , the goddess on whom these airs attend !
he is kind , he learned but surety-like to write for me , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
and jewels- two stones , two rich and precious stones , stol ' n by my daughter !
i told you , i , he was a frantic fool , hiding his bitter jests in blunt behaviour ;
, son of the duke of york thomas mowbray , duke of norfolk duke of surrey earl of salisbury earl
i know that , fool .
fairy grace , will we sing , and bless this place .
[strikes him] will you be so page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hearer than the turk ' s tribute .
his actions show much like to madness ; pray heaven his wisdom be not tainted !
but then i saw no harm , and then i heard each syllable that breath made up between them .
what , sir john falstaff !
with duty and desire we follow you .
is intolerable curst , and shrewd and froward so beyond all measure that , were my state far worser than
therefore let benedick , like cover ' d fire , consume away in sighs , waste inwardly .
yes , verily and in truth , you shall take it ; or i have another leek in my pocket
if he be credulous and trust my tale , i ' ll make him glad to seem vincentio , and
rous body .
[kisses him .
caesar , thou hast subdu ' d his judgment too .
wish him live .
see , how they kiss and court !
it must appear in other ways than words , therefore i scant this breathing courtesy .
will return it home , and give me mine again .
why , there ' s no remedy .
tongue , not a word .
words till their decay against those measles which we disdain should tetter us , yet sought the very way to
i ' ll be sworn ; as my mother was , the first hour i was born .
there is my hand .
had you rather caesar were living and die all slaves , than that caesar were dead to live all freemen
so proud that bolingbroke was on his back !
i do pray the gods .
we ' ll bring him to his house with shouts and clamors .
good master , take it not unkindly , pray , that i have been thus pleasant with you both .
you common cry of curs , whose breath i hate as reek o ' th ' rotten fens , whose
it appears so by the story .
why , assure thee , lucius , ' twill vex thy soul to hear what i shall speak ; for
and bid her come hither .
he sits in his state as a thing made for alexander .
there ' s order given for her coronation ; marry , this is yet but young , and may be
enter armado armado .
blessing on your heart for ' t !
does not the stone rebuke me for being more stone than it ?
the period of thy tyranny approacheth .
they give their greeting to the citadel ; this likewise is a friend .
[sits down at ophelia ' s feet .
txt that the probation bear no hinge nor loop to hang a doubt on ; or woe upon thy life
vouch with me , heaven , i therefore beg it not to please the palate of my appetite , nor
which rather threaten ' st than dost promise aught , thy plainness moves me more than eloquence , page _num_
thy father slew my father ; therefore , die .
you come to reprehend my ignorance .
of all exploits since first i follow ' d arms ne ' er heard i of a warlike enterprise more
which of these sorrows is he subject to ?
i will not hear you .
if thou doubt it , thou mayst slide from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run but
i ' ll prove it on thy heart , ere i taste bread , thou art in nothing less than
enter soldiers , with prince edward king edward .
die where thou hast liv ' d .
why , this hits right ; i dreamt of a silver basin and ewer to-night- flaminius , honest flaminius ,
wives ' heels .
wish ' d , my lord !
for look you how cheerfully my mother looks , and my father died within ' s two hours .
be that the uttermost , and fail not then .
spit and void his rheum upon ; go down upon him , you have power enough , and in a
well , made to run even upon even ground , till this advantage , this vile-drawing bias , this sway
i have forgot him ; my imagination carries no favour in ' t but bertram ' s .
d ; he shall have no desires .
mother ' s womb untimely ripp ' d .
we ' ll mend our dinner here .
i see you have a month ' s mind to them .
d but they lov ' d ; no sooner lov ' d but they sigh ' d ; no sooner
what shall she remember ?
treasure we have got ; which , with ourselves , all rest at thy dispose .
wilt thou destroy him then ?
can we , with manners , ask what was the difference ?
it could not be else .
thou art the ruins of the noblest man that ever lived in the tide of times .
no foot shall stir .
sin of covetousness .
he saves my labour by his own approach .
a noise within wherefore ' s this noise ?
and first begin with her .
no , no ; you shall have it for bearing the letter .
, and now i do bethink me , so it is- i came with hermia hither .
my lord , it shall be done .
scene .
is decius brutus and trebonius there ?
i ne ' er saw this before .
but had he died in the business , madam , how then ?
and leaves his part-created cost a naked subject to the weeping clouds and waste for churlish winter ' s tyranny
think with thyself how more unfortunate than all living women are we come hither ; since that thy sight ,
a bear , encompass ' d round with dogs , who having pinch ' d a few and made them
very toad , as see him .
the cold field ?
time to come .
o that i thought it could be in a woman- as , if it can , i will presume in
that handkerchief did an egyptian to my mother give ; she was a charmer , and could almost read the
legs .
o , she misus ' d me past the endurance of a block !
curtsy , sweet hearts ; and so the measure ends .
do so ; i ' ll not be by .
sir thomas gargrave and sir william glansdale , let me have your express opinions where is best place to make
the spirits that know all mortal consequences have pronounced me thus : " fear not , macbeth ; no man
enter cymbeline and lords page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
if a man ' s brains were in ' s heels , were ' t not in danger of page
the sorrow that delivers us thus chang ' d makes you think so .
i left him private , full of sad thoughts and troubles .
secrecy .
have got a husband .
; if you do fight against your country ' s foes , your country ' s foes shall pay your
[to the fool] thou , sapient sir , sit here .
behind the tuft of pines i met them ; never saw i men scour so on their way .
full of decay and failing ?
come , sit thee down upon this flow ' ry bed , while i thy amiable cheeks do coy ,
enter the king , and others , as maskers , habited like shepherds , usher ' d by the lord
i prithee lend me this lantern to see my gelding in the stable .
and here much orlando !
come , proteus , ' tis your penance but to hear the story of your loves discovered .
but what might you think , when i had seen this hot love on the wing (as i perceiv '
who spoke of love ?
blow , wind !
them for .
this news , i think , hath turn ' d your weapon ' s edge ; ' tis like ,
what can you vouch against him , signior lucio ?
s son ' ; for indeed my father did something smack , something grow to , he had a kind
you draw me , you hard-hearted adamant ; but yet you draw not iron , for my heart is true
as i am mad , i do ; if you ' ll be patient , i ' ll no more
your enigma ?
so , green , thou art the midwife to my woe , and bolingbroke my sorrow ' s dismal heir
i have a kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence , unto whom i was going ; i
o margaret , thus ' twill be ; and thou , poor soul , art then forsaken , as thou
well , well , i made thee miserable what time i threw the people ' s suffrages on him that
death is certain .
i do note that grief and patience , rooted in him both , mingle their spurs together .
' agamemnon .
indeed a sheep doth very often stray , an if the shepherd be awhile away .
o , tell me , friar , tell me , in what vile part of this anatomy doth my name
but new struck nine .
i would to god , so my untruth had not provok ' d him to it , the king had
pray , look tot ; i put it to your care .
thou art a roman- be not barbarous .
exit banquo .
because thou lov ' st her .
will you sup there ?
come , gentlemen , let ' s go .
as you are old and reverend , you should be wise .
right , you have it .
hath masses of money ; for the which his wife seems to me well-favour ' d .
prayers that your attempts may overlive the hazard and fearful meeting of their opposite .
what is it then to me if impious war , array ' d in flames , like to the prince
win the day ; so that we fled : the king unto the queen ; lord george your brother ,
he is indeed , and living to kill thee .
thus change i like the moon .
sin of perjury : she not denies it .
my half-supp ' d sword , that frankly would have fed , pleas ' d with this dainty bait ,
made you no more offence but what you speak of ?
i do desire it with all my heart ; and i hope it is no dishonest desire to desire to
wild and savage stock , spirt up so suddenly into the clouds , and overlook their grafters ?
i am her mother , sir , whose age and honour both suffer under this complaint we bring , and
you whoreson dog !
the treble jars .
and wept ; yea , ' gainst th ' authority of manners , pray ' d you to hold your
- farewell , hostess ; farewell , doll .
dissolve , thick cloud , and rain , that i may say the gods themselves do weep .
so please you , sir , their speed hath been beyond account .
not for my life ; but yet i dare defend my innocent life against an emperor .
have i liv ' d to stand at the taunt of one that makes fritters of english ?
see , see !
be even and direct with me , whether you were sent for or no .
our lady help my lord !
volsce .
, the duke of gloucester , protector , the duke of exeter , the earl of warwick , the bishop
txt and simple truth miscalled simplicity , and captive good attending captain ill .
you twain , of all the rest , are near to warwick by blood and by alliance .
hang yourself , you muddy conger , hang yourself !
chain up and restrain the poor .
shut up your doors , my lord : ' tis a wild night .
enter one bearing a coronet ; then lear ; then the dukes of albany and cornwall ; next , goneril
dispos ' d to be merry ; i will laugh like a hyen , and that when thou are inclin
i have sent after him ; he says he ' ll come .
' what say you to that ?
but parrots .
i promise you , the effects he writes of succeed unhappily : as of unnaturalness between the child and the
we ' ll hear you sing , certainly- pandarus .
the carping world .
and then came pyramus .
well met , corporal nym .
why , so i do .
not a dump we !
o , know he is the bridle of your will .
txt i had forgot !
of the consuls , raised and met , are at the duke ' s already .
if thou best slain and with no stroke of mine , my wife and children ' s ghosts will haunt
i shall be plagu ' d .
i think she stirs again .
by gar , if i have not anne page , i shall turn your head out of my door .
but to th ' goal : my last good deed was to entreat his stay ; what was my first
o , my sweet sir , news fitting to the night , black , fearful , comfortless , and horrible
be satisfied ; your brother dies to-morrow ; be content .
good my lord- antony .
servant-monster , drink to me .
iras falls and dies] have i the aspic in my lips ?
make sweet some vial ; treasure thou some place , with beauty ' s treasure ere it be self-killed :
is ambitious ; nor the lawyer ' s , which is politic ; nor the lady ' s , which
lies he not bed-rid , and again does nothing but what he did being childish ?
the earl of wiltshire is already there .
methinks i scent the morning air .
forty let it be .
as i was then advertising and holy to your business , not changing heart with habit , i am still
he comes upon a wish .
wherefore , what ' s the instance ?
thy tender-hefted nature shall not give thee o ' er to harshness .
renowned talbot doth expect my aid , and i am louted by a traitor villain and cannot help the noble
for the intent and purpose of the law hath full relation to the penalty , which here appeareth due upon
i have it , tranio .
let your highness lay a more noble thought upon mine honour than for to think that i would sink it
of charles the great .
poor painted queen , vain flourish of my fortune !
that ' s one of them .
is thy union here ?
what is ' t for ?
come in , tailor ; here you may roast your goose .
' o my antonio , i do know of these that therefore only are reputed wise for saying nothing ;
in studs , and here and there piec ' d with pack-thread .
if i were bound to divine of this unity , i would not prophesy so .
and leave you your jealousies too , i pray you .
is the nurse of frenzy .
my heart beats thicker than a feverous pulse , and all my powers do their bestowing lose , like vassalage
great men may jest with saints : ' tis wit in them ; but in the less foul profanation .
lean raw-bon ' d rascals !
did give a fair and natural light , and be no more an exhal ' d meteor , a prodigy
a herald .
why , no , sir .
to feed upon the prodigal christian .
if want it be not that she is not he .
' tis so concluded on .
justice , more than thou desir ' st .
' - ' no , i ' ll give you a remuneration .
faith , i must leave thee , love , and shortly too ; my operant powers their functions leave to
) servants , who seem no less , which are to france the spies and speculations intelligent of our state
what verse for it ?
enter simple how , simple !
how , sir !
palace (always thought that i require a clearness) ; and with him- to leave no rubs nor botches in the
let my tears stanch the earth ' s dry appetite ; my sons ' sweet blood will make it shame
would we had spoke together !
exit gaoler here ' s such ado to make no stain a stain as passes colouring .
peace , peace , peace ; stay , hold , peace !
[swoons] charmian .
re-enter armado armado .
who stock ' d my servant ?
what , minion , can ye not ?
yes , being kept together and put to use .
are as children but one step below , even of your metal , of your very blood ; of all
lord buckingham , methinks you watch ' d her well .
one woe doth tread upon another ' s heel , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
wherefore ?
reckon ' d up , as stephen sly , and old john naps of greece , and peter turph ,
beseech your highness , give us better credit .
gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing , more than any man in all venice .
that lewis of france is sending over masquers to revel it with him and his new bride .
what ho , malvolio !
i will turn diseases to commodity .
i am , sir , the soldier that did company these three in poor beseeming ; ' twas a fitment
and you too , sir .
nay , good my lord , put him to ' t ; let him have his way .
by men of epidamnum he and i and the twin dromio , all were taken up ; but by and
think me for the man i am , necessity commands me name myself .
[clifford groans , and dies] richard .
[giving a paper] theseus .
two sweet sons smother ' d .
bloody stage .
send them thither .
txt our return .
yield up , o love , thy crown and hearted throne to tyrannous hate !
my prayers on the adverse party fight ; and there the little souls of edward ' s children whisper the
the force of temporal power , the attribute to awe and majesty , wherein doth sit the dread and fear
with the rich worth of your virginity .
it is not likely that when they hear the roman horses neigh , behold their quarter ' d fires ,
was stabb ' d with bloody daggers .
will not you go ?
he that retires , i ' ll take him for a volsce , and he shall feel mine edge .
dare , i ' ll through and through you .
had he been where he thought , by this had thought been past .
o clifford , how thy words revive my heart !
is ' t so saucy ?
gilded butterflies , and hear poor rogues talk of court news ; and we ' ll talk with them too-
is it a true thing ?
you have , master slender ; i stand wholly for you .
here is his majesty .
come , thou tortoise !
, so hallow ' d and so gracious is the time .
ay , and i think one business does command us all ; for mine is money .
for the time will come that i shall make this northern youth exchange his glorious deeds for my indignities .
be but your lordship present at his examination ; if he do not , for the promise of his life
this wilderness ?
and now what rests but , in night ' s coverture , thy brother being carelessly encamp ' d ,
txt where were her life ?
you shall hear i am run away ; know it before the report come .
: a good plot , good friends , and full of expectation ; an excellent plot , very good friends
this horrible object , from low farms , poor pelting villages , sheepcotes , and mills , sometime with lunatic
o bloody period !
charges she moe than me ?
if all the devils of hell be drawn in little , and legion himself possess ' d him , yet
if opportunity and humblest suit cannot attain it , why then-hark you hither .
i find thou art no less than fame hath bruited , and more than may be gathered by thy shape
not .
my lord , we ' ll do it throughly .
me call margaret hero , hear margaret term me claudio ; and bring them to see this the very night
no egma , no riddle , no l ' envoy ; no salve in the mail , sir .
on my heart they tread now whilst i live , and buried once , why not upon my head ?
welcome , ladies , welcome !
[aside to agrippa] will caesar weep ?
sleep when i am drowsy , and tend on no man ' s business ; laugh when i am merry
fears make devils of cherubims ; they never see truly .
you do climb up it now .
come , come , you froward and unable worins !
o admirable youth !
or were you both our mothers , i care no more for than i do for heaven , so i
it is captain macmorris , is it not ?
if thou wilt leave me , do not leave me last , when other petty griefs have done their spite
well , ' set thee down , sorrow !
, and doing me disgrace .
i was a fine fool to take it .
launce !
your love says , like an honest gentleman , and a courteous , and a kind , and a handsome
hence with it , and together with the dam commit them to the fire .
why , now is henry king , and margaret queen , and humphrey duke of gloucester scarce himself , that
but i have none .
she pin ' d in thought ; and with a green and yellow melancholy she sat like patience on a
i prithee , harry , withdraw thyself ; thou bleedest too much .
find the girl ; she hath the stones upon her and the ducats .
little water in a spoon page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
we enjoin thee , as thou art liegeman to us , that thou carry this female bastard hence ; and
through alexandria make a jolly march ; bear our hack ' d targets like the men that owe them .
dive , thoughts , down to my soul .
and i the house of york .
enjoin ' d to this .
like thyself , good murder , stab him ; he ' s a murderer .
in his livery walk ' d crowns and crownets ; realms and islands were as plates dropp ' d from
cursed the heart that had the heart to do it !
so thanks to all at once and to each one , whom we invite to see us crown ' d
bid you come speak with her ; nor your name is not master cesario ; nor this is not my
by god and by french fathers had twenty years been made .
how long is ' t ago , jack , since thou sawest thine own knee ?
why , he is so made on here within as if he were son and heir to mars ; set
yea , look ' st thou pale ?
sweet soul , take heed , take heed of perjury ; thou are on thy deathbed .
give me a calendar .
booty behind them .
farewell , my lords .
ay , with all my heart , and lend my best attention .
a flood of greatness fell on you- what with our help , what with the absent king , what with
txt himself .
that one might read the book of fate , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
calchas shall have what he requests of us .
' well , the most courageous fiend bids me pack .
, for thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings , that then i scorn to change my state with kings
what i have done that might your nature , honour , and exception roughly awake , i here proclaim was
shame come to romeo !
revelling like lords till all be gone ; while as the silly owner of the goods weeps over them and
re-enter lucius , with the gown .
can no man tell me of my unthrifty son ?
a sin prevailing much in youthful men who give their eyes the liberty of gazing .
france is a dog-hole , and it no more merits the tread of a man ' s foot .
still do , within the eye of honour , be assur ' d my purse , my person , my
o perilous mouths that bear in them one and the self-same tongue either of condemnation or approof , bidding the
it is ent ' red .
such strength and warrantise of skill , that in my mind thy worst all best exceeds ?
he did bespeak a chain for me , but had it not .
hold , here , take this .
he talks of wood .
he is the wiser man , master doctor : he is a curer of souls , and you a curer
what news more ?
stay , ho , and let us hear mark antony .
, and sorrows , he gave his honours to the world again , his blessed part to heaven , and
doth your honour see any harm in his face ?
then am i sure of victory .
[they swear .
as upright as the cedar .
tell me , at whose suit ?
was falsely borne in hand , sends out arrests on fortinbras ; which he , in brief , obeys ,
we never valu ' d this poor seat of england ; and therefore , living hence , did give ourself
o hell-kite !
our daughter .
she leans me out at her mistress ' chamber window , bids me a thousand times good night--i tell this
what love , thinkst thou , i sue so much to get ?
with all my heart , sir .
where ' s my lord ?
enter first murtherer to the door .
it for your worthy sake to th ' extreme edge of hazard .
my love .
that ' s a good deed .
i would not be delay ' d .
monday , my lord .
i beseech you , follow .
is the day of doom for bassianus ; his philomel must lose her tongue to-day , thy sons make pillage
] there ' s blood upon thy page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
speak not you for him ; he ' s a traitor .
although i know there is enough written upon this earth to stir a mutiny in the mildest thoughts , and
why , as i told thee , ' tis a custom with him i ' th ' afternoon to sleep
it must be married to that your diamond ; i ' ll keep them .
well , ruffian , i must pocket up these wrongs , because- bastard .
messenger- lucio .
these slanderers .
i scorn that with my heels .
upon himself .
what means the fool , trow ?
i ' ll example you with thievery : the sun ' s a thief , and with his great attraction
wrathful , who , as others do , loves for his own ends , not for you .
come , sir , to dinner .
was this the idol that you worship so ?
pardon my abuse .
we ' ll to church to-morrow .
[walks apart] duke .
ah , nell , forbear !
all this done upon the gad ?
it comes from a clodpole .
she did commend my yellow stockings of late , she did praise my leg being cross-garter ' d ; and
hear me , my liege .
' twere pity they should lose their father ' s lands .
canidius .
if it be that , or any that was hers , it speaks against her with the other proofs .
i say again , if lewis do will the day , he is forsworn if e ' er those eyes
i honour ' d him , i lov ' d him , and will weep my date of life out
i am cinna the poet , i am cinna the poet .
; but this gallant had witchcraft in ' t .
i would have such a fellow whipp ' d for o ' erdoing termagant .
o , what learning is !
what should i speak ?
dare to our great enterprise , than if the earl were here ; for men must think , if we
quickly , spirit thou shalt ere long be free .
a very fatal place it seems to me .
i do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot nor tell tales of thee to high-judging jove .
men daily find it .
would not in mine age have left me naked to mine enemies .
madam , i had rather- reg .
it wearies me ; you say it wearies you ; but how i caught it , found it , or
' proud ' - and ' i thank you ' - and ' i thank you not ' - and
thanks , gentle somerset ; sweet oxford , thanks .
o heavy lightness !
god pardon thee !
i am as hot as molten lead , and as heavy too .
lady , as you are mine , i am yours .
but i have spoke with one that saw him die , who did report that very frankly he confess '
patience herself would startle at this letter , and play the swaggerer .
txt rosalind .
' messenger .
the french have reinforc ' d their scatter ' d men .
by this day , she ' s a fair lady !
he did , from first to last .
queen , but the sharp thorny points of my alleged reasons , drives this forward .
about it !
' he that is giddy thinks the world turns round .
marcius , ' tis true that you have lately told us : the volsces are in arms .
he is retir ' d to antium .
[to ferdinand] a word , good sir ; i fear you have done yourself some wrong ; a word .
would you have me false to my nature ?
re-enter prince john , the lord chief justice , with officers chief justice .
leave her to heaven , and to those thorns that in her bosom lodge to prick and sting her .
i hope , sir , three times thrice , sir- berowne .
shipwreck ' d upon a kingdom , where no pity , no friends , no hope ; no kindred weep
well , while i live , i ' ll fear no other thing so sore as keeping safe nerissa '
set you down this ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
to both these sisters have i sworn my love ; each jealous of the other , as the stung are
earl of northumberland , he slew thy father ; and thine , lord clifford ; and you both have vow
but you ' ll be secret ?
grace she ow ' d , and put it to the foil ; but you , o you , so
no ; that same wicked bastard of venus , that was begot of thought , conceiv ' d of spleen
light , i say , light !
methinks there should be terrors in him , that he should not come ; methinks his flesh is punish '
assist me in my purpose , and , as i am a gentleman , i ' ll give the a
if he have robb ' d these men , he shall be answerable ; and so farewell .
if there come truth from them (as upon thee , macbeth , their speeches shine) why , by the verities
but let it come .
how can these contrarieties agree ?
let us make ready straight .
like bright metal on a sullen ground , my reformation , glitt ' ring o ' er my fault ,
txt and take it from a heart that wishes towards you honour and plenteous safety-that you read the cardinal '
madman !
hast prisoner held , fett ' red in amorous chains , and faster bound to aaron ' s charming eyes
my honour ' d lady , i have forgiven and forgotten all ; though my revenges were high bent upon
not where is that promethean heat that can thy light relume .
come , sir , are you ready for death ?
i thought she had some great matter there in hand ; for she hath privately twice or thrice a day
thou bid ' st me to my loss ; for true to thee were to prove false , which i
brought you caesar home ?
well , i am loath to gall a new-heal ' d wound .
what cracker is this same that deafs our ears with this abundance of superfluous breath ?
enter caesar , antony , lepidus , pompey , agrippa , maecenas , enobarbus , menas , with other captains
a roman valiantly vanquish ' d .
ay , now methinks i hear great warwick speak .
you have not sought it !
drunkenness is his best virtue , for he will be swine-drunk ; and in his sleep he does little harm
_num_ were ' t aught to me i bore the canopy , with my extern the outward honouring , or
my faith and this the princess i did give ; i knew her by this jewel on her sleeve .
i am glad to be constrain ' d to utter that which torments me to conceal .
heard of a world ransom ' d , or one destroyed .
winchester [aside] so help me god , as i intend it not !
towards rome a band of warlike goths , and bid him come and banquet at thy house ; when he
tell me , what are these ?
as i was banish ' d , i was banish ' d hereford ; but as i come , i
[points at oswald .
' a said once the devil would have him about women .
[aside] i am almost afraid to stand alone here in the churchyard ; yet i will adventure .
the dream ' s here still .
know , noble lord , they have devis ' d a mean how he her chamber window will ascend and
why had i one ?
that shalt thou know hereafter .
o imogen , even for whom my life is every breath a death .
enter ghost .
large .
low countries have made a shift to eat up thy holland .
upon the crown o ' th ' cliff what thing was that which parted from you ?
tricks in war .
txt no more , good york ; sweet somerset , be still .
and they are gone .
besides , you know , it draws something near to the speech we had to such a purpose .
ah , never faith could hold , if not to beauty vowed !
you make me study of that .
from charity ?
within the town enter talbot , bedford , burgundy , a captain , and others bedford .
<exeunt all but adriana , luciana , officers , and courtezan say now , whose suit is he arrested at
drop of pity as a wren ' s eye , fear ' d gods , a part of it !
life and scold with her .
profess ' d , to mangle me with that word ' banished ' ?
love is not so great , hortensio , but we may blow our nails together , and fast it fairly
report it .
officers , guards , and other attendants ; spirits scene : london ; westminster ; kimbolton king henry the eighth
god quit you in his mercy !
' er saw syracuse .
meet it is i set it down that one may smile , and smile , and be a villain ;
came , saw , and overcame .
again , there is sprung up an heretic , an arch one , cranmer ; one hath crawl ' d
o , injurious law , that respites me a life whose very comfort is still a dying horror !
by holy paul , they love his grace but lightly that fill his ears with such dissentious rumours .
[draws a knife] messenger .
who then dares to be half so kind again ?
by jupiter , i had it from her arm !
the first that there did greet my stranger soul was my great father-in-law , renowned warwick , who spake aloud
no , pray thee , let it serve for table-talk ; then howsome ' er thou speak ' st ,
wherefore do i this ?
praise be his or no ; so , thrice-fair lady , stand i even so , as doubtful whether what
txt as shore of rock .
this is a devil , and no monster ; i will leave him ; i have no long spoon .
it grieves many .
come , sirrah , let ' s away .
fatal this marriage , cancelling your fame , blotting your names from books of memory , razing the characters of
set on there !
so please your majesty , i would i could quit all offences with as clear excuse as well as i
why , give him gold enough and marry him to a puppet or an aglet-baby , or an old trot
i ' m sure , than ye .
well , in her person , i say i will not have you .
swum ashore , man , like a duck ; i can swim like a duck , i ' ll be
certainly the jew is the very devil incarnation ; and , in my conscience , my conscience is but a
maintain no words with him , good fellow .
him as my kinsman , he ' s a most notable coward , an infinite and endless liar , an
sir , by your patience .
nay , an thou canst not smile as the wind sits , thou ' lt catch cold shortly .
what with aaron now ?
score a pint of bastard in the half-moon , ' or so- but , ned , to drive away the
' tis but her picture i have yet beheld , and that hath dazzled my reason ' s light ;
as hector pleases .
as the coney that you see dwell where she is kindled .
sicilia and bohemia <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world
i have this day receiv ' d a traitor ' s judgment , and by that name must die ;
run , lucius , and commend me to my lord ; say i am merry .
with their swords in hand ; for which their father , then old and fond of issue , took such
if swift thought break it not , a swifter mean shall outstrike thought ; but thought will do ' t
txt prince .
make it gracious .
with weeping tears ' wear these for my sake .
it shall not need ; thy father hath his life .
by his great authority ; which often hath no less prevail ' d than so on your command .
and a fellow that hath had losses ; and one that hath two gowns and everything handsome about him .
friend , look to ' t .
and youthful still , in your doublet and hose , this raw rheumatic day !
i ' ll talk a word with this same learned theban .
' d against thee are all fall ' n upon thee ; and god , not we , hath plagu
so shall my anticipation prevent your discovery , and your secrecy to the king and queen moult no feather .
but where is pucelle now ?
one would take it , that never saw ' em pace before , the spavin or springhalt reign ' d
if you will not murder me for my love , let me be your servant .
enter the players with recorders .
great sudden hest .
the story of the prodigal , or the german hunting , in water-work , is worth a thousand of these
if any such there be , heaven pardon him !
if you dare fight today , come to the field ; if not , when you have stomachs .
take her , fair son , and from her blood raise up issue to me ; that the contending kingdoms
in which time she purpos ' d , by watching , weeping , tendance , kissing , to o '
let this be done : put them in secret holds , both barnardine and claudio .
' husband win , win brother , prays , and destroys the prayer ; no mid-way ' twixt these extremes
and suffer the condition of these times to lay a heavy and unequal hand upon our honours ?
she has light by her page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and we will not , heaven ' s offer we refuse , the proffered means of succour and redress .
to read a lecture of them ?
d the first white hair of my chin .
txt and i dare well maintain it with my life- if well-respected honour bid me on i hold as little
she hath prais ' d him with above compare so many thousand times ?
third .
not only , mistress ford , in the simple office of love , but in all the accoutrement , complement
other ' s come to ' t .
the king ' s a beggar , now the play is done .
if this should ever happen , thou wouldst be horn-mad .
tybalt , that murtherer , which way ran he ?
cupid is a knavish lad , thus to make poor females mad .
players .
dost thou understand me , man ?
my story being done , she gave me for my pains a world of sighs ; she swore , in
what means this , my lord ?
enter king henry , disguised , with a prayer-book king henry .
what hap ?
taste your legs , sir ; put them to motion .
then in god ' s name march .
if my slight muse do please these curious days , the pain be mine , but thine shall be the
terms , as i may , and thaes the humour of it .
how far ' st thou , soldier ?
into my story ; say ' thus mine enemy fell , and thus i set my foot on ' s
cold and empty veins where no blood dwells ; thy deeds inhuman and unnatural provokes this deluge most unnatural .
alas !
falstaff , an ' t please your lordship .
admit him entrance , griffith ; but this fellow let me ne ' er see again .
heed of that ; but , sir , such wanton , wild , and usual slips as are companions noted
there is none but he whose being i do fear ; and under him my genius is rebuked , as
there ' s a cardecue for page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
come now , keep thine oath ; now be a freeman , and with this good sword , that ran
lo , how hollow the fiend speaks within him !
this cloth thou dipp ' dst in blood of my sweet boy , and i with tears do wash the
' he that thou knowest thine , hamlet .
here comes the king .
the count ' s palace enter countess and steward countess .
those that do teach young babes do it with gentle means and easy tasks .
hear the crier .
parolles , was it not ?
injurious time now with a robber ' s haste crams his rich thievery up , he knows not how .
enter posthumus page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
says .
you come to take your stand here , and behold the lady anne pass from her coronation ?
some honest christian trust me with a gage that norfolk lies .
hold your hands , both you of my inclining and the rest .
this throne , this fortune , and this hill , methinks , with one man beckon ' d from the
s crown .
groom .
the young man is an honest man .
, john de la car , one gilbert peck , his chancellor- buckingham .
we drink we die .
a beast , as thou art .
how many gazers mightst thou lead away , if thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state !
with scoffs , and scorns , and contumelious taunts , in open market-place produc ' d they me to be
vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue .
o , flatter me ; for love delights in praises !
and , gentle puck , take this transformed scalp from off the head of this athenian swain , that he
stand close awhile , for here comes one in haste .
he that so generally is at all times good must of necessity hold his virtue to you , whose worthiness
for a queen .
at your return , visit our house ; let our old acquaintance be renewed .
i never sued to friend nor enemy ; my tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word ; but , now
how , out of tune on the strings ?
three thousand ducats- ' tis a good round sum .
a plague upon you , murderers , traitors all !
didst not thou lead him through the glimmering night from perigouna , whom he ravished ?
from me .
own judgments , wherein so curiously he had set this counterfeit .
here is a letter from queen hecuba , a token from her daughter , my fair love , both taxing
who lives that ' s not depraved or depraves ?
forage , and run to meet displeasure farther from the doors and grapple with him ere he come so nigh
yea , sir , we hope .
i ' ll like a maid the better , whilst i have a tooth in my head .
' tis not four days gone since i heard thence ; these are the words- i think i have the
a fool , a fool !
that you may know ' tis no sinister nor no awkward claim , pick ' d from the worm-holes of
gentle breath of yours my sails must fill , or else my project fails , which was to please .
archbishop of york is up with well-appointed pow ' rs .
let us , like merchants , show our foulest wares and think perchance they ' ll sell ; if not
i ' ll warrant they ' ll have him publicly sham ' d ; and methinks there would be no
her natural posture !
i fear we shall stay too long .
their chiefest prospect murd ' ring basilisks !
make your best use of this ; i have perform ' d your pleasure and my promise .
o , musicians , because my heart itself plays ' my heart is full of woe .
true ?
the frontiers of mantua .
enter melun , wounded melun .
wouldst thou , if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously temper ' d as mine is
enter cassius and his powers .
and so conduct me where , from company , i may revolve and ruminate my grief .
he ' s alive , my lord .
a shepherd ' s daughter , and what to her adheres , which follows after , is th ' argument
my woman ?
my lord , this is one lucio ' s information against me .
youth , you have done me much ungentleness to show the letter that i writ to you .
no , on the barren mountains let him starve !
use your authority ; if you cannot , give thanks you have liv ' d so long , and make
bloody on the business ; but with colours fairer painted their foul ends .
father saith- holofernes .
i shall inform them .
i have wedded her , not bedded her ; and sworn to make the " not " eternal .
the witch shall die .
and that most deeply to consider is the beauty of his daughter ; he himself calls her a nonpareil .
god be wi ' you !
how hard it is for women to keep counsel !
i sent your grace the parcels and particulars of our grief , the which hath been with scorn shov '
we burn daylight .
heaven comfort her !
my lord , i dare not .
so fair and excellent ladies any thing .
o , if it prove , tempests are kind , and salt waves fresh in love !
if , one by one , you wedded all the world , or from the all that are took something
it is some poor fragment , some slender ort of his remainder .
richard and clarence whisper] warwick .
hath left so shapeless and so rude .
most dearly welcome !
if without peril it be possible , sweet blunt , make some good means to speak with him and give
glow of scorn and proud disdain , go hence a little , and i shall conduct you , if you
beadle to a humorous sigh ; a critic , nay , a night-watch constable ; a domineering pedant o '
alas , poor chin !
enter alonso , sebastian , antonio , ferdinand gonzalo , and others alonso .
the feats he hath done about turnbull street ; and every third word a lie , duer paid to the
but for all this , when i shall tread upon the tyrant ' s head , or wear it on
' twill out , ' twill .
part in me upon good friday , and ne ' er broke his fast .
' d then this law : to wit , no female should be inheritrix in salique land ; which salique
exeunt troilus and diomedes fighting enter hector hector .
have you no countermand for claudio yet but he must die to-morrow ?
frenchman .
he lies tonight within seven leagues of rome .
marry , your manhood mew !
stalls , and all things answerable to this portion .
in happy time .
i am glad on ' t .
alas , i blame you not , for you are mortal , and mortal eyes cannot endure the devil .
did he never make you laugh ?
well , diana , take heed of this french earl ; the honour of a maid is her name ,
enter brabantio , roderigo , and officers with torches and weapons .
[aside] they ' re here with me already ; whisp ' ring , rounding , ' sicilia is a so-forth
ay , marry , is ' t- crowner ' s quest law .
and what needs these tricks ?
lives , our children , and our heirs .
no port is free , no place that guard and most unusual vigilance does not attend my taking .
o pisanio !
how much is it ?
' tis gone !
mistress of the house .
zounds , an i were at the strappado or all the racks in the world , i would not tell
regan , i think you are ; i know what reason i have to think so .
i was , my lord .
her) , dido a dowdy , cleopatra a gypsy , helen and hero hildings and harlots , this be a
he unseam ' d him from the nave to the chaps , and fix ' d his head upon our
weapons ?
well deserv ' d .
txt you beastly knave , know you no reverence ?
] thou wretched , rash , intruding fool , farewell !
all her wealth .
; howe ' er , i charge thee , as heaven shall work in me for thine avail , to
why , that ' s the way to fool their preparation and to conquer their most absurd intents .
fall a drop of water in the breaking gulf , and take unmingled thence that drop again without addition or
but to the girdle do the gods inherit , beneath is all the fiend ' s .
>> scene : a ship at sea ; afterwards an uninhabited island the tempest act i .
here catesby comes again .
why , know you not ?
come , we ' ll to sleep .
you say you do not know the lady ' s mind .
signior leonato , truth it is , good signior , your niece regards me with an eye of favour .
yet tell me not , for i have heard it all .
what zeal , what fury hath inspir ' d thee now ?
yet show some pity .
my lord cardinal , you that are blam ' d for it alike with us , know you of this
txt whose maiden blood , thus rigorously effus ' d , will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven
txt till i again see mine .
our states are forfeit ; seek not to undo us .
i did think thee , for two ordinaries , to be a pretty wise fellow ; thou didst make tolerable
and not a man for being simply man hath any honour , but honour for those honours that are without
) taught me to shift into a madman ' s rags , t ' assume a semblance that very dogs
he , he ; i can never hit on ' s name .
i prophesy the fearfull ' st time to thee that ever wretched age hath look ' d upon .
that columbine .
[aside] and how his silence drinks up this applause !
bounty can enforce you .
what years , i ' faith ?
my lord , i am guiltless , as i am ignorant of what hath mov ' d you .
stay , countrymen .
incestuous .
o that i serv ' d that lady , and might not be delivered to the world , till i
his sole child , my lord , and bequeathed to my overlooking .
if i lov ' d many words , lord , i should tell you you have as little honesty as
you dare .
i may make my case as claudio ' s , to cross this in the page _num_ complete works of
nay , mock not , mock not .
have i sought every country far and near , and , now it is my chance to find thee out
his neck will come to your waist- a cord , sir .
that handkerchief which i so loved and gave thee thou gavest to cassio .
caesar doth bear me hard , but he loves brutus .
methinks , to steal our marriage ; which once perform ' d , let all the world say no ,
your minion , whom i know you love , and whom , by heaven i swear , i tender dearly
but if i spar ' d any that had a head to hit , either young or old , he
' s flown to her desir ' d posthumus .
o villain , that set this down among her vices !
nay , and the villains march wide betwixt the legs , as if they had gyves on ; for indeed
in your mind ; the which you were now running o ' er .
hail , most royal sir !
your lordship is the most patient man in loss , the most coldest that ever turn ' d up ace
' tis an unweeded garden that grows to seed ; things rank and gross in nature possess it merely .
my husband , then ?
kneel not , gentle portia .
a bugbear take him !
hasty and tinder-like upon too trivial motion ; one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with
come , shall we in and taste lord timon ' s bounty ?
me ?
borachio , follower of don john .
do not fret yourself too much in the action , mounsieur ; and , good mounsieur , have a care
thou dost give me flattering busses .
how , how , cordelia ?
no ; i will not cast away my physic but on those that are sick .
good proceeding , strength ' ned with what apology you think may make it probable need .
within my tent his bones tonight shall lie , most like a soldier , ordered honorably .
exeunt all but ford ford .
dost dialogue with thy shadow ?
enter fluellen and gower gower .
he thinks not worthy , yet he wooes , yet will he swear he loves .
, no doublet .
that is one of the points in the which women still give the lie to their consciences .
would i knew the villain !
i will be assur ' d i may ; and , that i may be assured , i will bethink
i send this written embassage to witness duty , not to show my wit .
bid farewell to your sisters .
exeunt king richard , some lords and a guard bolingbroke .
i do despise a liar as i do despise one that is false ; or as i despise one that
a poor pennyworth in the english .
why , noble lords , will you be put in mind of his blind fortune , which was your shame
, tails of wasps ; give scandal to the blood o ' th ' prince , my son- who i
within the bond of marriage , tell me , brutus , is it excepted i should know no secrets that
when i ' ll depose i had him in mine arms , with all th ' effect of love .
but , my gentle queen , where is our daughter ?
induction .
good sir , we must , if you keep covenant .
[kneeling] it is my duty t ' attend your highness ' pleasure .
come forth , sirrah .
' kind cousin ' - o , the devil take such cozeners !
s torn , thou show ' st a noble vessel .
help !
ah , son lucius , look on her !
let not your private discord keep away the levied succours that should lend him aid , while he , renowned
i fear my julia would not deign my lines , receiving them from such a worthless post .
bolingbroke ?
hem them away .
an apothecary .
i did reek , when i first mov ' d you .
i will fetch you a toothpicker now from the furthest inch of asia ; bring you the length of prester
- fare you well .
with sir oliver martext , the vicar of the next village , who hath promis ' d to meet me
then would i hide my bones , not rest them here .
why , as a woodcock to mine own springe , osric .
whiles we are suitors to their throne , decays the thing we sue for .
before cleopatra ' s palace enter a company of soldiers first soldier .
therein thou wrong ' st thy children mightily .
why in this wolvish toge should i stand here to beg of hob and dick that do appear their needless
eyes of blood presented thee more hideous than thou art .
' tis the cardinal ; and merely to revenge him on the emperor for not bestowing on him at his
farewell , york ' s wife , and queen of sad mischance ; these english woes shall make me smile
nay , this was but his dream .
half an hour pass .
hall in the castle .
believe me , sirs , we shall be charg ' d again .
, let them hang themselves in their own straps .
well , an the fire of grace be not quite out of thee , now shalt thou be moved .
go with the king ; and take with you free power to ratify , augment , or alter , as
bestow it : till whatsoever star that guides my moving , points on me graciously with fair aspect , and
seest thou here , this is the mouth o ' th ' cell ; no noise , and enter .
romans , of five and twenty valiant sons , half of the number that king priam had , behold the
o vain fool !
but that the tennis-court-keeper knows better than i ; for it is a low ebb of linen with thee when
i led them on in this distracted fear , and left sweet pyramus translated there ; when in that moment
is this a place to roar in ?
txt for i have ever verified my friends- of whom he ' s chief- with all the size that verity
, can him with all th ' applause-and clamour of the host , caius marcius coriolanus .
titus , unkind , and careless of thine own , why suffer ' st thou thy sons , unburied yet
a dinner ; for which , i hope , thou felt ' st i was displeas ' d .
sir walter blunt .
multitude , where every something , being blent together , turns to a wild of nothing , save of joy
enter cassio .
god-a-mercy , grumio !
he likewise enrich ' d poor straggling soldiers with great quantity .
of the shepherds ; for his best friends , if they should say ' be good to rome ' -
come therefore , let ' s about it speedily .
now cursed be the time of thy nativity .
heavens shield lysander , if they mean a fray !
o excellent motion !
re-enter baptista , gremio , and tranio here comes your father .
what say ' st thou , boy ?
i ' ll rhyme you so eight years together , dinners , and page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
had he himself eternity and could put breath into his work , would beguile nature of her custom , so
quick , quick ; we ' ll come dress you straight .
but go thy ways ; go , give that changing piece to him that flourish ' d for her with
my lord , they say five moons were seen to-night ; four fixed , and the fifth did whirl about
according to the fair play of the world , let me have audience : i am sent to speak .
' red with those five talents .
come , come , and sit you down .
txt that i have turn ' d away my former self ; so will i those that kept me company
well , i will smite his noddles .
thus is the poor agent despis ' d !
o though i love what others do abhor , with others thou shouldst not abhor my state .
for well using me ?
time to be honest .
[to laertes] strengthen your patience in our last night ' s speech .
study is like the heaven ' s glorious sun , that will not be deep-search ' d with saucy looks
yet if thy thoughts , bianca , be so humble to cast thy wand ' ring eyes on every stale-
her brothers , me , her master , hitting each object with a joy ; the counterchange is severally in
come , noble burgundy .
stand naked , and entreat them for my wounds ' sake to give their suffrage .
ottomites .
never have you tasted our reward , or been reguerdon ' d with so much as thanks , because till
woe me !
receive what cheer you may , the night is long that never finds the day .
beware of entrance to a quarrel ; but being in , bear ' t that th ' opposed may beware
would it were day !
what her is this ?
-to overcome .
this is strange now .
, do curse the grace that with such grace hath blest them , because myself do want my servants '
good time of day unto my gracious lord !
i know when one is dead , and when one lives .
nay , when i have a suit wherein i mean to touch your love indeed , it shall be full
strong-jointed samson !
there ' s language in her eye , her cheek , her lip , nay , her foot speaks ;
is not this helen ?
look you sad , friends ?
; and as i came along i met and overtook a dozen captains , bare-headed , sweating , knocking at
my gentle varrius !
[aside] i know not what to say ; my title ' s weak .
send your trunk to me ; it shall safe be kept and truly yielded you .
say i will love her everlastingly .
that defence thou hast , betake thee tot .
his company must do his minions grace , whilst i at home starve for a merry look .
they draw on both sides .
nay , i can gleek upon occasion .
so i shall mend mine own by th ' lack of thine .
than our parents ' noble names , in whose success we are gentle- i beseech you , if you know
it to call king edward ' s widow sister- i will perform it to enfranchise you .
txt mess .
fine word- ' legitimate ' !
be not self-willed for thou art much too fair , to be death ' s conquest and make worms thine
france , triumph in thy glorious prophetess .
to follow caesar in his triumph , since thou hast been whipt for following him .
be the lord on ' t .
where ' s richard gone ?
come , lead me to the block ; bear him my head .
all is outward sorrow , though i think the king be touch ' d at very heart .
henceforward do your messages yourself .
since the first sword was drawn about this question , every tithe soul ' mongst many thousand dismes hath been
and may you prove , sir , master of your art !
from the city ' s side , so early walking did i see your son .
he lives that loves thee better than he could .
exit salisbury .
by her i claim the kingdom : she was heir to roger earl of march , who was the son
, and appoint the meeting even at his father ' s house , the old andronicus .
into the air , and what seem ' d corporal melted as breath into the wind .
my coin .
i love no colours ; and , without all colour of base insinuating flattery , i pluck this white rose
here in this country , where we now remain .
txt re-enter bigot and attendants , who bring in king john in a chair king john .
capitol and senate ' s right , whom you pretend to honour and adore , that you withdraw you and
the earl of westmoreland set forth to-day ; with him my son , lord john of lancaster ; for this
offend the stream of regular justice in your city ' s bounds , but shall be render ' d to
' s power he would have made them mules , silenc ' d their pleaders , and dispropertied their freedoms
[ whispers in ' s ear ] forbear me till anon- this wine for lepidus !
replies .
is there any harm in ' the heavier for a husband ' ?
conceives by me !
her suit is now to repossess those lands ; which we in justice cannot well deny , because in quarrel
[to antigonus] thou dotard , thou art woman-tir ' d , unroosted by thy dame partlet here .
what , shall we toward the tower ?
ten and eleven ?
no more , cousin .
fie , fie !
the forum enter sicinius and brutus brutus .
pray , masters !
we ' ll teach him to know turtles from jays .
stay , officer ; he shall not go to prison .
you shall hear one anon .
adjudg ' d to death .
abominable gloucester , guard thy head , for i intend to have it ere long .
no , sir , the worse .
nay , it shall ne ' er be said , while england stands , that alexander iden , an esquire
exit boyet who are the votaries , my loving lords , that are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke ?
unmoving finger at !
so i do , madonna ; but to read his right wits is to read thus ; therefore perpend ,
i love benedick well , and i could wish he would modestly examine himself to see how much he is
dear isabel , i have a motion much imports your good ; whereto if you ' ll a willing ear
our mistress ' sorrows we were pitying .
and , lavinia , thou shalt be employ ' d in this ; bear thou my hand , sweet wench
methought the billows spoke , and told me of it ; the winds did sing it to me ; and
refuse .
duke senior .
go to ; i stand the push of your one thing that you will tell .
i am the king , for so stands the comparison ; thou the beggar , for so witnesseth thy lowliness
we ' ll yet enlarge that man , though cambridge , scroop , and grey , in their dear care
now , good angels preserve the king !
; therefore , courage , good aliena .
he lov ' d her , sir , and lov ' d her not .
world for no honest use ; therefore you must die .
what , durst not tempt him ?
what , brutus ?
servants to cornwall .
suffer thy brother marcus to inter his noble nephew here in virtue ' s nest , that died in honour
o , who hath done this deed ?
' er so mean , but ' banished ' to kill me- ' banished ' ?
dost thou look up ?
then hie you hence to friar laurence ' cell ; there stays a husband to make you a wife .
more from picking of purses than giving direction doth from labouring : thou layest the plot how .
banished .
a banqueting hall in timon ' s house music .
whilst i remember her and her virtues , i cannot forget my blemishes in them , and so still think
your ships are not well mann ' d ; your mariners are muleteers , reapers , people ingross ' d
exeunt king and queen , [with attendants] .
i pray thee chide not .
silence .
unlocks the door .
bleat softly , then ; the butcher hears you cry .
most ungrateful maid !
if it be aught to the old tune , my lord , it is as fat and fulsome to mine
our roses , and yet thy tongue will not confess thy error .
have with you , mine host .
be innocent of the knowledge , dearest chuck , till thou applaud the deed .
murther and treason !
mine own room again ; making so bold (my fears forgetting manners) to unseal their grand commission ; where i
good lord , how like the empress ' sons they are !
fairies , be gone , and be all ways away .
perpend my words , o signieur dew , and mark : o signieur dew , thou diest on point of
meet me and gratiano at gratiano ' s lodging some hour hence .
love had spoke , ever since it could speak , from an infant , freely , that it was yours
do you not hear me speak ?
i hold your dainties cheap , sir , and your welcome dear .
i like the new tire within excellently , if the hair were a thought browner ; and your gown '
bawd is he doubtless , and of antiquity , too ; bawd-born .
most certain , sir .
sober house .
in cash most justly paid .
gentle physic , given in time , had cur ' d me ; but now i am past all comforts
i ' ll kill my horse , because i will not fly .
why , do you not know him ?
we ' ll lead you thither .
how then ?
on your attendance , my lord , here .
friends both , go join you with some further aid .
my gracious lord , entreat him , speak him fair .
, and tell him so .
and wilt thou still be hammering treachery to tumble down thy husband and thyself from top of honour to disgrace
dare you be so bold ?
welcome , good sir john .
brutus is ta ' en , brutus is ta ' en , my lord .
exit baptista .
how if fair and foolish ?
rey .
the market-place ; and then i offer ' d her mine own , who is a dog as big as
exit king with train aumerle .
i talk of that that know it .
well , i say it was never merry world in england since gentlemen came up .
fellow , give place ; here is no longer stay .
it is enough ; i ' ll think upon the questions ; when from saint albans we do make return
enter sir toby and sir andrew sir toby .
thy bastard shall be king , that thou mayst be a queen and check the world !
you make my bonds still greater .
if thou dost seek to have what thou dost hide , by self-example mayst thou be denied .
get you gone , you dwarf ; you minimus , of hind ' ring knot-grass made ; you bead ,
hath yet the deputy sent my brother ' s pardon ?
whiles i see lives , the gashes do better upon them .
flow this way !
and so am i , being else by faith enforc ' d to call young claudio to a reckoning for
enter lady faulconbridge , and james gurney o me , ' tis my mother !
i am denied to sue my livery here , and yet my letters patents give me leave .
recompens ' d as thought on .
what dish o ' poison has she dress ' d him !
thou wert better gall the devil , salisbury .
now you are heir , therefore enjoy it now .
thin air ; and , like the baseless fabric of this vision , the cloud-capp ' d towers , the
ros .
from my master , sir proteus , madam .
[drums and trumpets sound , with great shouts of the people] first conspirator .
course disturb ' d even thy confining shores , unless thou let his silver water keep a peaceful progress to
what , are there masques ?
if ye will needs say i am an old man , you should give me rest .
, ' &c .
i ' ll have some proof .
clarence , clarence , for lancaster !
to lynn , my lord ; and shipt from thence to flanders .
' tis no trusting to yond foolish lout , but chiefly for thy face and thy behaviour , which ,
may the world know them ?
made scruple of his praise , and wager ' d with him pieces of gold ' gainst this which then
underneath the yoke of government .
richard .
enter falstaff .
s meat ?
, the conjurer ?
then doth it well appear the salique law was not devised for the realm of france ; nor did the
txt norfolk .
but now he ' s gone , and my idolatrous fancy must sanctify his relics .
mine , sir .
, he should have had a volume of farewells ; but since it would not , he had none of
, gentleman attending on the duke sir toby belch , uncle of olivia sir andrew aguecheek malvolio , steward to
unkindness may do much , and his unkindness may defeat my life , but never taint my love .
ay , marry , now unmuzzle your wisdom .
my griefs cry louder than advertisement .
if all the world could have seen ' t , the woe had been universal .
[sleeps .
so it is .
[sings] the god of love , that sits above and knows me , and knows me , how pitiful i
here , noble lord ; what is thy will with her ?
hence from her !
his grace hath made the match , and all grace say amen to it !
you stay ' d well by ' t in egypt .
i may live .
dost thou know dover ?
laud we the gods ; and let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils from our bless ' d altars
they stay upon your patience .
i will speak with you further anon .
quarrel , fortune , do divorce it from the bearer , ' tis a sufferance panging as soul and body
what cross devil made me put this main secret in the packet i sent the king ?
accusativo , hung , hang , hog .
no shame but mine ; i must , forsooth , be forc ' d to give my hand , oppos
fortune , good night ; smile once more , turn thy wheel .
you are my father , for methinks in you i see old gaunt alive .
' so far i read aloud ; but even the very middle of my heart is warm ' d by
swagger ?
canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile , and touch thy instrument a strain or two ?
yes , truly ; i speak not as desiring more , but rather wishing a more strict restraint upon the
cursy , and say , ' father , as it please me .
this house is little ; the old man and ' s people cannot be well bestow ' d .
exeunt citizens coriolanus .
who comes with him ?
too low a mistress for so high a servant .
from the mart .
good my mother , peace !
who ever yet could sound thy bottom ?
i would i could see this taborer ; he lays it on .
i will keep where there is wit stirring , and leave the faction of fools .
to be a make-peace shall become my age .
almost i had .
an we shall be merry , now comes in the sweet o ' th ' night .
noble timon , what friendship may i do thee ?
kneel , and pray your mother ' s blessing .
of one or both of us the time is come .
see .
case may do .
plucks out brains and all .
but have given largely to many to know what she would have given ; briefly , i have pursu '
o that there were some virtue in my tears , that might relieve you !
lavinia , shall i read ?
our remedy .
filth , thou liest !
thou know ' st not me .
i ' ll call thee hamlet , king , father , royal dane .
runs posting on in bolingbroke ' s proud joy , while i stand fooling here , his jack of the
i do not , sir .
i am shent for speaking to you .
i must read this paper ; i fear , the story of his anger .
dower , i would not wish any companion in the world but you ; nor can imagination form a shape
now put your shields before your hearts , and fight with hearts more proof than shields .
will you send him , mistress , redemption , the money in his desk ?
known .
will you walk in to see their gossiping ?
[solemn music] belarius .
peopled with wolves , thy old inhabitants !
i am blest in your acquaintance .
' d the dead bodies .
' exeunt <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library
shalt have my hammer ; and here , tom , take all the money that i have .
what is that barnardine who is to be executed in th ' afternoon ?
who , without those means thou talk ' st of , didst thou ever know belov ' d ?
roared , and the bear mock ' d him , both roaring louder than the sea or weather .
i knew him as myself ; for from our infancy we have convers ' d and spent our hours together
why , none , why , none- a slipper and subtle knave , a finder out of occasions , that
i am damn ' d in hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends you were good soldiers and tall fellows
how you delight , my lords , i know not , i ; but i protest i love to hear
i ' th ' mire .
fortune is merry , and in this mood will give us anything .
y ' are welcome , sir , and he for your good sake ; page _num_ complete works of william
in manner and form following , sir ; all those three : i was seen with her in the manor-house
issue of your blood upon your daughter .
well , god ' s above all , and there be souls must be saved , and there be souls
i have a letter from her of such contents as you will wonder at ; the mirth whereof so larded
his friends , like physicians , thrice give him over .
writ ; his study is his tilt-yard , and his loves are brazen images of canonized saints .
my lord of hereford here , whom you call king , is a foul traitor to proud hereford ' s
i made me no more ado but took all their seven points in my target , thus .
i shall anon advise you further in the proceeding .
if he be taken , he shall never more be fear ' d of doing harm .
st thy words before thou givest them breath , therefore these stops of thine fright me the more ; for
all gold !
and what ' s his reason ?
no , pray thee , good meg , i ' ll wear this .
; pursuing that that flies , and flying what pursues .
o rare fortune !
say , to hear music the general does not greatly care .
show me thy humble heart , and not thy knee , whose duty is deceivable and false .
know him !
in faith , my hand meant nothing to my sword .
we will before the walls of rome to-morrow set down our host .
but the law will not allow it , pompey ; nor it shall not be allowed in vienna .
the tender love i bear your grace , my lord , makes me most forward in this princely presence to
conference with warwick .
why , you must not speak that yet ; that you answer to pyramus .
by heaven , i think there is no man is secure but the queen ' s kindred , and night-walking
now all is done , have what shall have no end , mine appetite i never more will grind on
cressid lay that night .
army is dispers ' d and scatter ' d ; and he himself wand ' red away alone , no
happy is your grace , that can translate the stubbornness of fortune into so quiet and so sweet a style
i met a courier , one mine ancient friend , whom , though in general part we were oppos '
as my soul .
they are , my lord , without the palace gate .
txt first to my god and next unto your grace .
stare ?
come , we stay too long .
, no doubt we bring it to a happy issue .
exit scene iv .
fright us with it .
pay .
therefore , to arms .
, their heads are both one ; they may jowl horns together like any deer i ' th ' herd
thither will i with you ; for little office will the hateful commons perform for us , except eke curs
take it up straight .
i am forc ' d to lay my reverence by and , with grey hairs and bruise of many days
the dauphin ' s camp at saint edmundsbury enter , in arms , lewis , salisbury , melun , pembroke
i would fain learn to lie .
we have that to your wanting may be minist ' red .
i shall ne ' er see such a fellow .
we grace the yeoman by conversing with him .
produce the grand sum of his sins , the articles collected from his life .
shortly , i believe , his second marriage shall be publish ' d , and her coronation .
simple of itself ; i ' ll no pullet-sperm in my brewage .
the lady beatrice into a mountain of affection th ' one with th ' other .
you have hit it .
enter another messenger fourth messenger .
hath bolingbroke depos ' d thine intellect ?
' tis pitiful , but yet iago knows that she with cassio hath the act of shame a thousand times
their estates that never they shall abound as formerly .
the man i ' th ' moon !
things small as nothing , for request ' s sake only , he makes important ; possess ' d he
' say you so , say you so ?
no man ' s pie is freed from his ambitious finger .
monday !
and cornwall ; who have (as who have not , that their great stars thron ' d and set high
she is her master ' s maid and serves for wages .
where is lucentio ?
harry the fourth- or fifth ?
two beggars told me i could not miss my way .
why look you sad ?
mine old master , vicentio !
you must know , till the injurious romans did extort this tribute from us , we were free .
' s surely dead .
concerns more than avails ; for as thy brat hath been cast out , like to itself , no father
txt marcus .
what , have you got the picture of old adam new-apparell ' d ?
exeunt gaolers posthumus .
it was proclaimed a year ' s imprisonment to be taken with a wench .
s a most rare fashion , i ' faith .
but now married to one above itself .
caius .
i have sworn an oath that i will have my bond .
come , go with us ; we ' ll look to that anon .
unspotted is not easily daunted .
txt in , two bushels of chaff : you shall seek all day ere you find them , and when
tarry , rash wanton ; am not i thy lord ?
lim ' d , was caught , and kill ' d .
prithee put up .
lucentio !
the more fool you for laying on my duty .
forslow no longer ; make we hence amain .
let good antonio look he keep his day , or he shall pay for this .
why , villain , thou must know first .
sicinius !
for one of them- she ' s in hell already , and burns poor souls .
chanced in the times of old .
, let it come .
it is engender ' d .
, the other to enjoy by rage and war .
thus doth he force the swords of wicked men to turn their own points in their masters ' bosoms .
i pray you , let me look upon the bond .
fear , was took .
' tis unnatural , even like the deed that ' s done .
how so , sir ; did she change her determination ?
no more shall trenching war channel her fields , nor bruise her flow ' rets with the armed hoofs of
where is thy brother bassianus ?
an you lie , sirrah , we ' ll have you whipp ' d .
] i do beseech you that i may speak with you , o , good my lord !
a visor for a visor !
, short blist ' red breeches , and those types of travel and understand again like honest men , or
i have fled myself , and have instructed cowards to run and show their shoulders .
without you !
as we pac ' d along upon the giddy footing of the hatches , methought that gloucester stumbled , and
on , and help to set a head on headless rome .
your charm so strongly works ' em that if you now beheld them your affections would become tender .
what says romeo ?
txt a woman ' s shape doth shield thee .
, save to his bedclothes about him ; but they know his conditions and lay him in straw .
charmian !
light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn ; if so , our copper buys no better treasure .
bear me like a true friar .
ay , and more .
if you do love old men , if your sweet sway allow obedience- if yourselves are old , make it
txt of what we blame him for !
constancy , and to enlighten thee gave eyes to blindness , or made them swear against the thing they see
the well-lost life of mine on his grace ' s cure .
my dearest husband , i something fear my father ' s wrath , but nothing- always reserv ' d my
; the which observ ' d , a man may prophesy , with a near aim , of the main
come , kiss ; and let us part .
an if i wist he did-but let it rest ; other affairs must now be managed .
my faction if thou strengthen with thy friends , i will most thankful be ; and thanks to men of
those that i reverence , those i fear- the wise : at fools i laugh , not fear them .
why , what a shame was this !
come , go , good juliet .
it much would please him that of his fortunes you should make a staff to lean upon .
a thousand crowns , or else lay down your head .
they were traitors .
you serve , you might condemn us as poisonous of your honour .
be men like blasted woods , and may diseases lick up their false bloods !
ay , apemantus .
the palace flourish .
then at my farm i have a hundred milch-kine to the pail , six score fat oxen standing in my
' tis a chough ; but , as i say , spacious in the possession of dirt .
he , true knight , no lesser of her honour confident than i did truly find her , stakes this
i would out-night you , did no body come ; but , hark , i hear the footing of a
in honesty i bid for you as i ' d buy .
o ' th ' floor ; his arms thus leagu ' d .
if you can look into the seeds of time , and say which grain will grow and which will not
what says th ' almanac to that ?
; two bosoms interchained with an oath , so then two bosoms and a single troth .
how he solicits heaven , himself best knows ; but strangely-visited people , all swol ' n and ulcerous ,
caesar sends greetings to the queen of egypt , and bids thee study on what fair demands thou mean '
but for all that , to my thinking , he would fain have had it .
good father ' s sake ; and , on my life , his malice ' gainst the lady will suddenly
sir , this young fellow ' s mother could ; whereupon she grew round-womb ' d , and had indeed
cheek ; and yet he will not stick to say his face is a face-royal .
but it sufficeth that the day will end , and then the end is known .
, lord cardinal .
you must , sir , change persons with me ere you make that my report ; you , indeed ,
not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy and vengeance bitter ; but those that are germane to
i love thee not , therefore pursue me not .
first , make yourself but like one .
whate ' er it be , be thou still like thyself , and sit thee by our side .
go to , go to ; you have known what you should not .
practices against his state .
dews fall everywhere .
you foolish shepherd , wherefore do you follow her , like foggy south , puffing with wind and rain ?
i have nothing with this answer , hamlet .
o , let me have no subject enemies when adverse foreigners affright my towns with dreadful pomp of stout invasion
, wales , which calls me pupil or hath read to me ?
[a noise within] here ' s goodly work !
the time is come even now .
than thou learn a prayer without book .
wild beasts .
beshrew his soul for me !
gentleman .
that he consents , if warwick yield consent , for on thy fortune i repose myself .
master person , quasi pers-one .
his sons he there proclaim ' d the kings of kings : great media , parthia , and armenia ,
first kiss me , kate , and we will .
no , thou arrant knave ; i would to god that i might die , that i might have thee
and ethiopes of their sweet complexion crack .
i partly know the man .
the cry went once on thee , and still it might , and yet it may again , if thou
no , lad ; teach me .
txt the silver livery of advised age , and in thy reverence and thy chair-days thus to die in ruffian
antony is valiant and dejected ; and by starts his fretted fortunes give him hope and fear of what he
we had a kind of light what would ensue .
justice .
, and kill the innocent gazer with thy sight ; for in the shade of death i shall find joy-
ah , villain !
to pawn my plate , so god save me , la !
and wear it as a favour ; and with that he would unhorse the lustiest challenger .
as he comes along , his arms are only to remove from thee the duke of somerset , whom he
no ; let my father seek another heir .
i would all the world might be cozen ' d , for i have been cozen ' d and beaten
a murd ' rous guilt shows not itself more soon than love that would seem hid : love ' s
come , come , i know thou wast set on to this .
[stabs his arm .
thence comes it that my name receives a brand , and almost thence my nature is subdued to what it
enter citizens .
the sight of any of the house of york is as a fury to torment my soul ; and till
who ' s his lieutenant , hear you ?
as little joy , my lord , as you suppose you should enjoy were you this country ' s king
but , master mayor , if henry be your king , yet edward at the least is duke of york
weep ' st thou for him to my face ?
sir , i thank you ; by yea and no , i do .
i ' ll not be juggled with : to hell , allegiance !
, like a dew-drop from the lion ' s mane , be shook to airy air .
brave warriors , march amain towards coventry .
slaughter coupled to the name of kings .
vere is mistress page ?
why dost thou converse with that trunk of humours , that bolting hutch of beastliness , that swoll ' n
by this hand , claudio shall render me a dear account .
have at you now !
your gambols ?
i am sorry then you have so lost a father that you must lose a husband .
now get thee hence : the king , thou know ' st , is coming ; if thou be found
under your sentence ?
enter , below , antony , borne by the guard cleopatra .
the courses of his youth promis ' d it not .
why muse you , sir ?
so through lud ' s town march ; and in the temple of great jupiter our peace we ' ll
take her away , i do not like her now ; to prison with her .
are ?
doth any one accuse york for a traitor ?
by playing it to me with so sour a face .
o devil !
more villain : you , my lord , do but mistake .
why , i am glad on ' t .
, and sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine , robbed others ' beds ' revenues of their
vent of thy travel ; it might pass .
he a captain !
the rest of their company from their sport , to make another experiment of his suspicion .
his deeds exceed all speech : he ne ' er lift up his hand but conquered .
how canst thou part sadness and melancholy , my tender juvenal ?
hold , hurt him not , for god ' s sake !
lady , i will commend you to mine own heart .
nay , answer me .
doth not thy blood thrill at it ?
where hast thou been , my heart ?
either our history shall with full mouth speak freely of our acts , or else our grave , page _num_
thy comforts can do me no good at all ; thee they may hurt .
miserable england !
where , good mistress mary ?
good father , tell her that she and my aunt percy shall follow in your conduct speedily .
thus it stands : her elder sister is so curst and shrewd that , till the father rid his hands
i prithee speak .
the king and prince at prayers !
indeed , madam ?
how now , my noble friend ?
father , i charge thee , by thy reverence , here to unfold- though lately we intended to keep in
upon the stroke of four .
[drawing and driving pistol out] hostess .
[exit hostess .
sir walter herbert sir william brandon sir robert brakenbury , lieutenant of the tower christopher urswick , a priest lord
let him do his spite .
to flow , we now present .
samingo .
axle-tree on which heaven rides , knit all the greekish ears to his experienc ' d tongue-yet let it please
cares for thee , and for thy maintenance commits his body to painful labour both by sea and land ,
' d my father father .
fame ; of parents good , of fist most valiant .
hid his crisp head in the hollow bank , bloodstained with these valiant cohabitants .
good duke , receive thy daughter ; hymen from heaven brought her , yea , brought her hither , that
' widow dido ' said you ?
if you but said so , ' twere as deep with me .
look you , sir , here comes your ghostly father .
but come , for england !
concern much .
an ' t please your worship , there ' s one pistol come from the court with news .
now , good mistress anne- anne .
the poor last i lay upon thy lips .
of all these ears-for where i am robb ' d and bound , there must i be unloos ' d
hast thou met with him ?
curster than she ?
those girls of italy , take heed of them ; they say our french lack language to deny , if
because your lordship was proclaimed traitor .
robin starveling , you must play thisby ' s mother .
if you shall please so , pilgrim .
into the trick of singularity .
with sands , and rocks .
glamis and cawdor , a general in the king ' s army lady macbeth , his wife macduff , thane
either forbear , quit presently the chapel , or resolve you for more amazement .
thanks , good sir .
' will ' , will fulfil the treasure of thy love , ay , fill it full with wills ,
if eyes corrupt by over-partial looks , be anchored in the bay where all men ride , why of eyes
now will i question cassio of bianca , a housewife that by selling her desires buys herself bread and clothes
[stabs him] queen margaret .
even so ?
first officer .
show now your mended faiths , and instantly return with me again to push destruction and perpetual shame out of
hail !
, to make thy riches pleasant .
are at hand , triumphantly displayed , to enter conquerors , and to proclaim arthur of britaine england ' s
lo now , if it lay in their hands to make me a cuckold , they would make themselves whores
now cracks a noble heart .
how sad he looks ; sure , he is much afflicted .
talk us to silence .
txt like turkish mute , shall have a tongueless mouth , not worshipp ' d with a waxen epitaph .
thus have i , wall , my part discharged so ; and , being done , thus wall away doth
if signior leonato be her father , she would not have his head on her shoulders for all messina ,
in all thy deeds .
at first i stuck my choice upon her , ere my heart durst make too bold herald of my tongue
did he not , contrary to form of law , devise strange deaths for small offences done ?
this disease is beyond my practice .
west .
and most opportune to her need i have a vessel rides fast by , but not prepar ' d for
ease my mind !
nay , let him alone .
but what is your affair in elsinore ?
hast thou observ ' d that ?
no vessel can peep forth but ' tis as soon taken as seen ; for pompey ' s name strikes
o child !
i have nothing to do with thee .
a soldier .
if thou hast slain lysander in his sleep , being o ' er shoes in blood , plunge in the
base ignoble wretch !
sir thurio borrows his wit from your ladyship ' s looks , and spends what he page _num_ complete works
good hay , sweet hay , hath no fellow .
to yonder point ?
let ' s obey his humour a little further .
o , thus i found her straying in the park , seeking to hide herself as doth the deer that
my eyes are out even with the fierce looks of these bloody men .
shadow doth limp behind the substance .
and you , my lords , remember where we are : in france , amongst a fickle wavering nation ;
well , if fortune be a woman , she ' s a good wench for this gear .
sir , we have all great cause to give great thanks .
' says one .
to be hang ' d .
this here before you .
i thank you for your wish , and am well pleas ' d to wish it back on you .
how goes the day with us ?
from me now .
but i pray , sir , why am i beaten ?
this is the flow ' r that smiles on every one , to show his teeth as white as whales-bone
take up the body .
leaguer of the adversaries when we bring him to our own tents .
go you with me , and i will use your skill .
- to your manor of pickt-hatch ; go .
saddle my horse .
strongest ; evils that take leave on their departure most of all show evil ; what have you lost by
i am , if but from thee .
yes , i thank god i am as honest as any man living that is an old man and no
it is , in contempt of question , her hand .
why , thou unreverend and unhallowed friar , is ' t not enough thou hast suborn ' d these women
death !
wast thou with rosaline ?
meet me by and by at the citadel .
exit attendant .
persuade me what i am .
i have been , madam , a wicked creature , as you and all flesh and blood are ; and
swain ' s wearing ; and me , poor lowly maid , most goddess-like prank ' d up .
txt which sorrow is always toward ourselves , not heaven , showing we would not spare heaven as we love
; so that all the instruments which aided to expose the child were even then lost when it was found
and so i take my leave , and thank you both .
then turn your forces from this paltry siege and stir them up against a mightier task .
swear ; but if i bow , they ' ll say it was for fear .
i will not rise unless your highness hear me .
" guns heard .
enter the earls of warwick and salisbury clifford .
take notice that i am in cambria , at milford haven .
or he that slew her brothers and her uncles ?
that , methinks , is strange .
marry , this : edmund mortimer , earl of march , married the duke of clarence ' daughter , did
lay hands on him ; a dog !
i did so , and take heed on ' t ; make it a darling like your precious eye ;
master , if you do , expect spoon-meat , or bespeak a long spoon .
excellent falsehood !
the world so well as lucentio .
hide the false seems true .
withdraw with us ; and let the trumpets sound while we return these dukes what we decree .
i spake with one , my lord , that came from thence ; a gentleman well bred and of good
here ' s much to do with hate , but more with love .
here ' s that , i warrant you , will pay them all .
[seats her by him] yield not thy neck to fortune ' s yoke , but let thy dauntless mind still
man but me ; for i am he am born to tame you , kate , and bring you from
to bedlam with him !
endur ' d , with his strong arms he fastened on my neck , and bellowed out as he '
i chose her when i could not ask my father for his advice , nor thought i had one .
' rt not such a villain .
no , i ' ll not rear another ' s issue .
a great tumult .
what ' s your will , sir ?
some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects ; i am not adriana , nor thy wife .
yea , or so many , sith that both charge and danger speak ' gainst so great a number ?
another way the news is not so tart .
there ' s a letter for you .
i pray she may ; as well for the encouragement of the like , which else would stand under grievous
lesson , then ?
chain , which , god he knows , i saw not ; for the which he did arrest me with
your grace has laid the odds o ' th ' weaker side .
[to the bastard] cousin , away for england !
thus : i saw jove ' s bird , the roman eagle , wing ' d from the spongy south
surge , with high and monstrous mane , seems to cast water on the burning bear , and quench the
[locking the door] so , now uncape .
bad men , you violate a twofold marriage- ' twixt my crown and me , and then betwixt me and
to adders , spiders , toads , or any creeping venom ' d thing that lives !
why , that ' s my bawcock .
enter a herald herald .
they in themselves , good sooth , are too too light .
o , you shall be expos ' d , my lord , to dangers as infinite as imminent !
do but behold yon poor and starved band , and your fair show shall suck away their souls , leaving
and some are yet ungotten and unborn that shall have cause to curse the dauphin ' s scorn .
child , his little kingdom of a forced grave .
this is the man ; do thy office .
to lay down ladies .
i disprais ' d him before the wicked- that the wicked might not fall page _num_ complete works of william
' his bloody brow with his mail ' d hand then wiping , forth he goes , like to a
come , good sweet lady .
txt this lady makes him to me .
simony was fair play ; his own opinion was his law .
what traitor hears me , and says not amen ?
most shallow man !
- or to the place of diff ' rence call the swords which must decide it .
prithee hold thy peace ; this is not the way .
and mine to eke out hers .
[aside] this is his pardon , purchas ' d by such sin for which the pardoner himself is in ;
will you leave me there ?
if the old fantastical duke of dark corners had been at home , he had lived .
no better .
of sceptres .
i trust the ghost of talbot is not there .
as dear to me !
o lewis , stand fast !
} away , away .
look you , these are the stops .
the food he eats , and pleas ' d with what he gets , come hither , come hither ,
bushy and green , i will not vex your souls- since presently your souls must part your bodies- with too
but the comfort is , you shall be called to no more payments , fear no more tavern bills ,
[kneels] volumnia .
o , give me always a little , lean , old , chopt , bald shot .
o , most wicked speed , to post with such dexterity to incestuous sheets !
i did but stir out of my bed , ready they were to shoot me to the heart .
my lord melun , let this be copied out page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' zounds , sir , you ' re robb ' d !
you have put me into rhyme .
pieces on thy rocky bosom .
for love is crowned with the prime , in the spring time , &c .
where is his son , the nimble-footed madcap prince of wales , and his comrades , that daff ' d
it is a rupture that you may easily heal ; and the cure of it not only saves your brother
worn out christendom .
what , to york ?
harvest-man that ' s task ' d to mow or all or lose his hire .
judas maccabaeus clipt is plain judas .
[aside] still on my daughter .
txt _num_ o thou my lovely boy who in thy power , dost hold time ' s fickle glass his
but as successively , from blood to blood , your right of birth , your empery , your own .
exit queen elizabeth relenting fool , and shallow , changing woman !
txt and of the cannibals that each other eat , the anthropophagi , and men whose heads do grow beneath
suspend thy purpose , if thou didst intend to make this creature fruitful .
not caesar ' s valour hath o ' erthrown antony , but antony ' s hath triumph ' d on
the forest enter orlando , with a paper orlando .
over the chair of state , where now he sits , write up his title with usurping blood .
exeunt lords bastard .
in his face ; and when with grief he wept , the ruthless queen gave him to dry his cheeks
you praise yourself by laying defects of judgment to me ; but you patch ' d up your excuses .
sit on my knee , don .
thane of cawdor ' ; by which title , before , these weird sisters saluted me and referred me to
as thou art to thyself .
' sweet are the uses of adversity , which , like the toad , ugly and venomous , wears yet
let me give humble thanks for all at once .
what ' s that good for ?
not from his mouth , had it th ' ability of life to thank you .
when he was retrograde , i think , rather .
strato .
the palace of leontes enter hermione , mamillius , and ladies hermione .
txt to understand a law ; to know the meaning of dangerous majesty , when perchance it frowns more upon
faiths martyrs in love , we shall be winnow ' d with so rough a wind that even our corn
with what addition ?
your case is better .
in mine own love ' s strength seem to decay , o ' ercharged with burthen of mine own love
look to ' t .
i was told that by one that knows him better than you .
had you that craft to reave her of what should stead her most ?
and for my sister , and her princely sons , be satisfied , dear god , with our true blood
although my head still wear the crown , i here resign my government to thee , for thou art fortunate
go to , then , i ask but this : can he that speaks with the tongue of an enemy
ah , you sweet little rogue , you !
market-place , nor on him put the napless vesture of humility ; nor , showing , as the manner is
portia , forgive me this enforced wrong ; and in the hearing of these many friends i swear to thee
the queen , my lord , is dead .
sight ?
the king was slily finger ' d from the deck !
wild behaviour i be misconst ' red in the place i go to and lose my hopes .
the stroke that murders me .
flute , you must take thisby on you .
end , the life of tybalt .
txt if that the former dare but what it can , no chance may shake it .
right ; so i say .
thou art thy mother ' s glass and she in thee calls back the lovely april of her prime ,
others there are who , trimm ' d in forms and visages of duty , keep yet their hearts attending
and here comes clifford to deny their bail .
and that she should love this fellow , and refuse me !
; thou shalt , i warrant thee .
away with us to athens , three and three ; we ' ll hold a feast in great solemnity .
i derived am from lionel duke of clarence , third son to king edward the third ; whereas he from
it doth amount to one more than two .
of pisa , sir ; son to vincentio .
them bend their best studies , heartily request th ' enfranchisement of arthur , whose restraint doth move the murmuring
to the heart and love of us , who wear our health but sickly in his life , which in
how cam ' st thou hither ?
lieutenant .
the sessions shall proceed .
health to your lordships !
in this the madman justly chargeth them .
who hath bound abbess .
re-enter the emperor , tamora and her two sons , with the moor , at one door ; at the
i heard him tell it to one of his company last night at supper- a kind of auditor ; one
not his epitaph as in your royal speech .
a norman was ' t ?
what fates impose , that men must needs abide ; it boots not to resist both wind and tide .
but , by the grace of god and hume ' s advice , your grace ' s title shall be
but , good my brother , do not as some ungracious pastors do , show me the steep and thorny
better than my word i am , by so much shall i falsify men ' s hopes ; and ,
and from this fellow ?
they would else have been troubled with a pernicious suitor .
all too soon i shall , unless thou wouldst grieve quickly .
i know not what you mean by that , but i am sure caesar fell down .
all furnish ' d , all in arms ; all plum ' d like estridges that with the wind bated
waterton , and francis quoint- all these , well furnish ' d by the duke of britaine , with eight
d , and that ' twas dangerous for him to ruminate on this so far , until it forg '
for god ' s sake , cousin , stay till all come in .
these things being bought and orderly bestowed , return in haste , for i do feast to-night my best esteem
on her frights and griefs , which never tender lady hath borne greater , she is , something before her
nothing ; bohemia nothing ; my is nothing ; nor nothing have these nothings , if this be nothing .
take not the quarrel from his pow ' rful arm ; he needs no indirect or lawless course to cut
allies .
o , he is wounded , i thank the gods for ' t .
when , for some trifling present , you have bid me return so much , i have shook my head
let him see our commission and talk no more .
madam , here comes my lord .
servilius !
cesario , by the roses of the spring , by maidhood , honour , truth , and every thing ,
and benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that i know .
we ' ll lay before this town our royal bones , wade to the market-place in frenchmen ' s blood
crown him that , and then , i grant , we put a sting in him that at his will
; but though i could not with such estimable wonder overfar believe that , yet thus far i will boldly
what , with five thousand men ?
then be thou jocund .
this posthumus , most like a noble lord in love and one that had a royal lover , took his
no , i have no reason for it- that is my brother ' s plea , and none of mine
that ' s all .
not in my husband ' s nose .
and i am prest unto it ; therefore , speak .
shall die is true- but for thy love , by the lord , no ; yet i love thee too
that she vouchsafe me audience for one word .
' o damn ' d paper , black as the ink that ' s on thee !
me now .
our will is antony be took alive ; make it so known .
could great men thunder as jove himself does , jove would never be quiet , for every pelting petty officer
madness cur ' d , stoop tamely to the foot of majesty .
king henry .
the silent hours steal on , and flaky darkness breaks within the east .
these knights will hack ; and so thou shouldst not alter the article of thy gentry .
o antony , i have follow ' d thee to this !
o , you give me ill counsel .
she ' s making her ready , she ' ll come straight ; you must be witty now .
how do you , pretty lady ?
thou shalt not stir one foot to seek a foe .
ay , sir , what of him ?
one , and no discerner durst wag his tongue in censure .
then i prithee be merry .
] how oft when men are at the point of death have they been merry !
it is a part that i shall blush in acting , and might well be taken from the people .
it is that fery person for all the orld , as just as you will desire ; and seven hundred
which obloquy set bars before my tongue , else with the like i had requited him .
of their masters , knowing naught (like dogs) but following .
what , were you banish ' d thence ?
that can i witness ; and a fouler fact did never traitor in the land commit .
exit cloten .
speak not , be gone .
what men may do !
this man , with lime and rough-cast , doth present wall , that vile wall which did these lovers sunder
godfathers .
txt is more than a youth is not for me ; and he that is less than a man ,
rosaline and livia ; signior valentio and his cousin tybalt ; lucio and the lively helena .
- a savage jealousy that sometime savours nobly .
most worthy madam , your honour and your goodness is so evident that your free undertaking cannot miss a thriving
thou being heir apparent , could the world pick thee out three such enemies again as that fiend douglas ,
contented .
otherwise .
young boy , i must .
whistle then to me , as signal that thou hear ' st something approach .
i had rather not be so noble as i am ; they dare not fight with me , because of
at all a friend to truth .
share a part .
o , what love i note in the fair multitude of those her hairs !
to set his sense on the attentive bent , and then to speak .
txt for his advantage still did wake and sleep .
that ' s my office .
why , very well then ; i hope here be truths .
thy dow ' rless daughter , king , thrown to my chance , is queen of us , of ours
that bed , that womb , that mettle , that self mould , that fashion ' d thee , made
here cometh charles ; i marvel how he sped .
hadst thou beheld- marcius .
and even but now he spake after long seeming dead , iago hurt him , iago set him on .
silvia !
txt maintain a mourning ostentation , and on your family ' s old monument hang mournful epitaphs , and do
shall never do thee good .
here is in our prison a common executioner , who in his office lacks a helper ; if you will
he has kill ' d me , mother .
boy , go along with this woman .
what , troilus !
that would thick my blood .
let me see your eyes ; look in my face .
cank ' red hate .
your reasons are too shallow and too quick .
on both ; for all thy blessed youth becomes as aged , and doth beg the alms of palsied eld
war .
and what in us hath seem ' d ridiculous , as love is full of unbefitting strains , all wanton
i will then address me to my appointment .
well then , alone , since there ' s no remedy , i mean to prove this lady ' s
, matching thy inference .
enter caesar , in his nightgown .
i had rather hear a brazen canstick turn ' d or a dry wheel grate on the axletree , and
if he evade us there , enforce him with his envy to the people , and that the spoil got
intended marriage .
their pleasures here are past , so is their pain .
how if i answer no ?
if he were foil ' d , why , then we do our main opinion crush in taint of our
me for her brother , cut off by course of justice- isabella .
may it please you to resolve me in my suit .
i owe you much ; and , like a wilful youth , that which i owe is lost ; but
so deal with him as i prove true to you .
archbishop .
the painful warrior famoused for fight , after a thousand victories once foiled , is from the book of honour
ay , but , by your leave , not before me ; the lieutenant is to be saved before the
now , my lord , what shall we do if we perceive lord hastings will not yield to our complots
at one time bring in to any of your ancestors .
hang not on my garments .
, gives manhood more approbation than ever proof itself would have earn ' d him .
your highness ' part is to receive our duties , and our duties are to your throne and state ,
the clock to any business that we say befits the hour .
in him lies , mines my gentility with my education .
what a boot is here with this exchange !
i am going , forsooth .
backs , that presses them and learns them first to bear , making them women of good carriage .
i am boy to them all three ; but all they three , though they would serve me , could
i will kiss your hand , and so i leave you .
enter four or five of the guard of antony antony .
old salisbury , shame to thy silver hair , thou mad misleader of thy brainsick son !
approach be shunn ' d , nay , hated too , worse than the great ' st infection that e
, as in way of taste , to give me now a little benefit out of those many regist '
peas and beans are as dank here as a dog , and that is the next way to give poor
enter lodovico and gratiano .
and unfashionable that dogs bark at me as i halt by them- why , i , in this weak piping
before my god , i might not this believe without the sensible and true avouch of mine own eyes .
' ' nay , ' said i , ' the gentleman is wise .
have you not set lysander , as in scorn , to follow me and praise my eyes and face ?
the palace enter , severally , warwick , and the lord chief justice warwick .
first messenger .
what talkest thou to me of the hangman ?
how now , sweet queen ?
in good sadness , i do not know ; either it is there or it is upon a file with
were they of infection .
to a king , inter me .
dark cloudy death o ' ershades his beams of life , and he nor sees nor hears us what we
o diable , diable !
at thy service .
you bid me make it orderly and well , according to the fashion and the time .
they choose their magistrate ; and such a one as he , who puts his ' shall , ' his
sire with his bridal day , even then that sunshine brew ' d a show ' r for him that
home without boots , and in foul weather too ?
why , sir , did i say you were an honest man ?
her blood ?
life be ended .
enter poet , followed by lucilius , titinius , and lucius .
far truer spoke than meant : i lose indeed .
i have done no more to caesar than you shall do to brutus .
we have consented to all terms of reason .
; they are not china dishes , but very good dishes .
" here may you see the tyrant .
o villainous !
what , can so young a man begin to prick ?
i shall not break your bidding , good my lord .
all they can to face me out of my wits .
bernardo ?
and i have horse will follow where the game makes way , and run like swallows o ' er the
whose high exploits and honourable deeds ingrateful rome requites with foul contempt , be bold in us : we '
have sent to the deputy .
who at philippi the good brutus ghosted , there saw you labouring for him .
' hautboys play .
marseilles .
to offend and judge are distinct offices and of opposed natures .
this is the strangest fellow , brother john .
think he would change places with his officer ; for look you , sir , you know not which way
what a wicked beast was i to disfurnish myself against such a good time , when i might ha '
- pity me , charmian , but do not speak to me .
[drum afar off] hark , our drums are bringing forth our youth .
no man living could say ' this is my wife ' there , all were woven so strangely in one
drew me from kind embracements of my spouse : from whom my absence was not six months old , before
call we to mind-and mark but this for proof : was not the duke of orleans thy foe ?
thou call ' st on him that hates thee .
very ill .
or i have no observance .
i had rather be alone .
i will lay a plot to try that , and we will yet have more tricks with falstaff .
upon the platform , ' twixt eleven and twelve , i ' ll visit you .
thy letters have transported me beyond this ignorant present , and i feel now the future in the instant .
what is honour ?
what is the matter here ?
person , and in such a place , at such a time , with all the rest retold , may
this was no damsel neither , sir ; she was a virgin .
i charge you in his majesty ' s page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
send straight for him ; let him be crown ' d ; in him your comfort lives .
txt of her .
faith , not me .
good people , enter , and lay hold on him .
sir , his chests and treasure he has not with him .
enter berowne berowne .
allow ' d ; what worst , as oft hitting a grosser quality , is cried up for our best
] the moor !
you forget yourself to hedge me in .
] welcome , mistress .
much attribute he hath , and much the reason why we ascribe it to him .
the garter inn enter falstaff , host , bardolph , nym , pistol , and robin falstaff .
you ' re sham ' d , y ' are overthrown , y ' are undone for ever .
marriage vow , and a thousand other her defences , which now are too too strongly embattl ' d against
we have ever your good word .
a giant traitor !
o bosom black as death !
i had a mighty cause to wish him dead , but thou hadst none to kill him .
you ; and hath sent your worship a moming ' s draught of sack .
how should they , when that wise men have no eyes ?
believe me , king of shadows , i mistook .
would , as it were , mean mischief , and break a foul gap into the matter , he makes
, good uncle .
sound trumpet ; edward shall be here proclaim ' d .
txt lorenzo .
[she spits at him] why dost thou spit at me ?
no more with me .
to serve me well you all should do me duty , teach me to be your queen and you my
this fell whore of thine hath in her more destruction than thy sword for all her cherubin look .
i am never merry when i hear sweet music .
i conceive .
god save king henry , of that name the sixth !
i had rather chop this hand off at a blow , and with the other fling it at thy face
not for that neither .
then plainly to her tell my loving tale .
enter ursula .
me into madness .
pregnancy is made a tapster , and his quick wit wasted in giving reckonings ; all the other gifts appertinent
i know my lady will strike him ; if she do , he ' ll smile and take ' t
and you , good sir !
maws of kites .
leave me solely .
hold in hate .
young-ey ' d cherubins ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
now fills thy sleep with perturbations .
if little faults proceeding on distemper shall not be wink ' d at , how shall we stretch our eye
i desire you of more acquaintance , good master mustardseed .
txt are born to do benefits ; and what better or properer can we call our own than the riches
hast thou delight to see a wretched man do outrage and displeasure to himself ?
you have not call ' d me so , nor have you cause .
you must think this , look you , that the worm will do his kind .
, snap , quick and home .
look your heart be firm , or else his head ' s assurance is but frail .
puff in thy teeth , most recreant coward base !
txt and rest your gentle head upon her lap , and she will sing the song that pleaseth you and
nay , be not angry ; i am pleas ' d again .
and commit the oldest sins the newest kind of ways ?
hark , wretches !
nor his qualities .
i think it is in macedon where alexander is porn .
thou losest thy old smell .
to stab at half an hour of my life .
my name is pistol call ' d .
pride ; five times he hath return ' d bleeding to rome , bearing his valiant sons in coffins from
wilt thou believe me , hal ?
into the palace of our king , and all by thee .
that he hath used thee .
o the good gods !
both extermin ' d .
this is not altogether fool , my lord .
there is salmons in both .
the concernancy , sir ?
send me your prisoners with the speediest means , or you shall hear in such a kind from me as
the names of those their nobles that lie dead : charles delabreth , high constable of france ; jaques of
make not a city feast of it , to let the meat cool ere we can agree upon the first
for thee watch i , whilst thou dost wake elsewhere , from me far off , with others all too
, assur ' d i hate not you for her proud arrogance .
let us now stay and see it .
i could weep and i could laugh ; i am light and heavy .
we have the receipt of fernseed , we walk invisible .
if i read it not truly , my ancient skill beguiles me ; but in the boldness of my cunning
contain celestial spirits .
i ' ll make you quiet ; what !
sometime i ' d divide , and burn in many places ; on the topmast , the yards , and
there comes no swaggerers here ; i have not liv ' d all this while to have swaggering now .
i am the turned forth , be it known to you , that have preserv ' d her welfare in
plantagenet , embrace him .
he searcheth his pockets and findeth certain papers .
her husband has a marvellous infection to the little page ; and truly master page is an honest man .
edmunds sound a sennet .
andronicus himself did take it up .
good leave to wander .
o heavens , that they were living both in naples , the king and queen there !
but , sir , such answer is i can make , you shall command ; or rather , as you
is ' t cade that i have slain , that monstrous traitor ?
the army is discharged all and gone .
at supper ?
thou art a fool .
from this time such i account thy love .
for i have thrown a brave defiance in king henry ' s teeth , and westmoreland , that was engag
o , villain that i am !
nor can i fortune to brief minutes tell ; pointing to each his thunder , rain and wind , or
duncan is in his grave ; after life ' s fitful fever he sleeps well .
my liege , your highness now may do me good .
come , come , thou boy-queller , show thy face ; know what it is to meet achilles angry .
no , sir , i do not bite my thumb at you , sir ; but i bite my thumb
[aside] i should think this a gull but that the white-bearded fellow speaks it .
therefore let every man now task his thought that this fair action may on foot be brought .
you have told them home , and , by my troth , you have cause .
yes , it is apparel .
txt and see the revolution of the times make mountains level , and the continent , weary of solid firmness
' thank god .
hold , there ' s a tester for thee .
these two have ' ticed me hither to this place .
piercing a hogshead !
and i his clerk ; therefore be well advis ' d how you do leave me to mine own protection
truest issue of thy throne by his own interdiction stands accursed and does blaspheme his breed ?
i like thy armour well ; i ' ll frush it and unlock the rivets all but i ' ll
power , bending their expedition toward philippi .
death , but dead , thy kingdom cannot buy my breath .
his answer was , he would unto the stews , and from the common ' st creature pluck a glove
i understand you not ; my griefs are double .
that face of his the hungry cannibals would not have touch ' d , would not have stain ' d
no ; it is thyself , mine own self ' s better part ; mine eye ' s clear eye
exeunt all but enobarbus enobarbus .
some blessed power deliver us from hence !
there ' s warrant in that theft which steals itself when there ' s no mercy left .
in few words : if you ' ll not here proclaim yourself our king , i ' ll leave you
pause , if thou wilt .
what news , my lord ?
mistress anne , my cousin loves you .
it is not moonlight now .
- you ' ll stay ?
do you hear aught , sir , of a battle toward ?
txt how often have i tempted suffolk ' s tongue- the agent of thy foul inconstancy- to sit and witch
richly in both , if justice had her right .
let none presume to wear an undeserved dignity .
we shall be dogg ' d with company , and our devices known .
avaunt , perplexity !
two of them have the very bent of honour ; and if their wisdoms be misled in this , the
aaron .
live you ?
the heaviness and guilt within my bosom takes off my manhood .
a heavy heart .
txt he would say untruths , and be ever double both in his words and meaning .
fourscore ducats at a sitting !
say you not , then , our offer is compell ' d .
those springs on chalic ' d flow ' rs that lies ; and winking mary-buds begin to ope their golden
enter widow and diana page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o my sweet master !
since thou dost deign to woo her little worth to be the princely bride of such a lord , upon
[he faints] alarum and retreat .
yet do our hearts wear timon ' s livery ; that see i by our faces .
camillo ?
so service shall with steeled sinews toil , and labour shall refresh itself with hope , to do your grace
henry had none , but did usurp the place ; then , seeing ' twas he that made you to
they are your likeliest men , and i would have you serv ' d with the best .
yet- adrian .
the why is plain as way to parish church : page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hear me yet , good shylock .
where ' s thy drum ?
the rebel camp .
thou bid ' st me beg ; this begging is not strange .
and ornaments of household ; which i find at such proud rate that it outspeaks possession of a subject .
you shall find of the king a husband , madam ; you , sir , a father .
die before , and he is one of the patterns of love .
go , go , my servant , take thou troilus ' horse ; present the fair steed to my lady
' seeing .
thy judgment .
yet this shall i ne ' er know but live in doubt , till my bad angel fire my good
come , lords , away .
i ' ll live by nym and nym shall live by me .
both which we doubt not but your majesty shall soon enjoy .
i have so often blush ' d to acknowledge him that now i am braz ' d to ' t
the better that it pleases your good worship to ask .
txt i ' ll be your father and your brother too ; let me but bear your love , i
' it is good ; yea , indeed , is it .
after my death (dear love) forget me quite , for you in me can nothing worthy prove .
flaw , and saving those that eye thee !
tell bolingbroke , for yon methinks he stands , that every stride he makes upon my land is dangerous treason
in truth , fair montague , i am too fond , and therefore thou mayst think my haviour light ;
what , this ?
exit timon into his cave first senator .
for love of you , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
it is not very strange ; for my uncle is king of denmark , and those that would make mows
i had a son , now outlaw ' d from my blood .
did lie with me .
shall we clap into ' t roundly , without hawking , or spitting , or saying we are hoarse ,
o gods , ye gods !
take our good meaning , for our judgment sits five times in that ere once in our five wits .
i think i have his letter in my pocket .
you swear like a comfit-maker ' s wife .
pray thee , marry us .
ay , the best for the worst .
nay , come your ways ; this is his majesty ; say your mind to him .
pardon of the prince , and call thee back with twenty hundred thousand times more joy than thou went '
and this , and this , the greatest discords be kisses her .
i know what .
since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak , in dumb significants proclaim your thoughts .
sir , my mistress sends you word that she is busy and she cannot come .
some good man bear him carefully from hence ; i ' ll fetch the general ' s surgeon .
who ' s yonder that does appear as he were flay ' d ?
' so did he turn , and over suffolk ' s neck he threw his wounded arm and kiss '
ay , with my heart ; and punish them to your height of pleasure .
in very truth , sir , i had as lief be hang ' d , sir , as go .
pow ' rs and hold our lives in mercy .
pale trembling coward , there i throw my gage , disclaiming here the kindred of the king ; and lay
, containing her affection unto benedick .
what , thick-skin ?
so are you , sweet , even in the lovely garnish of a boy .
whole name of the war ; he hath in this action outdone his former deeds doubly .
so ' tis reported ; but none of ' em can be found .
the gods rebuke me , but it is tidings to wash the eyes of kings .
come , night ; come , romeo ; come , thou day in night ; for thou wilt lie upon
the several messengers from hence attend dispatch .
good sparks and lustrous , a word , good metals : you shall find in the regiment of the spinii
get on thy boots ; we ' ll ride all night .
' d , staring full ghastly like a strangled man ; his hair uprear ' d , his nostrils stretch
stay yet another day , thou trusty welshman ; the king reposeth all his confidence in thee .
is in his own course .
get you gone , sir ; i ' ll talk with you more anon .
hark , do you hear the sea ?
for alliance sake , declare the cause my father , earl of cambridge , lost his head .
be for the flow ' ry way that leads to the broad gate and the great fire .
this fellow had a volscian to his mother ; his wife is in corioli , and his child like him
no , nor more fearful .
o , let me live !
well , fare you well ; we shall have the freer wooing at master page ' s .
baptista .
i stand dishonour ' d that have gone about to link my dear friend to a common stale .
now it ' s twenty-seven ; every gash was an enemy ' s grave .
and him- o wondrous him !
of her society be not afraid .
she ' s not fourteen .
had not the old man come in with whoobub against his daughter and the king ' s son and scar
[also stabs] lavinia .
he chides to hell , and bids the other grow faster than thought or time .
virginity breeds mites , much like a cheese ; consumes itself to the very paring , and so dies with
' he hears merry tales and smiles not .
vengeance !
let his deservings , and my love withal , be valued ' gainst your wife ' s commandment .
he smells april and may ; he will carry ' t , he will carry ' t ; ' tis
then he hath wasted it .
well , i will lock his counsel in my breast ; and what i do imagine , let that rest
belmont ; she doth stray about by holy crosses , where she kneels and prays for happy wedlock hours .
ay , so i fear ; the more is my unrest .
his art is of such pow ' r , it would control my dam ' s god , setebos ,
sorrow lend me words and words express , the manner of my pity-wanting pain .
as boldness from my bosom , let ' t not be doubted i shall do good .
hold , sir , or i ' ll throw your dagger o ' er the house .
i will try the forces of these thy compounds on such creatures as we count not worth the hanging- but
by your most gracious pardon , i sing but after you .
look on master fenton .
if you will know my house , ' tis at the tuft of olives here hard by .
i have a head , sir , that will find out logs and never trouble peter for the matter .
never to speak of this that you have seen .
strong than are upon you yet .
adrian .
bear the ewer , the third a diaper , and say ' will ' t please your lordship cool your
the battles of the lord of hosts he fought ; the church ' s prayers made him so prosperous .
thyself or me in personal action , yet prodigious grown and fearful , as these strange eruptions are .
strangers in court do take her for the queen .
i will tell you .
it shall be so , it shall be so .
sport ?
head- the skull that bred them in the sepulchre .
i not doubt , shall make it go quick away-the story of my life , and the particular accidents gone
i will pour some in thy other mouth .
" enter macbeth .
mass , i cannot tell .
o weary reckoning !
he cannot choose .
brother petruchio , sister katherina , and thou , hortensio , with thy loving widow , feast with the best
[seeing biondello] come hither , crack-hemp .
our former scruple in our strong-barr ' d gates ; king ' d of our fears , until our fears
let your general do his worst .
one according to his cue .
go presently , and take this ring with thee , deliver it to madam silvia- she lov ' d me
i make a broken delivery of the business ; but the changes i perceived in the king and camillo were
prince of morocco .
richard , be duke of gloucester .
in the meantime , what hear you of these wars ?
it is a damned and a bloody work ; the graceless action of a heavy hand , if that it
vain pomp and glory of this world , i hate ye ; i feel my heart new open ' d
which he forswore on tuesday morning .
txt that work for bread upon athenian stalls , were met together to rehearse a play intended for great theseus
hold , hold , for shame !
no , good madam , pardon me ; indeed i will not forth .
whereon , at three and two years old , i stole these babes , thinking to bar thee of succession
thou must run to him , for thou hast stay ' d so long that going will scarce serve the
but i will forward with my device .
methinks it were a happy life to be no better than a homely swain ; to sit upon a hill
if you will make ' t an action , call witness to ' t .
out , alas !
for margaret my queen , and clifford too , have chid me from the battle , swearing both they prosper
now i see the bottom of your purpose .
look you what i have from the loving king .
in troth , there ' s wondrous things spoke of him .
come on , then ; i will swear to study so , to know the thing i am forbid to
give me excuse , good madam ; i will obey you in everything hereafter .
ambitious churchman , leave to afflict my heart .
besides , our nearness to the king in love is near the hate of those love not the king .
your trouble .
here ' s no place for you : pray go to the door .
most strange , but yet most truly , will i speak .
but that time offer ' d sorrow ; this , general joy .
yet you are wither ' d .
i conjure thee but slowly ; run more fast .
the point .
what name , fair lady ?
o villain !
] [aside] to my sick soul (as sin ' s true nature is) each toy seems prologue to some great
what dost thou , or what art thou , angelo ?
lo you , here she comes !
she lives , master shallow .
enter [edmund the] bastard solus , [with a letter] .
come , shall we about it ?
enter ross and willoughby northumberland .
be as kisses , if your four negatives make your two affirmatives , why then , the worse for my
may i change these garments ?
look you , is fixed upon a spherical stone , which rolls , and rolls , and rolls .
here , fluellen ; wear thou this favour for me , and stick it in thy cap ; when alencon
fortune is bardolph ' s foe , and frowns on him ; for he hath stol ' n a pax
chambers go off] and down goes an before them .
virtue and she is her own dower ; honour and wealth from me .
he has a shrewd wit , i can tell you ; and he ' s a man good enough ;
or else a wit by folly vanquished .
he cannot like her long .
what then , sir ?
great justice ; he doth with holy abstinence subdue that in himself which he spurs on his pow ' r
by your pardon , i will myself into the pulpit first , and show the reason of our caesar '
[to pisanio] we ' ll slip you for a season ; but our jealousy does yet depend .
' ll mar the young clerk ' s pen .
professes to persuade-the king his son ' s alive , ' tis as impossible that he ' s undrown '
i pray thee , gentle mortal , sing again .
you mock me , madam ; this is not the way to win your daughter .
come , gentlemen , ye shall go my way , which is to th ' court , and there ye
charbon the puritan and old poysam the papist , howsome ' er their hearts are sever ' d in religion
why , anything ; an honorable murtherer , if you will , for nought did i in hate , but
you speak your fair pleasure , sweet queen .
call him my king by whose injurious doom my elder brother , the lord aubrey vere , was done to
leave me a while with the maid ; my mind promises with my habit no loss shall touch her by
- masters , you are all welcome .
- father , father !
god b ' wi ' you , sir .
he kill ' d my father .
descent , god knows i will not do it to the death .
but i prattle something too wildly , and my father ' s precepts i therein do forget .
comes he not here ?
throat awake the god of day ; and at his warning , whether in sea or fire , in earth
good aaron , give his majesty my hand ; tell him it was a hand that warded him from thousand
if thou dost play with him at any game , thou art sure to lose ; and of that natural
that spirit percy , and that devil glendower ?
blood loves my flesh and blood ; he that loves my flesh and blood is my friend ; ergo ,
exit enter corin corin .
i give thee the bucklers .
why there , there , there , there !
what shall i say you are ?
our father he hath writ , so hath our sister , of differences , which i best thought it fit
come , mother prat ; come .
to wake a wolf is as bad as smell a fox .
lord cardinal , the willing ' st sin i ever yet committed may be absolv ' d in english .
there lives within the very flame of love a kind of wick or snuff that will abate it ; and
keep then fair league and truce with thy true bed ; i live dis-stain ' d , thou undishonoured .
did see it .
mayor of london , bearing the mace .
exit lysander as following the voice enter demetrius demetrius .
fie , lords !
why , i have not another tear to shed ; besides , this sorrow is an enemy , and would
wine , wine , wine !
force it ?
-where are these gentlemen ?
yet he that can endure to follow with allegiance a fall ' n lord does conquer him that did his
a good-limb ' d fellow ; young , strong , and of good friends .
and so sucks her princely eggs , playing the mouse in absence of the cat , to tear and havoc
do it then , that we may account thee a whoremaster and a knave ; which notwithstanding , thou shalt
the devil take henry of lancaster and thee !
out , loathed med ' cine !
txt viola .
i like thy wit well , in good faith .
come apace , good audrey ; i will fetch up your goats , audrey .
were they chosen ; in a better hour let what is meet be said it must be meet , and
one-tell .
_num_ my love is strengthened though more weak in seeming , i love not less , though less the show
all i kept were knaves , to serve in meat to villains .
where should i lose that handkerchief , emilia ?
too slow a messenger .
not i ' th ' stocks , fool .
why , man , he doth bestride the narrow world like a colossus , and we petty men walk under
rich men sin , and i eat root .
well , heaven send anne page no worse fortune !
west of this forest , scarcely off a mile , in goodly form comes on the enemy ; and ,
the boy gives warning something doth approach .
be much consisting , till he communicate his parts to others ; nor doth he of himself know them for
come , sir , it wants a twelvemonth an ' a day , and then ' twill end .
good angels guard thy battle !
yes , sooth ; and so do you .
methought ' a made a shrewd thrust at your belly .
i left him .
can you tell if rosalind , the duke ' s daughter , be banished with her father ?
believe me , i cannot .
ha , ' twas a merry night .
then hear me , gracious sovereign , and you peers , that owe yourselves , your lives , and services
erworn , when hours have drained his blood and filled his brow with lines and wrinkles , when his youthful
i cannot be thus satisfied .
is it possible that any villany should be so dear ?
should he make me live like diana ' s priest betwixt cold sheets , whiles he is vaulting variable ramps
most gracious majesty !
farewell , a long farewell , to all my greatness !
here , between the armies , let ' s drink together friendly and embrace , that all their eyes may
exit messenger duke .
had i not brought the knowledge of your mistress home , i grant we were to question farther ; but
it- and then let her consider .
they are loose again .
ay , as some days ; but then no sun must shine .
there must we bring him ; and myself have play ' d the interim , by rememb ' ring you
o cassius !
nay , good sweet husband !
[floulish] queen isabel .
then let it lie for those that it concerns .
hold , hold !
i am sorry for thee ; thou art come to answer a stony adversary , an inhuman wretch , uncapable
txt of my lord general .
verona ' s summer hath not such a flower .
you , to remove that siege of grief from her , betroth ' d and would have married her perforce
i cannot rid my hands of him .
sometimes her levelled eyes their carriage ride , as they did batt ' ry to the spheres intend ; sometime
the rabble should have first unroof ' d the city ere so prevail ' d with me ; it will
you know all , lord pandarus .
it is shap ' d , sir , like itself , and it is as broad as it hath breadth
i think this is your daughter .
th ' other ' s not come to ' t ; you shall tell me another tale when th '
a pestilent gall to me !
profit in the knowledge of myself , and by my friends i am abused ; so that , conclusions to
of england for a friend .
and my consent ne ' er ask ' d herein before !
[rising] volumnia .
who does beguile you ?
and saturnine .
twain , lest hector or my father should perceive me , i have , as when the sun doth light
on ' s bed of death many receipts he gave me ; chiefly one , which , as the dearest
no , good captain pistol ; not here , sweet captain .
accurs ' d the offspring of so foul a fiend !
peasant , avaunt !
amen to that , sweet powers !
have you your wits ?
no , antony ; my mistress lov ' d thee , and her fortunes mingled with thine entirely .
rome the nurse of judgment , invited by your noble self , hath sent one general tongue unto us ,
if he do bleed , i ' ll gild the faces of the grooms withal , for it must seem
his hell-govern ' d arm hath butchered .
a very tainted fellow , and full of wickedness .
the grandchild to her blood .
was it not she and that good man of worship , antony woodville , her brother there , that made
his endowments had been tabled by his side , and i to peruse him by items .
for this proud mock i ' ll be thy slaughterman , sly frantic wretch , that holp ' st to
th ' admired heels of bolingbroke , criest now ' o earth , yield us that king again , and
enter a gardener and two servants but stay , here come the gardeners .
bold as to tell you i know the disciplines of war ; and there is an end .
i think he will eat all he kills .
if these shows be not outward , which of you but is four volsces ?
where have i been !
and her sister by her is poisoned ; she hath confess ' d it .
come , i ' ll go see this italian .
nurse , will you go with me into my closet to help me sort such needful ornaments as you think
if caesar can hide the sun from us with a blanket , or put the moon in his pocket ,
th ' antoniad , the egyptian admiral , with all their sixty , fly and turn the rudder .
how likes she my discourse ?
silence , but never tax ' d for speech .
can anything be made of this ?
whiles we stood here securing your repose , even now , we heard a hollow burst of bellowing like bulls
sleeps .
no , i ' ll come no more i ' th ' basket .
i tell thee what- get thee to church a thursday or never after look me in the face .
the worthy leonatus is in safety , and greets your highness dearly .
you that way , and you this- but two in company ; each man apart , all single and alone
none , but such remedy as , to save a head , to cleave a heart in twain .
here , hume , take this reward ; make merry , man , with thy confederates in this weighty cause
bear with me , good boy , i am much forgetful .
now by this hand , i swear i scorn the term ; nor shall my nell keep lodgers .
i met the youthful lord at laurence ' cell and gave him what becomed love i might , not stepping
- [to bernardo] good even , sir .
all things is ready .
this dream of mine- being now awake , i ' ll queen it no inch farther , but milk my
there ' s not a man i meet but doth salute me as if i were their well-acquainted friend ;
d her as love hath pursued me ; which hath been on the wing of all occasions .
it is too rash , too unadvis ' d , too sudden ; too like the lightning , which doth
you are to blame , knowing she will not lose her wonted greatness , to use so rude behaviour .
ay , sir , i thank god .
his grandam ' s wrongs , and not his mother ' s shames , draws those heaven-moving pearls from his
ere my tongue shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong or sound so base a parle , my teeth
even of my secret soul .
but fortune .
and after this let caesar seat him sure ; for we will shake him , or worse days endure .
will caesar speak ?
shall piece it out with a piece of your performance .
poor naked wretches , wheresoe ' er you are , that bide the pelting of this pitiless storm , how
is your man secret ?
of my kind uncle , that i know will give , and being but a toy , which is no
i would have daff ' d all other respects and made her half myself .
ay , that incestuous , that adulterate beast , with witchcraft of his wit , with traitorous gifts- o wicked
enter king edward and a huntsman with him huntsman .
for thee , oppressed king , am i cast down ; myself could else outfrown false fortune ' s frown
did my commission bid ye so far forget yourselves ?
to be your fellow you may deny me ; but i ' ll be your servant , whether you will
what should you fear ?
will you then spurn at his edict and fulfil a man ' s ?
is ' t like that lead contains her ?
his master and he , saving your worship ' s reverence , are scarce cater-cousins- launcelot .
faith i will , i ' faith .
i found her trimming up the diadem on her dead mistress .
exit third servant .
r is for the- no ; i know it begins with some other letter ; and she hath the prettiest
there be hacks .
knock , sir !
madam , i am here .
, a terror to our foes , hath yok ' d a nation strong , train ' d up in
thomas wart !
must it be so ?
dar ' st thou die ?
ah , that it were !
thou blessed thing !
now will i to that old andronicus , and temper him with all the art i have , to pluck
' tis inferr ' d to us his days are foul and his drink dangerous .
her bum , down topples she , and ' tailor ' cries , and falls into a cough ; and
to have no screen between this part he play ' d and him he play ' d it for ,
you are gentlemen of brave mettle ; you would lift the moon out of her sphere , if she would
to this part of the west , there vanish ' d in the sunbeams ; which portends , unless my
o , he ' s return ' d , and as pleasant as ever he was .
be it not in thy care .
can i make men live , whe ' er they will or no ?
thou wouldst be great ; art not without ambition , but without the illness should attend it .
and i do think she ' s thirty .
i do protest i never heard of it ; and , if you prove it , i ' ll repay
hang up philosophy !
yet , to say the truth , i had as lief have the foppery of freedom as the morality of
die .
, like to village curs , bark when their fellows do .
s blood !
enter aeneas aeneas .
, if there live anything in this desert .
' t they go like lightning ; for , ere i could draw to part them , was stout tybalt
to mantua , and keep her at my cell till romeo come- poor living corse , clos ' d in
mine own house , charg ' d me on pain of perpetual displeasure neither to speak of him , entreat
say , have i thy consent that they shall die ?
so did i mine , to build upon a foolish woman ' s promise .
of the house of york the worthy gentleman did lose his life .
let the old ruffian know i have many other ways to die , meantime laugh at his challenge .
he hath given her his monumental ring , and thinks himself made in the unchaste composition .
clifford , ask mercy and obtain no grace .
; and i will stoop and humble my intents to your well-practis ' d wise directions .
speed him hence ; let him greet england with our sharp defiance .
enter catesby now , catesby , what says your lord to my request ?
txt stands .
- what , jessica !
and the tears of it are wet .
it is ; you lie , you lie .
thine , ireland is thine , france is thine , and henry plantagenet is thine ' ; who , though
the door is open , sir ; there lies your way ; you may be jogging whiles your boots are
the archbishop ' s palace .
and where ' s cordelia ?
i never can see him but i am heart-burn ' d an hour after .
-spare not me .
aialvolio .
sir , i thank god , i have been so well brought up that i can write my name .
txt and charg ' d us from his soul to love each other , he little thought of this divided
the fellow has good judgment .
to make you answer truly to your name .
enter a messenger this is his lordship ' s man .
and so , with great imagination proper to madmen , led his powers to death , and , winking ,
they say they are devis ' d by you , or else you suffer too hard an exclamation .
you ' ll be a fool still .
or other .
say if i do- the laws are mine , not thine .
officers , what offence have these men done ?
not in this heat , sir , now .
lady , dear queen , that ended when i but began , give me that hand of yours to kiss
sweet lady , ho , ho .
we will thrive , lads , we will thrive .
fast asleep behind the arras , and snorting like a horse .
bound for you .
ends of burning youth .
indeed , that is out o ' th ' air .
you are a merry man , sir ; fare you well .
o , forgive me my sins !
no care , no stop !
the weary sun hath made a golden set , and by the bright tract of his fiery car gives token
shall i tell you a lie ?
is here , even at thy solemn feast , i will bring in the empress and her sons , the
' that his tale to me may be nothing but ' anon !
father , in .
captain , friend of sebastian a sea captain , friend of viola valentine , gentleman attending on the duke curio
what masquing stuff is here ?
yes , marry , have i ; what of that ?
if any in vienna be of worth to undergo such ample grace and honour , it is lord angelo .
trunk for crows to feed upon .
turn sourest by their deeds , lilies that fester , smell far worse than weeds .
sick , o , sick !
in this unjust divorce of us , fortune had left to both of us alike what to delight in ,
this carol they began that hour , with a hey , and a ho , and a hey nonino ,
for what , alas , can these my single arms ?
to turn back an hour in a day ?
txt cleopatra .
i heard a bird so sing , whose music , to my thinking , pleas ' d the king .
therefore , out of thy long-experienc ' d time , give me some present counsel ; or , behold ,
well , let him have them .
to signify unto his majesty that cardinal beaufort is at point of death ; for suddenly a grievous sickness took
sundry ways than ever , by him that shall succeed .
god give him joy !
go , girl , seek happy nights to happy days .
this kindness .
he is then a giant to an ape ; but then is an ape a doctor to such a man
' d to me .
good night , mother .
remembrance , and from thy admiring daughter took the spirits , standing like stone with thee !
a little , by your favour .
he attendeth here hard by to know your answer , whether you ' ll admit him .
thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense , so forcible is thy wit .
did he not rather discredit my authority with yours , and make the wars alike against my stomach , having
love to keep it builded be the ram to batter page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i will never take you for my love again ; but i will always count you my deer .
maintain ' d till by helping baptista ' s eldest daughter to a husband we set his youngest free for
, and made his majesty the bawd to theirs .
ah , that good kent !
fare you well , my dove !
had i not been cited so by them , yet did i purpose as they do entreat ; for sure
here thought they to have done some wanton charm upon this man and maid , whose vows are that no
' d us to this execution ?
have but earth , which is his due , my spirit is thine the better part of me , so
o , god defend my soul from such deep sin !
madam , the king is old enough himself to give his censure .
come , i ' ll dispose of thee among a sisterhood of holy nuns .
ay , but the days are wax ' d shorter with him ; you must consider that a prodigal course
i serve here voluntary .
of none but such as you , and you of timon .
sir , you and i must part- but that ' s not it .
help , grandsire , help !
or shall we think the subtle-witted french conjurers and sorcerers , that , afraid of him , by magic verses
so to him we leave it .
txt a park near middleham castle in yorkshire enter gloucester , lord hastings , sir william stanley , and others
that done , trudge with it in all haste , and carry it among the whitsters in datchet mead ,
bots , sway ' d in the back and shoulder-shotten , near-legg ' d before , and with a half-cheek
of art .
master constable , let these men be bound and brought to leonato ' s .
he is more patient than when you left him ; even now he sung .
deeds , i come to pierce it or to give thee mine .
he ' s sudden , if a thing comes in his head .
let us withdraw into the other room .
in faith , too much ; i find it still when i have list to sleep .
often ' twould say ' the fiend , the fiend ' - he led me to that place .
nor earth to me give food , nor heaven light , sport and repose lock from me day and night
go , farewell .
but , an ' t please you , deliver .
he loves thee , and thou dost neglect him , thomas .
' twere good you knock ' d him .
if thou wert my fool , nuncle , i ' ld have thee beaten for being old before thy time
my legs can keep no measure in delight , when my poor heart no measure keeps in grief ; therefore
i know you can do very little alone ; for your helps are many , or else your actions would
look how you drumble .
thou dost so crown with gold !
, whose well-labouring sword had three times slain th ' appearance of the king , gan vail his stomach and
they would be better , if well followed .
i ' ld have thee live , for , in my sense , ' tis happiness to die .
what say ' st thou , man ?
enter the constables [dogberry and verges] and the sexton , in gowns , [and the watch , with conrade and]
confusion ' s cure lives not in these confusions .
of my place i ought to know of ; and , upon my knees , i charm you , by
the reason mov ' d these warlike lords to this was , for that-young richard thus remov ' d ,
well , you have made a simple choice ; you know not how to choose a man .
then there ' s hope a great man ' s memory may outlive his life page _num_ complete works of
i will in the interim undertake one of hercules ' labours , which is , to bring signior benedick and
' tis no matter for his swellings nor his turkey-cocks .
and drift of question that they do know my son , come you more nearer than your particular demands will
well , do you so , let not me take him then ; for , if i do , i
me ' tis a thing impossible i should love thee but as a property .
this play as please you ; and i charge you , o men , for the love you bear to
of thy deserts , and will with deeds requite thy gentleness ; and for an onset , titus , to
those she has will stupefy and dull the sense awhile , which first perchance she ' ll prove on cats
pardon , my lord ; i will not show my face until my husband bid me .
sirrah , come on .
come , lady , come ; you have lost the heart of signior benedick .
impossible- for those defects i have before rehears ' d- that ever katherina will be woo ' d .
[stabs him] gloucester .
isabella .
of harvest !
true , indeed !
to flatter caesar , would you mingle eyes with one that ties his points ?
injuries , devils being offended , players in your housewifery , and housewives in your beds .
come , blow thy blast .
order in their changes , and holding the garland over her head ; which done , they deliver the same
to business that we love we rise betime , and go to ' t with delight .
exit flavius .
[taking up the child] mercy on ' s , a barne !
and the other higher , is too flaming praise for a good complexion .
dost thou not see my baby at my breast that sucks the nurse asleep ?
snow-white pen the ebon-coloured ink which here thou viewest , beholdest , surveyest , or seest .
warrior ; leading in his hand an ancient matron , his wife , and mother to posthumus , with music
o lamentable day !
thus conscience does make cowards of us all , and thus the native hue of resolution is sicklied o '
and yet this time removed was summer ' s time , the teeming autumn big with rich increase , bearing
les dames et demoiselles pour etre baisees devant leur noces , il n ' est pas la coutume de france
rescue , fair lord , or else the day is lost .
that ' s not feign ' d- he is so .
for love of her that ' s gone , perhaps she cull ' d it from among the rest .
txt but we keep whole by land .
nay , not sure , in a thing falsing .
now , at the latest minute of the hour , grant us your loves .
no , alas , i found it , and i did give ' t my husband .
the palace of polixenes enter polixenes and camillo polixenes .
what a plague have i to do with a buff jerkin ?
he breathes , my lord .
[they fight , and all enter the city] scene v .
' but quickly on this side the verdict went : his real habitude gave life and grace to appertainings and
the forest of arden enter duke senior , amiens , and two or three lords , like foresters duke senior
she refuse me ; and from hence i go , to make these doubts all even .
but here comes antony .
all the creatures on the earth .
with his solemn tongue he did discourse to love-sick dido ' s sad attending ear the story of that baleful
mad in pursuit and in possession so , had , having , and in quest , to have extreme ,
think , my lord ?
we must receive him according to the honour of his sender ; and towards himself , his goodness forespent on
there shall appear such seeming truth of hero ' s disloyalty that jealousy shall be call ' d assurance and
nor no man else !
break we our watch up ; and by my advice let us impart what we have seen to-night unto young
sandal castle , near wakefield , in yorkshire flourish .
find me worse provided .
cheaply bought .
txt salisbury .
lady ' s ear , such as would please .
i ' ll about and drive away the vulgar from the streets ; so do you too , where you
romeo !
nicholas .
he hath songs for man or woman of all sizes ; no milliner can so fit his customers with gloves
i thank you , good people- there shall be no money ; all shall eat and drink on my score
but be it ; let it live .
banish your dotage !
well , i will do it , though i take thee in the king ' s company .
' at the queen ' s ' be ' t .
henceforth hated be of timon man and all humanity !
nay , come , let ' s go together .
txt ber .
pencil , beauty ' s truth to lay : but best is best , if never intermixed ' ?
enter musicians page .
gone , my good lord .
but this i can let you understand : the greater file of the subject held the duke to be wise
words is more than due .
exeunt all but the bastard a foot of honour better than i was ; but many a many foot of
pair of horns .
shake off this downy sleep , death ' s counterfeit , and look on death itself !
the king will be gone from southampton .
what , think you the king shall be deposed ?
garter his hose ; and you , being in love , cannot see to put on your hose .
counsellors , how modest in exception , and withal how terrible in constant resolution , and you shall find his
so by a roaring tempest on the flood a whole armado of convicted sail is scattered and disjoin ' d
) on wednesday next- but , soft !
ha , ah , ha !
d , to lesson me and tell me some good mean how , with my honour , i may undertake
he being thus lorded , not only with what my revenue yielded , but what my power might else exact
myself , one of their kind , that relish all as sharply , passion as they , be kindlier mov
as i was cause your highness came to england , so will i in england work your grace ' s
" then fly , false thanes , and mingle with the english epicures !
that herod ' s head i ' ll have .
stand up , stand up !
offence seal ' d up ; our cannons ' malice vainly shall be spent against th ' invulnerable clouds of
' gainst a head so old and white as this !
txt bid your friends welcome , show a merry cheer ; since you are dear bought , i will love
dear lad , believe it , for they shall yet belie thy happy years that say thou art a man
good norfolk , hie thee to thy charge ; use careful watch , choose trusty sentinels .
the flood .
thieves are not judg ' d but they are by to hear , although apparent guilt be seen in them
it not , see you well guerdon ' d for these good deserts .
deny him , forswear him , or else we are all undone .
enter benvolio and mercutio .
now for the counsel of my son and queen !
the duke be here to-night ?
proceed .
you know not why we came to visit you- reg .
be you content , fair maid .
mine innocence and saint george to thrive !
, but for staying on our controversy , had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day .
letters from him ?
pride went before , ambition follows him .
ere i lead this life long , i ' ll sew nether-stocks , and mend them and foot them too
saw you the weird sisters ?
cannot be !
i ' ll make a voyage to the holy land , to wash this blood off from my guilty hand
how can that be , unless she drown ' d herself in her own defence ?
well , i must do ' t .
of what quality was your love , then ?
ratcliff , about the mid of night come to my tent and help to arm me .
there shall your master have a thousand loves , a mother , and a mistress , and a friend ,
poor desdemon !
i think , or in any religion .
i have considered so much , camillo , and with some care , so far that i have eyes under
enter fool [from the hovel] .
how have ye done since last we saw in france ?
therefore be it known , as to us , to all the world , that caius marcius wears this war
exeunt [all but the captain] .
to save both , farewell , our brother .
severely from resort of men , that no man hath access by day to her .
love talks with better knowledge , and knowledge with dearer love .
' tis sweet and commendable in your nature , hamlet , to give these mourning duties to your father ;
of tender courtesy .
yet you do well to show lord timon that mean eyes have seen the foot above the head .
faith , sir , he did love her ; but how ?
" if caesar hide himself , shall they not whisper " lo , caesar is afraid " ?
[reads] ' thy mistress , pisanio , hath play ' d the strumpet in my bed , the testimonies whereof
o , bear him out o ' the air .
be those with swords ?
my mind ; but , o , the devil ' -there the villain stopp ' d ; when dighton thus
you speak o ' th ' people as if you were a god , to punish ; not a man
the tower of london enter mortimer , brought in a chair , and gaolers mortimer .
the world esteem ' d thy father honourable , but i did find him still mine enemy .
go , tubal , and meet me at our synagogue ; go , good tubal ; at our synagogue ,
a most high miracle !
look , here is a basket ; if he be of any reasonable stature , he may creep in here
hate , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter menenius agrippa second citizen .
marry , the lord protect him , for he ' s a good man , jesu bless him !
go with me to clothe you as becomes you .
garment of posthumus in more respect than my noble and natural person , together with the adornment of my qualities
briefly die their joys that place them on the truth of girls and boys .
if love be blind , love cannot hit the mark .
know , rome , that all alone marcius did fight within corioli gates , where he hath won , with
farewell , farewell !
so will it fare with claudio .
i scarce did know you , uncle ; there lies your niece , whose breath indeed these hands have newly
devils soonest tempt , resembling spirits of light .
noble gentleman , yield up his life unto a world of odds .
so carefully have dress ' d !
txt bread .
to the gates of tartar , thou most excellent devil of wit !
i will do my good will , sir ; you can have no more .
is this a dagger which i see before me , the handle toward my hand ?
the earl of gloucester ' s castle .
the noble lord most honourably doth uphold his word .
marriage betwixt myself and her ; which was broke off , partly for that her promised proportions came short of
go to ; it is a plague that cupid will impose for my neglect of his almighty dreadful little might
have i caught thee , my heavenly jewel ?
, even so myself bewails good gloucester ' s case with sad unhelpful tears , and with dimm ' d
i have tir ' d myself , and for two nights together have made the ground my bed .
how has the ass broke the wall , that thou art out of the city ?
[sees his father ' s body] o , let the vile world end and the premised flames of the last
have a care of your entertainments .
still , methinks , there is an air comes from her .
mark a little while .
give me the light .
for thee i ' ll lock up all the gates of love , and on my eyelids shall conjecture hang
no , i will not .
must debate awhile , and then i would no other company .
and , being intercepted in your sport , great reason that my noble lord be rated for sauciness .
, i will not touch a bit .
seest thou , my good fellow ?
tilly-vally , lady .
the barge she sat in , like a burnish ' d throne , burn ' d on the water .
thou art raw .
a proper stripling , and an amorous !
there is either liquor in his pate or money in his purse when he looks so merrily .
shall henry ' s conquest , bedford ' s vigilance , your deeds of war , and all our counsel
there ' s no art to find the mind ' s construction in the face : he was a gentleman
welcome , dear rosencrantz and guildenstern .
fair love , you faint with wand ' ring in the wood ; and , to speak troth , i
, be you one- nor construe any further my neglect than that poor brutus with himself at war forgets the
enter montano and two gentlemen .
northumberland comes back from bolingbroke .
' where is the life that late i led ?
nay , that shall not serve your turn ; that shall it not , in truth , la .
and to give me your good report to the prince my master .
exit countess .
do a court ' sy to our wrath , which men may blame , but not control .
demetrius look ' d on hermia ' s eyne , he hail ' d down oaths that he was only
txt puff ' d his own brother .
i will disparage her no farther till you are my witnesses .
we are thy sovereign , clifford , kneel again ; for thy mistaking so , we pardon thee .
alcibiades reads the epitaph ' here lies a wretched corse , of wretched soul bereft ; seek not my name
mind as well as another does .
cymbeline ' s palace enter imogen and pisanio imogen .
, who plead for love , and look for recompense , more than that tongue that more hath more expressed
longer , longer .
an open place enter valentine and proteus valentine .
it may be ; i ' ll prove it : the cover of the salt hides the salt , and
if i be so disgracious in your eye , let me march on and not offend you , madam .
and yet in some respects , i grant , i cannot go- i cannot tell .
let base clouds o ' ertake me in my way , hiding thy brav ' ry in their rotten smoke
i thank them ; and would send them back the plague , could i but catch it for them .
my life i never held but as a pawn to wage against thine enemies ; nor fear to lose it
no , indeed , master .
i am content , so the maiden cities you talk of may wait on her ; so the maid that
yet what can it when one cannot repent ?
i drew to part them .
please you what you will demand .
answer to that .
' d sometime in greece- menenius .
fourscore ducats !
to milford go , and find not her whom thou pursuest .
farewell , for i must leave you .
come , mourn with me for what i do lament , and put on sullen black incontinent .
alas , i know not : how gets the tide in ?
doth be bear it ?
i will weep for nothing , like diana in the fountain , and i will do that when you are
soft !
you may do , then , in time .
txt enter another messenger third messenger .
what said he ?
i ' ll try you on the shore .
why , so didst thou .
his lordship will next morning for france .
ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads , he shall but bear them as the ass bears gold , to groan
i did imagine what would be her refuge .
feeding his own stomach .
why do you speak so faintly ?
faith , you ' ll be sick to-morrow for this night ' s watching .
from whence himself does fly ?
' a comes continuantly to pie-corner- saving your manhoods- to buy a saddle ; and he is indited to dinner
[aside] he was an honest man and a good bricklayer .
nobleness of birth .
i may not breathe my censure what he might be : if what he might he is not , i
sound a parley .
the young prince hath misled me .
dishonour not your mothers ; now attest that those whom you call ' d fathers did beget you .
the potent poison quite o ' ercrows my spirit .
may well in fretting spend his gall nor men nor money hath he to make war .
o , reason not the need !
what light is light , if silvia be not seen ?
is ' t so , my lords of england ?
- bring thee all this ; yea , and furr ' d moss besides , when flow ' rs are
er saw him but once in the tiltyard ; and then he burst his head for crowding among the page
i pretty , and my saying apt ?
it should be now , but that my fear is this , some galled goose of winchester would hiss .
see , posthumus anchors upon imogen ; and she , like harmless lightning , throws her eye on him ,
but how is it that great plantagenet is crown ' d so soon and broke his solemn oath ?
that ' s the scene that i would see , which will be merely a dumb show .
floods of tears will drown my oratory and break my utt ' rance , even in the time when it
txt if this be magic , let it be an art lawful as eating .
fail , restraining aid to timon , and send forth us to make their sorrowed render , together with a
my lord , we will do so .
not a whit , touchstone .
come margaret ; god , our hope , will succour us .
txt berowne .
dead .
desires run not before mine honour , nor my lusts burn hotter than my faith .
not who they sting in his revenge .
doth it not show vilely in me to desire small beer ?
sir robert could do : well-marry , to confess- could he get me ?
i a thief ?
if you be gentlemen , do me this right- hear me with patience .
sweet ladies , will it please you sit ?
, in braving arms , be his own carver and cut out his way , to find out right with
has he affections in him that thus can make him bite the law by th ' nose when he would
in such a time as this it is not meet that every nice offense should bear his comment .
helen must needs be fair , when with your blood you daily paint her thus .
consider who the king your father sends , to whom he sends , and what ' s his embassy :
here , claudio , i have wooed in thy name , and fair hero is won .
upon what cause ?
, now to forgive me frankly .
indeed a tapster ' s arithmetic may soon bring his particulars therein to a total .
edward plantagenet , arise a knight ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hence will i drag thee headlong by the heels unto a dunghill , which shall be thy grave , and
you shall find it a great charge ; and to be up early and down late ; but notwithstanding-to tell
that my lord your son was upon his return home , i moved the king my master to speak in
of rome .
, inconstant , and damnable ingrateful .
what kind of woman is ' t ?
[to the king] o , ho !
winding nooks he strays , with willing sport , to the wild ocean .
seal ' d thy full desire .
to thine and albany ' s issue be this perpetual .
you may have every day enough of hector , if you have stomach .
o that i had been writ down an ass !
in your sightless substances you wait on nature ' s mischief !
you are deceiv ' d , sir ; we kept time , we lost not our time .
and therefore met your loves in their own fashion , like a merriment .
' twas men i lack ' d , and you will give them me ; i take it kindly .
they say that love hath not an eye at all .
in the proof of his valour .
we are blest that rome is rid of him .
and you , good yeomen , whose limbs were made in england , show us here the mettle of your
caret .
worthy cawdor !
this man said , sir , that don john the prince ' s brother was a villain .
but if you mouth it , as many of our players do , i had as live the town crier
why wouldst thou be a breeder of sinners ?
i would you had won the fleece that he hath lost .
' d , and fled .
my lord , i claim the gift , my due by promise , for which your honour and your faith
[aside to enobarbus] he has a cloud in ' s face .
enter ford , page , shallow , caius , and sir hugh evans ford .
give me thy glove , soldier ; look , here is the fellow of it .
and what has he sent now ?
thus far can i praise him : he is of a noble strain , of approved valour , and confirm
' tis grace indeed .
i am informed throughly of the cause .
by your patience , i may not suffer you to visit them .
yield , marcius , yield .
; for well we know no hand of blood and bone can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre ,
a wonder , lady !
keep our great saint george ' s feast withal .
with poins , and other his continual followers .
either thou art most ignorant by age , or thou wert born a fool .
by penitence th ' eternal ' s wrath ' s appeas ' d .
your exclamations .
o time , thou must untangle this , not i ; it is too hard a knot for me t
do you note me ?
will scarce hold the laying in , i page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
_num_ when most i wink then do mine eyes best see , for all the day they view things unrespected
now all the plagues that in the pendulous air hang fated o ' er men ' s faults light on
still as the grave .
speak like a subject , proud ambitious york .
there is no help ; the bitter disposition of the time will have it so .
the count ' s palace enter countess and clown countess .
you cannot speak of reason to the dane and lose your voice .
in deep designs , in matter of great moment , no less importing than our general good , are come
_num_ o for my sake do you with fortune chide , the guilty goddess of my harmful deeds , that
that is her ransom ; i deliver her .
who ' s that which calls ?
if our hands , our sides , voices , and minds , had been incorporate .
' tis true-to hurt his master , no man else .
master doctor caius , i come to fetch you home .
more than prince of cats , i can tell you .
ill spirit , i would hold more talk with thee .
security gives way to conspiracy .
you shall be miss ' d at court , and that will well confirm it .
are you not kent ?
peace , count the clock .
he says his name ' s poor tom .
than to be used as you use your dog ?
then there ' s life in ' t .
he is compos ' d and fram ' d of treachery , and fled he is upon this villany .
when in swinish sleep their drenched natures lie as in a death , what cannot you and i perform upon
he speaks to me .
[within] an answer from the king , or we will all break in !
and turn again unto the warlike french .
well , bear you well in this new spring of time , lest you be cropp ' d before you
] farewell , and let your haste commend your duty .
come , let ' s have one other gaudy night .
his form and cause conjoin ' d , preaching to stones , would make them capable .
i will not hear her speak ; away with her !
mean you his majesty ?
look , here i have you ; thus i let you go , and give you to the gods .
edward , what satisfaction canst thou make for bearing arms , for stirring up my subjects , and all the
_num_ thy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear , thy dial how thy precious minutes waste , these
mine would , sir , were i human .
now , by the ground that i am banish ' d from , well could i curse away a winter
exeunt oxford and somerset , guarded queen margaret .
farewell to your worship .
go home , john rugby ; i come anon .
i and my sword will earn our chronicle .
shallow again .
i have been long a sleeper , but i trust my absence doth neglect no great design which by my
' dull .
have long been separated .
' hang-hog ' is latin for bacon , i warrant you .
what a foolish duty call you this ?
take this purse of gold , and let me buy your friendly help thus far , which i will over-pay
he set up his bills here in messina and challeng ' d cupid at the flight , and my uncle
of fancy , then shall you know the wounds invisible that love ' s keen arrows make .
come on , i say ; and first begin with her .
yes , an ' t please you , sir .
i think he thinks upon the savage bull .
what shall we do , enobarbus ?
the great rage you see is kill ' d in him ; and yet it is danger to make him
when he shall miss me- as , in faith , i mean not to see him any more- cast your
yet he loves antony .
a hill near alexandria enter antony and scarus antony .
i ' ll hale the dauphin headlong from his throne ; his crown shall be the ransom of my friend
affect .
there ' s thy guerdon ; go .
[alarum continues] re-enter titus lartius lartius .
my lord , fear none of this .
then , york , be still awhile , till time do serve ; watch thou and wake , when others
i will not flatter her .
to thee a woman ' s services are due ; my fool usurps my body .
feel .
was ever son so rued a father ' s death ?
in verity , you did .
i am the best of them that speak this speech , were i but where ' tis spoken .
' receiving earth ; for ' tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings , carry them here and
do you love me , master ?
to the leviathan to come ashore .
why , look you , i am whipp ' d and scourg ' d with rods , nettled , and
why , here ' s a change indeed in the commonwealth !
montez a cheval !
i ' ll heat his blood with greekish wine to-night , which with my scimitar i ' ll cool to-morrow
she ' s dead , my queen .
for us , and for our tragedy , here stooping to your clemency , we beg your hearing patiently .
' than hector is .
the wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst owes nothing to thy blasts .
the queen takes place some distance from the king .
condition !
i am happily come hither .
why then i would resort to her by night .
my prisoner or my guest ?
you may command us , sir .
i did , my lord , but loath am to produce so bad an instrument ; his name ' s
you look very ill .
where be these bloody thieves ?
caliban !
we will give you sleepy drinks , that your senses , unintelligent of our insufficience , may , though they
why , boy , although our mother , unadvis ' d , gave you a dancing rapier by your side
shall i give him his answer ?
o this woodcock , what an ass it is !
thou detestable maw , thou womb of death , gorg ' d with the dearest morsel of the earth ,
' twere good you let him know ; for who that ' s but a queen , fair , sober
nay , but swear ' t .
how noble in reason !
well hast thou spoken , cousin ; be it so .
we are all frail .
o , then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire , and not in fear of your nativity
but wherefore grieve i at an hour ' s poor loss , omitting suffolk ' s exile , my soul
of woe , round about her tomb they go .
i am for the air ; this night i ' ll spend unto a dismal and a fatal end .
[aside] praise in departing .
i will to venice ; sunday comes apace ; we will have rings and things , and fine array ;
methought this staff , mine office-badge in court , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the number of the king exceedeth ours .
to lend me arms and aid when i requir ' d them , the which you both denied .
sly .
pray , is my lord ready to come forth ?
how does my old acquaintance of this isle ?
and thus she moans , videlicet : - thisby .
speak , pucelle , and enchant him with thy words .
down her weedy trophies and herself fell in the weeping brook .
and a true lover of the holy church .
up and down , up and down , i will lead them up and down .
, and hymen did our hands , unite comutual in most sacred bands .
what makes that frontlet on ?
look what thy memory cannot contain , commit to these waste blanks , and thou shalt find those children nursed
my lord , cheer up your spirits ; our foes are nigh , and this soft courage makes your followers
was not my lord the verier wag o ' th ' two ?
i ' ll see their trial first .
an ass , i am a youth of fourteen ; i have known thee already .
i thank my good father , i am able to maintain it .
harsh ; there ' s not a minute of our lives should stretch without some pleasure now .
i tell you yet again , banquo ' s buried ; he cannot come out on ' s grave .
once ?
green corn hath rotted ere his youth attain ' d a beard ; the fold stands empty in the drowned
it beckons you to go away with it , as if it some impartment did desire to you alone .
we were , fair queen , two lads that thought there was no more behind but such a day to-morrow
but for these foolish officers , i beseech you i may have redress against them .
but now the blood of twenty thousand men did triumph in my face , and they are fled ; and
ere it begins .
>> _num_ the tragedy of macbeth by william shakespeare dramatis personae duncan , king of scotland macbeth , thane of
please you , therefore , draw nigh and take your places .
like a demigod here sit i in the sky , and wretched fools ' secrets heedfully o ' er-eye .
with divine ambition puff ' d , makes mouths at the invisible event , exposing what is mortal and unsure
enter jaques de boys jaques de boys .
i have given over , i will speak no more .
i prithee , pretty youth , let me be better acquainted with thee .
varro and claudio !
then will ajax lack matter , if he have lost his argument ulysses .
when your head did but ache , i knit my handkerchief about your brows- the best i had , a
prithee , allow the wind .
[aside] it works .
prain , which peradventure prings goot discretions with it .
no valentine , indeed , for sacred silvia .
now , apemantus , if thou wert not sullen i would be good to thee .
to ridiculous smiling .
monstrous !
[giving a letter] ' twill be two days ere i shall see you ; so i leave you to your
the word of peace is rend ' red .
exeunt severally <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library
who lies i ' the second chamber ?
- o cruel !
] my lord , old sir john , with half-a-dozen more , are at the door .
why , one that rode to ' s execution , man , could never go so slow .
his head ; he hath fought with a warrener .
hear all , all see , and like her most whose merit most shall be ; which , on more
it is enacted in the laws of venice , if it be proved against an alien that by direct or
good morrow ; for as i take it , it is almost day .
but , i beseech you , what ' s become of katharine , the princess dowager ?
, let me not find you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever- no , not for dwelling where you
since they did plot the means that dusky dis my daughter got , her and her blind boy ' s
wit , an ' t be thy will , put me into good fooling !
help , help , ho !
the little dogs and all , tray , blanch , and sweetheart , see , they bark at me .
well , but o ' clock ?
how say you by the french lord , monsieur le bon ?
o , speak of that !
the still-piecing air , that sings with piercing ; do not touch my lord .
he was gotten in drink .
mine , invisible to every eyeball else .
these three have robb ' d me ; and this demi-devil- for he ' s a bastard one-had plotted with
whom i most hated living , thou hast made me , with thy religious truth and modesty , now in
will enforce it eas ' ly to my love .
exit porter northumberland .
have bought golden opinions from all sorts of people , which would be worn now in their newest gloss ,
your partner , as i hear , must die to-morrow , and i am going with instruction to him .
and i ' ll keep london with my soldiers .
tarry a little ; there is something else .
easy ways to die .
well , brutus , thou art noble ; yet , i see thy honorable mettle may be wrought from that
gav ' st thou my letter to julia ?
went hand in hand even with the vow i made to her in marriage , and to decline upon a
aedile .
decius .
txt that can do hurt .
masters , i am come hither , as it were , upon my man ' s instigation , to prove
s moulds , all germains spill at once , that makes ingrateful man !
[enter knight] how now ?
you would have married her most shamefully , where there was no proportion held in love .
that the sleeping man should stir ; for ' tis the royal disposition of that beast to prey on nothing
my lord of cambridge , and my kind lord of masham , and you , my gentle knight , give
and no grounded malice .
[to pisanio] hark thee , a word .
enter [at one door] leonato and [at another door , antonio] an old man , brother to leonato .
txt was tim ' d with dying cries .
aliena shall you marry her .
i am unfit for state and majesty .
i have given him that which , if he take , shall quite unpeople her of leigers for her sweet
god give thee joy of him !
place as broad achilles ; keeps his tent like him ; makes factious feasts ; rails on our state of
as long as hell and richard likes of it .
and made lucifer cuckold , and swore the devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a welsh hook- what
i know the hand ; in faith , ' tis a fair hand , and whiter than the paper it
i will never buy and sell out of this word .
this sickness doth infect the very lifeblood of our enterprise .
as will the rest , so willeth winchester .
by my head , here come the capulets .
if you pardon , we will mend .
is this th ' alliance that he seeks with france ?
see , a book of prayer in his hand , true ornaments to know a holy man .
i am nothing ; or if not , nothing to be were better .
no , cassio is not kill ' d .
now the l ' envoy .
marcade .
let ' s quit this ground , and smoke the temple with our sacrifices .
the four strangers seek for you , madam , to take their leave ; and there is a forerunner come
your lord and titus lartius are set down before their city corioli ; they nothing doubt prevailing and to make
if not , i would it were .
kept to do so .
wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be justified in our loves ; for indeed- camillo .
despised substance of divinest show !
my lord , i found the prince in the next room , washing with kindly tears his gentle cheeks ,
leave all the rest to me .
you must hang it first and draw it afterwards .
who , queasy with his insolence already , will their good thoughts call from him .
and a multitude following cardinal .
forbear till this company be past .
exit an attendant we will , fair queen , up to the mountain ' s top , and mark the
hath he deserv ' d to lose his birthright thus ?
would i could free ' t !
i will lay him down such reasons for this adventure that he shall go .
o , she ' s warm !
no , indeed , sir ; the lady olivia has no folly ; she will keep no fool , sir
the grecian camp enter ajax and thersites ajax .
i give him curses , yet he gives me love .
seven year and a half , sir .
i will pursue her even to augustus ' throne .
txt _num_ lo as a careful huswife runs to catch , one of her feathered creatures broke away , sets
no ; for he could not so resign his crown but that the next heir should succeed and reign .
nay , faith , i ' ll see the church a your back , and then come back to my
she is pistol-proof , sir ; you shall not hardly offend her .
brief , then ; and what ' s the news ?
this davy serves you for good uses ; he is your serving-man and your husband .
never ?
i could not find him at the elephant ; yet there he was ; and there i found this credit
humbly i thank your grace .
' tis a lie- i am not ague-proof .
period to the jest , should he not be publicly sham ' d .
my lord , there needs no such apology : i do beseech your grace to pardon me , who ,
nay , he ' s at two hands with me , and that my two ears can witness .
what , ostler !
appear thou in the likeness of a sigh ; speak but one rhyme , and i am satisfied !
pless my soul !
away , and glister like the god of war when he intendeth to become the field ; show boldness and
i knew ' twas i ; for many do call me fool .
have you so soon forgot the entertainment her sister katherine welcome ' d you withal ?
give your men the charge ; we must be brief .
' mongst all foes that a friend should be the worst !
with meditating that she must die once i have the patience to endure it now .
she was new lodged and newly deified .
i must have saffron to colour the warden pies ; mace ; dates- none , that ' s out of
' tis much when sceptres are in children ' s hands ; but more when envy breeds unkind division :
the commons hast thou rack ' d ; the clergy ' s bags are lank and lean with thy extortions
be embrac ' d by a piece of tender air ; and when from a stately cedar shall be lopp
enter charles the dauphin , alencon , and reignier , marching with drum and soldiers charles .
look round about the wicked streets of rome , and when thou find ' st a man that ' s
body more with thy embraces , i will devise a death as cruel for thee as thou art tender to
most honest men !
answer to this : i , now the voice of the recorded law , pronounce a sentence on your brother
leonato , governor of messina .
ho , by your leave !
doth form it ; nor once deject the courage of our minds because cassandra ' s mad .
hark , the duke ' s trumpets !
it was a lover and his lass , with a hey , and a ho , and a hey nonino
brother , we will proclaim you out of hand ; the bruit thereof will bring you many friends .
i vow ' d , base knight , when i did meet thee next to tear the garter from thy
this is desperate , sir .
[reads] ' to the unknown belov ' d , this , and my good wishes .
txt of the storm be past .
denies the yielding of her up ?
then enter douglas and sir walter blunt .
this is signior antonio .
fetch ' t , let me see it .
' a had him from me christian ; and look if the fat villain have not transform ' d him
is she as tall as me ?
i am he that is so love-shak ' d ; i pray you tell me your remedy .
o prince !
things to prince it much beyond the trick of others .
man .
i ' ll send to one in mantua , where that same banish ' d runagate doth live , shall
field .
timon !
doth fortune play the huswife with me now ?
forgive me , valentine ; if hearty sorrow be a sufficient ransom for offence , i tender ' t here
the horn , i say .
comfort , my lord ; and so i take my leave .
no abuse , hal , o ' mine honour ; no abuse .
further .
we are so virtuously bound- timon .
well , what remedy ?
spoke like a tall man that respects thy reputation .
what , have you given him any hard words of late ?
i have misused the king ' s press damnably .
this fellow might be in ' s time a great buyer of land , with his statutes , his recognizances
slaughters as are daily seen by our proceeding in hostility ; and therefore take this compact of a truce ,
, nor hate him not ; and yet i have more cause to hate him than to love him ;
and out of heart , master ; all those three i will prove .
sound] thus high , by thy advice and thy assistance , is king richard seated .
i ' ll tell you more anon .
enter a messenger , hastily messenger .
that i shall clear myself , lay all the weight ye can upon my patience , i make as little
if york have ill demean ' d himself in france , then let him be denay ' d the regentship
thus it came-give heed to ' t : my conscience first receiv ' d a tenderness , scruple , and
i am good friends with my father , and may do anything .
' tis sport to maul a runner .
thou offer ' st fairly to thy brothers ' wedding : to one , his lands withheld ; and to
at .
whither bound ?
exampled by herself : when all her chivalry hath been in france , and she a mourning widow of her
i had as lief have a reed that will do me no service as a partizan i could not heave
you have hurt him , sir , i ' th ' shoulder .
obedience- too little payment for so great a debt .
then he offered it to him again ; then he put it by again .
withal say that the queen hath heartily consented he should espouse elizabeth her daughter .
its right father .
thy blood and virtue contend for empire in thee , and thy goodness share with thy birthright !
exit seleucus cleopatra .
why , that to know which else we should not know .
my general cares not for you .
what holier than , for royalty ' s repair , for present comfort , and for future good , to
be gone , good ancient ; this will grow to a brawl anon .
i never did repent for doing good , nor shall not now ; for in companions that do converse and
a-horseback , ye cuckoo !
my master calls me ; i must not say no .
who can be patient in such extremes ?
want no money , sir john ; you shall want none .
hark !
this of hers ; and yet the painter flatter ' d her a little , unless i flatter with myself
it shall be done , my sovereign , with all speed .
desist to build at all ?
i foresee with grief the utter loss of all the realm of france .
, or defend yourself by calmness or by absence ; all ' s in anger .
one word , good citizens .
those prisoners in your highness ' name demanded which harry percy here at holmedon took , were , as he
<exeunt all but dromio dromio of syracuse .
he laugh ' d and let me go .
' tis pity- parolles .
if thou wert sensible of courtesy , i should not make so dear a show of zeal .
go in , and weep not ; all things shall be well .
not according to the prayer of the people , for they love not marcius .
you are a royal one , and we obey you .
hang out our banners on the outward walls ; the cry is still , " they come !
it cannot be avoided but by this ; it will not be avoided but by this .
an end ; but now they rise again , with twenty mortal murthers on their crowns , and push us
but sure the bravery of his grief did put me into a tow ' ring passion .
exeunt bertram and lafeu helena .
woman , she is indeed more than i took her for .
call up her father , rouse him , make after him , poison his delight , proclaim him in the
enter gadshill .
i am not tall enough to become the function well nor lean enough to be thought a good student ;
have , with wholesome syrups , drugs , and holy prayers , to make of him a formal man again
whither goest thou ?
and though you think that all , as you have done , have torn their souls by turning them from
therefore- rutland .
[reads] ' youth , whatsoever thou art , thou art but a scurvy fellow .
ay , sir ; the other squirrel was stol ' n from me by the hangman ' s boys in
i got with wounds deliver ' d up again with peaceful words ?
lucius and another with a bundle of weapons , and verses writ upon them chiron .
how many inches doth fill up one mile .
shall i obtain it ?
d your first queen ' s ghost , it should take joy page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
do not extort thy reasons from this clause , for that i woo , thou therefore hast no cause ;
an earnest conjuration from the king , as england was his faithful tributary , as love between them like the
clarence and somerset both gone to warwick !
this good ?
' twill be naught ; but let it be .
achieve as soon as draw his sword ; yet he hath left undone that which shall break his neck or
strike up the drum towards athens .
upon this warrant shall you have access where you with silvia may confer at large- for she is lumpish ,
so , bless thee , master !
one , certes , that promises no element in such a business .
re-enter duke duke .
[aside] you shall have four if you ' ll be rul ' d by him .
country new .
sun ?
who sent it ?
where , i mean , i did encounter that obscene and most prepost ' rous event that draweth from my
most mighty caesar , let me know some cause , lest i be laugh ' d at when i tell
if you bethink yourself of any crime unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace , solicit for it straight .
virtue is not regarded in handicraftsmen .
and i to sigh for her !
o , peace !
metal was his party steeled ; which once in him abated , an the rest turn ' d on themselves
take my defiance ; die ; perish .
if that same demon that hath gull ' d thee thus should with his lion gait walk the whole world
as sweet repose and rest come to thy heart as that within my breast !
as man and wife , being two , are one in love , so be there ' twixt your kingdoms
for heaven sake , hubert , let me not be bound !
a woeful pageant have we here beheld .
losing him .
a sleeve ?
i know you did .
exit lord chamberlain ; and the king draws the curtain and sits reading pensively suffolk .
superior , grows to an envious fever of pale and bloodless emulation .
some say he is with the emperor of russia ; other some , he is in rome ; but where
and warwick , doing what you gave in charge , is now dishonoured by this new marriage .
the widow ' s house enter helena and widow helena .
if he know that i am free of your report , he knows i am not of your wrong .
do thou but close our hands with holy words , then love-devouring death do what he dare- it is enough
useless , boil ' d within thy skull !
txt a thousand men have broke their fasts to-day that ne ' er shall dine unless thou yield the crown
why , man , if the river were dry , i am able to fill it with my tears ;
i have heard of such .
, and in the pulpit , as becomes a friend , speak in the order of his funeral .
your father ?
my father was a mortimer- dick .
when the rain came to wet me once , and the wind to make me chatter ; when the thunder
well , sir , to do you courtesy , this will i do , and this i will advise you-
i beseech your grace , let this letter be read ; our person misdoubts it : ' twas treason ,
because thou hast no face .
shine out , fair sun , till i have bought a glass , that i may see my shadow as
rudely visit them in parts remote to fright them ere destroy .
is the world as it was , man ?
where shall i find you ?
methinks it should be now a huge eclipse of sun and moon , and that the affrighted globe should yawn
look up ; speak .
fear not you that .
neither can be enjoy ' d , if both remain alive .
i would be gone .
to say it is mended- my quarrel was not altogether slight .
enter bertram lafeu .
we know your drift .
rather your eyes must with his judgment look .
>> _num_ much ado about nothing by william shakespeare dramatis personae don pedro , prince of arragon .
' inprimis : she can fetch and carry .
come , my lord .
as rich shall romeo ' s by his lady ' s lie- poor sacrifices of our enmity !
her bed ; the arras , figures- why , such and such ; and the contents o ' th '
my life itself , and the best heart of it , thanks you for this great care ; i stood
good tidings , my lord hastings ; for the which i do arrest thee , traitor , of high treason
' o monstrous treachery !
thou shalt not die .
take her hence .
we must die , messala .
king and yours .
txt to do worse to you were fell cruelty , which is too nigh your person .
wondrous virtues .
but couch , ho !
tongue as is the other for beauteous modesty .
this was your husband .
txt changes the mood ; for what in me was purchas ' d falls upon thee in a more fairer
i prithee now , lead the way without any more talking .
it shall suffice , sir .
well , the best is , she hath no teeth to bite .
thither will i invite the duke and all ' s contented followers .
and for that dowry , i ' ll assure her of her widowhood , be it that she survive me
there is but one hope in it that can do you any good , and that is but a kind
why , fear not , man ; i will not forfeit it ; within these two months- that ' s
do you think me a swallow , an arrow , or a bullet ?
she loves you , and as i find her , so am i affected ; till then , farewell ,
enter publius , brutus , ligarius , metellus , casca , trebonius , and cinna .
though little fire grows great with little wind , yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all .
ay , with five hundred , father , for a need .
dost thou hear , camillo ?
first , hath this woman most wrongfully accus ' d your substitute ; who is as free from touch or
methinks these peers of france should smile at that .
' tis but a little way that i can bring you , for i attend here , but i '
fear it not , sir ; i would i were so sure to win the king as i am bold
din ' d at home !
before the curing of a strong disease , even in the instant of repair and health , the fit is
if every ducat in six thousand ducats were in six parts , and every part a ducat , i would
murther , murther !
neighbours , you are tedious .
this thou tell ' st me , as true thou tell ' st me , when i say i love
she-wolf of france , but worse than wolves of france , whose tongue more poisons than the adder ' s
sweet saint , for charity , be not so curst .
re-enter lucetta lucetta .
i ' ll keep you company .
we not partition make with spectacles so precious ' twixt fair and foul ?
, while counterfeit supposes blear ' d thine eyne .
waggon !
thou should ' st desire to die , being miserable .
on a band , but on a stronger thing , a chain , a chain .
[exit claudio] provost , a word with you .
i must from this enchanting queen break off .
d to the ragged staff , this day i ' ll wear aloft my burgonet , as on a mountain-top
great deal of patience .
of that right , my heart doth plead that thou in him dost lie , (a closet never pierced with
and how by this their child shall be advanc ' d , and be received for the emperor ' s
this blows my heart .
thou villain capulet !
both , both , my lord .
dardanius .
enter servilius titus .
if then the tree may be known by the fruit , as the fruit by the tree , then ,
crowns and ever harmless looks , leave your crisp channels , and on this green land answer your summons ;
team of horse shall not pluck that from me ; nor who ' tis i love ; and yet '
i stay but for my guidon .
i do beseech your majesty make up , lest your retirement do amaze your friends .
, hoping to purge himself with words .
what colour is my gown of ?
doth fill fields with harness in the realm , turns head against the lion ' s armed jaws , and
since griefs are green ; and all my friends , which thou must make thy friends , have but their
aumerle , thou weep ' st , my tender-hearted cousin !
what if this mixture do not work at all ?
have with you .
we must away ; our waggon is prepar ' d , and time revives us .
of war , this happy breed of men , this little world , this precious stone set in the silver
glory is like a circle in the water , which never ceaseth to enlarge itself till by broad spreading it
being rich in will add to thy will one will of mine to make thy large will more .
that pleasant country ' s earth , and his pure soul unto his captain , christ , under whose colours
txt then if you fight against god ' s enemy , god will in justice ward you as his soldiers
no , sooth , sir ; my determinate voyage is mere extravagancy .
thy true worthiness .
a whore , he tempts judgment .
i say , my lord , that if i were a man their mother ' s bedchamber should not be
sir , i had thought , by making this well known unto you , to have found a safe redress
txt diana .
turn from me then that noble countenance , wherein the worship of the whole world lies .
worthy sir , thou bleed ' st ; thy exercise hath been too violent for a second course of fight
well , go to ; we ' ll have no bastards live ; especially since charles must father it .
i will not wish ye half my miseries : i have more charity ; but say i warned ye .
exeunt all but queen and suffolk queen .
i am attended at the cypress grove ; i pray you- ' tis south the city mills- bring me word
[to lucio] now , sir , to you .
txt but here ' s a parchment with the seal of caesar ; i found it in his closet ,
this visitation shows it .
thou hast a sister by the mother ' s side , admir ' d octavia .
, coin , revenues , and moveables , whereof our uncle gaunt did stand possess ' d .
pray , how far thither ?
as of a man faithful and honourable .
he at philippi kept his sword e ' en like a dancer , while i struck the lean and wrinkled
' ll to the wars .
if it be so , as fast as she answers thee with frowning looks , i ' ll sauce her
take that , the likeness of this railer here .
so , lie thou there .
the senators of rome are this good belly , and you the mutinous members ; for , examine their counsels
pray you away ; let me alone with him .
with child , perhaps ?
a good blunt fellow .
and keep your honours safe !
macduff is missing , and your noble son .
he is far gone , far gone !
the country cocks do crow , the clocks do ton , and the third hour of drowsy morning name .
well , heaven knows how i love you ; and you shall one day find it .
' enter abhorson abhorson .
speechless sick , and still converse with groaning wretches ; and your task shall be , with all the fierce
adam ' s sons are my brethren , and truly i hold it a sin to match in my kinred
to none of these , except it be the last ; namely , some love that drew him oft from
enter some , bringing in the clerk of chatham smith .
and bids you be advis ' d there ' s nought in france that can be with a nimble galliard
how say you then ?
hadst thou but lov ' d him half so well as i , or felt that pain which i did
and your horse now would make him an ass .
bond of fellowship- upon that day either prepare to die for disobedience to your father ' s will , or
away , you rogue .
] par .
what say you now ?
sossius , one of my place in syria , his lieutenant , for quick accumulation of renown , which he
best !
out for thee to close up mine eyes , to have thee with thy lips to stop my mouth ;
then will i lay the serving-creature ' s dagger on your pate .
bid that welcome which comes to punish us , and we punish it , seeming to bear it lightly .
stand cavilling thus .
his pains ; god pardon them that are the cause thereof !
the thought that gave ' t surmised shape .
o , you hope the duke will return no more ; or you imagine me too unhurtful an opposite .
hour !
out upon it , old carrion !
lady , you utter madness and not sorrow .
enter coriolanus , marching with drum and colours ; the commoners being with him coriolanus .
bona .
nay , stay thou out for earnest .
come , let me clutch thee .
hath sold but my outside to behold .
dorset your son , that with a fearful soul leads discontented steps in foreign soil , this fair alliance quickly
marry , yet the fire of rage is in him , and ' twere good you lean ' d unto
you do mistake your business ; my brother never did urge me in his act .
god be with you !
this purse of ducats i receiv ' d from you , and dromio my man did bring them me .
as birds do , mother .
this night , wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch , the lion and the belly-pinched wolf keep their fur dry
i have been sometimes there .
cromwell .
go you to the prince your brother ; spare not to tell him that he hath wronged his honour in
ay , are you thereabouts ?
how have you slept , my lord ?
how got they in , and be hang ' d ?
will ' a swagger himself out on ' s own eyes ?
, to bear this tidings to the bloody king .
not found .
exit lafeu king .
say , didst thou speak with him ?
i ' ll go no more .
bring thou the master to the citadel ; he is a good one , and his worthiness does challenge much
to weep with them that weep doth ease some deal , but sorrow flouted at is double death .
enter isabella duke .
she in th ' habiliments of the goddess isis that day appear ' d ; and oft before gave audience
i do not think .
england ne ' er lost a king of so much worth .
read it not , noble lords ; but tell the traitor in the highest degree he hath abus ' d
[stabs him] rutland .
what instinct hadst thou for it ?
i am a fellow o ' th ' strangest mind i ' th ' world ; i delight in masques
the coming on of time with ' hail , king that shalt be !
yes faith .
the best in this kind are but shadows ; and the worst are no worse , if imagination amend them
farewell , my desdemona ; i ' ll come to thee straight .
ear !
petruchio , since we are stepp ' d thus far in , i will continue that i broach ' d
" shall rome , etc .
seek the king ; that sun , i pray , may never set !
' s man , came on the part of york , press ' d by his master ; and i
not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel .
the more my wrong , the more his spite appears .
truly , by your office you may ; but i think they that touch pitch will be defil ' d
come , you shake the head at so long a breathing ; but i warrant thee , claudio , the
warwick is thither gone to crave the french king ' s sister to wife for edward .
not out of doors !
no , i ' ll nor sell nor give him ; lend you him i will for half a hundred
come , we will walk .
benvolio , who began this bloody fray ?
good day , camillo .
sir , you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your habit , but your words show you a madman .
you are sent for to the capitol .
between who ?
they do not go together .
if i had been married to him , for all he was in woman ' s apparel , i would
after him , fellows ; bring him to the block .
the heavens were all on fire , the earth did tremble .
the king has made him master o ' th ' jewel house , and one , already , of the
begin some speech , her eyes became two spouts ; the fury spent , anon did this break from her
i will not desire that .
craves it as physic for the whole state , i would put mine armour on , which i can scarcely
poole !
there is no woman ' s gown big enough for him ; otherwise he might put on a hat ,
txt to wage an instant trial with the king .
i ' ll call upon you straight .
what must i say ?
if that surly spirit , melancholy , had bak ' d thy blood and made it heavy-thick , which else
what says lord warwick ?
was there none else in rome to make a stale but saturnine ?
the lady doth protest too much , methinks .
two .
woman ' s ear would murther as it fell .
i am not warm yet ; let us fight again .
searching of thy wound , i have by hard adventure found mine own .
the music , ho !
and he went still in this fashion , colour , ornament , for him i imitate .
and from the world ; his crown bequeathing to his banish ' d brother , and all their lands restor
th ' ambassador , lucius the roman , comes to milford haven to-morrow .
my lord , i scarce have leisure to salute you , my matter is so rash .
agamemnon is a fool to offer to command achilles ; achilles is a fool to be commanded of agamemnon ;
love !
first go with me to church and call me wife , and then away to venice to your friend ;
contented caesar shall have all true rites and lawful ceremonies .
be a child o ' th ' time .
if i could make that resemble something in me .
affection !
i thank you , madam , that you tender her .
and for an earnest of a greater honor , he bade me , from him , call thee thane of
so please you step aside , i ' ll know his grievance , or be much denied .
pray walk awhile .
look where my ranting host of the garter comes .
be , i shall have so much experience for my pains ; and so , with no money at all
many that are not mad have , sure , more lack of reason .
what would your gracious figure ?
wisdom and fortune combating together , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
decorum .
for thee .
_num_ how can my muse want subject to invent while thou dost breathe that pour ' st into my verse
is there no way to cure this ?
day to massacre them all , and raze their faction and their family , the cruel father and his traitorous
unless another , as like hermione as is her picture , affront his eye .
and why , sir , must they so ?
' a should not bear it so , ' a should eat ' s words first .
now thou art an o without a figure .
far from this country pindarus shall run , where never roman shall take note of him .
no more of him ; he ' s a worthy man .
with him !
ewes and weep .
sweet , say on .
how does your drum ?
my voice is now the king ' s , my looks mine own .
what is the cause , laertes , that thy rebellion looks so giantlike ?
faith , as you say , there ' s small choice in rotten apples .
enter friar [laurence] and another watchman .
to be , as it were , a dog at all things .
thy beauty is propos ' d my fee , my proud heart sues , and prompts my tongue to speak
would god would serve the world so all the year !
the army marvell ' d at it ; and , in the last , when he had carried rome and
we twain will go into his highness ' tent .
i will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee .
life .
d ' elbow .
unarm , sweet hector .
i say thou hast belied mine innocent child ; thy slander hath gone through and through her heart , and
] i hear knocking at the south entry .
friends do glue themselves in sociable grief , like true , inseparable , faithful loves , sticking together in calamity
the man , i do assure you , is not here , for i myself at this time have employ
it is not so , my lord .
for my part , i ' ll not trouble thee with words .
o be remov ' d from him , and answer well !
' tis time to part them .
it holds , stands young plantagenet , son to the elder brother of this man , and king o '
your betters have endur ' d me say my mind , and if you cannot , best you stop your
let it be forbid , sir !
who would be so mock ' d with glory , or to live but in a dream of friendship ,
some bastards too .
, that o ' er the green corn-field did pass in the spring time , the only pretty ring time
gainst glass , or like an overcharged gun , recoil , and turns the force of them upon thyself .
change you colour ?
old lord , i cannot blame thee , who am myself attach ' d with weariness to th ' dulling
shall we call in th ' ambassador , my liege ?
she shall not .
walk here i ' th ' orchard , i ' ll bring her straight .
come , you are so full of cony-catching !
if thou answerest me not to the purpose , confess thyself- other .
my sight is very dull , whate ' er it bodes .
mercy , mercy !
within this mile and half .
nay , you might keep that check for it , till you met your wife ' s wit going to
did you say all ?
why , helen , thou shalt have my leave and love , means and attendants , and my loving greetings
why , then dame margaret was ne ' er thy joy .
these trees shall be my books , and in their barks my thoughts i ' ll character , that every
be york the next that must be bankrupt so !
my life .
this oracle of comfort has so pleas ' d me that when i am in heaven i shall desire to
there , take the paper ; see it be return ' d ; or else return no more into my
behold divineness no elder than a boy !
my mother a plantagenet- dick .
but , good sir , what peace you ' fl make , advise me .
force him with praises ; pour in , pour in ; his ambition is dry .
the cloyed will- that satiate yet unsatisfied desire , that tub both fill ' d and running- ravening first the
: so that in speech , in gait , in diet , in affections of delight , in military rules
one that slept in the contriving of lust , and wak ' d to do it .
is this the lady cressid ?
well , sit out ; go home , berowne ; adieu .
as proper men as ever trod upon neat ' s leather have gone upon my handiwork .
can ' t no other , but , i your daughter , he must be my brother ?
get you gone .
one bloody trial of sharp war .
in buckram ?
there ' s letters from my mother ; what th ' import is i know not yet .
good melancholy oft began , on the catastrophe and heel of pastime , when it was out- ' let me
this morning , like the spirit of a youth that means to be of note , begins betimes .
this she ?
sir richard ratcliff , let me tell thee this : to-day shalt thou behold a subject die for truth ,
suspicion always haunts the guilty mind : the thief doth fear each bush an officer .
them !
txt portia .
txt shall be the end of my business .
there is my dagger , and here my naked breast ; within , a heart dearer than pluto ' s
i had it from the queen .
a man that ne ' er saw in his life before .
enter edward , richard , and montague richard .
stop there , stop there !
, be truly welcome hither .
i see , two and thirty , a pip out ?
hector , whose patience is as a virtue fix ' d , to-day was mov ' d .
philostrate .
, in fair terms ; if you would walk off i would prick your guts a little , in good
i ' ll speak truth .
wales .
between two blades , which bears the better temper ; between two horses , which doth bear him best ;
lady faulconbridge .
you ' ll let us in , i hope ?
' who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves .
see how i convey my shame out of thine eyes by looking back what i have left behind ' stroy
for the law of writ and the liberty , these are the only men .
i put thee now to thy book-oath .
; i could have crept into any alderman ' s thumb-ring .
of this suddenly died .
of all the learned and authentic fellows- parolles .
my chance .
to take that course by your consent and voice which you do here forbid me , royal priam .
you would have them always play but one thing ?
i pray you be not angry with me , madam , speaking my fancy : signior benedick , for shape
thou told ' st me they were stol ' n unto this wood , and here am i , and
on her bosom , her head on her knee , sing willow , willow , willow .
remember , and call thy husband hither .
and then awake as from a pleasant sleep .
shall be brib ' d to do him justice and revenge on you .
full merrily hath this brave manage , this career , been run .
enter harcourt look here ' s more news .
the sea being smooth , how many shallow bauble boats dare sail upon her patient breast , making their way
my heart may burst .
an ' t please your honour , players that offer service to your lordship .
master for so long , here is my hand ; you shall from this time be you master ' s
down , thou climbing sorrow !
it strikes me past the hope of comfort .
[aside] mark you this , bassanio , the devil can cite scripture for his purpose .
shall we go , coz ?
to another , strikes each in each by mutual ordering ; resembling sire , and child , and happy mother
all this was ord ' red by the good discretion of the right reverend cardinal of york .
now , sirs , have you dispatch ' d this thing ?
in their melting bosoms .
d fair england down .
meagre were his looks , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
she calls you , coz ; i ' ll leave you .
necessity , since we have locks to safeguard necessaries and pretty traps to catch the petty thieves .
i am not mad : this hair i tear is mine ; my name is constance ; i was geffrey
and those occasions , uncle , were of force ; therefore , my loving lords , our pleasure is that
i will hereupon confess i am in love .
the firm fixture of thy foot would give an excellent motion to thy gait in a semi-circled farthingale .
and here ' s a pot of good double beer , neighbour ; drink , and fear not your man
as for you , say what you can : my false o ' erweighs your true .
like the brooch and the toothpick , which wear not now .
i stretch it out for that word ' broad , ' which , added to the goose , proves thee
speak this no more .
worcester is stol ' n away to-night ; thy father ' s beard is turn ' d white with the
my mind she has mated and amazed my sight .
therefore hence , be gone .
a devil , a born devil , on whose nature nurture can never stick ; on whom my pains ,
very singular good !
and thus it may be .
il me commande a vous dire que vous faites vous pret ; car ce soldat ici est dispose tout a
now , master brook , you come to know what hath pass ' d between me and ford ' s
do you hear , monster ?
well , well ; but , for mine own part , as i have set up my rest to run
reveng ' d may she be on that hateful duke , whose haughty spirit , winged with desire , will
having stretch ' d it- here be with them- thy knee bussing the stones- for in such busines action is
olivia fabian , servant to olivia feste , a clown , servant to olivia olivia , a rich countess viola
arms , bending down his corrigible neck , his face subdu ' d to penetrative shame , whilst the wheel
it is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of the will .
d up in a block-head ; but if it were at liberty ' twould sure southward .
and for this night we ' ll fast for company .
knife .
, but we will make it subject to this boy .
what you do still betters what is done .
i say it is the moon .
then , dear countryman , bring in thy ranks , but leave without thy rage ; spare thy athenian cradle
the circumstance i ' ll tell you more at large .
grief hath chang ' d me since you saw me last ; and careful hours with time ' s deformed
how does your little son ?
our sovereign ' s fall .
, beyond their feeling , to the quick .
worse and worse .
set we our squadrons on yon side o ' th ' hill , in eye of caesar ' s battle
fools are not mad folks .
hold , take my sword .
do so , i have page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i ' ll lend it thee , my dear , but have no power to give it from me .
to speak on the part of virginity is to accuse your mothers ; which is most infallible disobedience .
she is persuaded i will marry her , out of her own love and flattery , not out of my
madam , what makes you in this sudden change ?
, and saintlike cast her fair eyes to heaven , and pray ' d devoutly .
, them to keep ; thy banks with pioned and twilled brims , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
bind the offender , and take him from our presence .
tapers they are , with your sweet breaths puff ' d out .
many a time and often i ha ' din ' d with him and told him on ' t ;
cut th ' entail from all remainders and a perpetual succession for it perpetually .
dost thou use to write thy name , or hast thou a mark to thyself , like a honest plain-dealing
and inform him so ' tis our will he should .
so the whole ear of denmark is by a forged process of my death rankly abus ' d .
and as our vineyards , fallows , meads , and hedges , defective in their natures , grow to wildness
m- but then there is no consonancy in the sequel ; that suffers under probation : a should follow ,
in ' t , the never-surfeited sea hath caus ' d to belch up you ; and on this island
let me see , let me see , let me see .
but let it be ; i am quickly ill and well- so antony loves .
no , no , they would not do so foul a deed ; witness the sorrow that their sister makes
of lusty earls , grandpre and roussi , fauconbridge and foix , beaumont and marle , vaudemont and lestrake .
provok ' d to wilful disobedience , and rebel !
i go , my lord , in heart desiring still page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
in youth when i did love , did love , methought it was very sweet ; to contract- o- the
seek thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than to be drowned and go without her .
didst thou not hear me swear i would not do it ?
he that strikes the venison first shall be the lord o ' th ' feast ; to him the other
to tenedos they come , and the deep-drawing barks do there disgorge their war-like fraughtage .
' friend , ' quoth i ' you mean to whip the dog .
now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths ; our bruised arms hung up for monuments ; our stern alarums
that which thou hast done , - must send thee hence with fiery quickness .
signior costard , adieu .
why dost thou use me thus ?
here ' s lucentio , right son to the right vincentio , that have by marriage made thy daughter mine
by heaven , and a most gallant leader .
she shall be buried with her face upwards .
worthy marcius , had we no other quarrel else to rome but that thou art thence banish ' d ,
- videlicet , he came , saw , and overcame .
gloucester , why doubt ' st thou of my forwardness ?
it is an honour ' longing to our house , bequeathed down from many ancestors ; which were the greatest
let him first answer that .
know , good mother , i had rather be their servant in my way than sway with them in theirs
o calm , dishonourable , vile submission !
alas , poor princess , thou divine imogen , what thou endur ' st , betwixt a father by thy
o unpleasing news !
he was famous , sir , in his profession , and it was his great right to be so- gerard
not all the dukes in wat ' rish burgundy can buy this unpriz ' d precious maid of me .
exit with jessica and salerio enter antonio antonio .
] o , this is the poison of deep grief ; it springs all from her father ' s death
yes , captain ; but with this acknowledgment , that god fought for us .
whilst our commission from rome is read , let silence be commanded .
thou hast spoke for us , madonna , as if thy eldest son should be a fool ; whose skull
will can ; so many years ere i shall shear the fleece : so minutes , hours , days ,
then , aaron , arm thy heart and fit thy thoughts to mount aloft with thy imperial mistress , and
from the leopard , as you fly from your oft subdued slaves .
autolycus .
you ' re welcome .
txt holofernes .
he is their god ; he leads them like a thing made by some other deity than nature , that
beard , unless you do redeem it by some laudable attempt either of valour or policy .
[they fight again] pucelle .
well , madam , we must take a short farewell , lest , being miss ' d , i be
and heir of a mongrel bitch ; one whom i will beat into clamorous whining , if thou deny the
a glooming peace this morning with it brings .
else your memory is bad , going o ' er it erewhile .
our horses ' labour ?
tell me , moreover , hast thou sounded him if he appeal the duke on ancient malice , or worthily
of all .
let order die !
them , but relents not .
nay , now i see she is your treasure , she must have a husband ; i must dance bare-foot
' d it , or it hath drawn me rather .
so call the field to rest , and let ' s away , to part the glories of this happy
thou cold sciatica , cripple our senators , that their limbs may halt as lamely as their manners .
' and as much news as thou wilt .
peace , son !
first , you know caius marcius is chief enemy to the people .
renowned queen , with patience calm the storm , while we bethink a means to break it off .
i yet beseech your majesty , if for i want that glib and oily art to speak and purpose not
nay , i will give thee a kiss ; now pray thee , love , stay .
soft and gentle speech .
lady margaret do vouchsafe to come to cross the seas to england , and be crown ' d king henry
i could have better spar ' d a better man .
your own present folly and her passing deformity ; for he , being in love , could not see to
get you gone , and do as i have bid you .
call her divine .
highly be employ ' d .
let pity not be believ ' d !
the queen ?
look how thou dream ' st !
what can he say in this ?
a puff ' d man ?
i hear how i am censur ' d .
what should be said ?
the senate house enter three senators at one door , alcibiades meeting them , with attendants first senator .
sirrah , here ' s a fellow will help you to-morrow in your execution .
t , as i believe you are , you must have the patience to hear it .
search about the churchyard .
abate your strength , dismiss your followers , and , as suitors should , plead your deserts in peace and
ils sont mots de son mauvais , corruptible , gros , et impudique , et non pour les dames d
hearing of this .
if thou account ' st it shame , lay it on me ; and therefore frolic ; we will hence
by all the everlasting gods , i ' ll go .
pursue him , and entreat him to a peace ; he hath not told us of the captain yet .
like to lysander sometime frame thy tongue , then stir demetrius up with bitter wrong ; and sometime rail thou
, which we will second .
uncle , give me your hands ; nay , dry your eyes : tears show their love , but want
i promise you my soul is very jocund in the remembrance of so fair a dream .
you speak like a green girl , unsifted in such perilous circumstance .
by the clock ' tis day , and yet dark night strangles the traveling lamp .
do you confess the bond ?
i would she had bestowed this dotage on me .
indeed , ' a must shoot nearer , or he ' ll ne ' er hit the clout .
dian ' s bud o ' er cupid ' s flower hath such force and blessed power .
we judge no less .
where we are there ' s daggers in men ' s smiles ; the near in blood , the nearer
to feed were best at home ; from thence the sauce to meat is ceremony ; meeting were bare without
beggar though she smelt brown bread and garlic .
bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house , that nothing sung but death to us and ours .
ber .
you have land enough of your own ; but he added to your having , gave you some ground .
speak it again .
there ' s no purchase in money .
shall i vouchsafe your worship a word or two ?
us one , that you unfold to me , yourself , your half , why you are heavy and what
shall ' s attend you there ?
thy father ' s father wore it ; and thy father bore it .
such viands ' ?
for certain , this is of purpose laid by some that hate me- god turn their hearts !
careers .
' s pippin of mine own graffing , with a dish of caraways , and so forth .
yes , better , sir .
spoke , and panted , that she did make defect perfection , and , breathless , pow ' r breathe
or o ' mine either ?
soul herself weigh ' d between loathness and obedience at which end o ' th ' beam should bow .
come on , and kiss me , kate .
how now , pisanio !
was it his spirit , by spirits taught to write , above a mortal pitch , that struck me dead
o , she will sing the savageness out of a bear .
' tis said , man ; and farewell .
by the fiend , who- saving your reverence !
come on , sir ; here ' s the place .
where the devil should this romeo be ?
the banish ' d bolingbroke repeals himself , and with uplifted arms is safe arriv ' d at ravenspurgh .
succour to his servant banister , being distress ' d , was by that wretch betray ' d and without
music , ho , music , such as charmeth sleep !
if she have time to breathe , be well assur ' d her faction will be full as strong as
go to , you are a woman , go !
present time , that you should have an inch of any ground to build a grief on .
txt sixth citizen .
fellow , look you now , of no merits- he is come to me , and prings me pread and
but if thou linger in my territories longer than swiftest expedition will give thee time to leave our royal court
but now , my cousin hamlet , and my son- ham .
bastard of orleans , thrice welcome to us .
these gloves the count sent me , they are an excellent perfume .
a toy , my liege , a toy !
sirrah , go before .
i must say she is dead-and so farewell .
' tis no such matter .
but that i hate thee deadly , i should lament thy miserable state .
you are such a woman !
they say the lady is fair-- ' tis a truth , i can bear them witness ; and virtuous --
what noise is here ?
to the health of our general !
i do it freely .
clitus .
girdle , hangers , and so .
' shall ' !
teeth .
something from venice , sure .
wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire !
which is not in me ?
you are a merry gamester , my lord sandys .
they say all lovers swear more performance than they are able , and yet reserve an ability that they never
sir , he may live ; i saw him beat the surges under him , and ride upon their backs
exeunt buckingham and somerset salisbury .
here is now the smith ' s note for shoeing and plough-irons .
was not that nobly done ?
be reveng ' d ; or she that bore you was no queen , and you recoil from your great
you ' ll mar the light by taking it in snuff ; therefore i ' ll darkly end the argument
the ghosts fall on their knees jupiter .
[aside] each hath his place and function to attend : i am left out ; for me nothing remains .
spirits of thine enemies and promise them success and victory .
come , kate , sit down ; i know you have a stomach .
if it will please caesar to be so good to caesar as to hear me , i shall beseech him
i shall do ' t .
enter tullus aufidius bloody , with two or three soldiers aufidius .
my cousin means signior benedick of padua .
well met , master ford .
this hour , if like a christian thou hadst truly borne betwixt our armies true intelligence .
o imogen , safe mayst thou wander , safe return again !
, and ' tis not whole yet .
say , why is this ?
thou art a very ragged wart .
lords , let him go .
should i do so , i should belie my thoughts .
wherefore have these gifts a curtain before ' em ?
biondello , let ' s away .
d in our condition .
o , what a rash and bloody deed is this !
exit hector .
i have some rights of memory in this kingdom which now , to claim my vantage doth invite me .
gentle son edward , thou wilt stay with me ?
; otherwise you might slip away ere he came .
which now we find each putter-out of five for one will bring us good warrant of .
motion toward the common body , to yield what passes here .
lioness , with udders all drawn dry , lay couching , head on ground , with catlike watch , when
thou idle dreamer , wherefore didst thou so ?
of the vapians passing the equinoctial of queubus ; ' twas very good , i ' faith .
i pompey am- boyet .
no , no , although the air of paradise did fan the house , and angels offic ' d all
exit marcius go sound thy trumpet in the market-place ; call thither all the officers o ' th ' town
thou art no friend to god or to the king .
[knocking within] how now , what noise !
here lie i , timon , who alive all living men did hate .
so would not i .
well , you will temporize with the hours .
unmerciful lady as you are , i am none .
what ' s in ' t is precious .
come to me again , and bring me word what he doth say to thee .
bidding of the gods command me .
here comes the count .
and she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin .
here in grace of our solemnity .
txt i see things too , although you judge i wink .
the best and truest ; for here it sleeps and does no hired harm .
come on , my fellows .
enter saturninus and tamora , with aemilius , tribunes , senators , and others saturninus .
thou mightst join her hand with his , whose heart within his bosom is .
and that were much he should , for he is given to sports , to wildness , and much company
txt under that bond that him as fist doth bind .
himself an artificial night .
txt and , in the last repeating , troublesome , being urged at a time unseasonable .
pedro .
i prithee , shepherd , if that love or gold can in this desert place buy entertainment , bring us
the garter inn enter fenton and host host .
what , dost thou turn away , and hide thy face ?
i ' ll beg one boon , and then be gone and trouble you no more .
let me have audience for a word or two .
nay , press not so upon me , stand far off .
our england in reversion his , and he our subjects ' next degree in hope .
i ' ll make one .
like plated mars , now bend , now turn , the office and devotion of their view upon a tawny
' d you dearly , would you believe my oaths when i did love you ill ?
let every feeble rumour shake your hearts ; your enemies , with nodding of their plumes , fan you into
if thou entertain ' st my love , let it appear in thy smiling ; thy smiles become thee well
for my part , my lord , my purpose was not to have seen you here ; but meeting with
the bunch of grapes , where , indeed , you have a delight to sit , have you not ?
truth shall nurse her , holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her ; she shall be lov ' d and
why an otter ?
should i turn upon the true prince ?
yea , but you must not make the full show of this till you may do it without controlment .
i do believe it , and i ask your pardon .
now , by my holidame , here comes katherina !
o fie , fie , fie !
scene _num_ before prospero ' s cell enter prospero in his magic robes , and ariel prospero .
go , you are allow ' d ; die when you will , a smock shall be your shroud .
destruction .
' this , in obedience , hath my daughter shown me ; and more above , hath his solicitings ,
we have ; whereupon the earl of worcester hath broken his staff , resign ' d his stewardship , and
duke himself in person comes this way to the melancholy vale , the place of death and sorry execution ,
and , out of question , so it is sometimes : glory grows guilty of detested crimes , when ,
but since all is well , keep it so : wake not a sleeping wolf .
go , gentle knight , stand by our ajax .
yes , that i did ; but that was but courtesy .
comes it not something near ?
why are thine eyes fix ' d to the sullen earth , gazing on that which seems to dim thy
i pray thee give it me .
good wax , thy leave .
and these assume but valour ' s excrement to render them redoubted .
let me beseech your grace not to do so .
she falls] pisanio .
dolabella !
away , disperse ; but till ' tis one o ' clock , our dance of custom round about the
mark antony- antony .
why then , take no note of him , but let him go , and presently call the rest of
thou hast spoke too much already ; get thee gone .
forth- for else his project dies-to keep them living .
you must not think i am so simple but i know the devil himself will not eat a woman .
an honest soul , i ' faith , sir , by my troth he is , as ever broke bread
i am sure he is , to the hearing of anything good .
in commanding , and thy parts sovereign and pious else , could speak thee out- the queen of earthly queens
senators .
murder ; myself on every post proclaim ' d a strumpet ; with immodest hatred the child-bed privilege denied ,
what ho !
to-day how many would have given their honours to have sav ' d their carcasses !
' ' no , ' said i , ' a great wit .
od ' s lifelings , here he is !
the table , serve in the meat , and we will come in to dinner .
faith , that ' s with watching ; ' twill away again .
now , sir , you speak of two the most remark ' d i ' th ' kingdom .
all places that the eye of heaven visits are to a wise man ports and happy havens .
die all , die merrily .
enter , as in an apparition , sicilius leonatus , father to posthumus , an old man attired like a
if you will go , i will stuff your purses full of crowns ; if you will not , tarry
ask me not what i would be , if i were not thersites ; for i care not to be
and , where that you you have vow ' d to study , lords , in that each of you
withdraw yourself awhile ; i ' ll go with you .
in such a night ' to shut me out !
such a deal of stinking breath because caesar refused the crown that it had almost choked caesar , for he
it alteration finds , or bends with the remover to remove .
why give you me this shame ?
[within] who ' s there ?
beauty .
god for his mercy , what treachery is here !
' for ' says he page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you have pray ' d well to-day : this morning for ten thousand of your throats i ' d not
when he is return ' d , against aumerle we will enforce his trial .
tell true .
or thy dear merit ?
is he a lamb ?
take him you on .
' s do it after the high roman fashion , and make death proud to take us .
merchant .
i repose .
and , to sink in it , should you burthen love- too great oppression for a tender thing .
balthasar , attendant on don pedro .
about michaelmas next i shall be- poins .
come hither , harry ; sit thou by my bed , and hear , i think , the very latest
i cannot sing , nor heel the high lavolt , nor sweeten talk , nor play at subtle games-fair virtues
enter pandarus pandarus .
[strikes him] basset .
post back with speed and tell him what hath chanced .
but who is with him ?
now , by my sword- cleopatra .
pray , sir , be patient .
i told thee four .
dost thou hear , hal ?
or docks , or mallows .
nothing almost sees miracles but misery .
beauty doth varnish age , as if new-born , and gives the crutch the cradle ' s infancy .
all my study- the government i cast upon my brother and to my state grew stranger , being transported and
god buy you , with all my heart .
one in ten , quoth ' a !
ay , for these slips have made him noted long .
nor the soles of her shoe ?
art thou so bare and full of wretchedness and fearest to die ?
and france prologue prologue .
fetch me this herb , and be thou here again ere the leviathan can swim a league .
here in vienna , sir .
but think you , helen , if you should tender your supposed aid , he would receive it ?
i have ne ' er a tongue in my head !
the woods near the sea-shore .
performance is ever the duller for his act , and but in the plainer and simpler kind of people the
mine , and most of our fortunes , to-night , shall be- drunk to bed .
o , pardon me , my stars !
they take it already upon their salvation that , though i be but prince of wales , yet i am
but for you , rebels- look to taste the due meet for rebellion and such acts as yours .
but the letter : [reads] ' sir john falstaff , knight , to the son of the king nearest his
' forgive me my foul murther ' ?
inn , and near approaches the subject of our watch .
by my troth , welcome to london .
[exit bardolph] such brooks are welcome to me , that o ' erflows such liquor .
my master ' s a very jew .
how like you the young german , the duke of saxony ' s nephew ?
good my lord , enter here .
[aside] the devil speaks in him .
i think this upstart is old talbot ' s ghost , he speaks with such a proud commanding spirit .
if you seek for further satisfying , under her breast- worthy the pressing- lies a mole , right proud of
fiddler , forbear ; you grow too forward , sir .
make the earth my hell .
' tis very good ; i must be circumstanced .
i have bought it with an hundred blows .
in this vile world ?
but for my bonny kate , she must with me .
what your wisdoms could not discover , these shallow fools have brought to light , who in the night overheard
some reasons of this double coronation i have possess ' d you with , and think them strong ; and
sain .
exeunt king , queen , bushy , aumerle , green , and bagot northumberland .
_num_ is it for fear to wet a widow ' s eye , that thou consum ' st thy self
will you go hear this news , signior ?
false blood to false blood join ' d !
would the cook were o ' my mind !
give , that i in thy abundance am sufficed , and by a part of all thy glory live :
so bad .
d before , and that high royalty was ne ' er pluck ' d off , the faiths of men
i am so full of business i cannot answer thee acutely .
went he hence now ?
i will my liege .
unready !
by the same token , you are a bawd .
rest to-night !
heavens rain grace on that which breeds between ' em !
to me you speak not .
but he already is too insolent ; and it were better parch in afric sun than in the pride and
he will not wake .
[exit maria] go you , malvolio : if it be a suit from the count , i am sick ,
do not run away .
one word more shall make me chide thee , if not hate thee .
instinct is a great matter .
sweet lines !
go to .
but indeed these humble considerations make me out of love with my greatness .
the sway , revenue , execution of the rest , beloved sons , be yours ; which to confirm ,
he is himself alone , to answer all the city .
i rather would entreat thy company to see the wonders of the world abroad , than , living dully sluggardiz
txt now is the time that face should form another , whose fresh repair if now thou not renewest ,
if thou rememb ' rest aught , ere thou cam ' st here , how thou cam ' st here
if not , our swords shall plead it in the field .
but if so be thou dar ' st not this , and that to prove more fortunes th ' art
master shallow , you have yourself been a great fighter , though now a man of peace .
or take away the grief of a wound ?
most noble antony !
madam , i was very late more near her than i think she wish ' d me .
fled not swifter toward their aim than did our soldiers , aiming at their safety , fly from the field
with more than common thanks i will receive it .
let us go in together ; and still your fingers on your lips , i pray .
hold , there is the very remuneration i had of thy master , thou halfpenny purse of wit , thou
[he strikes him] there , take thou that till thou bring better news .
txt that paper in your hand ?
to achilles , to ajax , to- ajax .
never master had a page so kind , so duteous , diligent , so tender over his occasions , true
on him , on him !
and that is to enjoy thee for my love .
and by those claim their greatness , not by blood .
know ' st thou gower ?
judge you , my lord of warwick , then , between us .
why , how now , hecate ?
it her .
nay , come , kate , come ; you must not look so sour .
a roman .
the rose looks fair , but fairer we it deem for that sweet odour , which doth in it live
me believe it !
, she did confine thee , by help of her more potent ministers , and in her most unmitigable rage
act ii .
but yet hear this- mistake me not : no life , i prize it not a straw , but for
marry his sister nell .
enobarbus .
sweet , except not any ; except thou wilt except against my love .
it is the lark that sings so out of tune , straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps .
faith , that was not so well ; yet would i knew that stroke would prove the worst !
marry , sir , halfpenny farthing .
is nothing but a mighty lord .
look on thy country , look on fertile france , and see the cities and the towns defac ' d
few words , but , to effect , more than all yet : that , when we have found the
txt will last you some eight year or nine year .
here , tamora ; though griev ' d with killing grief .
after noon , that thou hast forgotten to demand that truly which thou wouldest truly know .
o , understand my drift .
ay , an you had any eye behind you , you might see more detraction at your heels than fortunes
no ; rather i will go to benedick and counsel him to fight against his passion .
there ' s yet one good in ten .
) i do much wonder that one man , seeing how much another man is a fool when he dedicates
after them enter falstaff , shallow , pistol , bardolph , and page falstaff .
a trifle , some eightpenny matter .
let ' s make the best of it .
let ' s follow him and pervert the present wrath he hath against himself .
how durst you villains bring it from the dresser and serve it thus to me that love it not ?
this mis-shapen knave- his mother was a witch , and one so strong that could control the moon , make
the evil that thou causest to be done , that is thy means to live .
are even now to be afresh lamented .
wherefore ey ' st him so ?
what should the people do with these bald tribunes , on whom depending , their obedience fails to the greater
mine , now prisoner to the palsy , chastise the and minister correction to thy fault !
farewell , fair cruelty .
day knit earth and heaven together !
up to the eastern tower , whose height commands as subject all the vale , to see the battle .
who is the shooter ?
' tis his main hope ; for where there is advantage to be given , both more and less have
thus have i politicly begun my reign , and ' tis my hope to end successfully .
be they of much import ?
his mother shames him so , poor boy , he weeps .
o , if you love my mother , dishonour not her honourable name , to make a bastard and a
i dare be sworn .
to be reveng ' d on him .
gone to swear a peace !
i will not , till i please ; you shall hear me .
seek to know no more .
truly , i have forgot you .
fence impregnable , and with their helps only defend ourselves .
hail , mortal !
he nor that affable familiar ghost which nightly gulls him with intelligence , as victors of my silence cannot boast
exeunt [prince henry and prince john] .
banquo and donalbain !
freely at your feet , to be commanded .
lady attending on imogen apparitions lords , ladies , roman senators , tribunes , a soothsayer , a dutch gentleman
and notwithstanding all this loss of blood- as from a conduit with three issuing spouts- yet do thy cheeks look
confess ?
or who gave it you ?
] enter [francis , a] drawer .
[solem music] here enters ariel before ; then alonso , with frantic gesture , attended by gonzalo ; sebastian and
would grow .
as much ; and yet- silvia .
be quiet , people .
' tis not a time for private stomaching .
if i stand here , i saw him .
and shall i couple hell ?
go bid thy mistress , when my drink is ready , she strike upon the bell .
i ' ll not expostulate with her , lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again .
yes , helen , you might be my daughter-in-law .
[shout .
how came he mad ?
sweet queen , sweet queen ; that ' s a sweet queen , i ' faith .
abruptly , as my passion now makes me , thou hast not lov ' d .
ah , my dear , such eyes the widows in corioli wear , and mothers that lack sons .
but where ' s the great alcides of the field , valiant lord talbot , earl of shrewsbury , created
clown .
were so indeed .
how say you to a fat tripe finely broil ' d ?
how old art thou ?
like of each thing that in season grows ; so you , to study now it is too late ,
begin , fool : it begins ' hold thy peace .
you counterfeit , you puppet you !
i now repent i told the pursuivant , as too triumphing , how mine enemies to-day at pomfret bloodily were
take up my mistress ' gown to his master ' s use !
go , get thee gone , i say .
que dit-il , monsieur ?
txt the country near dover .
with blade , with bloody blameful blade , he bravely broach ' d his boiling bloody breast ; and thisby
thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth !
it came in too suddenly ; let it die as it was born , and i pray you be better
know you not the cause ?
mighty states characterless are grated to dusty nothing-yet let memory from false to false , among false maids in love
enter servant how now , who ' s there ?
see , to beguile the old folks , how the young folks lay their heads together !
yea , my good lord .
a buck-basket !
time doth transfix the flourish set on youth , and delves the parallels in beauty ' s brow , feeds
lords , prepare yourselves .
rend the region ; so , after pyrrhus ' pause , aroused vengeance sets him new awork ; and never
it is the law , not i condemn your brother .
_num_ when i consider every thing that grows holds in perfection but a little moment .
brother , i ' ll go and bring it thee .
it adds a precious seeing to the eye : a lover ' s eyes will gaze an eagle blind .
large discoursed all our fortunes ; and all that are assembled in this place that by this sympathized one day
the french fight coldly , and retire themselves .
my dread lord , your leave and favour to return to france ; from whence though willingly i came to
to have no man come over me ?
by that fair sun which shows me where thou stand ' st , i heard thee say , and vauntingly
my gentle puck , come hither .
but since your worth (wide as the ocean is) the humble as the proudest sail doth bear , my saucy
he shall enlarge him .
now , brutus , thank yourself .
should it then be thus ?
the king at oxford .
march on , and mark king richard how he looks .
s hostage for his return .
[to troilus] my well-fam ' d lord of troy , no less to you .
but come , let ' s home .
at the northgate .
in that i deem you an ill husband , and am glad to have you therein my companion .
my lord hath sent you this note ; and by me this further charge , that you swerve not from
the pleasure that some fathers feed upon is my strict fast-i mean my children ' s looks ; and therein
o , she ' s rich in beauty ; only poor that , when she dies , with beauty dies
go take him away , and hang him presently .
[they fight and clifford falls] clifford .
to meet you , gentle lady , before i came .
cause of the night is lack of the sun ; that he that hath learned no wit by nature nor
please you draw near .
' for jaquenetta- so is the weaker vessel called , which i apprehended with the aforesaid swain- i keep her
why , what should be the fear ?
th ' state , who care for you like fathers , when you curse them as enemies .
' you shall look fairer ere i give or hazard .
windsor castle flourish .
peace be with you !
if i break time , or flinch in property of what i spoke , unpitied let me die ; and
so , as testy sick men when their deaths be near , no news but health from their physicians know
prithee , fair youth , think us no churls , nor measure our good minds by this rude place we
lay bolts enough upon him ; let him speak no more .
fetch me that flow ' r , the herb i showed thee once .
i told you , sir , my daughter is dispos ' d of .
i pray you , is signior mountanto return ' d from the wars or no ?
all that he is hath reference to your highness .
hear you me , jessica : lock up my doors , and when you hear the drum , and the
exeunt all but winchester and the legate winchester .
now will i hence about thy business , and take my ministers along with me .
; anon their gazes lend to every place at once , and nowhere fixed , the mind and sight distractedly
thou art as foolish christian creatures as i would desires .
finely put on indeed !
to thee like osiers bowed .
unsavoury news !
so stands this squire offic ' d with me .
stand , stand , thou greek ; thou art a goodly mark .
the gods preserve you both !
portia ' s house enter portia , nerissa , lorenzo , jessica , and balthasar lorenzo .
wenches , i ' ll buy for you both .
' d her heart ; cried ' sisters , sisters !
oft have i digg ' d up dead men from their graves , and set them upright at their dear
o pity , pity , gentle heaven , pity !
what would you with me , honest neighbour ?
hunger for bread , not in thirst for revenge .
thus with imagin ' d wing our swift scene flies , in motion of no less celerity than that of
no further go in this than i by letters shall direct your course .
hoo !
my lord sandys , you are one will keep ' em waking : pray sit between these ladies .
through the forest have i gone , but athenian found i none on whose eyes i might approve this flower
though richard my life ' s counsel would not hear , my death ' s sad tale may yet undeaf
i persuade me from her will fall some blessing to this land , which shall in it be memoriz '
as the casing air ; but now i am cabin ' d , cribb ' d , confin ' d
thy mistress ' praise , thou hast not lov ' d ; or if thou hast not broke from company
' how if that fly had a father and mother ?
txt any annoyance in that precious sense !
grief has so wrought on him , he takes false shadows for true substances .
take to you no hard thoughts .
as she hath been publicly accus ' d , so shall she have a just and open trial .
let ' s see your song .
i am unfortunate in the infirmity , and dare not task my weakness with any more .
there came divers of antonio ' s creditors in my company to venice that swear he cannot choose but break
he has deserv ' d it , were it carbuncled like holy phoebus ' car .
he repays sevenfold above itself ; no gift to him but breeds the giver a return exceeding all use of
the curate ; do it quickly .
at this instant he bores me with some trick .
do you call , sir ?
i rather of his absence make this use : it lends a lustre and more great opinion , a larger
hast thou not dropp ' d from heaven ?
mort .
you must not be so quick .
bring me word quickly .
nothing , but let him have thanks .
then all the dukes fall upon the king .
give me my horse , you rogues !
what man is that ?
stop thy unhallowed toil , vile montague !
let us to priam ' s hall to greet the warriors .
i find my tongue is too foolhardy ; but my heart hath the fear of mars before it , and
here ' s our chief guest .
most tolerable , and not to be endured .
pardon , good father .
be patient , princes ; you do know these fits are with his highness very ordinary .
come , let ' s in all .
gainst the state , nor claim no further than your new-fall ' n right , the seat of gaunt ,
he hates our sacred nation ; and he rails , even there where merchants most do congregate , on me
stones enforced from the old assyrian slings ; besides , we ' ll cut the throats of those we have
discharge the common sort with pay and thanks ; and let ' s away to london and see our gentle
worthy macduff and we shall take upon ' s what else remains to do , according to our order .
her death was doubtful ; and , but that great command o ' ersways the order , she should in
which of you two did dine with me to-day ?
will you be patient ?
my lady loves me .
calchas , i think .
, and knock me soundly ' ?
may this be borne- as if his traitorous sons that died by law for murder of our brother have by
good and valiant .
dost thou believe ' t ?
our crown , our life , and all that we call ours , to you in satisfaction ; but if
a thousand favours from a maund she drew of amber , crystal , and of beaded jet , which one
foul deed page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[moth sings concolinel] armado .
swoon with this dead-killing news !
txt first servant .
; robert shallow , esquire , saith he is wronged .
radiant cymbeline , which shines here in the west .
hold out my horse , and i will first be there .
' else would i have a fling at winchester .
but unto us it is a cell of ignorance , travelling abed , a prison for a debtor that not
from him , and thus he greets your majesty : he wills you , in the name of god almighty
unshaked of motion ; and that i am he , let me a little show it , even in this
my pulse as yours doth temperately keep time and makes as healthful music .
enter suffolk , with margaret in his hand suffolk .
, and sworn unto the practices of france to kill us here in hampton ; to the which this knight
oppos ' d .
like a tench i by the mass , there is ne ' er a king christen could be better bit
[singing] fill the cup , and let it come , i ' ll pledge you a mile to th '
prince of wales .
shame to the duke of burgundy and thee !
and certes , the text most infallibly concludes it .
dare the field that england shall couch down in fear and yield .
people of rome , and people ' s tribunes here , i ask your voices and your suffrages : will
unto a hell !
txt i ' ll ride your horse as well as i ride you .
go , captain , and deliver to the army this news of peace .
more whore , more mischief first ; i have given you earnest .
did you see master lorenzo ?
such a wall as i would have you think that had in it a crannied hole or chink , through
it not .
this cheers my heart , to see your forwardness .
yes , for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle and i would call it fair play .
enter diomedes diomedes .
he makes it a great appropriation to his own good parts that he can shoe him himself ; i am
txt as full of spirit as the month of may and gorgeous as the sun at midsummer ; wanton as
exit hortensio .
mean ' st thou to fight to-day ?
cymbeline lov ' d me ; and when a soldier was the theme , my name was not far off
he deserv ' d his death ; and your good graces both have well proceeded to warn false traitors from
to yourself ; why , she woos you by a figure .
attempt us again .
t , a brother ' s murther !
' d as i am , it will also be the bondage of certain ribbons and gloves .
enter charles and la pucelle bastard .
away , sir corporal nym .
go , i ' ll conduct you to the sanctuary .
and i will see what physic the tavern affords .
you have heard much .
sleep kill those pretty eyes , and give as soft attachment to thy senses as infants ' empty of all
tell him this tale , and from the mouth of england add thus much more , that no italian priest
lavinia , you are not displeas ' d with this ?
nay , what hope have we in hiding us ?
and what think you he hath confess ' d ?
now hear me speak with a prophetic spirit ; for even the breath of what i mean to speak shall
' ' nay , ' said i , ' a good wit .
my lord , i ' ll steep this letter in sack and make him eat it .
you sent me deputy for ireland ; far from his succour , from the king , from all that might
a murd ' rous villain , and so still thou art .
my wife descended of the lacies- dick .
i will set down what comes from her , to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly .
o , that a mighty man of such descent , of such possessions , and so high esteem , should
this is a poor epitome of yours , which by th ' interpretation of full time may show like all
and therein , hellish dog , thou hast undone her .
me , she has had much wrong .
not i , by my faith .
tarry , sweet beatrice .
ay , forsooth , i ' ll fetch it you .
carnally , she says .
but speak .
now !
and tell me now , thou naughty varlet , tell me where hast thou been this month ?
banish us both , and send the king with me .
i ' ll tell thee , charles , it is the stubbornest young fellow of france ; full of ambition
this devil here shall be my substitute ; for that john mortimer , which now is dead , in face
then let us both be sudden .
o well-divided disposition !
putting-on ; methinks strangely , for he hath not us ' d it before .
, dare not relate .
absolute for yourself and these herein misled by your suggestion .
well , well , sir , well .
for if lord percy thrive not , ere the king dismiss his power , he means to visit us ,
no , nor hector is not troilus in some degrees .
i had rather lie in the woollen !
' tut , i have done a thousand dreadful things as willingly as one would kill a fly ; and
condemned and myself excus ' d .
is dead by him .
and very weak dealing .
most rare pompey !
there ' s earnest of thy service .
his death was so effected .
practice that which each to other hath so strongly sworn .
that all your acts are queens .
come , stand thou by our side ; make thy demand aloud .
repent .
pardon me , julius !
thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly .
[approaches the door .
the lark at heaven ' s gate sings , and phoebus ' gins arise , his steeds to water at
shall they hoist me up , and show me to the shouting varletry of censuring rome ?
first gentleman .
but alack , you snatch some hence for little faults ; that ' s love , to have them fall
txt charles .
txt he is not sick .
is come about ; bassanio presently will go aboard ; i have sent twenty out to seek for you .
to it , making it momentary as a sound , swift as a shadow , short as any dream ,
st a cord , the smallest thread that ever spider twisted from her womb will serve to strangle thee ;
master , sir thurio frowns on you .
if thou say so , withdraw , and prove it too .
to the combat ; in which our valiant hamlet (for so this side of our known world esteem ' d
sit to hear my nothings monster ' d .
will it not be received , when we have mark ' d with blood those sleepy two of his own
ay , of my pigeons , sir ; nothing else .
mum , then , and no more .
with reverend fathers and well learned bishops .
gluttony and diseases make them : i make them not .
from their cradles bred together , that she would have followed her exile , or have died to stay behind
[to isabella] you are too cold .
samson had small reason for it .
charge as little honour he meant to lay upon ; and his own letter , the honourable board of council
after the slaughter of so many peers , so many captains , gentlemen , and soldiers , that in this
so we be rid of them , do with them what thou wilt .
no tidings of him ?
' tis once , thou lovest , and i will fit thee with the remedy .
thy unused beauty must be tombed with thee , which used lives th ' executor to be .
ay , traitor , marcius .
txt and should she thus be stol ' n away from you , it would be much vexation to your
nay , then , two treys , an if you grow so nice , metheglin , wort , and malmsey
signior petruchio , will you go with us , or shall i send my daughter kate to you ?
universe i call , save thou my rose , in it thou art my all .
, and i shall prove a lover of thy drum , hater of love .
it is , my lord .
my mind is troubled , like a fountain stirr ' d ; and i myself see not the bottom of
this is well ; he has made us his vlouting-stog .
your lordship ever binds him .
you for yours .
what say ' st thou to him ?
, when thou from youth convertest , herein lives wisdom , beauty , and increase , without this folly ,
servant .
, poor milan !
; and in any case have a nay-word , that you may know one another ' s mind , and
but i have heard him oft maintain it to be fit that , sons at perfect age , and fathers
shall i say to caesar what you require of him ?
canst thou not minister to a mind diseased , pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow , raze out the
audit up , that all from me do back receive the flour of all , and leave me but the
here they ' ll be , man .
taken napping so .
re-enter queen queen .
why , it must be requited .
hospitality .
now but goers backward .
with sorrow .
now , god help thee , poor monkey !
enter again cade and all his rabblement cade .
exit an attendant a fever with the absence of her son ; a madness , of which her life '
' what say you to this ?
yours , with idleness .
will quench the wonder of her infamy .
an army have i muster ' d in my thoughts , wherewith already france is overrun .
and piers , and roads ; and every object that might make me fear misfortune to my ventures , out
the park enter the princess of france , with three attending ladies , rosaline , maria , katharine , boyet
let love forbid sleep his seat on thy eyelid .
exit thyreus .
mould of marcius , they to dust should grind it , and throw ' t against the wind .
in what particular thought to work i know not ; but , in the gross and scope of my opinion
' d to die too ; yea , at that very moment , consideration like an angel came and whipp
let it alone , thou fool ; it is but trash .
how did he take it ; who did taste to him ?
batters down the wall , for the great swinge and rudeness of his poise , they place before his hand
the younger then is free , and not before .
impart .
but yet my caution was more pertinent than the rebuke you give it .
' thou know ' st , great son , the end of war ' s uncertain ; but this certain
but , most esteemed greatness , will you hear the dialogue that the two learned men have compiled in praise
wives , they would restrain the one , distain the other .
even as bad as those that vulgars give bold ' st titles ; ay , and privy to this their
he was excellent indeed , madam ; the king very lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly ; he was
take her with him to the isle of man .
who is ' t that cried ?
of the day .
but , my lads , my lads , to-morrow morning , by four o ' clock early , at gadshill
i will be gone , sir , and not trouble you .
is there any way to show such friendship ?
my blessing go with thee !
one good woman in ten , madam , which is a purifying o ' th ' song .
shakespeare .
a knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear .
where wouldst thou send it ?
' a shall not tread on me !
a piece of painting , which i do beseech your lordship to accept .
his cholers , and his moods , and his displeasures , and his indignations , and also being a little
enter vincentio [to vincentio] good-morrow , gentle mistress ; where away ?
and sooner dance upon a bloody pole than stand uncover ' d to the vulgar groom .
if you love her then , to-morrow wed her .
what breast so cold that is not warmed here ?
i never knew him otherwise .
thou conclud ' st like the sanctimonious pirate that went to sea with the ten commandments , but scrap '
petty servant to the state , he was your enemy ; ever spake against your liberties and the charters that
ay , but thou talk ' st as if thou wert a king .
if for the last , say ' ay , ' and to it , lords .
will you walk on , my lord ?
' ' ad martem ' that ' s for myself .
the better .
how many then should cover that stand bare !
this is my fault .
so sure as you your father ' s .
he that loves to be flattered is worthy o ' th ' flatterer .
what , do you grumble ?
shall worms inheritors of this excess eat up thy charge ?
fair lord- take that for your fair lady .
well , all is one .
ears of brutus as tidings of this sight .
away , thou tedious rogue !
why ?
father , to arms !
i am no pilot ; yet , wert thou as far as that vast shore wash ' d with the
look lucius , here ' s the book i sought for so ; i put it in the pocket of
txt name , apprehend him : he ' s a friend of the duke alencon ' s .
sometime he talks as if duke humphrey ' s ghost were by his side ; sometime he calls the king
i have forsworn his company hourly any time this two-and-twenty years , and yet i am bewitch ' d with
twere thou fell ' st into my fury , for one death might have prevented many .
what she says i ' ll confirm ; we ' ll fight it out .
past , as i will by thee , in what motion age will give me leave .
' where is the thousand marks i gave thee , villain ?
then patiently hear my impatience .
how do you now , lieutenant ?
but now ' tis odds beyond arithmetic , and manhood is call ' d foolery when it stands against a
no , that ' s certain !
i protest- maugre thy strength , youth , place , and eminence , despite thy victor sword and fire-new fortune
ah , foul shrewd news !
and left me bare to weather .
come , let me taste my horse , who is to bear me like a thunderbolt against the bosom of
for what his eyes eat only .
no , by my honour , madam , by my soul , no woman had it , but a civil
viperous slander enters .
than perfume itself to whom they go to .
what , is ' t murder ?
how does lieutenant cassio ?
i pray thee tell me truly how thou lik ' st her .
macduff ' s castle .
sing it ; ' tis no matter how it be in tune , so it make noise enough .
should i now meet my father , he would not call me son .
poor men alone ?
do you look for ale and cakes here , you rude rascals ?
verily , i do not jest with you ; there came news from him last night .
enter wolsey and campeius with a commission who ' s there ?
he thrusts me himself into the company of three or four gentleman-like dogs under the duke ' s table ;
i would have left it on the board , so soon as i had made my meal , and parted
our day is gone ; clouds , dews , and dangers come ; our deeds are done !
what is the trust or strength of foolish man ?
the count is neither sad , nor sick , nor merry , nor well ; but civil count--civil as an
infected be the ' air whereon they ride , and damn ' d all those that trust them !
if i might beseech you , gentlemen , to repair some other hour , i should derive much from '
d him ; and i pray god his bad voice bode no mischief .
a black day will it be to somebody .
we have seen nothing ; we are beastly : subtle as the fox for prey , like warlike as the
a lady so fair , and fasten ' d to an empery , would make the great ' st king
it has an elder sister , or i mistake you .
him to no pain ; but if he start , it is the flesh of a corrupted heart .
which way looks he ?
eros , ho !
great rome shall suck reviving blood , and that great men shall press for tinctures , stains , relics ,
in few , they hurried us aboard a bark ; bore us some leagues to sea , where they prepared
dost thou think in time she will not quench , and let instructions enter where folly now possesses ?
my tongue will tell the anger of my heart , or else my heart , concealing it , will break
i am in your debt for your last exercise ; come the next sabbath , and i will content you
then , sweet my lord , i ' ll call mine uncle down ; he shall unbolt the gates .
yes , your renowned name ; shall flight abuse it ?
god forbid any malice should prevail that faultless may condemn a nobleman !
why , then thou shalt not have thy husband ' s lands .
what mean ' st thou , suffolk ?
to thy further fear , nay , to thy mere confusion , thou shalt know i am son to th
come , the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge .
a goodly house .
that he hath a neighbourly charity in him , for he borrowed a box of the ear of the englishman
i have almost forgot the taste of fears : the time has been , my senses would have cool '
exit longaville .
say , lord chamberlain , they have done my poor house grace ; for which i pay ' em a
by yea and nay , sir , then i swore in jest .
good morrow , noble captain .
[aside to him .
to kiss ; for count of this , the count ' s a fool , i know it , who
methought i was enamour ' d of an ass .
i know it , uncle ; and oppose not myself against their will .
do you see yonder cloud that ' s almost in shape of a camel ?
o good gonzalo , my true preserver , and a loyal sir to him thou follow ' st !
oyster ; at whose foot , to mend the petty present , i will piece her opulent throne with kingdoms
the king hath call ' d his parliament , my lord .
love-rhymes , lord of folded arms , th ' anointed sovereign of sighs and groans , liege of all loiterers
alas , thou hast misconstrued everything !
exit cinna .
no , at a word , madam ; indeed i must not .
yet now- no matter .
that gave him out incurable- parolles .
exeunt princess , rosaline , katharine , and maria re-enter the king , berowne , longaville , and dumain ,
re-enter ariel , loaden with glistering apparel , &c .
and so , farewell and thrive .
misprision in the highest degree !
i thank you princes for my daughter ' s death .
the taming-school !
come , come from behind ; i know thee well , though never seen before .
or i shall shake thy bones out of thy garments .
the moon ?
but , march away ; hector is dead ; there is no more to say .
go , captain , from me greet the danish king .
a great quarreller ; and but that he hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust he hath
txt think ' st thou i ' ld make a life of jealousy , to follow still the changes of
exit enter helena and the two french gentlemen second gentleman .
upon thy certainty and confidence what dar ' st thou venture ?
o gentle lady , do not put me to ' t , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, latin , and other languages , as the other in music and mathematics .
, run away .
txt pass of pate ; there ' s another garmet for ' t .
, very wittily said to niece of king gorboduc ' that that is is ' ; so i , being
what enterprise , popilius ?
at my request he would not .
to whom shouldst thou give it ?
true to him to be false to him .
to th ' water side i must conduct your grace ; then give my charge up to sir nicholas vaux
scene _num_ before prospero ' s cell enter prospero , ferdinand , and miranda prospero .
break up the gates , i ' ll be your warrantize .
you must forsake this room , and go with us .
come , our stomachs will make what ' s homely savoury ; weariness can snore upon the flint , when
the o ' er-great cardinal hath show ' d him gold ; my life is spann ' d already .
these present wars shall find i love my country , even to the note o ' th ' king ,
: we speak no treason , man ; we say the king is wise and virtuous , and his noble
of a gulf .
' the commons here in kent are up in arms ; and to conclude , reproach and beggary is crept
do , rudeness ; do , camel ; do , do .
england ; and i must find that title in your tongue before i make reply to aught you say .
our play is preferr ' d .
think how thou stabb ' dst me in my prime of youth at tewksbury ; despair , therefore , and
where is posthumus ?
eight score eight hours ?
how long within this wood intend you stay ?
let me , upon my knee , prevail in this .
madam , depart at pleasure ; leave us here .
txt but for my daughter katherine , this i know , she is not for your turn , the more
>> scene : scotland and england act i .
_num_ i grant thou wert not married to my muse , and therefore mayst without attaint o ' erlook the
enter brutus and cassius .
tis abroad .
good morrow , ladies .
[aside] though this be madness , yet there is a method in ' t .
txt then let confusion of one part confirm the other ' s peace .
prithee , no more .
how long have you profess ' d apprehension ?
my present business calls me from you now .
the trumpet sounds a parley .
that is born to-night .
if i do prove her haggard , though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings , i ' ld whistle
between the acting of a dreadful thing and the first motion , all the interim is like a phantasma or
that you might still have worn the petticoat and ne ' er have stol ' n the breech from lancaster
but i can tell you one thing , my lord , and which i hear from common rumours : now
believe it , page ; he speaks sense .
come , go with me .
- robes , for tittles ?
thou ' lt torture me to leave unspoken that which to be spoke would torture thee .
come , sir thurio , go with me .
reason , you rogue , reason .
close with him , give him gold ; and though authority be a stubborn bear , yet he is oft
' s chair , where he is falsely set ; one that hath ever been god ' s enemy .
well , that rascal hath good metal in him ; he will not run .
the gods withhold me !
let her be as she is : if she be fair , ' tis the better for her ; an
ever since you lov ' d her .
doth he not mend ?
are they good ?
what is your good pleasure with me ?
angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her ; only he hath made an assay of her virtue to practise
sir , at the farthest for a week or two ; but then up farther , and as far as
lovers and madmen have such seething brains , such shaping fantasies , that apprehend more than cool reason ever comprehends
but now , my lord , what say you to my suit ?
mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd ; ' tis best that thou diest quickly .
an interlude !
on him love him ; and on that vice in him will my revenge find notable cause to work .
no harm .
was ware , my true-love passion .
the gods with safety stand about thee !
this is the state of man : to-day he puts forth the tender leaves of hopes ; to-morrow blossoms and
save him , sir , and spare no blood beside .
ev ' n with all my heart would i were dead , so you did live again !
both my revenge and hate loosing upon thee in the name of justice , without all terms of pity .
madam , and nothing else ; so lords call ladies .
you strike my people , and your disorder ' d rabble make servants of their betters .
madam , the guests are come , supper serv ' d up , you call ' d , my young
there is such a league between my good man and he !
when i was about thy years , hal , i was not an eagle ' s talent in the waist
more dregs than water , if my fears have eyes .
even such kin as the parish heifers are to the town bull .
if not in heaven , you ' ll surely sup in hell .
marry , hang thee , brock !
then is it sin to rush into the secret house of death ere death dare come to us ?
even .
indeed they are disproportion ' d ; my letters say a hundred and seven galleys .
o , let us have him , for his silver hairs will purchase us a good opinion , and buy
with thy grim looks and the thunder-like percussion of thy sounds thou mad ' st thine enemies shake , as
, all of you have laid your heads together- myself had notice of your conventicles- and all to make away
- out , rascal dogs !
though his false finger have profan ' d the ring , mine shall not do his julia so much wrong
[march afar off] ha !
are content to suffer lawful censure for such faults as shall be prov ' d upon you .
i do not know dat .
then westward-ho !
' d his leave for present parting ; only he desires some private speech with you .
our coronation done , we will accite , as i before rememb ' red , all our state ; and-
if it please the eye of one , it is with me as the very true sonnet is : '
humbly as they us ' d to creep to holy altars .
why , now i see there ' s mettle in thee ; and even from this instant do build on
it is my soul that calls upon my name .
i do not fear it , i have seen you both ; but since he is better ' d ,
come , noble gentlemen , let us survey the vantage of the ground .
i knew a wench married in an afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to stuff a rabbit
ay , marry , wast , and he put it by thrice , every time gentler than other , and
a bastard son of priam ' s .
i tremble at it .
[clock strikes] the clock gives me my cue , and my assurance bids me search ; there i shall find
suffolk concluded on the articles ; the peers agreed ; and henry was well pleas ' d to changes two
menelaus .
despair not , madam .
a subtle traitor needs no sophister .
on our way .
, for you were troth-plight to her .
and your true rights be termed a poet ' s rage , and stretched metre of an antique song .
indeed , i bid the base for proteus .
scolding quean to a wrangling knave , as the nun ' s lip to the friar ' s mouth ;
then , no , my lord .
what a sigh is there !
[unmuffles claudio] duke .
' tis done like hector ; but securely done , a little proudly , and great deal misprizing the knight
an open place wear swinstead abbey enter the bastard and hubert , severally hubert .
therefore know i have earned of don john a thousand ducats .
[to florizel] how now , fair shepherd !
wherefore rise you now ?
call it so .
then thou art damn ' d .
, to banish the duchess .
for juliet ' s sake , for her sake , rise and stand !
how many days will finish up the year , how many years a mortal man may live .
, clear them o ' th ' city .
give warning to the world that i am fled from this vile world with vilest worms to dwell : nay
i will meditate the while upon some horrid message for a challenge .
at the senate house ?
; and dull , unfeeling , barren ignorance is made my gaoler to attend on me .
them in their own devices , a pair of cursed hell-hounds and their dam .
thou hast sworn it more to me .
and i for ganymede .
and sleeps again .
sweet , do not scorn her so .
you ' ll ask me why i rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh than to receive three
hath a heart that is not glad at the thing they scowl at .
pardon me , caius cassius .
and bashful henry depos ' d , whose cowardice hath made us by-words to our enemies .
i remember at mile-end green , when i lay at clement ' s inn- i was then sir dagonet in
one three of them , by their own report , sir , hath danc ' d before the king ;
it is even so .
your wife would give you little thanks for that , if she were by to hear you make the offer
for thousand yorks he shall not hide his head , but boldly stand and front him to his face .
a scaly gauntlet now with joints of steel must glove this hand ; and hence , thou sickly coif !
enobarbus , antony hath after thee sent all thy treasure , with his bounty overplus .
what woman is this ?
i will bite thee by the ear for that jest .
methinks i see him stamp thus , and call thus : ' come on , you cowards !
this silence for my sin you did impute , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
much deserv ' d on his part , and equally rememb ' red by don pedro .
we ' ll answer it : the issue is embracement .
o heaven , o earth , bear witness to this sound , and crown what i profess with kind event
till then , think of the world .
exit oberon puck .
had we fought , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exit scene ii .
harder , harder !
the palace enter the king in his nightgown , with a page king .
circumvent god , might it not ?
publicly , she ' ll be asham ' d .
but , omne bene , say i , being of an old father ' s mind : many can brook
, the cannons to the heavens , the heaven to earth , ' now the king drinks to hamlet .
ere night they ' ll be in fresher robes , or they will pluck the gay new coats o '
all is borne away , ready to starve and dare not touch his own .
in an observing kind his humorous predominance ; yea , watch his pettish lunes , his ebbs , his flows
this i must do , or know not what to do ; yet this i will not do , do
haply thou mayst inform something to save thy life .
you may go to the devil ' s dam ; your gifts are so good here ' s none will
ll see you soon .
mart for implements of war ; why such impress of shipwrights , whose sore task does not divide the sunday
[to a servant] give him a livery more guarded than his fellows ' ; see it done .
am i one , sir ?
i can no longer hold me patient .
even she--leonato ' s hero , your hero , every man ' s hero .
like a drown ' d man , a fool , and a madman : one draught above heat makes him
enter timon out of his cave timon .
if you hear a child cry in the night , you must call to the nurse and bid her still
sir , you yourself have said and writ so , but your writing now is colder than that theme :
given me this .
tell one .
why , you say well .
we have sport in hand .
i have begun , and now i give my sensual race the rein : fit thy consent to my sharp
exeunt valentine and proteus launce .
what prodigal portion have i spent that i should come to such penury ?
at pembroke , or at ha ' rford west in wales .
by my soul , i think his father never was so true begot ; it cannot be , an if
would poison were obedient , and knew my mind !
enter biondello biondello .
but tell me , keeper , will my nephew come ?
lucius , i say !
what stronger breastplate than a heart untainted ?
the deputed sword , the marshal ' s truncheon nor the judge ' s robe , become them with one
with several fortunes : the greater scorns the lesser .
<exeunt antipholus of syracuse and antipholus of ephesus dromio of syracuse .
txt look up a-height .
at enmity ; i hate it , and desire all good men ' s love .
no , not for all the riches under heaven .
off , coxcomb !
thou dost consent in some large measure to thy father ' s death in that thou seest thy wretched brother
my gracious liege , when that my father liv ' d , your brother did employ my father much- bastard
what ' s a drunken man like , fool ?
he bears himself more proudlier , even to my person , than i thought he would when first i did
, and six or seven winters more respect than a perpetual honour .
freedom !
go thy ways , wench ; serve god .
even now gave me good eyes too , examin ' d my parts with most judicious oeillades ; sometimes the
strike up , pipers !
no , madam ; ' tis too sharp .
faith , her privates we .
would , for the king ' s sake , he were living !
suits to his back , six shirts to his body , horse to ride , and weapons to wear ;
enter old lady gentleman .
wife ?
[rises] never , regan !
only that the laws of england may come out of your mouth .
for our end .
[to a servingman] what lady ' s that , which doth enrich the hand of yonder knight ?
thou shalt not damn my hand .
[aside] that you are both decipher ' d , that ' s the news , for villains mark ' d
being ent ' red , i doubt not , i , but we shall soon persuade both him and all
then lead the way , good father ; and heavens so shine that they may fairly note this act of
did you confer with him ?
your rage mistakes us .
first lady .
my sweet patroclus , i am thwarted quite from my great purpose in to-morrow ' s battle .
[sings] love , love , nothing but love , still love , still more !
then saw you not his face ?
when was the hour i ever contradicted your desire or made it not mine too ?
enter the duke , attended ; aegeon , bareheaded ; with the headsman and other officers duke .
lie , as a woman should not do but in the way of honesty ; how she died of the
sister , welcome .
txt it , pluck off the bull ' s horns and set them in my forehead , and let me
ariel .
than the sky and earth ; and yet the spacious breadth of this division page _num_ complete works of william
come , sir page , look on me with your welkin eye .
exeunt thurio and musicians enter silvia above , at her window proteus .
are much more at task for want of wisdom than prais ' d for harmful mildness .
she ' s desperate ; govern her .
come down ?
of the year , the one doth shadow of your beauty show , the other as your bounty doth appear
with those of nobler bulk !
though full .
ay , or any show that you ' ll show him .
here comes sir toby halting ; you shall hear more ; but if he had not been in drink ,
the tents the armourers accomplishing the knights , with busy hammers closing rivets up , give dreadful note of preparation
to the utmost , had ye mean ; which ye shall never have while i live .
who builds stronger than a mason , a shipwright , or a carpenter ?
take away the conqueror , take away alisander .
fly , fly , my lord , there is no tarrying here .
god ' s !
no man but prophesied revenge for it .
- i will sir , i will .
come to the centaur ; fetch our stuff from thence .
the very tyranny and rage of his .
commend me to him ; i will send his ransom ; and being enfranchis ' d , bid him come
ay , marry , is ' t ; but to my mind , though i am native here and to
good master froth , look upon his honour ; ' tis for a good purpose .
oman , art thou lunatics ?
that takes diet ; to watch , like one that fears robbing ; to speak puling , like a beggar
than in a drawn fox ; and for woman-hood , maid marian may be the deputy ' s wife of
come from thy ward ; for i can here disarm thee with this stick and make thy weapon drop .
[giving a coin] clown .
my lady ' s train , lest the base earth should from her vesture chance to steal a kiss and
where be the thronging troops that followed thee ?
now crack thy lungs and split thy brazen pipe ; blow , villain , till thy sphered bias cheek out-swell
i pray you , come , hold up the jest no higher .
i abhor such fanatical phantasimes , such insociable and point-devise companions ; such rackers of orthography , as to speak
why , being younger born , doth he lay claim to thine inheritance ?
each following day became the next day ' s master , till the last made former wonders its .
that ' s antenor .
speak , count , ' tis your cue .
what news , lord bardolph ?
i would we were all of one mind , and one mind good .
hales him up and down] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exit , led out forcibly king edward .
read , and declare the meaning .
well , proceed .
my lord , entreat him by no means to stay .
-even he escapes not language unmannerly ; yea , such which breaks the sides of loyalty , and almost appears
be not offended , nature ' s miracle , thou art allotted to be ta ' en by me .
multitudes , and fear ?
god bless me from a challenge !
o , how this mother swells up toward my heart !
would it offend you , then , that both should speed ?
list to your tribunes .
comfort me , counsel me .
why , i will fight with him upon this theme until my eyelids will no longer wag .
nose among twenty but can smell him that ' s stinking .
him , as place , riches , and favour , prizes of accident , as oft as merit ; which
i have a letter guessingly set down , which came from one that ' s of a neutral heart ,
o , these eclipses do portend these divisions !
but the unkind .
remorseless .
take the devil in thy mind and believe him not ; he would insinuate with thee but to make the
would not peace at my bidding ; there i found ' em , there i smelt ' em out .
vex not his prescience ; be attentive .
demetrius throws the body of bassianus into the pit ; then exeunt demetrius and chiron , dragging off lavinia tamora
father , the duke hath told the truth ; thus got the house of lancaster the crown .
yield , my lord protector ; yield , winchester ; except you mean with obstinate repulse to slay your sovereign
there art thou happy .
cover your heads , and mock not flesh and blood with solemn reverence ; throw away respect , tradition ,
whither ?
that young start-up hath all the glory of my overthrow .
their transformations were never for a piece of beauty rarer , nor in a way so chaste , since my
and when i liv ' d i was your other wife ; [unmasks .
whitmore .
what , the commonwealth their boots ?
i am alone the villain of the earth , and feel i am so most .
what are you , sir ?
the extreme parts of time extremely forms all causes to the purpose of his speed ; and often at his
the truth of what we are shows us but this : i am sworn brother , sweet , to grim
play before him .
the spring is near , when green geese are a-breeding .
an hour before i came , the duchess died .
i do not find that thou dealest justly with me .
to cart her rather .
my life upon her faith !
your pleasure , madam ?
you have often begun to tell me what i am ; but stopp ' d , and left me to
erbear such as are of better person than myself , i ' ll make my heaven to dream upon the
henry the seventh succeeding , truly pitying my father ' s loss , like a most royal prince , restor
how doth my lady ?
then , good my liege , let me have what is mine , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
thou say ' st true , hostess , and he slanders thee most grossly .
sight , twice seen of us .
to have her , or no .
out of my bones .
txt continually ; ' tis her command .
this course i fittest choose , for forty ducats is too much to lose .
why railest thou on thy birth , the heaven , and earth ?
if that the earth could teem with woman ' s tears , each drop she falls would prove a crocodile
for a quality wherein they say you shine , your sun of parts did not together pluck such envy from
come , thou must not be in this humour with me ; dost not know me ?
go to , go to ; peace , peace ; we must deal gently with him .
facing .
where my stomach .
i was as willing to grapple as he was to board .
by whose direction found ' st thou out this place ?
night- but go not to my uncle ' s bed .
but hear you , hear you !
go , after , after , cousin buckingham .
why , it stood by her .
welcome , lord somerset .
cordelia , cordelia !
txt mardian .
world struck the main-top .
' d the household of the king .
' ring too , i were the fairest goddess on the ground .
by foul play , as thou say ' st , were we heav ' d thence ; but blessedly holp
there ' s fresher air , my lord , in the next chamber .
which way is he , in the name of sanctity ?
doth he not deserve well ?
you little jack-a-lent , have you been true to us ?
' tis he and cloten ; malice and lucre in them have laid this woe here .
such is my love , to thee i so belong , that for thy right , my self will bear
for thou betraying me , i do betray my nobler part to my gross body ' s treason , page
all the land knows that ; however , yet there is no great breach .
when i have seen such interchange of state , or state it self confounded , to decay , ruin hath
we will solicit heaven , and move the gods to send down justice for to wreak our wrongs .
none left to rail upon thee , and then thou wouldst sin the faster .
in him sparing would show a worse sin than ill doctrine : men of his way should be most liberal
txt drawing their massy irons and cutting the web .
caesar , ' tis strucken eight .
txt quince .
here , bear my bottle .
exeunt hermione , guarded , and ladies first lord .
' d all gaze his way ; when , for a day of kings ' entreaties , a mother should
what do you in this wise company ?
the face of heaven so fine page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
an excellent courtesy !
go , get you to my house ; i will reward you for this venturous deed .
you have a troyan prisoner call ' d antenor , yesterday took ; troy holds him very dear .
vows , to the blackest devil conscience and grace , to the profoundest pit !
his skin is surely lent him , for he ' s inclin ' d as is the ravenous wolf .
i pitied thee , took pains to make thee speak , taught thee each hour one thing or other .
txt no honest man dat shall come in my closet .
this done , see that you take no longer days , but send the midwife presently to me .
i dare him therefore to lay his gay comparisons apart , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i thank you , sir ; had i not known those customs , i should have been beholding to your
his body ' s a passable carcass if he be not hurt .
their vapour .
my master is the great rich capulet ; and if you be not of the house of montagues , i
own dear groans , will hear your idle scorns , continue then , and i will have you and that
her boy ; and for her sake i will not part with him .
i pray you have a continent forbearance till the speed of his rage goes slower ; and , as i
ay , it is no matter .
enter lord chamberlain , lord sandys , and sir thomas lovell o , my lord , y ' are tardy
this common body , like to a vagabond flag upon the stream , goes to and back , lackeying the
the trumpets sound ; th ' are come already from the christening .
i prithee do not mock me , fellow student .
marry , mine host , because i cannot be merry .
exit scene v .
i thank ye ; and be blest for your good comfort !
no more than with my soul i mourn for yours .
enter lord hastings buckingham .
the skipping king , he ambled up and down with shallow jesters and rash bavin wits , soon kindled and
hail , thou fair heaven !
, my bargains , and my well-won thrift , which he calls interest .
i ' ll have no halves ; i ' ll bear it all myself .
a good sharp fellow .
no , noble titus , but entreat of thee to pardon mutius and to bury him .
lucius , awake !
the dauphin , with others constable .
this chair shall be my state , this dagger my sceptre , and this cushion my , crown .
whom have we here ?
re-enter salisbury page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
trip and go , my sweet ; deliver this paper into the royal hand of the king ; it may
, and bold that this our court , infected with their manners , shows like a riotous inn .
' no .
good ; and what of him ?
thou wilt be like a lover presently and tire the hearer with a book of words .
o my good lord , i have been your tenant , and your father ' s tenant , these fourscore
neither to you nor anyone , having no witness to confirm my speech .
there ' s matter in these sighs .
- dry up thy marrows , vines , and plough-torn leas , whereof ingrateful man , with liquorish draughts and
his bosom .
, th ' other by the cuckoo .
modesty .
no money , on my faith , but the gleek .
during the fray , exeunt saturninus , tamora , demetrius , chiron , and aaron re-enter lucius lucius .
sweet prince , you learn me noble thankfulness .
enter leonato , [antonio] his brother , hero his daughter , and beatrice his niece , and a kinsman ;
down to make his valour live .
master lieutenant , pray you , by your leave , how doth the prince , and my young son of
well , let it strike .
as scythian tomyris by cyrus ' death .
prove .
my lord and you were then at mantua .
ay , to a niggardly host and more sparing guest .
my duty to you both , on equal love , great kings of france and england !
your daughter here the princes left for dead , let her awhile be secretly kept in , and publish it
think you not that the pow ' rs we bear with us will cut their passage through the force of
what , is the king but five and twenty thousand ?
i do think him as concave as covered goblet or a worm-eaten nut .
of nothing so much as that i am not like timon .
call up all my people !
speak with me , pity me , open the door .
good man , the wounds that he does bear for rome !
there ' s my key .
if sight and shape be true , why then , my love adieu !
but when i came to man ' s estate , with hey , ho , the wind and the rain
txt from forth thy plenteous bosom , one poor root !
that he will appear in his true likeness .
go , go into old titus ' sorrowful house , and hither hale that misbelieving moor to be adjudg '
me be advised how i tread .
be these sad signs confirmers of thy words ?
and i would have it suddenly perform ' d .
you see it is apparent .
in himself , ' tis much ; in you , which i account his , beyond all talents .
i never had to do with wicked spirits .
this fever that hath troubled me so long lies heavy on me .
' tybalt is dead , and romeo- banished .
me tank you for dat .
thou art some fool ; i am loath to beat thee .
s breast , and cannot live but to thy shame , unless it be to do thee service .
' tis love i bear thy glories makes me speak .
and single life .
so , by being too curst , god will send you no horns .
' s company , his cause being just and his quarrel honourable .
out an amazon , and all dance , men witb women , a lofty strain or two to the hautboys
keep the door close , sirrah .
in thee reviv ' d when sapless age and weak unable limbs should bring thy father to his drooping chair
, and shape to win grace though he had no wit .
find liable to our crown and dignity , shall gild her bridal bed , and make her rich in titles
tell me , good brutus , can you see your face ?
[aside] ay , good leave have you ; for you will have leave till youth take leave and leave you
_num_ in the old age black was not counted fair , or if it were it bore not beauty '
you do ill to teach the child such words .
my lords , a solemn hunting is in hand ; there will the lovely roman ladies troop ; the forest
here ' s too small a pasture for such store of muttons .
madam , you must come to your uncle .
the moor replies that he you hurt is of great fame in cyprus and great affinity and that in wholesome
to god , the widow ' s champion and defence .
tell him , toward swinstead , to the abbey there .
our business is not unknown to th ' senate ; they have had inkling this fortnight what we intend to
txt that ever i have felt .
common praise it bears .
and says a wizard told him that by g his issue disinherited should be ; and , for my name
and whispers to his pillow , as to him , the secrets of his overcharged soul ; and i am
he should groan , patch grief with proverbs , make misfortune drunk with candle-wasters--bring him yet to me , and
rien puis ?
ask for me to-morrow , and you shall find me a grave man .
this dream of his advantage , he hath not fail ' d to pester us with message importing the surrender
lest i might be too rash ; under your good correction , i have seen when , after execution ,
here comes a man ; let ' s stay till he be past .
yet let me weep for such a feeling loss .
when roscius was an actor in rome- pol .
txt gardiner .
and yet no day without a deed to crown it .
yet caesar shall go forth , for these predictions are to the world in general as to caesar .
[exeunt justices] on , bardolph ; lead the men away .
and so adieu , good madam ; never more will i my master ' s tears to you deplore .
exeunt [mother and nurse .
in disadvantage , to abide a field where nothing but the sound of hotspur ' s name did seem defensible
get you away .
may never grow !
--england and wales .
titus , i am come to talk with thee .
that ever made eye swerve , had force and knowledge more than was ever man ' s , i would
respect .
by my fidelity , this is not well , master ford ; this wrongs you .
he ' s dead , and at the murderer ' s horse ' s tail , in beastly sort ,
why , then he ' ll say we stabb ' d him sleeping .
joy were now become a loss , cries ' o , thy mother , thy mother !
if it be , why seems it so particular with thee ?
pray you come in : i would not for half troy have you seen here .
but , good lieutenant , is your general wived ?
do me no foul play , friends .
my lord , i beseech you , give me leave to go through gloucestershire ; and , when you come
accusativo , hinc .
shiver ' d like an egg ; but thou dost breathe ; hast heavy substance ; bleed ' st not
now fare ye well , good sir .
twenty reverend bishops , i have perform ' d my task , and was espous ' d ; and humbly
will you yield , and this avoid ?
i go , sir .
which of you saw sir eglamour of late ?
' and more he would have said ; and more he spoke , which sounded like a clamour in a
and had his highness in his infancy crowned in paris , in despite of foes ?
become themselves in her , that the holy priests bless her when she is riggish .
well , i ' ll go hide the body in some hole , till that the duke give order for
shylock ' s house enter jessica and launcelot jessica .
the earth ; and , therein laid-there lies two kinsmen digg ' d their graves with weeping eyes .
therefore draw for the supportance of his vow ; he protests he will not hurt you .
and all eyes blind with the pin and web but theirs , theirs only , that would unseen be wicked-
o , pardon me , signior gremio !
therefore , thou happy father , think that the clearest gods , who make them honours of men ' s
eye that shall appear when thou wak ' st , it is thy dear .
thee suck ; fam ' d be thy tutor , and thy parts of nature thrice-fam ' d beyond ,
you know his nature , that he ' s revengeful ; and i know his sword hath a sharp edge-it
poor enobarbus did before thy face repent !
why , for my king !
come , shadow , come , and take this shadow up , for ' tis thy rival .
itself , and with indented glides did slip away into a bush ; under which bush ' s shade a
i will seem friendly , as thou hast advis ' d me .
; or hath moe ministers than we that draw his knives i ' th ' war .
, is not for idle markets , sir .
what letter is this same ?
villain , thou shalt find- [regan plucks his beard .
know one another .
use thee .
though we leave it with a root , thus hack ' d , the air will drink the sap .
what you will , monsieur jaques .
for thee , against my self i ' ll vow debate , for i must ne ' er love him
or by his foe surpris ' d at unawares ; and , as i further have to understand , is
, when rocks impregnable are not so stout , nor gates of steel so strong but time decays ?
it is but as a body yet distempered ; which to his former strength may be restored with good advice
though it be fit that cassio have his place , for sure he fills it up with great ability ,
what , was she ravish ' d ?
hopes , and hopes to fears , still losing when i saw my self to win !
, with certain half-caps and cold-moving nods , they froze me into silence .
caesar ' s camp enter a centurion and his company ; enobarbus follows centurion .
worship .
beat at this gate that let thy folly in [strikes his head .
king ' s coin .
they cherish it to make it stay there ; and yet it will no more but abide .
have i not made you the prime man of the state ?
nay , if thou be that princely eagle ' s bird , show thy descent by gazing ' gainst the
most absurd , whose common theme is death of fathers , and who still hath cried , from the first
come , come ; will ' t please you go ?
it might , but it is not now .
at seventeen years many their fortunes seek , but at fourscore it is too late a week ; yet fortune
that stand in better place , garnish ' d like him , that for a tricksy word defy the matter
which done , she took the fruits of my advice , and he , repulsed , a short tale to
exit caliban re-enter ariel invisible , playing ad singing ; ferdinand following ariel ' s song .
here ' s nestor , instructed by the antiquary times- he must , he is , he cannot but be
' d before in my life ; and i paid nothing for it neither , but was paid for my
why may not he be there again ?
alas the day , i know not !
enter sir john fastolfe , and a captain captain .
another way the sheets ; ay , and amid this hurly i intend that all is done in reverend care
' tis true ; there ' s magic in the web of it .
these , as i learn , and such like toys as these hath mov ' d his highness to commit
warble , child ; make passionate my sense of hearing .
i ' ll have thy beauty scratch ' d with briers and made more homely than thy state .
but in the other ' s silence do i see maid ' s mild behaviour and sobriety .
god amend us , god amend !
speak you this in my praise , master ?
rivers .
but speak you this with a sad brow ?
o hector !
no portion in the choice myself .
for further life in this world i ne ' er hope nor will i sue , although the king have
an early stirrer , by the rood !
well then , if ever i thank any man , i ' ll thank you ; but that they call
that wishing well had not a body in ' t which might be felt ; that we , the poorer
i am amazed at your passionate words ; i scorn you not ; it seems that you scorn me .
' o , a kiss long as my exile , sweet as my revenge !
if hollowly , invert what best is boded me to mischief !
his particular act and place may give his saying deed ; which is no further than the main voice of
pray you be gone .
o monstrous act !
out alas !
, tied all the kingdom .
this is my daughter ' s jointure , for no more can i demand .
commenced on this ball of earth .
she did lie in her pavilion , cloth-of-gold , of tissue , o ' erpicturing that venus where we see
yoke-fellows in arms , let us to france , like horse-leeches , my boys , to suck , to suck
but they were none .
malice , and our hearts of brothers ' temper , do receive you in with all kind love , good
since lion vile hath here deflower ' d my dear ; which is- no , no- which was the fairest
believe me , sir , it carries a brave form .
your answer to that .
puppies !
, and chid his truant youth with such a grace as if lie mast ' red there a double spirit
nay , i ' ll go with thee , cheek by jowl .
if i might die within this hour , i have liv ' d to die when i desire .
young siward .
flesh to-morrow to my bloody creditor .
have been strangely borne .
may effect , they will break their hearts but they will effect .
lysander , demetrius , helena , and hermia , lying asleep enter titania and bottom ; peaseblossom , cobweb ,
if it were , i deny her virginity ; i was taken with a maid .
which to a mother ' s part belongs .
how liv ' d you ?
thus .
look thee , ' tis so !
o fool , i shall go mad !
gait , the expressure of his eye , forehead , and complexion , he shall find himself most feelingly personated
the goths .
katherina , hortensio , and widow .
to me can life be no commodity .
the armipotent mars , of lances the almighty , gave hector a gift- dumain .
first he was a noble servant to them , but he could not carry his honours even .
paris , at saint peter ' s church , shall happily make thee there a joyful bride .
o , you go far !
a begging prince what beggar pities not ?
shall save my brothers ' lives .
but the reward of a villain .
' tis very grievous to be thought upon .
but if you say ' marry her , ' i will marry her ; that i am freely dissolved ,
meeting fall and die !
[offers to kill her] king edward .
he rather hear the tabor and the pipe .
bear blood ?
deliver this with modesty to th ' queen .
what , jealous oberon !
attend those men our pleasure ?
she is , when once she is my wife .
memory my sweet love ' s beauty , though my lover ' s life .
me when clarence is in place .
gorgeous palaces , the solemn temples , the great globe itself , yea , all which it inherit , shall
then you lost the view of earthly glory ; men might say , till this time pomp was single ,
go , uncle exeter , and brother clarence , and you , brother gloucester , warwick , and huntington ,
i would not be cured , youth .
take up her bed , and bear her women from the monument .
exit biondello petruchio .
helmet of my foe !
impetuous blasts , with eyeless rage , catch in their fury and make nothing of ; strives in his little
another part of the field enter posthumus and a britain lord lord .
answer me , heavens .
sir , i have not you by th ' hand .
exeunt an alarum .
, green .
instantly unto his cave , there stripp ' d himself , and here upon his arm the lioness had torn
all men but proteus .
' cross-garter ' d ?
rogue , rogue , rogue !
for know , my lords , the states of christendom , mov ' d with remorse of these outrageous broils
the life-blood of thee else .
sprite , in the church-way paths to glide .
biting of it , what pain she felt- truly she makes a very good report o ' th ' worm
' verily , you shall not go ; a lady ' s ' verily ' is as potent as a
why then lord talbot there shall talk with him and give him chastisement for this abuse .
-my cousin will fall out with you .
a woeful cressid ' mongst the merry greeks !
a spirit , a spirit !
why , then , ' tis hers , my lord , and being hers , she may , i think
brother of england .
er knew my body , but knows he thinks that he knows isabel ' s .
employ ' d .
become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love ; and such a man is claudio .
let me see .
and i with him ; for he hath done me wrong .
it is no shame ; the fellow finds his vein , and , yielding to him , humours well his
all that ' s spoke is marr ' d .
after the general , i beseech you next to feast with me and see me at my tent .
how oddly he is suited !
thou art too slow to do thy master ' s bidding , when i desire it too .
parts in me that you love with your heart .
i pull in resolution and begin to doubt the equivocation of the fiend that lies like truth .
to this point hast thou heard him at any time speak aught ?
give me my long sword , ho !
very foul .
my husband is on earth , my faith in heaven .
quince ' s house enter quince , flute , snout , and starveling quince .
methinks it is like a weasel .
the emperor ' s court is like the house of fame , the palace full of tongues , of eyes
i am , sir , under the king , in some authority .
centurion .
a surgeon !
oft have i heard of sanctuary men ; but sanctuary children never till now .
s day .
at your service .
of doubt you do me now more wrong in making question of my uttermost than if you had made waste
there be some sports are painful , and their labour delight in them sets off ; some kinds of baseness
look , he recovers .
if thou ' rt noble , i do forgive thee .
not he , i hope .
why should you fear ?
i will be deaf to pleading and excuses ; nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses .
in all suits like a lady ; that done , conduct him to the drunkard ' s chamber , and
txt malvolio .
marry , to each but one !
would all the world but he had quite forsworn !
what are you reasoning with yourself ?
drum , turning the word to sword , and life to death .
cardinal .
down with him !
' a could never abide carnation ; ' twas a colour he never liked .
of egal justice , us ' d in such contempt ?
may live as quiet in hell as in a sanctuary ; and people sin upon purpose , because they would
no , not for all the world .
the commonwealth is sick of their own choice ; their over-greedy love hath surfeited .
why , so it would have done at the same season , if your mother ' s cat had but
txt sinfully pluck ' d , and not a man of you had so much race to put it in
it were as good page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
treason and murder ever kept together , as two yoke-devils sworn to either ' s purpose , working so grossly
worthy macbeth , we stay upon your leisure .
he calls again ; i pray you answer him .
precious rich crown for a pitiful bald crown .
heels , and beware of an ass .
on , on , you noblest english , whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof- fathers that like so
, mistress of passion , sways it to the mood of what it likes or loathes .
enter king in triumph ; with gloucester , clarence , and the rest king edward .
you may my glories and my state depose , but not my griefs ; still am i king of those
i think you would have me say , ' saving your reverence , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
some o ' their plants are ill-rooted already ; the least wind i ' th ' world will blow them
is it his use ?
if not at court , then not in britain must you bide .
_num_ my love is as a fever longing still , for that which longer nurseth the disease , page _num_
are you lords o ' th ' field ?
more thy father ' s love , pleading so wisely in excuse of it !
no , girl ; i ' ll knit it up in silken strings with twenty odd-conceited true-love knots- to be
prithee now , say you will , and go about it .
yet be cheerful , knight ; thou shalt eat a posset tonight at my house , where i will desire
i ' ll bring you thither , my lord , if you ' ll vouchsafe me .
is not this he ?
to no more will i give place or notice .
my collop !
it is a gallant child ; one that indeed physics the subject , makes old hearts fresh ; they that
brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade , some two months hence my will shall here be made .
you ' ll win two days upon me .
o you gods !
doth that grieve thee ?
clock i ' th ' morning , falling out that year on ash wednesday was four year , in th
write down that they hope they serve god ; and write god first , for god defend but god should
tell her i am arrested in the street , and that shall bail me ; hie thee , slave ,
for i ne ' er saw true beauty till this night .
stands ; i dare be sworn for him he would not leave it nor pluck it from his finger for
it is a life that i have desir ' d ; i will thrive .
txt thing , go !
whose tongue ?
a man , young lady !
mother ' s wrong .
now , my co-mates and brothers in exile , hath not old custom made this life more sweet than that
another part of the forest alarum ; excursions .
let my sheep go .
a burning devil take them !
good morrow .
day page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
what i dare too well do , i dare not do .
thou most lying slave , whom stripes may move , not kindness !
were you but riding forth to air yourself , such parting were too petty .
was ever king so griev ' d for subjects ' woe ?
enter cassio and certain officers with torches .
is there no voice more worthy than my own , to sound more sweetly in great caesar ' s ear
richard , i bear thy name ; i ' ll venge thy death , or die renowned by attempting it
see else how thou shouldst scape .
o friar , the damned use that word in hell ; howling attends it !
why , my boy ?
if i may trust the flattering truth of sleep my dreams presage some joyful news at hand .
god save you , captain .
plainness , marry her .
but come , now i will be your rosalind in a more coming-on disposition ; and ask me what you
which should make our eyes flow with joy , hearts dance with comforts , constrains them weep and shake with
if imprisonment be the due of a bawd , why , ' tis his right .
thou art the mars of malcontents ; i second thee ; troop on .
peace , rude sounds !
, that ' s seal ' d in approbation ?
let ' s not consort with them .
, till so much blood thither come again , have i not reason to look pale and dead ?
that you should think , we come not to offend , but with good will .
cox my passion !
lord hamlet !
but the full sum of me is sum of something which , to term in gross , is an unlesson
no more o ' that , my lord , no more o ' that .
[to orlando] as you love rosalind , meet .
you have , by fortune and his highness ' favours , gone slightly o ' er low steps , and
who should be pitiful , if you be not ?
a very fresh-fish here-fie , fie , fie upon this compell ' d fortune !
[aside] and supper too , although thou knowest it not .
till their conversations appear more wise and modest to the world .
' tis well ' that thou hast cause ; but thou shouldst please me better wouldst thou weep .
well , happiness to their sheets !
my daughter ?
we did believe no less .
leave us , and the congregated college have concluded that labouring art can never ransom nature from her inaidable estate-i
what colour , madam ?
txt both young and old , one with another , ford ; he loves the gallimaufry .
a running banquet ere they rested i think would better please ' em .
i think you know him : master doctor caius , the renowned french physician .
your majesty says very true ; if your majesties is rememb ' red of it , the welshmen did good
and then for the land service- to see how the bear tore out his shoulder-bone ; how he cried to
go on , and see wheer brutus be alive or dead , and bring us word unto octavius ' tent
suffer ' d for ' t .
why do you speak to me ?
out , damned spot !
if the man be a bachelor , sir , i can ; but if he be a married man ,
jesus preserve your royal majesty !
it is not his , my lord ; here southam lies .
father , i know ; and oft have shot at them , howe ' er unfortunate i miss ' d
a sennet sounded .
why , how now , hamlet ?
know we have divided in three our kingdom ; and ' tis our fast intent to shake all cares and
tis pride .
but how hath she receiv ' d his love ?
fawneth on her still .
he that buckles himself in my belt cannot live in less .
and if it sort not well , you may conceal her , as best befits her wounded reputation , in
txt [steps aside .
bloody coxcomb .
enter panthino panthino .
you wisest grecians , pardon me this brag .
' show them th ' unaching scars which i should hide , as if i had receiv ' d them
no black envy shall mark my grave .
not i ; ' twas chiron and demetrius .
i mean that with my soul i love thy daughter and do intend to make her queen of england .
this , by his voice , should be a montague .
than men their minds !
if cleopatra heard you , your reproof were well deserv ' d of rashness .
edge of doom : if this be error and upon me proved , i never writ , nor no man
receives rebuke from norway , and , in fine , makes vow before his uncle never more to give th
siward .
i humbly thank you .
ay , or surly borne .
welcome , brave earl , into our territories ; command in anjou what your honour pleases .
reputation , reputation , reputation !
soft , caesar !
d burst heaven ; threw him on my father ; told the most piteous tale of lear and him that
[to tamora] now , madam , are you prisoner to an emperor ; to him that for your honour and
enter hermione , as to her trial , paulina , and ladies silence !
an obedient hope , why have you suffer ' d me to be imprison ' d , kept in a
he did , my lord .
not that , i hope , which you receiv ' d of me .
my lady is within , sir .
before the tower gates enter the duke of gloucester , with his serving-men in blue coats gloucester .
then must your brother die .
stand still .
art thou proud yet ?
i love a ballad in print a-life , for then we are sure they are true .
; for ere thou canst report i will be there , the thunder of my cannon shall be heard .
but thanks be given , she ' s very well , and wants nothing i ' th ' world ;
i know not , madam .
thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land wherein thou liest in reputation sick ; and thou , too careless
one sand another not more resembles- that sweet rosy lad who died and was fidele .
[lies down and sleeps] puck .
windsor castle enter bolingbroke as king , percy , and other lords bolingbroke .
he is a banish ' d traitor .
and me- we have been down together in my sleep , unbuckling helms , fisting each other ' s throat-
here come the officers .
no , madam .
master , there ' s a bark of epidamnum that stays but till her owner comes aboard , and then
exeunt [flourish] act i .
on both sides more respect .
peruse them well .
no bigger than thy head ; and yet , incaged in so small a verge , the waste is no
i will sooner have a beard grow in the palm of my hand than he shall get one off his
come hither , mariana .
navarre had notice of your fair approach , and he and his competitors in oath were all address ' d
, should slip so grossly , both in the heat of blood and lack of temper ' d judgment afterward
he tells her something that makes her blood look out .
you are i ' th ' right , sir ; ' tis for my mistress .
of thy harmless life ?
calling my officers about me , in my branch ' d velvet gown , having come from a day-bed- where
noble marcius !
eyed , such seems your beauty still : three winters cold , have from the forests shook three summers '
what ' s that to thee ?
that never object pleasing in thine eye , that never touch well welcome to thy hand , that never meat
but , brother anthony-- ant .
makes fearful action with wrinkled brows , with nods , with rolling eyes .
now to all sense ' tis gross you love my son ; invention is asham ' d , against the
friends .
can you tell ?
masters of the people , your multiplying spawn how can he flatter- that ' s thousand to one good one-
would heart of man once think it ?
it is so ; truth is truth .
face , raught me his hand , and , with a feeble grip , says ' dear my lord ,
txt be happy that my arms are out of use ; my rest and negligence befriends thee now , but
in the sweet heavens to wash it white as snow ?
sound , trumpet !
thessalian bulls ; slow in pursuit , but match ' d in mouth like bells , each under each .
bow , stubborn knees ; and heart with strings of steel , be soft as sinews of the new-born babe
my desolation does begin to make a better life .
o , let the hours be short till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport !
why , that hour of fairy revel , in their so sacred paths he dares to tread in shape profane
but that stiff use of grief makes wild grief tame , my tongue should to thy ears not name my
marry , this is the short and the long of it : you have brought her into such a canaries
exeunt salerio and solanio lorenzo .
what say ' st thou , mistress quickly ?
i beseech your honour to hear me one single word .
katherine , i charge thee , tell these headstrong women what duty they do owe their lords and husbands .
come hither , leonato .
not fair ?
and give him half ; and , for thy vigour , bull-bearing milo his addition yield to sinewy ajax .
thou saw ' st them when i had prosperity .
it is my father ' s face , whom in this conflict i unwares have kill ' d .
well , the fuel is gone that maintain ' d that fire : that ' s all the riches i
tyb .
could not beget such different issues .
why , all these should be in the lantern ; for all these are in the moon .
of my contemplation ; but it is no matter ; thyself upon thyself !
i have done ill , of which i do accuse myself so sorely that i will joy no more .
this is a dear manakin to you , sir toby .
ago .
ay , therein clarence shall not want his part .
nothing i ; but god send every one their heart ' s desire !
methinks she should not use a long one for such a pyramus ; i hope she will be brief .
i would thou wert a man ' s tailor , that thou mightst mend him and make him fit to
lips is parcel of the mouth .
closing up of our most wretched eyes .
good laertes , if you desire to know the certainty of your dear father ' s death , is '
say , has our general met the enemy ?
now tell me how long you would have her , after you have possess ' d her .
who should i swear by ?
come , we ' ll in here , tarry for the mourners , and stay dinner .
and parted thus you and your argument .
if this be so , why blame you me to love you ?
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene viii .
drift .
[a march afar] widow .
is like me formerly .
the will , the will !
henry light .
i am as like to call thee so again , to spit on thee again , to spurn thee too
then linger not , my lord ; away , take horse .
have not sounded him , nor he deliver ' d his gracious pleasure any way therein .
a bohemian born ; but here nurs ' d up and bred .
i do not think thou canst ; for then thou wast not out three years old .
where is demetrius ?
say , where shall ' s lay him ?
, they threw on him great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair .
why hast thou gone so far to be unbent when thou hast ta ' en thy stand , th '
ay , lepidus .
time of peace , have no delight to pass away the time , unless to spy my shadow in the
have you any further trade with us ?
o ' ergrowth of some complexion , oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason , or by some
kiss the valleys first .
but what talk we of these traitorly rascals , whose miseries are to be smil ' d at , their
s love , to greet the tender princes .
no , sir ; yet oft , when blows have made me stay , i fled from words .
txt nought shall go ill ; the man shall have his mare again , and all shall be well .
now is it time to arm .
not life , but love in death cap .
well , well , my lords , respect him ; take him , and use him well , he '
before harfleur enter nym , bardolph , pistol , and boy bardolph .
' tis a fearful odds .
till all these mischiefs be return ' d again even in their throats that have committed them .
i am provided of a torch-bearer .
a man full of obstacles : it made me once restore a purse of gold that-by chance i found .
keep them asunder ; here comes doctor caius .
well ; they know their master loves to be aloft , and bears his thoughts above his falcon ' s
the injuries be justly weigh ' d that have on both sides pass ' d .
bitterly begin his fearful date with this night ' s revels and expire the term page _num_ complete works of
horns .
i gave the ring , and would conceive for what i gave the ring , and how unwillingly i left
employ thee , then , sweet virgin , for our good .
which reformation must be sudden too , my noble lords ; for those that tame wild horses pace ' em
the one a palate hath that needs will taste , though reason weep , and cry it is thy last
sure ones , then .
he hath no daughters , sir .
who was so firm , so constant , that this coil would not infect his reason ?
first , an it like you , the house is a respected house ; next , this is a respected
' that ' s done-as near as the extremest ends of parallels , as like vulcan and his wife ;
but sudden storms are short ; he tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes ; with eager feeding food doth
their silken parcels hurls .
yea , to the dead .
if not from hell , the devil is a niggard or has given all before , and he begins a
no seconds ?
so cowards fight when they can fly no further ; so doves do peck the falcon ' s piercing talons
nor thou altogether a wise man .
strike , you slave !
why , art not thou the man ?
go to my steward .
till then , adieu , and keep this holy kiss .
here is her father ' s house ; i ' ll call aloud .
go , carry sir john falstaff to the fleet ; take all his company along with him .
to his own hand , in ' s bedchamber .
those linen cheeks of thine are counselors to fear .
how , my young york ?
so the life that died with shame lives in death with glorious fame .
use no entreaty , for it is in vain .
thou art a fellow of a good respect ; thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it .
attendants cymbeline .
in .
enough .
may it please your grace- king .
d in rutland ' s blood- a handkerchief ; which , say to her , did drain the purple sap
then ' banishment ' is death misterm ' d .
what says lucentio to this shame of ours ?
nay , if he coy ' d to hear cominius speak , i ' ll keep at home .
one eye yet looks on thee ; but with my heart the other eye doth see .
' twas pretty , though a plague , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
what rests ?
' now ' a said so , i can tell whereupon .
fairy .
my virtue .
do so ; this jest shall cost me some expense .
of my lameness , and i straight will halt : against thy reasons making no defence .
txt shall see her chamber window ent ' red , even the night before her wedding day .
set footing here , she should have bought her dignities so dear .
my dear-lov ' d cousin , and my dearer lord ?
i have done you wrong ; but pardon ' t , as you are a gentleman .
elinor .
good uncle , hide such malice ; with such holiness can you do it ?
and for dissension , who preferreth peace more than i do , except i be provok ' d ?
and then i will proclaim young henry king .
' s brother , but no more like my father than i to hercules .
sons , peace !
stand in his face to contradict his claim .
it is cassandra .
depart .
hoods make not monks .
should be call ' d the sea- sham ' st thou not , knowing whence thou art extraught , to
the count melun , a noble lord of france , whose private with me of the dauphin ' s love
counsels of thy heart !
for , since the mortal and intestine jars ' twixt thy seditious countrymen and us , it hath in solemn
my name is roderigo .
where is my lord of warwick ?
what would your grace have me to do in this ?
this slave unto his honour has my lord ' s meat in him ; why should it thrive and turn
scorn at our solemnity this night .
dead , or asleep ?
god-a-mercy !
what most he should dislike seems pleasant to him ; what like , offensive .
i ' ll bring thee word straight how ' tis like to go .
[aside] their heads i mean .
excellent differences , of very soft society and great showing .
exit cranmer .
we ' ll bait thy bears to death , and manacle the berard in their chains , if thou dar
seek him , and bring him hither .
the middle of humanity thou never knewest , but the extremity of both ends .
ah , what an unkind hour is guilty of this lamentable chance !
write down thy mind , bewray thy meaning so , an if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe
how is ' t , laertes ?
good isis , hear me this prayer , though thou deny me a matter of more weight ; good isis
here stand i , lady- dart thy skill at me , bruise me with scorn , confound me with a
thou no more will weigh my eyelids down , and steep my senses in forgetfulness ?
well then , now have you consider ' d of my speeches ?
i nurs ' d her daughter that you talk ' d withal .
fields between dartford and blackheath enter york , and his army of irish , with drum and colours york .
to make judas hang himself .
it falls right .
the apprehension of the good gives but the greater feeling to the worse .
the sons of york , thy betters in their birth , shall be their father ' s bail ; and
i have bespoke supper to-morrow night in eastcheap .
the end crowns all ; and that old common arbitrator , time , will one day end it .
dar ' st ' thou resolve to kill a friend of mine ?
o wicked , wicked world !
vacant leaves thy mind ' s imprint will bear , and of this book , this learning mayst thou taste
, both for myself and them- but , chief of all , your safety , for the which myself and
i ' ll follow you , good master robert shallow .
fool , much marked of the melancholy jaques , stood on th ' extremest verge of the swift brook ,
no abuse , ned , i ' th ' world ; honest ned , none .
beauty-waning and distressed widow , even in the afternoon of her best days , made prize and purchase of his
the doctor is well money ' d , and his friends potent at court ; he , none but he
sir , i cannot tell ; we must proceed as we do find the people .
fresh streams meet in one salt sea , as many lines close in the dial ' s centre ; so
not charles , the duke ' s wrestler , here to speak with me ?
you must meet my master , to countenance my mistress .
i have heard the cock , that is the trumpet to the morn , doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding
rise , marcus , rise ; the dismal ' st day is this that e ' er i saw ,
by what rule , sir ?
by my faith , sir , but it is ; never anybody saw it but his lackey .
conference .
but margaret was in some fault for this , although against her will , as it appears in the true
thee , thou spend ' st such high-day wit in praising him .
be in this your cousin ' s death .
this from thee will i to mine leave as ' tis left to me .
let them break your backs with burdens , take your houses over your heads , ravish your wives and daughters
come , unbutton here .
no , by the flame of yonder glorious heaven , he shall not carry him ; i ' ll be
and ladies too , they will not let me have all the fool to myself ; they ' ll be
i hope all will be well .
far before them .
' sweet , good night !
no ; publius and sempronius , you must do it ; ' tis you must dig with mattock and with
my better parts are all thrown down ; and that which here stands up is but a quintain , a
ere you flout old ends any further , examine your conscience .
wives ; and then give them great meals of beef and iron and steel ; page _num_ complete works of
nay , but understand me .
[exit malvolio] now you see , sir , how your fooling grows old , and people dislike it .
this is i , hamlet the dane .
there is our commission , from which we would not have you warp .
i beseech your highness to forgive , although my body pay the price of it .
brother , i advise you to the best .
adieu !
what think ' st thou ?
the house will be the quieter .
thou hast undone our mother .
the burden of lean and wasteful learning , the other knowing no burden of heavy tedious penury .
company .
leonato ' s orchard .
i pray you let me speak with you .
pawn ' d his horses to mine host of the garter .
with heigh !
description cannot suit itself in words to demonstrate the life of such a battle in life so lifeless as it
come you to make confession to this father ?
look that you bind them fast .
is there any cause in nature that makes these hard hearts ?
demetrius loves your fair .
gods me , my horse !
' spirit .
there is a gentlewoman in this town , her husband ' s name is ford .
[march afar off , and shot within .
lying tongue both numbers , i would say ' thou liest ' unto thee with a voice as free as
say ' amen .
thymus .
what ' s thy name ?
' a thing devised by the enemy .
looks , she loved them most .
' debt ' - d , e , b , t , not d , e , t .
pray you come near .
upon this cursed earth .
[beatrice advances from the arbour .
yes , bring me word , boy , if thy lord look well , for he went sickly forth ;
my boys , there was our error .
my supreme crown of grief !
are you not signior benedick ?
if not , the end of life cancels all bands , and i will die a hundred thousand deaths ere
i had it from my father .
heavy in the substance , or the division of the twentieth part of one poor scruple ; nay , if
but jove was never slain , as thou shalt be .
an flying , through a strait lane- the enemy , full-hearted , lolling the tongue with slaught ' ring ,
am glad to hear it .
willingly , let him make a carbonado of me .
whither i must , i must ; and to conclude , this evening must i leave you , gentle kate
surplus of your grace , which never my life may last to answer .
a man may , if he were of a fearful heart , stagger in this attempt ; for here we
, let him choose out of my files , his projects to accomplish , my best and freshest men ;
that rebellion had met ill luck ?
' hic ibat ' as i told you before- ' simois ' i am lucentio- ' hic est ' son
enter benedick and margaret [meeting] .
your foot .
o , doubt not that !
which in my bosom ' s shop is hanging still , that hath his windows glazed with thine eyes :
chastisement ?
on his command .
that i do know .
great king may kindly say our duties did his welcome pay .
all ' s well , sir ; take my pow ' r i ' th ' court for yours .
next we meet .
do themselves forsake , and die as fast as they see others grow , and nothing ' gainst time '
weeds of athens he doth wear : this is he , my master said , despised the athenian maid ;
nev ' r speak or think that timon ' s fortunes ' mong his friends can sink .
words sweetly plac ' d and modestly directed .
bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud ; else would i tear the cave where echo lies , and
o anything , of nothing first create !
i will say so .
the turk with a most mighty preparation makes for cyprus .
if ' t be summer news , smile to ' t before ; if winterly , thou need ' st
but one fiend at a time , i ' ll fight their legions o ' er .
i pray thee , out with ' t ; and place it for her chief virtue .
swell ' st thou , proud heart ?
after me .
go you before , and i will follow you .
exeunt reignier and margaret page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
make him by inch-meal a disease !
the very dice obey him ; and in our sports my better cunning faints under his chance .
o , good my lord , tax not so bad a voice to slander music any more than once .
hold .
crier .
villainy , villainy , villainy !
at hallowmas .
i grieve to hear what torments you endur ' d ; but we will be reveng ' d sufficiently .
coming with a full intent to dash our late decree in parliament touching king henry ' s oath and your
others personal use only , and ( _num_ ) are not distributed or used page _num_ complete works of william
tush , that ' s a wooden thing !
so out went the candle , and we were left darkling .
we mourn in black ; why mourn we not in blood ?
call claudio and some other of my men , i ' ll have them sleep on cushions in my tent
exeunt all but iago and roderigo .
hail to your lordship !
then for the place where ?
herald , away ; and throughout every town page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, not to sow ' em .
[nurse] calls within .
o , signieur dew should be a gentleman .
norfolk , he to be earl marshal .
mine host pistol , you must come to my master ; and your hostess- he is very sick , and
- by-and-by !
sovereign whom they must obey ?
then , executioner , unsheathe thy sword .
for this , be sure , to-night thou shalt have cramps , side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up ;
me flavius first .
what , eros , eros !
ere it be demanded- as like enough it will- i ' ld have it copied .
txt i kill ' d not thee with half so good a will .
_num_ how like a winter hath my absence been from thee , the pleasure of the fleeting year !
i left them all in health .
said he not so ?
was thy ' will ' , and will thy soul knows is admitted there , thus far for love ,
who ' s born that day when i forget to send to antony shall die a beggar .
villain , thy father was a plasterer ; and thou thyself a shearman , art thou not ?
let not your ears despise my tongue forever , which shall possess them with the heaviest sound that ever yet
' item : she hath no teeth .
her sight did ravish , but her grace in speech , her words y-clad with wisdom ' s majesty ,
exeunt all but imogen imogen .
ay , or very falsely pocket up his report .
well , i will love , write , sigh , pray , sue , and groan : some men must
why , this is a certificate .
paper .
so i am , to let him live .
we in negligent danger .
to th ' rock , to th ' rock , with him !
are you not ?
txt buttress , nor coign of vantage , but this bird hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle ;
this is sure fidele .
was this fair paper , this most goodly book , made to write " whore " upon ?
prithee , virgilia , turn thy solemness out o ' door and go along with us .
one of thy eyes and thy cheek ' s side struck off !
by chance .
he hath intent his wonted followers shall all be very well provided for ; but all are banish ' d
pluck down benches .
how accurs ' d in being so blest !
if you ' ll sit down , i ' ll bear your logs the while ; pray give me that
i give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange .
txt but yet , indeed , the smaller is his daughter ; the other is daughter to the banish '
[aside] but when the fox hath once got in his nose , he ' ll soon find means to make
there might have been , but that my master rather play ' d than fought , and had no help
) here on his manly breast .
there he is .
do you speak in the sick tune ?
griffith , farewell .
but as a discontented friend , grief-shot with his unkindness ?
player .
a proper man .
i was a poor groom of thy stable , king , when thou wert king ; who , travelling towards
ah , whoreson caterpillars !
my father ' s spirit- in arms ?
but jealous for they are jealous .
for he is , sure , i ' th ' island .
th ' offence is holy that she hath committed ; and this deceit loses the name of craft , of
and i myself know well how troublesome it sat upon my head : to thee it shall descend with better
no , heaven forfend !
were i my father , coz , would i do this ?
before the capitol ; the senate sitting above .
let them be welcome then ; we are prepar ' d .
but if he will not yield , rebuke and dread correction wait on us , and they shall do their
to stand .
' the humour of it , ' quoth ' a !
] enter lear , with cordelia [dead] in his arms , [edgar , captain , and others following] .
exit pisanio a sly and constant knave , not to be shak ' d ; the agent for his master
then which way shall i find revenge ' s cave ?
wherefore rejoice ?
my will is something sorted with his wish .
how is that ?
god and to my gracious king ; and i do think- or else this brain of mine hunts not the
the wiser by your answer .
volumnia , virgilia .
arms ?
who knocks ?
txt and tell me how you would bestow yourself .
and , proteus , we dare trust you in this kind , because we know , on valentine ' s
sir john , sir john , i am well acquainted with your manner of wrenching the true cause the false
lady , i am not well ; else i should answer from a full-flowing stomach .
you may not , my lord , despise her gentle suit .
crave pardon of your majesty .
; forgive them what they have committed here , and let them be recall ' d from their exile :
i do but partly know , sir ; it is music in parts .
two thousand ducats by the year of land !
a lawn before the duke ' s palace enter rosalind and celia celia .
the poorest service is repaid with thanks ; and so shall mine , before you touch the meat .
aediles , seize him .
they have tied me to a stake ; i cannot fly , but bear-like i must fight the course .
immediately he was upon his knee , that all the court admir ' d him for submission .
slander any moment leisure as to give words or talk with the lord hamlet .
orange , and something of that jealous complexion .
o god , thy arm was here !
[to ferdinand] come , follow .
come , come , a hand from either .
disposition sticks me at heart .
o all you gods !
' tis most true ; and he beseech ' d me to entreat your majesties to hear and see the
to hermia , melted as the snow , seems to me now as the remembrance of an idle gaud which
our interpreter does it well .
our maladies unseen , we sicken to shun sickness when we purge .
dowlas , filthy dowlas !
well-found successes to report a little of that worthy work perform ' d by caius marcius coriolanus ; whom we
volumnia .
is thy name william ?
five talents is his debt ; his means most short , his creditors most strait .
sweet mistress weeps when she sees me work , and says such baseness had never like executor .
lady , give me your hand ; and , as we walk , to our own selves bend we our
at another king richard .
will may stand with ours , this day to be conjoin ' d in the state of honourable marriage ;
come , bring your luggage nobly on your back .
why , this it is to be a peevish girl that flies her fortune when it follows her .
why , farewell , portia .
look in thy last work , where thou hast feign ' d him a worthy fellow .
have you beheld , or have you read or heard , or could you think ?
her tongue will not obey her heart , nor can her heart inform her tongue- the swan ' s down
exit perdita .
i will therefore tarry in despite of the flesh and the blood .
helen , it is not so .
, make moan ; his eyes were green as leeks .
becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms before thy sovereign and thy lawful king ?
let a guard attend us through the city .
i noted her not , but i look ' d on her .
to feed my innocent people .
and wakes it now , to look so green and pale at what it did so freely ?
urge it no more on height of our displeasure .
or shall we play the wantons with our woes and make some pretty match with shedding tears ?
good morrow , lord , good morrow .
warwick .
this is a thing which you might from relation likewise reap , being , as it is , much spoke
would you create me new ?
come hither , boy ; come , come , come , and learn of us to melt in showers .
, and take in toryne ?
let ' s make us medicines of our great revenge , to cure this deadly grief .
look , how our partner ' s rapt .
[giving a crown] poins .
here i hold your hand ; here my cousin ' s .
, not to come near our person by ten mile .
' tis true ; for friar lawrence met them both as he in penance wander ' d through the forest
' aunchient wars , upon my particular knowledge of his directions .
womanly persuasion .
thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it .
do ye make an ale-house of my lady ' s house , that ye squeak out your coziers ' catches
let me see : what am i to buy for our sheep-shearing feast ?
what strength and nature i am not yet instructed .
but both of you were vow ' d duke humphrey ' s foes ; and you , forsooth , had
but i pray you , who is his companion ?
is claudio thine enemy ?
, speaker of the epilogue scene : england induction induction .
' thus most invectively he pierceth through the body of the country , city , court , yea , and
stew ' d prunes .
and here i swear by all the roman gods- sith priest and holy water are so near , and tapers
in his secret doom , out of my blood he ' ll breed revengement and a scourge for me ;
when we join in league i am a lamb ; but if you brave the moor , the chafed boar
i do not much dislike the matter , but the manner of his speech ; for ' t cannot be
i have a ship laden with gold ; take that ; divide it .
i never wish ' d to see you sorry ; now i trust i shall .
setting my knighthood and my soldiership aside , i had lied in my throat if i had said so .
yes , and his ill conditions ; and in despite of all , dies for him .
why dost thou say king richard is depos ' d ?
enter leonato , his brother [antonio] , and the sexton .
you please .
how much more praise deserved thy beauty ' s use , if thou couldst answer ' this fair child of
i ' ll to her .
sweet lady , let me rake it from the earth .
and speak ' t again my lord .
i thank my beauty i am fair that shoot , and thereupon thou speak ' st the fairest shoot .
believe me , i am passing light in spirit .
you do not counsel well .
hatch ' d to the woeful time .
[sings] sir toby , there you lie .
to-morrow , sir , i wrestle for my credit ; and he that escapes me without some broken limb shall
a mellifluous voice , as i am true knight .
signior antonio commends him to you .
no marrying ' mong his subjects ?
, the moor may unfold me to him ; there stand i in much peril .
, no more stockings than legs , nor no more shoes than feet- nay , sometime more feet than shoes
he hath much land , and fertile .
enter pistol , bardolph , and page pistol .
they saw we had a purpose of defence .
tripping after drums , their thimbles into armed gauntlets change , their needles to lances , and their gentle hearts
up with my tent !
where .
to th ' wars !
not dream , or be not frantic- as i do trust i am not- then , dear uncle , never
why , he ' s able to lead her a coranto .
and this it was , for other means was none : the sailors sought for safety by our boat ,
he ' s now in florence .
enter sir andrew , sir toby , and fabian aguecheek .
people than he hath hereto priz ' d them at .
chaste mistress the moon , under whose countenance we steal .
the church !
good cousin , give me audience for a while .
and what expense by th ' hour seems to flow from him !
saw ' st thou him enter at the abbey here ?
let it alone .
say we must not so stain our judgment , or corrupt our hope , to prostitute our past-cure malady to
or robbery , call it what you will , shook down my mellow hangings , nay , my leaves ,
for what says quinapalus ?
txt which i have given to you ?
laissez , mon seigneur , laissez , laissez !
bid them have patience ; she shall come anon .
o thou othello , that wert once so good , fall ' n in the practice of a damned slave
there is a litter ready ; lay him in ' t and drive towards dover , friend , where thou
' twould not become him : his own ' s better .
edward ' s unhappy sons do bid thee flourish .
all the preparation overthrown .
cheerful disposition .
; me seemeth , then , it is no policy- respecting what a rancorous mind he bears , page _num_
the nature of it ?
mad and did forsake her .
looks upon the ground , then lays his finger on his temple ; straight springs out into fast gait ;
second drawer .
thy state of law is bondslave to the law ; and thou- king richard .
enter , with drum and colors , malcolm , old siward , ross , the other thanes , and soldiers
saucy lictors will catch at us like strumpets , and scald rhymers ballad us out o ' tune ; the
i have wounds to show you , which shall be yours in private .
second senator .
who would not wish to be from wealth exempt , since riches point to misery and contempt ?
good mother , do not marry me to yond fool .
] scene v .
yea , there thou mak ' st me sad , and mak ' st me sin in envy that my
go bear this letter to lord john of lancaster , to my brother john ; this to my lord of
ay , sir ; whom i thank heaven , is an honest woman- escalus .
here ' s cassio hurt by villains .
now , good morrow , friends .
i do relent ; what would thou more of man ?
heaven forgive me !
dispatch ; the limit of your lives is out .
, pretending in her discoveries of dishonour ; in few , bestow ' d her on her own lamentation ,
catch them .
the drums demurely wake the sleepers .
love is a smoke rais ' d with the fume of sighs ; being purg ' d , a fire
' the houses he makes lasts till doomsday .
and so to the lie circumstantial and the lie direct .
i ' th ' commonwealth i would by contraries execute all things ; for no kind of traffic would i
believe me , cousin gloucester , had not your man put up the fowl so suddenly , we had had
but i would be loath to fall into my dreams again .
therefore i lie with her , and she with me , and in our faults by lies we flattered be
he says that he hath taken them down again , for the man must not be hang ' d till
death and damnation !
' afternoon .
my report is just and full of truth .
and who sits here that is not richard ' s subject ?
, till the prince came , who parted either part .
to be styl ' d the under-hangman of his kingdom , and hated for being preferr ' d so well
[reads the letter] ' upon his many protestations to marry me when his wife was dead , i blush to
your court , the gods themselves , wotting no more than i , are ignorant .
what , is the king encamp ' d ?
i prithee let ' s be provided to show them entertainment .
a many of your horsemen peer and gallop o ' er the field .
no trumpet answers .
exit cressida .
behold , the earth hath roots ; within this mile break forth a hundred springs ; the oaks bear mast
o serpent heart , hid with a flow ' ring face !
my news shall be the fruit to that great feast .
do you two know how you are censured here in the city- i mean of us o ' th '
touchstone .
i do not care whether you do or no .
private and domestic quarrel , in night , and on the court and guard of safety !
twixt your throne and his measur ' d , to look upon you ; whom he loves , he bade
graves only be men ' s works and death their gain !
gentlemen that mean to see the tuscan service , freely have they leave to stand on either part .
when thou wilt inflame , how coldly those impediments stand forth , of wealth , of filial fear , law
his horses are bred better ; for , besides that they are fair with their feeding , they are taught
say ' the brave antony .
, fond of no second brood , has cluck ' d thee to the wars , and safely home loaden
we may think her ripe to be a bride .
good master ford , be contented ; you wrong yourself too much .
i will answer you with gait and entrance .
itself till it hath travell ' d , and is mirror ' d there where it may see itself .
is all to nought , and his quails ever beat mine , inhoop ' d , at odds .
tables set out ; servants attending .
up to the breach , you dogs !
should not kill .
fie , how my bones ache !
thy asses are gone about ' em .
then to the point .
and snail-pac ' d beggary .
do you know where we may apprehend her and the moor ?
ne ' er ask me what raiment i ' ll wear , for i have no more doublets than backs
so to them both .
' small show of man was yet upon his chin ; his phoenix down began but to appear , like
most heartily to pray for her .
so is he mine , and in such bloody distance that every minute of his being thrusts against my near
my lord , you pass not here .
conception is a blessing , but not as your daughter may conceive .
when he stands where i am and sees you there .
, but to wed it ; when the bravest questant shrinks , find what you seek , that fame may
windsor park enter sir hugh evans like a satyr , with others as fairies evans .
and writers say , as the most forward bud is eaten by the canker ere it blow , even so
pay the sum that may deliver me .
cupid ' s butt-shaft is too hard for hercules ' club , and therefore too much odds for a spaniard
fare you well , falstaff .
she was of carthage , not of tunis .
[putting a paper crown on his head] ay , marry , sir , now looks he like a king !
' d those blessed feet which fourteen hundred years ago were nail ' d for our advantage on the bitter
till then , enough .
and then we may deliver our supplications in the quill .
o times i laughed him out of patience ; and that night i laugh ' d him into patience ;
besides , her intercession chaf ' d him so , when she for thy repeal was suppliant , that to
so thrive my soul- jul .
receive it friendly ; but from this time forth i wear it as your enemy .
nay , faith , let not me play a woman ; i have a beard coming .
kill the poys and the luggage !
some call him autolycus .
out , devil !
had i but died an hour before this chance , i had lived a blessed time , for from this
affliction of his love , or no , that thus he suffers for .
if thou dost marry , i ' ll give thee this plague for thy dowry : be thou as chaste
right true it is your son lucentio here doth love my daughter , and she loveth him , or both
away , slight man !
hecate .
i think it be two o ' clock .
lord say , the traitors hate thee ; therefore away with us to killingworth .
right .
to see the world .
our determin ' d jest ?
your companies .
' a was the very genius of famine ; yet lecherous as a monkey , and the whores call '
is ebony like her ?
i ' ll be an auditor ; an actor too perhaps , if i see cause .
a great coil to-night .
it thence into the raging sea .
pray you , gentlemen- i have felt so many quirks of joy and grief that the first face of neither
by her that now thou tirest on , how thy memory will then be pang ' d by me .
he did me kindness , sir ; drew on my side ; but in conclusion put strange speech upon me
are they not malefactors ?
bardolph !
[takes the child from the nurse , and draws] stay , murderous villains , will you kill your brother !
i sent thee sixpence for thy leman ; hadst it ?
so the gods preserve thee !
comment appelez-vous la main en anglais ?
if he do resist , subdue him at his peril .
keep word , lysander ; we must starve our sight from lovers ' food till morrow deep midnight .
thy substance , valued at the highest rate , cannot amount unto a hundred marks ; therefore by law thou
hubert , away with him ; imprison him ; and on that day at noon whereon he says i shall
you knew , none so well , none so well as you , of my daughter ' s flight .
no , it is casca , one incorporate to our attempts .
my lord your son drew on my master .
peace be with you , sir .
geese , villain ?
will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher by the ears ?
happily you something know ; yet i believe there comes no countermand ; no such example have we .
hold , take these keys and fetch more spices , nurse .
marry , presently .
to return .
may we do so ?
no , truly , sir ; not a penny .
why , good sir ?
saint albans alarums to the battle .
my lords , i care not-so much i am happy above a number-if my actions were tried by ev '
, and making practis ' d smiles as in a looking-glass ; and then to sigh , as ' twere
[embrace , and part several ways] o the fierce wretchedness that glory brings us !
to thee i do commend my watchful soul ere i let fall the windows of mine eyes .
was copper !
service , none ; contract , succession , bourn , bound of land , tilth , vineyard , none ;
but it must grieve young pyrrhus now at home , when fame shall in our island sound her trump ,
caitiff that do hold him to ' t ; and though i kill him not , i am the cause
want nothing that my house affords .
[to page] will you go with us to behold it ?
txt after my seeming .
he doth , for he did bid antonio send word to you he would be there tomorrow .
and when a woman woos , what woman ' s son , will sourly leave her till he have prevailed
[duke frederick goes apart] le beau .
every time serves for the matter that is then born in ' t .
, that ever govern ' d frenzy .
who is ' t can read a woman ?
or at the least , so long as brain and heart have faculty by nature to subsist , till each
a short alarum within second lord .
come , away !
that ' s somewhat sudden .
she ' s dead too , our sovereign .
where did you dwell when i was king of england ?
i do not know what is more cordial .
first guard .
an ' a speak anything against me , i ' ll take him down , an ' a were lustier
and thorough this distemperature we see the seasons alter : hoary-headed frosts fall in the fresh lap of the crimson
i repent my part thereof that i have done to her .
my lord , there was no such stuff in my thoughts .
he desires you , for love ' s sake , to make no more noise with it .
prick him .
; but he , like you , would not have been so stern .
had you your letters from your wife , my lord ?
what penny hath rome borne , what men provided , what munition sent , to underprop this action ?
say i love brutus and i honor him ; say i fear ' d caesar , honor ' d him
marry , this , sir , is proclaim ' d through all our host , that hector , by the
' ll deliver you of your great danger .
master shallow , my lord shallow , be what thou wilt- i am fortune ' s steward .
' tween man and man they weigh not every stamp ; though light , take pieces for the figure '
there cannot be a pinch in death more sharp than this is .
these words hereafter thy tormentors be !
our jovial star reign ' d at his birth , and in our temple was he married .
see ' t shalt thou never .
i will die and leave him all .
with these shreds they vented their complainings ; which being answer ' d , and a petition granted them- a
why , that ' s well said ; a good heart ' s worth gold .
me to think of .
her silent walks .
faith , sirrah , an you ' ll not knock i ' ll ring it ; i ' ll try
endless night ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exeunt pillagers and hark , what noise the general makes !
not so , sir ; under correction , sir , i hope it is not so .
well , peace be with you !
if he were proud .
- him did you leave- second to none , unseconded by you- to look upon the hideous god of war
txt which i will add to you , the liver , heart , and brain , of britain , by
- to most ignoble stooping .
marry , bachelor , her mother is the lady of the house .
perfect conscience to quit him with this arm ?
all this from my remembrance brutish wrath page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
in lieu whereof , i pray you , bear me hence from forth the noise and rumour of the field
so delicate with her needle , an admirable musician .
where is this rash and most unfortunate man ?
i am a man more sinn ' d against than sinning .
shall i play my freedom at tray-trip , and become thy bond-slave ?
near or far off , well won is still well shot ; and i am i , howe ' er
you cast th ' event of war , my noble lord , and summ ' d the account of chance
my clamours .
it from their soul ; though perils did abound as thick as thought could make ' em , and appear
such dignity as we greet modern friends withal ; and say some nobler token i have kept apart for livia
fare thee well at once .
my wretched reign .
none , i protest ; but i ' ll give you a pottle of burnt sack to give me recourse
but you , sir thurio , are not sharp enough ; you must lay lime to tangle her desires by
i have spoke the least .
is the king stirring , worthy thane ?
[a short alarum ; then enter the town with soldiers] o ' ertake me if thou canst ; i scorn
yes , i know thee to be signior lucentio .
, we come to be informed by yourselves what the conditions of that league must be .
why does he ask him of me ?
it is so too .
knew you , might reproach your life , and choke your good to come .
the king himself is rode to view their battle .
exeunt thieves page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
while we pursu ' d the horsemen of the north , he slily stole away and left his men ;
bridal .
yes ; but that i am prevented , i should have begg ' d i might have been employ '
where you shall have such receiving as shall become your highness ; where you may enjoy your mistress , from
thou desperate pilot , now at once run on the dashing rocks thy seasick weary bark !
spread , davy , spread , davy ; well said , davy .
enter gloucester with a torch .
i am not drunk now ; i can stand well enough , and i speak well enough .
too well what love women to men may owe .
sicilia cannot show himself overkind to bohemia .
some say that though she appear honest to me , yet in other places she enlargeth her mirth so far
if you do meet horatio and marcellus , the rivals of my watch , bid them make haste .
yes , he ' ll fight indifferent well .
as merry as crickets , my lad .
does praise me grieves me .
lend me your horn to make one , and i will whip about your infamy circum circa- a gig of
it must be se offendendo ; it cannot be else .
comes the king forth , i pray you ?
to the very heart of loss .
spied an ancient angel coming down the hill will serve the turn .
, as , liking of the lady ' s virtuous gifts , her beauty , and the value of her
by heaven , i ' ll make a ghost of him that lets me !
walk before toward the sea-side ; go on the right-hand ; i will but look upon the hedge , and
' tis york that hath more reason for his death .
_num_ when i do count the clock that tells the time , and see the brave day sunk in hideous
so please your lordship , none .
why , well ; never so truly happy , my good cromwell .
she hath not given so many good words breath page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
us to our trenches .
we have therefore odds .
in others ' works thou dost but mend the style , and arts with thy sweet graces graced be .
by my halidom , i was fast asleep .
s sacred blood , one flourishing branch of his most royal root , is crack ' d , and all
twenty .
i have this while with leaden thoughts been press ' d ; but i shall in a more continuate time
that sunders him from thence , saying he ' ll lade it dry to have his way- so do i
' tis gone and will not answer .
pleas ' d your highness to overbear it ; and we are all well pleas ' d , since all
' tis the right ring , by heav ' n .
her eye must be fed ; and what delight shall she have to look on the devil ?
nay , rather , wilt thou draw thy forces hence , confess who set thee up and pluck ' d
these trumpets , flutes !
my husband .
' and by the operation of the second cup draws him on the drawer , when indeed there is no
peace , impudent and shameless warwick , proud setter up and puller down of kings !
the prince and claudio promis ' d by this hour to visit me .
, and , like a doting mallard , leaving the fight in height , flies after her .
a king of beasts , indeed !
i ' th ' morning .
mine eyes were not in fault , for she was beautiful ; mine ears , that heard her flattery ;
the thing it loves .
if i be his cuckold , he ' s my drudge .
the good and loyal , destroying them for wealth .
prime duke , being so reputed in dignity , and for the liberal arts without a parallel , those being
madness in great ones must not unwatch ' d go .
o churl !
in the brain , but with the motion of all elements courses as swift as thought in every power ,
infirmity doth still neglect all office whereto our health is bound .
welcome is banishment ; welcome were my death .
tell you you do not understand yourself so clearly as it behooves my daughter and your honour .
mutually participate , did minister unto the appetite and affection common of the whole body .
be not a dream i see and hear .
of hers .
i ' ll after .
; in their hearts it lies ; they have the plague , and caught it of your eyes .
i grant , sweet love , that i did love a lady ; but she is dead .
crime , o carve not with thy hours my love ' s fair brow , nor draw no lines there
will foin like any devil ; he will spare neither man , woman , nor child .
it may be you have mistaken him , my lord .
had i but time (as this fell sergeant , death , is strict in his arrest) o , i could
ay , and the very parings of our nails shall pitch a field when we are dead .
ay ; the most peerless piece of earth , i think , that e ' er the sun shone bright
comment appelez-vous le col ?
if thou canst love me for this , take me ; if not , to say to thee that i
by the mass , i was about to say something !
humbly i thank your lordship .
come , let ' s not weep .
not lie-but will deserve , for virtue and true beauty of the soul , for honesty and decent carriage ,
my current runs , or else dries up ; to be discarded thence !
didst thou at first , to flatter us withal , make us partakers of a little gain that now our
pompey the great !
as if i had swallow ' d snowballs for pills to cool the reins .
brought forth .
am i but three inches ?
but you , my lord , were glad to be employ ' d , to show how quaint an orator
himself .
is all our travail turn ' d to this effect ?
happy are they that hear their detractions and can put them to mending .
fear not your advancements ; i will be the man yet that shall make you great .
i not free .
octavius , lead your battle softly on , upon the left hand of the even field .
txt like a proud river peering o ' er his bounds ?
there is aufidius .
thy husband knew it all .
i will marry her , sir , at your request ; but if there be no great love in the
of defence are fill ' d ; which of a weak and niggardly projection doth like a miser spoil his
our italy shines o ' er with civil swords : sextus pompeius makes his approaches to the port of rome
no more than my residing here at rome might be to you in egypt .
then further : all dissembling set aside , tell me for truth the measure of his love unto our sister
go , clear thy crystals .
there is no shuffling ; there the action lies in his true nature , and we ourselves compell ' d
o , he is as tedious as a tired horse , a railing wife ; worse than a smoky house
good master parson , be so good as read me this letter ; it was given me by costard ,
tell you what hath proceeded worthy note today .
wert thou the son of jupiter , and no more but what thou art besides , thou wert too base
rosaline , by good hap .
a benefit .
hear me , dear lady : i have sworn an oath- princess of france .
the king hath dispossess ' d himself of us .
txt who like not in their judgment , but their eyes ; and where ' tis so , th '
where lies thy grief , o , tell me , good dumain ?
i thank you for your pains ; spend this for me .
scots , douglas , that runs a-horseback up a hill perpendicular- prince .
o dear phebe , if ever- as that ever may be near- you meet in some fresh cheek the power
st- aguecheek .
yond light is not daylight ; i know it , i .
you are a churchman , or , i ' ll tell you , cardinal , i should judge now unhappily
then , since the heavens have shap ' d my body so , let hell make crook ' d my
why , therefore , fire ; for i have caught extreme cold .
it was my will and grant ; and for this once my will shall stand for law .
no more of drowning , do you hear ?
thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them and fetch shall echoes from the hollow earth .
wrong ; law cannot give my child his kingdom here , for he that holds his kingdom holds the law
exit [servingman] .
i see , lady , the gentleman is not in your books .
wit about me , drew .
' the first row of the pious chanson will show you more ; for look where my abridgment comes .
no ; so it may prove an argument of laughter to th ' rest , and i ' mongst lords
enter pistol how now , pistol ?
hand , they presently amend .
new .
tell him he shall not speak with me .
who ' s there , besides foul weather ?
born in verona , old antonio ' s son .
we ' ll put the matter to the present push .
o my good lord !
txt and answer me declin ' d , sword against sword , ourselves alone .
now , by saint george , i am too young for you .
and in good time you gave it !
unlawfully ?
will you have me , lady ?
d and lost , why , then we rack the value , then we find the virtue that possession would
when gods have hot backs what shall poor men do ?
ay , what ' s o ' clock ?
he will divorce you , or put upon you what restraint and grievance the law , with all his might
i am a soldier , i , older in practice , abler than yourself to make conditions .
a heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue .
txt harsh , featureless , and rude , barrenly perish : look whom she best endowed , she gave thee
these five days have i hid me in these woods and durst not peep out , for all the country
coursers for cousins , and gennets for germans .
how he left her with the horse upon her , how he beat me because her horse stumbled , how
i would i had any drum of the enemy ' s ; i would swear i recover ' d it
, reneges all temper , and is become the bellows and the fan to cool a gipsy ' s lust
even now i curse the day- and yet , i think , few come within the compass of my curse-
look , here she comes .
my gracious lord , that which i would discover the law of friendship bids me to conceal ; but ,
she hath , and in that sparing makes huge waste ; for beauty , starv ' d with her severity
o , do not do your cousin such a wrong !
romans , friends , followers , favourers of my right , if ever bassianus , caesar ' s son ,
their battles are at hand ; they mean to warn us at philippi here , answering before we do demand
s top , and dallies with the wind , and scorns the sun .
take heed o ' th ' foul fiend ; obey thy parents : keep thy word justly ; swear not
davy , davy , davy , davy ; let me see , davy ; let me see , davy ;
d an eye of death , trembling even at the name of mortimer .
stand here by me , master robert shallow ; i will make the king do you grace .
yet who would have thought the old man to have had so much blood in him ?
stay , tybalt , stay !
, busied in his majesty , surveys the singing masons building roofs of gold , the civil citizens kneading up
of the clock .
go to ; say no more .
how does pretty mistress anne ?
well fought ; we are come off like romans , neither foolish in our stands nor cowardly in retire .
my dearest coz , i pray you , school yourself .
what should he say , but as the cardinal ?
o plague and madness !
the yellows , past cure of the fives , stark spoil ' d with the staggers , begnawn with the
why mak ' st thou it so strange ?
scurvy ones .
, when i shall think or phoebus ' steeds are founder ' d or night kept chain ' d below
for i am marching hence .
shut your mouth , dame , or with this paper shall i stop it .
turn him to any cause of policy , the gordian knot of it he will unloose , familiar as his
d , yet our old love had a particular force , and made us speak like friends .
if thou deniest it twenty times , thou liest ; and i will turn thy falsehood to thy heart ,
o cleopatra !
have well deserv ' d ten times as much as i have said you did .
play , sirs .
conveyers are you all , that rise thus nimbly by a true king ' s fall .
what ring was yours , i pray you ?
once , as a german from the waist downward , all slops , and a spaniard from the hip upward
the cat is gray .
speak sad brow and true maid .
prepare you , generals .
' tis most true .
such a foe , good heavens !
this is the tragic tale of philomel and treats of tereus ' treason and his rape ; and rape ,
of your profession ?
your servant , and costard .
i am old , i am old .
thou knowest the mask of night is on my face ; else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek for
a trial , come .
complain .
, messengers , watchmen , etc .
you seem to me as dian in her orb , as chaste as is the bud ere it be blown
, sent from below to join with him and right his heinous wrongs .
give me your favor ; my dull brain was wrought with things forgotten .
the treasury of everlasting joy !
exit clown duke .
, kindred , fame !
it ever fair .
welkin blush , when english measure backward their own ground in faint retire .
a jewel , lock ' d into the woefull ' st cask that ever did contain a thing of worth
farewell , brother !
let me see : ' who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire .
marry , would the word ' farewell ' have length ' ned hours and added years to his short banishment
thou art not by mine eye , lysander , found ; mine ear , i thank it , brought me
thou gaoler , thou , i am thy prisoner .
the present peace and quietness of the people , which before were in wild hurry , here do make his
yes , presently : therefore confess thee freely of thy sin , for to deny each article with oath cannot
notwithstanding , use your pleasure ; if your love do not persuade you to come , let not my letter
for some , untucked , descended her sheaved hat , hanging her pale and pined cheek beside ; some in
no , faith , young troilus ; doff thy harness , youth ; i am to-day i ' th '
further i will not flatter you , my lord , that all i see in you is worthy love ,
now by saint paul i swear i will not dine until i see the same .
faith , if ' a be not rotten before ' a die (as we have many pocky corses now-a-days that
let ' t alone , and do the murder first .
enter timon and his train , with alcibiades timon .
[stabbing him] york .
o my dear silvia !
but that you take what doth to you belong , it were a fault to snatch words from my tongue
ten thousand souls to heaven or hell ; and this fell tempest shall not cease to rage until the golden
five thousand crowns , my lord .
come ; i ' ll fill your grave up .
get you hence , sirrah ; saucy fellow , hence !
through all thy veins shall run a cold and drowsy humour ; for no pulse shall keep his native progress
oscorbidulchos volivorco .
which craves the instant use .
not here in presence .
yet once again proclaim it publicly , if any friend will pay the sum for him , he shall not
it is in mine authority to command the keys of all the posterns .
lord mayor , the reason we have sent- gloucester .
i pass ' d , methought , the melancholy flood with that sour ferryman which poets write of , unto
[dies] enter pembroke , salisbury , and bigot salisbury .
their pillows .
i make not , but foresee .
and what makes robbers bold but too much lenity ?
at a word , i am not .
i do not lie .
exit [bearing off the body] .
charge .
holy saint ; be secret-false .
was ' t you he rescu ' d ?
' says another ; ' whip him out ' says the third ; ' hang him up ' says the
not so ; but yet so false that he grieves my very heart-strings .
exeunt lords king john .
body a me , where is it ?
dance] wolsey .
but , soft you , let me be !
either say thou ' lt do ' t , or thrive by other means .
an aspect of intercession which great nature cries ' deny not .
and shakes his threat ' ning sword against the walls of athens .
good now , hold thy tongue .
look how the floor of heaven is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold ; there ' s not the
thou art not thyself ; for thou exists on many a thousand grains that issue out of dust .
we cannot take this for answer , sir .
so many wild geese .
and so return to you , and nothing else ?
what to him from england ?
pardon me , lords , ' tis the first time that ever i was forc ' d to scold .
easy to commit than you to punish .
no , neither .
i have pleaded truth , from off this brier pluck a white rose with me .
but ' gainst your privacy the reasons are more potent and heroical .
manner how she came to ' t bravely confess ' d and lamented by the king , how attentivenes wounded
mad for thy love ?
thus fail not to do your office , as you will answer it at your peril .
he thinks he still is at his instrument .
exit lady imogen .
his behaviour .
time , thou shalt not boast that i do change , thy pyramids built up with newer might to me
he is not lolling on a lewd love-bed , but on his knees at meditation ; not dallying with a
you are he , you are he !
would i hie .
shall we resolve to woo these girls of france ?
i am too old to fawn upon a nurse , too far in years to be a pupil now .
his death , to throw away the dearest thing he owed as ' twere a careless trifle .
oppose yourselves to match lord warwick .
; nor shines the silver moon one half so bright through the transparent bosom of the deep , as doth
can both sing it .
' that unlettered small-knowing soul , ' costard .
may the gods direct you to the best !
; and falling from a hill , he was so bruis ' d that the pursuers took him .
damn ' d pisanio hath with his forged letters- damn ' d pisanio- from this most bravest vessel of the
i do beseech your grace to pardon me , and withal forbear your conference with the noble duke .
let the presents be worthily entertain ' d .
what think you of it ?
your majestee ave fausse french enough to deceive de most sage damoiselle dat is en france .
i pray thee peace .
i do repent me as it is an evil , and take the shame with joy .
ere i would say i would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen , i would change my
we will not trust our eyes without our ears .
grace , and suit thy pity like in every part .
and giddy-paced times .
and tragical , my noble lord , it is ; for pyramus therein doth kill himself .
yes , your beggar of fifty ; and his use was to put a ducat in her clack-dish .
come , trouble not yourself .
as i walk thither , i ' ll tell ye more .
the lining of his coffers shall make coats to deck our soldiers for these irish wars .
before the gates of harfleur enter the governor and some citizens on the walls .
what , and stake down ?
best man .
for the which she wept heartily and said she cared not .
txt marg .
exeunt lear , gloucester , kent , and fool .
let them pronounce the steep tarpeian death , vagabond exile , flaying , pent to linger but with a grain
then stops again , strikes his breast hard ; and anon he casts his eye against the moon .
' d ; if any fear lesser his person than an ill report ; if any think brave death outweighs
art thou my son ?
excite ?
would thou ' dst be rul ' d by me !
thou knowest my old ward .
so will i grow , so live , so die , my lord , page _num_ complete works of william
never come such division ' tween our souls !
reeking o ' er the lives of men , as if ' twere a perpetual spoil ; and till we
second trumpet .
all be buried in my death , unless thou swear to me my child shall live .
we ' ll beat ' em into bench-holes .
here , sir .
let it not be believ ' d for womanhood .
crying all ' guilty !
stay , and speak !
with robber ' s hands my hospitable favours you should not ruffle thus .
shame itself !
if i be ta ' en , i ' ll peach for this .
could i meet ' em but once a day , it would unclog my heart of what lies heavy to
and smelt so ?
and to the english court assemble now , from every region , apes of idleness .
the king hath sent him , sure : i must dissemble .
in forms more horrid-yet my duty , as doth a rock against the chiding flood , should the approach of
, sat in the council house early and late , debating to and fro how france and frenchmen might be
willoughby .
he wore upon his honour ' d finger , to attain in suit the place of ' s bed ,
what ' s the matter , good mistress page ?
upon far poorer moment .
you shall , my lord .
if you did , i care not .
the last that will last keep his oath .
all the power of his wits have given way to his impatience .
sir , ' tis your brother cassius at the door , who doth desire to see you .
in fine , redeem ' d i was as i desir ' d .
are you the lady of the house ?
i have but this to say- that he is not only plagued for her sin , but god hath made
messengers , english and french attendants .
[a noise within : ' down with the tawny coats !
now shall we know if gadshill have set a match .
i ' ll procure this fat rogue a charge of foot ; and i know , his death will be
or shall we beat the stones about thine ears ?
the labor we delight in physics pain .
a figure in her face , and so disfigure her with it that she shall have no more eyes to
o ' erflow with joy and pleasure drown the brim .
a fat woman ?
there is a thousand hectors in the field ; now here he fights on galathe his horse , and there
ay , with such gifts that heaven shall share with you .
as surely as i live , my lord .
my lord of surrey , why look you so sad ?
by my fault , let my old life be sacrific ' d , some hour before his time , unto
he had thought to have murder ' d wrongfully .
one day .
his haters .
ay , be-gar ; and de maid is love-a me ; my nursh-a quickly tell me so mush .
my lord !
why , then may you leave a casement of the great chamber window , where we play , open ;
if he fall in , good night , or sink or swim !
his blood flows , or that his appetite is more to bread than stone .
what did this vanity but minister communication of a most poor issue ?
yet liv ' st thou , salisbury ?
faith , some certain dregs of conscience are yet within me .
nay then- alb .
then three kings i had newly feasted , and did want of what i was i ' th ' morning
that which you hear you ' ll swear you see , there is such unity in the proofs .
] this supernatural soliciting cannot be ill , cannot be good .
i ' ll to the tower with all the haste i can to view th ' artillery and munition ;
o cunning , how i got it !
re-enter provost , with barnardine , claudio (muffled) and juliet duke .
good even to you , friend .
_num_ the forward violet thus did i chide , sweet thief , whence didst thou steal thy sweet that smells
[they embrace] king edward .
for an after-loss : ah do not , when my heart hath ' scaped this sorrow , come in the
only look up clear ; to alter favor ever is to fear .
come on ; to ' t .
come , come ; lend me a light .
ay , that i do ; as well as i love any woman in gloucestershire .
[to isabella] go to ; ' tis well ; away .
service of the mind and soul grows wide withal .
go bring the rabble , o ' er whom i give thee pow ' r , here to this place
dies .
that noble earl , and was beheaded .
power , but that which they have given to beggars .
we have sworn , my lord , already .
malice have power to utter .
a small table under a state for the cardinal , a longer table for the guests .
you touch ' d my vein at first : the thorny point of bare distress hath ta ' en from
in such a night did pretty jessica , like a little shrew , slander her love , and he forgave
prisoner !
i ' ll take it up for pity ; yet i ' ll tarry till my son come ; he
portia ' s house flourish of cornets .
murder or detested rape can couch for fear but i will find them out ; and in their ears tell
the instances that second marriage move are base respects of thrift , but none of love .
and the king gone to-night ?
i will here be with the presently ; and if i bring thee not something to eat , i will
i fear me it will make me scandaliz ' d .
which are the only prologues to a bad voice ?
to your highness ' hand i tender my commission ; by whose virtue- the court of rome commanding-you , my
i humbly beseech you , proceed to the affairs of state .
cut him to pieces .
haply your eye shall light upon some toy you have desire to purchase ; and your store , i think
d not a hair of his .
i am a gentleman , sir , and my name is conrade .
run , run , o , run !
' how now , sir knave !
the competitors enter .
the work ish give over , the trompet sound the retreat .
patience awhile , good cassio .
see you these clothes ?
the luce is the fresh fish ; the salt fish is an old coat .
what , doth death affright ?
] two things are to be done : my wife must move for cassio to her mistress- i ' ll
' the ground is bloody .
young lucius , and other gentlemen , publius , sempronius , and caius , with bows titus .
it must be a very plausive invention that carries it .
come , buy of me , come ; come buy , come buy ; page _num_ complete works of william
noble offices thou mayst effect of mediation , after i am dead , between his greatness and thy other brethren
and in the calmest and most stillest night , with all appliances and means to boot , deny it to
fare thee well awhile .
my mistress exceeds in goodness the hugeness of your unworthy thinking .
but there ' s but one in all doth hold his place .
- diablo , ho !
the sound is going away ; let ' s follow it , and after do our work .
more , i prithee , more .
enter another gentleman here comes the lady paulina ' s steward ; he can deliver you more .
nothing that is so is so .
re-enter to wolsey the dukes of norfolk and suffolk , the earl of surrey , and the lord chamberlain norfolk
let me entreat you leave the house .
the scene been struck so to the soul that presently they have proclaim ' d their malefactions ; for murther
thence all error with his might and make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight .
i heard your guilty rhymes , observ ' d your fashion , saw sighs reek from you , noted well
march on to calais without impeachment ; for , to say the sooth- though ' tis no wisdom to confess
the ballad is very pitiful , and as true .
o god , that somerset , who in proud heart doth stop my cornets , were in talbot ' s
his dissolute disease will scarce obey this medicine .
we shall buy maidenheads as they buy hobnails , by the hundreds .
my part , or show the glory of our art ?
would he do so , i ' d beg your precious mistress , which he counts but a trifle .
if i can fasten but one cup upon him , with that which he hath drunk tonight already , he
let ' s write ' good angel ' on the devil ' s horn ; ' tis not the devil
they have a leader , tullus aufidius , that will put you to ' t .
a right good markman !
i am glad on ' t ; then we shall ha ' means to vent our musty superfluity .
o ' er the bounds of modesty .
dissembling villain , thou speak ' st false in both .
come , boy , with me ; my thoughts are ripe in mischief : i ' ll sacrifice the lamb
but something may be done that we will not ; and sometimes we are devils to ourselves , when we
and your tongue divine to a loud trumpet and a point of war ?
love were not a blinded god ?
what is he lies here ?
but , worthy lords , have you with heed perused what i have written to you ?
i have a man ' s mind , but a woman ' s might .
trial-the bubbles are out , enter a lord .
where be the bending peers that flattered thee ?
nay , for methought yesterday your mistress shrewdly shook your back .
though the odds be great , i doubt not , uncle , of our victory .
where ' s satisfaction ?
lips , do not move ; no man must know .
come by and by to my chamber .
paddock calls .
of a blank verse--why , they were never so truly turn ' d over and over as my poor self
many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage ; and for turning away , let summer bear it out .
a drayman , a porter , a very camel !
i have not the skill .
go , bear him in thine arms .
speak yet , how grew your quarrel ?
through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind .
be cheerful .
weep thou for me in france , i for thee here ; better far off than near , be ne
it was myself , my brother , and his son that brought you home and boldly did outdare the dangers
go in , sirrah ; bid them prepare for dinner .
' to see now how a jest shall come about !
go to , i ' faith !
i heard say your lordship was sick ; i hope your lordship goes abroad by advice .
that ' s because the one is painted , and the other out of all count .
he flatter ' d .
thou aimest all awry .
stay for an answer to your embassy , lest unadvis ' d you stain your swords with blood ; my
i cannot reach so high .
a poor egyptian , yet the queen , my mistress , confin ' d in all she has , her
i speak not ' be thou true ' as fearing thee , for i will throw my glove to death
in good faith , ' a cares not what mischief he does , if his weapon be out ; he
he gives the web and the pin , squints the eye , and makes the harelip ; mildews the white
hate to marcius .
be not afraid , good youth ; i will not have you ; and yet , when wit and youth
joseph .
if your lordship find him not a hiding , hold me no more in your respect .
their understanding page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
me still .
build there , carpenter ; the air is sweet .
he is so kind that he now pays interest for ' t ; his land ' s put to their
pox , leave thy damnable faces , and begin !
why force you this ?
is there any unkindness between my lord and you , monsieur ?
is not that he that lies upon the ground ?
' tis a lost fear .
not much employment for you .
even so i have .
] spare speech .
blood and breath , hostility and civil tumult reigns between my conscience and my cousin ' s death .
o , let her brother live !
why , sir , they were nothing but about mistress anne page : to know if it were my master
milk were scarce out of him .
were you not restor ' d to all the duke of norfolk ' s signiories , your noble and right
welcome , young man .
a maid !
advantage of his days : his years but young , but his experience old ; his head unmellowed , but
txt never a man , but one that is like to be executed for robbing a church- one bardolph ,
' song that he would not stir his pettitoes till he had both tune and words , which so drew
good my lord , pardon me ; though i am bound to every act of duty , i am not
thanks , brave montgomery , and thanks unto you all ; if fortune serve me , i ' ll requite
enter keeper keeper .
this servitude makes you to keep unwed .
will you needs be hang ' d with your about your necks ?
but , turning these jests out of service , let us talk in good earnest .
kindly , sir , i pray let me ha ' t .
if he may be conveniently deliver ' d , i would he were ; for i am now so far
pray , uncle gloucester , mitigate this strife .
hence i ' ll answer to my lust .
is pawn ' d : th ' earldom of hereford and the movables which you have promised i shall possess
then you should hate rome , as he does .
>> scene : vienna act i .
give him a present !
out , tawny-coats !
nor is your firm resolve unknown to me in the preferment of the eldest sister .
he would drown the stage with tears and cleave the general ear with horrid speech ; make mad the guilty
us , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
more particulars must justify my knowledge .
what is a , b , spelt backward with the horn on his head ?
ajax .
enter gremio , with lucentio in the habit of a mean man ; petruchio , with hortensio as a musician
i pray you bear with me ; i cannot go no further .
of costard .
no ; if without more words you will get you hence .
txt the better to denote her to the doctor- for they must all be mask ' d and vizarded- that
and there die strangled ere my romeo comes ?
i like them all and do allow them well ; and swear here , by the honour of my blood
that angelo is an adulterous thief , an hypocrite , a virgin-violator , is it not strange and strange ?
since i their altar , you enpatron me .
the forest enter rosalind , celia , and jaques jaques .
the regent conquers and the frenchmen fly .
i would have made it short ; for i was come to the whole depth of my tale , and
i am joyful to hear of their readiness , and am the man , i think , that shall set
exit with the body scene vii .
your woes , i come to tell you things sith then befall ' n .
i ' ll fight with none but thee , for i do hate thee worse than a promise-breaker .
the king will bid you battle presently .
challenge you shall not be my judge ; for it is you have blown this coal betwixt my lord and
friend hast thou none ; for thine own bowels which do call thee sire , the mere effusion of thy
would to bed .
there ' s a stew ' d phrase indeed !
thy friendship makes us fresh .
you sad-fac ' d men , people and sons of rome , by uproars sever ' d , as a
the man that makes his toe what he his heart should make shall of a corn cry woe , and
the god of heaven both now and ever bless her !
how , you fat fool !
txt which shall be most my glory being dumb , for i impair not beauty being mute , when others
what wicked and dissembling glass of mine made me compare with hermia ' s sphery eyne ?
sit , jessica .
[aside] it is my mistress .
o , yet defend me , friends !
good phrases are surely , and ever were , very commendable .
strike !
treason has done his worst ; nor steel , nor poison , malice domestic , foreign levy , nothing ,
a street enter beadles , dragging in hostess quickly and doll tearsheet hostess .
txt lysander .
one his like , there would be something failing in him that should compare .
courtesy itself must convert to disdain if you come in her presence .
i dare not call them fools ; but this i think , when they are thirsty , fools would fain
not thy passion , sway in this uncivil and unjust extent against thy peace .
by this our mother is for ever sham ' d .
things at the worst will cease or else climb upward to what they were before .
whither away so fast ?
they say , the wars must make example out of their best- is not almost a fault to incur a
if ever you disturb our streets again , your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace .
in this place of the forest , and to couple us .
-hey ho !
if sir john falstaff have committed disparagements unto you , i am of the church , and will be glad
fair young maid that yet wants baptism ; you must be godfather , and answer for her .
let us see .
be a whore still ; they love thee not that use thee .
my lord of suffolk , say , is this the guise , is this the fashions in the court of
compromise stand ' st thou aloof upon comparison ?
marry , my lord , althaea dreamt she was delivered of a firebrand ; and therefore i call him her
i heard him swear his affection .
were my lord so , his ignorance were wise , where now his knowledge must prove ignorance .
shall can home to high promotions and great dignity .
txt enter constable , orleans , bourbon , dauphin , and rambures constable .
ay , do- persever , counterfeit sad looks , make mouths upon me when i turn my back , wink
i wish ye sport .
i come to fetch you to the senate house .
but those that sought it i could wish more christians .
version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library , inc .
' tis sweating labour to bear such idleness so near the heart as cleopatra this .
i was three or four times in the thought they were not fairies ; and yet the guiltiness of my
and thither will i bring thee , valentine .
thou canst compel no more than she entreat ; thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers helen
it is not possible .
and yet , within a month- let me not think on ' t !
i will not love ; if i do , hang me .
for he is coming hither .
not an inch further .
witness live in brass of this day ' s work .
o vain petitioner !
, as i may call it .
o , god ' s will !
beaver with a downright blow .
the company sit down] trumpets sounding , enter titus like a cook , placing the dishes , and lavinia with
enter duchess duchess .
richard not far from hence hath hid his head .
shall i sir pandarus of troy become , and by my side wear steel ?
this would have seem ' d a period to such as love not sorrow ; but another , to amplify
go , bid all my friends again : lucius , lucullus , and sempronius- all .
by my troth , i knew you not .
thanks , madam ; well .
ancient lord claudio , a young gentleman lucio , a fantastic two other like gentlemen varrius , a gentleman ,
an the duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing pyramus , i ' ll be hanged .
dost thou squiny at me ?
the queen with all the northern earls and lords intend here to besiege you in your castle .
a grandam ' s name is little less in love than is the doating title of a mother ; they
signior benedick , no ; for then were you a child .
small boat !
the harmless earth , which many a good tall fellow had destroy ' d so cowardly ; and but for
high events as these strike those that make them ; and their story is no less in pity than his
i must not hear thee .
' ll woo you like a soldier , at arms ' end , and love you ' gainst the nature
already he hath carried notice to escalus and angelo , who do prepare to meet him at the gates ,
a soldier , take a king .
this same is she , and i do give you her .
, in gait , in speech , he doth resemble .
to men in joy ; but grief makes one hour ten .
bigot .
song .
nay , i do bear a brain .
nothing that i respect , my gracious lord .
go , your servants tend .
go pack with him , and give the mother gold , and tell them both the circumstance of all ,
your lady ' s person ; is she ready ?
how doth the good knight ?
she wish ' d she had not heard it , yet she wish ' d that heaven had made her
' salerio .
the cry .
far from jealousy to sleep by hate , and fear no enmity ?
; but when they weep and kneel , all their petitions are as freely theirs as they themselves would owe
discover more at large what cause that was , for i am ignorant and cannot guess .
enter proteus , and julia in boy ' s clothes proteus .
' tis surely for a name .
no ; you see he is his argument that has his argument- achilles .
let not thy mother lose her prayers , hamlet .
dauphin .
now , sir , who ' s a cuckold now ?
they say the bishop and northumberland are fifty thousand strong .
exeunt all but the bastard bastard .
' d a tragedy , making defeat on the fun power of france , whiles his most mighty father on
hold your peace .
exit first watch .
go you , sir , to the senators , of whom , even to the state ' s best health
in very good time .
in jove ' s own book , like an unnatural dam should now eat up her own !
the same sir john , the very same .
call ' em , let me see ' em .
only fair speech .
' my conscience says ' no ; take heed , honest launcelot , take heed , honest gobbo ' or
greater he shall not be ; if he serve god , we ' ll serve him too , and be
shall banquo ' s issue ever reign in this kingdom ?
there ' s money of the king ' s coming down the hill ; ' tis going to the king
d his lips on that unworthy place , as it rain ' d kisses .
if tamora entreat him , then he will ; for i can smooth and fill his aged ears with golden
[aside] fair encounter of two most rare affections !
it is posthumus ' hand ; i know ' t .
i know he will be glad of our success : we are the jasons , we have won the fleece
say you so ?
if i can check my erring love , i will ; if not , to compass her i ' ll
yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made , and the garland too ; for the garland
' s leg and howlet ' s wing , for a charm of powerful trouble , like a hell-broth boil
demetrius , i ' ll avouch it to his head , made love to nedar ' s daughter , helena
this day shall be a love-day , tamora .
an ante-chamber adjoining imogen ' s apartments enter cloten and lords page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[aside] too long a pause for that which you find there .
he wakes , would not the beggar then forget himself ?
an he should , it were an alms to hang him !
all hail , macbeth , hail to thee , thane of cawdor !
peace and prosperity !
why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth , unapt to toll and trouble in the world , but
[sings] but i will never die .
of what he did .
o , i have bought the mansion of a love , but not possess ' d it ; and though
' tis no less , i tell ye ; for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the
[reads] ' hermione is chaste ; polixenes blameless ; camillo a true subject ; leontes a jealous tyrant ; his
is he not jealous ?
truly , i would not hang a dog by my will , much more a man who hath any honesty
know you the musicians ?
txt and , by his soul , thou and thy house shall rue it .
the king himself of his wings destitute , the army broken , and but the backs of britons seen ,
wonder not till further warrant .
that , being mad herself , she ' s madly mated .
now , nurse , what news ?
wilt thou lift up olympus ?
be what they will , i heartily forgive ' em ; yet let ' em look they glory not in
come , sister ; i am press ' d down with conceit- conceit , my comfort and my injury .
could pluck his highness ' frown upon you , and justify you traitors ; at this time i will tell
who , my master ?
learn , good soul , to think our former state a happy dream ; from which awak ' d ,
, the world shall not be ransom for thy life .
up , gentlemen , you shall see sport anon ; follow me , gentlemen .
and make him with fair aegles break his faith , with ariadne and antiopa ?
i would have men of such constancy put to sea , that their business might be everything , and their
perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath .
me on to utter that which else no worldly good should draw from me .
s hate , i live to look upon their tragedy .
the discoloured earth ; and victory with little loss doth play upon the dancing banners of the french , who
o fate , take not away thy heavy hand !
take them in .
' tis but thy name that is my enemy .
windy suspiration of forc ' d breath , no , nor the fruitful river in the eye , nor the
i could render one .
o kate , nice customs curtsy to great kings .
would make thee quickly hop without thy head .
sir , i am about to weep ; but , thinking that we are a queen , or long have
th ' effects of disposition gentle and of wisdom o ' ertopping woman ' s pow ' r .
, cannot outfly our apprehensions .
i will be with thee straight .
therefore in fierce tempest is he coming , in thunder and in earthquake , like a jove , that if
come , come , in wooing sorrow let ' s be brief , since , wedding it , there is
there ' s thy reward ; be gone .
gather the sequel by that went before .
wast thou ordain ' d , dear father , to lose thy youth in peace and to achieve page _num_
i ' ll decline the whole question .
be of good comfort ; for the great supply that was expected by the dauphin here are wreck ' d
come , you are a tedious fool .
then rose again , and bow ' d her to the people ; when by the archbishop of canterbury she
- as it hath been to us rare , pleasant , speedy , the time is worth the use on
she will beshrew me much that romeo hath had no notice of these accidents ; but i will write again
nothing of me but cudgels .
with a priest that lacks latin and a rich man that hath not the gout ; for the one sleeps
art not honest , and the gods will plague thee , that thou restrain ' st from me the duty
a pox on ' t !
are now glad to behold your eyes- your eyes , which hitherto have home in them , against the french
then is sin struck down , like an ox , and iniquity ' s throat cut like a calf .
shall we go throw away our coats of steel and wrap our bodies in black mourning-gowns , numbering our ave-maries
come , i ' ll question you of my lord ' s tricks and yours when you were boys .
' d me to seek delays for them and me .
[reads] ' first of the king : what shall of him become ?
what , are there but three ?
cominius , droop not ; adieu .
tybalt , here slain , whom romeo ' s hand did stay .
drown ' d !
tears and say ' alas , it was a piteous deed !
before the intended wedding (for in the meantime i will so fashion the matter that hero shall be absent) and
make us heirs of all eternity .
why , what a king is this !
] ' tis now the very witching time of night , when churchyards yawn , and hell itself breathes out
the other night i fell asleep here behind the arras and had my pocket pick ' d .
we have seen the best of our time .
somerset is killed richard .
enter ajax ajax .
villain , be sure thou prove my love a whore ; be sure of it .
be sprightly , for you fall ' mongst friends .
i thank thee ; thou shalt not lose by it .
i have in this rough work shap ' d out a man whom this beneath world doth embrace and hug
me dead ?
which ' rested him , that can i tell .
i cannot tell ; but i had as lief take her dowry with this condition : to be whipp '
would thou hadst ne ' er been born !
ay , my good lord , i know the gentleman to be of worth and worthy estimation , and not
, tribune cato , supportor of brutus lucilius , " " " titinius , " " " messala , "
o my all-worthy lord !
i thank you , doctor .
speak like a true knight , so defend thee heaven !
if you turn not , you will return the sooner .
nay , but he prated and spoke such scurvy and provoking terms against your honor that , with the little
they shall be no more than needful there , if they were more than they can commend .
fellowly drops .
marry , after they clos ' d in earnest , they parted very fairly in jest .
the sweet birds , o , how they sing !
, and now in england to our heart ' s great sorrow , shall be my winding-sheet .
; when scarce the blood was well wash ' d from his hands which issued from my other angel husband
' i was sent to deliver him as a present to mistress silvia from my master ; and i came
, unmake , do what she list , even as her appetite shall play the god with his weak function
let it go round .
quintus .
enter gloucester , led by an old man .
mark you this , people ?
may you be happy in your wish , my lord !
why , did you not lend it to alice shortcake upon allhallowmas last , a fortnight afore michaelmas ?
he cannot but with measure fit the honours which we devise him .
what ' s his brother , the other captain dumain ?
s forc ' d to .
i sit at ten pounds a week .
he will clapper-claw thee tightly , bully .
of his .
means .
them to ruthful work , rein them from ruth !
pray thee , take pain to allay with some cold drops of modesty thy skipping spirit ; lest through thy
and front but in that file where others tell steps with me .
am i ridden with a welsh goat too ?
listen , but speak not to ' t .
what , marry , may she ?
report , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, my self i ' ll forfeit , so that other mine , thou wilt restore to be my comfort
and thus unbraced , casca , as you see , have bared my bosom to the thunderstone ; and when
o , that your young nobility could judge what ' twere to lose it and be miserable !
stains thereof ; for god doth know , and you may partly see , how far i am from the
but are you sure of your husband now ?
i may not , madam .
marry is it ; the very point of it ; to mistress anne page .
and so repose , sweet gold , for their unrest [hides the gold] that have their alms out of the
to be in anger is impiety ; but who is man that is not angry ?
upon such sacrifices , my cordelia , the gods themselves throw incense .
and three or four more of their growth , we ' ll dress like urchins , ouphes , and fairies
do you take the court for paris garden ?
if it prove she ' s otherwise , i ' ll keep my stables where i lodge my wife ;
i ' ll strike , and cry ' take all .
resolv ' d , resolv ' d .
alas , my friend and my dear countryman roderigo ?
this prophecy merlin shall make , for i live before his time .
exeunt with caesar ' s body .
is argument for them all : ' tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on , and for a
is to wet , and fire to burn ; that good pasture makes fat sheep ; and that a great
if thou wilt , go with me to the alehouse ; if not , thou art an hebrew , a
his funeral .
gratitude .
by me which way you go .
i am so much a fool , should i stay longer , it would be my disgrace and your discomfort
o , is ' t come to this ?
why , let her except before excepted .
shall find but bloody safety and untrue .
think i had sold my farm to buy my crown .
this sleep is sound indeed ; this is a sleep that from this golden rigol hath divorc ' d so
and daily new exactions are devis ' d , as blanks , benevolences , and i wot not what ;
' that ' s something yet !
now for our consciences , the arms are fair , when the intent of bearing them is just .
th ' encorporal air do hold discourse ?
exeunt queen and ladies gardener .
' s so dumb that cannot write to thee , when thou thy self dost give invention light ?
that ' s cover ' d o ' er with turkish tapestry page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
come , come , my son , i ' ll bring thee on thy way .
thousand ducats .
how say you , lady ?
farewell , my coz .
alas , my lord , i cannot fight ; for god ' s sake , pity my case !
all ' s not well .
theirs : marcius is worthy of present death .
but say , i pray , what nobleman is that that with the king here resteth in his tent ?
henry ' s heart .
how now , my masters !
four yard under the countermines ; by cheshu , i think ' a will plow up all , if there
know the grounds and authors of it , thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge of thine own
what , shall this speech be spoke for our excuse ?
how ill agrees it with your gravity to counterfeit thus grossly with your slave , abetting him to thwart me
why , even in that was heaven ordinant .
- on our terrible seas , like egg-shells mov ' d upon their surges , crack ' d as easily
[hamlet moves him to put on his hat .
and is not harry true ?
a pestilence on him !
nor go neither ; but you ' ll lie like dogs , and yet say nothing neither .
o hateful error , melancholy ' s child , why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men the
i did say so .
, my lord , than you .
or do you play the flouting jack , to tell us cupid is a good hare-finder and vulcan a rare
] alb .
feed and sleep .
do i as an enemy to peace troop in the throngs of military men ; but rather show awhile like
worth .
o , he lights too .
the state whereon i studied is , like a good thing being often read , grown sere and tedious ;
is ' t such a matter to get a pottle-pot ' s maidenhead ?
with him along is come the mother-queen , an ate , stirring him to blood and strife ; with her
that ' s our offer .
the kings and the princes , our kindred , are going to see the queen ' s picture .
for my dinner ; i have not din ' d to-day .
his forward voice , now , is to speak well of his friend ; his backward voice is to utter
i am his king , and he should bow his knee .
forspent with toil , as runners with a race , i lay me down a little while to breathe ;
ah , poor our sex !
no , my lord !
spite .
you are as a candle , the better part burnt out .
and she goes down at twelve .
' d in my affairs and laid his love and life under my foot ; yea , for my sake
what wilt thou be , when time hath sow ' d a grizzle on thy case ?
within me grief hath kept a tedious fast ; and who abstains from meat that is not gaunt ?
o that estates , degrees , and offices , were not deriv ' d corruptly , and that clear honour
and your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so great an opposition .
he ' could promise to himself a thought of added honour torn from hector .
the obscure bird clamor ' d the livelong night .
good morrow , worthy caesar !
if you do sorrow at my grief in love , by giving love , your sorrow and my grief were
look in the almanack ; find out moonshine , find out moonshine .
that they were , i wish myself were mudded in that oozy bed where my son lies .
he- that with the plume ; ' tis a most gallant fellow .
i perceive , by this demand , you are not altogether of his counsel .
me from my self thy cruel eye hath taken , and my next self thou harder hast engrossed , of
killing our enemies , the blood he hath lost- which i dare vouch is more than that he hath by
but that ' s not to the point .
let ' s hear him , for the things he speaks may concern caesar .
enter .
it instantly consum ' d with fire ; even thou , and none but thou .
i ' ll wait upon your lordship .
[aside] we will do it .
chaplain , away !
i hope your warrant will bear out the deed .
why dost thou tear it ?
i know , no touch of it , my lord .
in sicily be cheap ; next to thyself and my young rover , he ' s apparent to my heart
or cloy the hungry edge of appetite by bare imagination of a feast ?
i dare assure thee that no enemy shall ever take alive the noble brutus ; the gods defend him from
i am afraid , sir , do what you can , yours will not be entreated .
god be with you all !
such pity as my rapier ' s point affords .
nell , sir ; but her name and three quarters , that ' s an ell and three quarters ,
great that could restore this cripple to his legs again ?
we shall find of him a shrewd contriver ; and you know his means , if he improve them ,
on , to the capitol .
month behind the gest prefix ' d for ' s parting .
o , then began the tempest to my soul !
[music plays] come hither , boy .
defiles the pitchy night .
men moved him , was he such a storm as oft ' twixt may and april is to see ,
an honest tale speeds best being plainly told .
yes , marry , sir ; see where he looks out of the window .
indeed they say the senators tomorrow mean to establish caesar as a king , and he shall wear his crown
virtuous and fair , royal and gracious .
the queen ' s closet .
' s nearest to him , which is your gracious self , embrace but my direction .
let me be cruel , not unnatural ; i will speak daggers to her , but use none .
i flutter ' d your volscians in corioli .
but no more of this .
come not to me again ; but say to athens timon hath made his everlasting mansion upon the beached verge
thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead ; and paris too .
go to ; no more words .
his noble kinsman-most degenerate king !
, for the rain it raineth every day .
a highway between rome and antium enter a roman and a volsce , meeting roman .
more successful words than you , unless you were a scholar , sir .
wretched though i seem , i can produce a champion that will prove what is avouched there .
into her womb convey sterility ; dry up in her the organs of increase ; and from her derogate body
epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite , that sleep and feeding may prorogue his honour even till a
enter lord chancellor , places himself at the upper end of the table on the left band , a seat
this butcher ' s cur is venom-mouth ' d , and i have not the power to muzzle him ;
is here at the door to speak with him .
the haughty prelate , bishop of exeter , his elder brother , with many moe confederates , are in arms
rome ' s saturnine , and see his shipwreck and his commonweal ' s .
i do not know one of my sex ; no woman ' s face remember , save , from my
philario ' s house enter philario , iachimo , a frenchman , a dutchman , and a spaniard iachimo .
they stoop with the like wing .
could never .
breach discredit more in hiding of the fault than did the fault before it was so patch ' d .
i hear your grace hath sworn out house-keeping .
and possessed by my master don john , saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter .
good , my lord , she came from libya .
or let us stand to our authority page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he makes a july ' s day short as december , and with his varying childness cures in me thoughts
and so was mine , my lord .
for well thou know ' st to my dear doting heart thou art the fairest and most precious jewel .
by my soul , a swain , a most simple clown !
or shall we on the helmets of our foes tell our devotion with revengeful arms ?
with the valiant sword of york .
where is the king my master ?
what of you ?
, i would pursue it .
what villain , madam ?
where ' s my brother ?
his grace and to the state .
txt gloucester .
ay , but i fear you speak upon the rack , where men enforced do speak anything .
else he had been damn ' d for cozening the devil .
jerkins and aprons ; and sir john must not know of it .
i know him now .
o my parolles , they have married me !
pulcher .
i have heard ; and in it are the lords of york , berkeley , and seymour- none else of
i like his money well .
ah , how long shall tender duty make me suffer wrong ?
sir , i will give you as much as this old man does , when the business is performed ;
win me and wear me !
now will i dam up this thy yawning mouth for swallowing the treasure of the realm .
man , and here my brother , weeping at my woes .
you are .
die ; so much we tender him .
thrifts , they would do that which should undo more doing .
pearls that were his eyes ; nothing of him that doth fade but doth suffer a sea-change into something rich
now , when the lords and barons of the realm perceiv ' d northumberland did lean to him , the
something a round belly .
pray god you do .
, ' twas a fear which oft infects the wisest .
[to the queen] my gracious lady , go .
like to the pontic sea , whose icy current and compulsive course ne ' er feels retiring ebb , but
the senate hath stirr ' d up the confiners and gentlemen of italy , most willing spirits , that promise
are my chests fill ' d up with extorted gold ?
you keep by land the legions and the horse whole , do you not ?
i would most gladly know the issue of it .
a worthy fool !
here comes beatrice .
further this act of grace ; and from this hour the heart of brothers govern in our loves and sway
txt bastard .
stay , fellow ; i can read .
one captain spurio , with his cicatrice , an emblem of war , here on his sinister cheek ; it
the moon shines bright .
and power confronted power ; both are alike , and both alike we like .
but not a minute , king , that thou canst give : shorten my days thou canst with sullen sorrow
what is ' t , laertes ?
worthy all arms !
this way to death my wretched sons are gone ; here stands my other son , a banish ' d
so pertaunt-like would i o ' ersway his state that he should be my fool , and i his fate
no ; if i mistake in those foundations which i build upon , the centre is not big enough to
' gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage .
namely , to appeal each other of high treason .
a rhyme i learnt even now of one i danc ' d withal .
not how a traitor .
now , titinius !
came into the world with my legs forward .
will you make me believe that i am not sent for you ?
to th ' syllable .
to die- to sleep .
and writ as little beard .
his .
how are we park ' d and bounded in a pale a little herd of england ' s timorous deer
i will write all down : such and such pictures ; there the window ; such th ' adornment of
he was a goodly king .
doing is activity , and he will still be doing .
[aside] his words do take possession of my bosom .
i myself have all the other , and the very ports they blow , all the quarters that they know
a day , i would not buy their mercy at the price of one fair word , nor check my
the birds chant melody on every bush ; the snakes lie rolled in the cheerful sun ; the green leaves
here , good my glass , take this for telling true : [ giving him money] fair payment for foul
bellario greets your grace .
has said enough .
- how now , nuncle ?
; it is no time to discourse .
o antony , nobler than my revolt is infamous , forgive me in thine own particular , but let the
wilt thou make as many holes in an enemy ' s battle as thou hast done in a woman '
i do not sleep : i see , i hear , i speak ; i smell sweet savours , and
for my part , if a lie may do thee grace , i ' ll gild it with the happiest
are you mankind ?
to burn the lodging where you use to lie , and you within it .
thine , by yea and no- which is as much as to say as thou usest him- jack falstaff with
not a flower , not a flower sweet , on my black coffin let there be strown ; not a
enter gloucester bishop of ely .
harm .
his worth is warrant for his welcome hither , if this be he you oft have wish ' d to
o , behold , how pomp is followed !
if it be that- iago .
this proffer is absurd and reasonless .
thou keepest not racket there ; as thou hast not done a great while , because the rest of thy
, and wrath , can furnish man withal .
i will tell thee wonders .
love deny , and then i ' ll study how to die .
enter , in conquest , with drum and colours , edmund ; lear and cordelia as prisoners ; soldiers ,
i one , my lord .
how fares our noble uncle lancaster ?
and building of my love is as the very centre of the earth , drawing all things to it .
i would it might prove the end of his losses .
help , uncle !
and master spirits of this age .
shall show more goodly and attract more eyes than that which hath no foil to set it off .
there will come a christian by will be worth a jewess ' eye .
that to provoke in him are many simples operative , whose power will close the eye of anguish .
the emperor of russia was my father ; o that he were alive , and here beholding his daughter '
o , let not virtue seek remuneration for the thing it was ; for beauty , wit , high birth
gratis , and brings down the rate of usance here with us in venice .
alarums , excursions .
, she was the fairest creature in the world ; and yet she is inferior to none .
for being a little bad ; so may my husband .
to me comes a creature , sometimes her head on one side some another- i never saw a vessel of
i have sat too long .
art thou good at these kickshawses , knight ?
up to the hilts , as i am a soldier .
it is the bright day that brings forth the adder and that craves wary walking .
so man hath his desires ; and as pigeons bill , so wedlock would be nibbling .
exeunt scene ii .
tarry for the comfort of the day .
lust is but a bloody fire , kindled with unchaste desire , fed in heart , whose flames aspire ,
it so .
will tell you .
no , here it is .
, to lord chief justice sir john falstaff edward poins bardolph page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
present time by the top and instantly break with you of it .
he did look far into the service of the time , and was discipled of the bravest .
' mariana .
enter desdemona , emilia iago , roderigo , and attendants .
mad flesh that claims marriage of me , could find in my heart to stay here still and turn witch
go thy way , hector !
why dost thou call them knaves ?
so in the world , ' tis furnish ' d well with men , and men are flesh and blood
allow not nature more than nature needs , man ' s life is cheap as beast ' s .
marcus , my brother !
they are all forth ; well , i will walk myself to county paris , to prepare him up against
by the mass , i was call ' d anything ; and i would have done anything indeed too ,
enforce his pride and his old hate unto you ; besides , forget not with what contempt he wore the
lord talbot , do not so dishonour me ; here will i sit before the walls of rouen , and
if thou ask me why- sufficeth , my reasons are both good and weighty .
follow my heels , rugby .
you ' d be so lean that blasts of january would blow you through and through .
fair wife) that never set a squadron in the field , nor the division of a battle knows more than
poor queen , so that thy state might be no worse , i would my skill were subject to thy
famous in caesar ' s praises no whit less than in his feats deserving it , for him and his
[sound tucket] timon .
a plain kerchief , sir john ; my brows become nothing else , nor that well neither .
i shall report it so .
she give it cassio ?
these are news indeed !
you as cherry is to cherry .
the same- your servant kent .
sit , and attend .
so please your lordship to accept our duty .
go , go , cheer up thy hungry starved men ; help salisbury to make his testament .
you took it like a sensible lord .
i prithee , tom , beat cut ' s saddle , put a few flocks in the point .
excuse me , the king has sent me otherwhere ; besides , you ' ll find a most unfit time
, and esteem no act but that of hand .
believe then , if you please , that i can do strange things .
my prayers , minx !
i do , truly , for thou swear ' st to me thou art honest ; now , if thou
thy canopy is dust and stones) which with sweet water nightly i will dew ; or , wanting that ,
firm that cannot be seduced ?
txt which you are running here .
nay , an you be a cursing hypocrite once , you must be look ' d to .
why , look you there !
sort of men whose visages do cream and mantle like a standing pond , and do a wilful stillness entertain
he said mine eyes were black , and my hair black , and , now i am rememb ' red
wilt thou not speak to me ?
a fox when one has caught her , and such a daughter , should sure to the slaughter , if
begg ' d mine ; and neither man nor master would take aught but the two rings .
proof ?
' he is your brother , lords , sensibly fed of that self-blood that first gave life to you ;
not draw them ; i would have my bond .
aid , we came again to bind them .
enter caesar , maecenas , and agrippa antony .
more than could my studied purposes requite ; which went beyond all man ' s endeavours .
i might ask you for your commission ; but- i do take thee , orlando , for my husband .
pity .
thou hast finish ' d joy and moan .
s meet you all should know .
here we .
see , we fools !
on fair ground i could beat forty of them .
the senators of athens- happy man !
talk , and give us notice of his inclination ; for we to-morrow hold divided councils , wherein thyself shalt
denmark ' s a prison .
nay , the dust should have ascended to the roof of heaven , rais ' d by your populous troops
half-fac ' d sun , striving to shine , under the which is writ ' invitis nubibus .
to be with you alone , then bettered that the world may see my pleasure , sometime all full with
the senate , coriolanus , are well pleas ' d to make thee consul .
' ' tis far gone when i shall gust it last .
exeunt all but hortensio page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
ah , no , no , no , no , it is mine only son !
[striking him again] you call ' d me yesterday mountain-squire ; but i will make you to-day a squire of
be wary then ; best safety lies in fear .
why do i rail on thee , since thou , created to be aw ' d by man , wast
lord sandys sir henry guildford sir thomas lovell sir anthony denny sir nicholas vaux secretaries to wolsey cromwell , servant
come , we have a hot venison pasty to dinner ; come , gentlemen , i hope we shall drink
may it be done ?
thanks , jupiter !
this adverse town ; drew to defend him when he was beset ; where being apprehended , his false cunning
; whom i beseech to give me ample satisfaction for these deep shames and great indignities .
yea , or to-night .
[hermione comes down from the pedestal] start not ; her actions shall be holy as you hear my spell is
you lie , you are not he .
now , for my life , hortensio fears his widow .
my bones bear witness , that since have felt the vigour of his rage .
' s most assur ' d , his glassy essence , like an angry ape , plays such fantastic tricks
myself and my good cousin buckingham will to your mother , to entreat of her to meet you at the
txt do what thou canst , i will not go to-day ; no , nor to-morrow , not till i
content thyself awhile .
you bring me to do , and then you flout me too .
what comfort have we now ?
because we come to do you service and you think we are ruffians , you ' ll have your daughter
give them diseases , leaving with thee their lust .
' hum !
but up to th ' mountains !
right royal !
[exit servant] fie , fie !
your shot .
i will ; and therefore keep it .
when i have said , make answer to us both .
in faith , i will go .
i have done sin , for which the heavens , taking angry note , have left me issueless ; and
enter antipholus of syracuse and dromio of syracuse angelo .
so kind a father !
father , and in that name doth nature speak- titus .
see the lord the prologue .
so are we all .
bound to that all slaves are free to .
will you go , coz ?
how shall i be revenged on him ?
and thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges .
thou dost not halt .
an men ' s !
only he .
why would you be so fond to overcome the bonny prizer of the humorous duke ?
even he that makes her queen .
methinks our pleasure might have been demanded ere you had spoke so far .
to be mine .
you may gather more .
' item : she brews good ale .
these are his substance , sinews , arms , and strength , with which he yoketh your rebellious necks ,
i had thought i had had men of some understanding and wisdom of my council ; but i find none
and the like tender of our love we make , to rest without a spot for evermore .
no , my good lord ; he speaks the common tongue , which all men speak with him .
bless thee , good man ' s son , from the foul fiend !
her death .
me ; but always hath been just and virtuous in anything that i do know by her .
txt where neither party is nor true nor kind .
therefore , brave conquerors- for so you are that war against your own affections and the huge army of the
i grant (sweet love) thy lovely argument page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
_num_ when to the sessions of sweet silent thought , i summon up remembrance of things past , i sigh
your painted gloss discovers , to men that understand you , words and weakness .
master , has my fellow tranio stol ' n your clothes ?
if he say ay , it will ; if he say no , it will ; if he shake his
first , his integrity stands without blemish ; next , it imports no reason that with such vehemency he should
there did he pause ; but let me tell the world , if he outlive the envy of this day
walk in thievish ways , or bid me lurk where serpents are ; chain me with roaring bears , or
bear thee well in it and leave us alone .
well , welcome , welcome !
have us ' d to bear ; with this remembrance- that you use the same with the like bold ,
thou flatter ' st misery .
where have you been ?
precedent .
it is certain that either wise bearing or ignorant carriage is caught , as men take diseases , one of
come , brother john ; full bravely hast thou flesh ' d thy maiden sword .
all that i will tell you is , that the duke hath dined .
body hearing it should straight fall mad or else die suddenly .
with your theme i could o ' ermount the lark .
pembroke and stafford , you in our behalf go levy men and make prepare for war ; they are already
i am asham ' d that women are so simple to offer war where they should kneel for peace ;
the fiend gives the more friendly counsel .
that did i never hear .
i of him will gather patience .
pray god she prove not masculine ere long , if underneath the standard of the french she carry armour as
txt costard .
but wherefore could not i pronounce " amen " ?
; for naught so vile that on the earth doth live but to the earth some special good doth give
time for- a- my behove , o , methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet .
even he , my lord .
pray , do not deliver what here y ' have heard to her .
although the duke was enemy to him , yet he most christian-like laments his death ; and for myself- foe
exit enter apemantus and fool caphis .
i would he were !
king to slaughter , his princes and his peers to servitude , his subjects to oppression and contempt , and
go your ways and play ; go .
the order was revers ' d .
though we are justices , and doctors , and churchmen , master page , we have some salt of our
forgiveness !
are you a courtier , an ' t like you , sir ?
he scrape a trencher !
time enough to go to bed with a candle , i warrant thee .
did heaven look on , and would not take their part ?
enter gower chief justice .
txt servant .
ford , perpend .
, have wrought the easy-melting king like wax .
is there any ship puts forth to-night ?
exeunt the king and his train falstaff .
see , here he comes .
we must be patient ; but i cannot choose but weep to think they would lay him i ' th
mer .
abhorred villain !
take it off again with words of sooth !
_num_ when my love swears that she is made of truth , i do believe her though i know she
go in with me ; and counsel every man the aptest way for safety and revenge .
now phaethon hath tumbled from his car , and made an evening at the noontide prick .
would he were a troyan !
wend you with this letter .
price is fall ' n .
he ' s discontented .
well , go with me , and be not so discomfited ; proceed in practice with my younger daughter ;
and you , base peasants , do ye believe him ?
left on them by a flood ?
look on the tragic loading of this bed ; this is thy work .
angelo ' s house enter angelo angelo .
wag by their praises bolder .
from forth the beggars of the world , and dispossess her all .
exit steward enter helena even so it was with me when i was young .
well , i will marry one day , but to try .
we shall remain in friendship , our conditions so diff ' ring in their acts .
wants not spirit to say he ' ll turn your current in a ditch , and make your channel his
i know him not , but i have heard of him , a merchant of incomparable wealth .
will not so permit me ; your voices therefore .
enter la pucelle pucelle .
treason enough for god ' s sake , yet could not equivocate to heaven .
why , uncle , ' tis a shame .
blessed be your royal grace !
come hither , nurse .
he begins at curfew , and walks till the first cock .
mine host of the garter .
encounters mounted are against your peace .
, away went claudio enrag ' d ; swore he would meet her , as he was appointed , next
thyself hast lov ' d ; and i have heard thee say no grief did ever come so near thy
what is a man , if his chief good and market of his time be but to sleep and feed
not live asunder day or night .
' twas i that gave the kingdom to thy brother .
txt had i but seen thy picture in this plight , it would have madded me ; what shall i
arm that little thinks she has been sluic ' d in ' s absence , and his pond fish '
or by what means got ' st thou to be releas ' d ?
but say , again , how many saw the child ?
a friend .
this is more strange than such a murther is .
one touch of nature makes the whole world kin- that all with one consent praise new-born gawds , though they
in england now-a-bed shall think themselves accurs ' d they were not here , and hold their manhoods cheap whiles
no , i was not born under a rhyming planet , nor cannot woo in festival terms .
here ' s a large mouth , indeed , that spits forth death and mountains , rocks and seas ;
but this is not so : the king is not bound to answer the particular endings of his soldiers ,
you see how simple and how fond i am .
ay , and wisely .
here , neighbour horner , i drink to you in a cup of page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
very brief , and to exceeding good sense- less .
walk aside the true folk , and let the traitors stay .
third murtherer .
here comes boyet .
[here they fight and joan la pucelle overcomes] charles .
a confidence sans bound .
look , hector , how the sun begins to set ; how ugly night comes breathing at his heels ;
sir , grieve not you ; you are welcome not withstanding .
s marks upon his batt ' red shield , but yet so just that he will not revenge .
why tough signior ?
not one word more !
i promised your presence and the chain ; but neither chain nor goldsmith came to me .
not till i sheathe it in a murderer ' s skin .
dame that liv ' d , that lov ' d , that lik ' d , that look ' d
upon a wild and violent sea each way and move .
out of the court .
' my son edgar !
now play him me , patroclus , arming to answer in a night alarm .
we talk here in the public haunt of men .
have hands that pilgrims ' hands do touch , and palm to palm is holy palmers ' kiss .
she i kill ' d !
what wretched errors hath my heart committed , whilst it hath thought it self so blessed never !
: i shall never move thee in french , unless it be to laugh at me .
go to , then ; we ' ll use this unwholesome humidity , this gross wat ' ry pumpion ;
exit running .
trumpeters , with brazen din blast you the city ' s ear ; make mingle with our rattling tabourines ,
crave your pardon .
want no mistress ford , master brook ; you shall want none .
thee merited than a band of clotens had ever scar for .
he did fashion after the inveterate hate he bears you .
ah , if thou issueless shalt hap to die , the world will wail thee like a makeless wife ,
come , come , lavinia ; look , thy foes are bound .
a respite wherein he might the king his lord advertise whether our daughter were legitimate , respecting this our marriage
i will example it : the fox , the ape , and the humble-bee , were still at odds ,
i will forget my nature .
say thou ' no , ' this sword , this arm , and my best spirits are bent to prove
shall marry her .
now good digestion wait on appetite , and health on both !
is not better directions .
and part in just proportion our small power .
no , sir ; that were fast , and loose .
what fire is in mine ears ?
believe me , sister , of all the men alive i never yet beheld that special face which i could
of mine own making ; and what , indeed , i should say will , i doubt , prove mine
third stranger .
an if it please thee !
exit westmoreland now , falstaff , where have you been all this while ?
txt so much for that .
what answer makes your grace to the rebels ' supplication ?
scope affords .
god bye you , princes all ; i ' ll to my charge .
go , go , poor soul ; i envy not thy glory .
the purpose is perspicuous even as substance whose grossness little characters sum up ; and , in the publication ,
by this wine , i ' ll thrust my knife in your mouldy chaps , an you play the saucy
[aside] and yet i must .
' d sleep from my enthralled eyes and made them watchers of mine own heart ' s sorrow .
exeunt enter the lords to richmond sitting in his tent lords .
yes , by heaven !
then half signior benedick ' s tongue in count john ' s mouth , and half count john ' s
not half so bad as thine to england ' s king , injurious duke , that threatest where ' s
before the common distribution at your only choice .
and dion , whom you know of stuff ' d sufficiency .
txt hath sorted out a sudden day of joy that thou expects not nor i look ' d not for
i prate , and the most noble mother of the world leave unsaluted .
i tell thee , pandarus- when i do tell thee there my hopes lie drown ' d , reply not
even now , now , very now , an old black ram is tupping your white ewe .
i fear neither sword nor fire .
i ' ll see that straight .
here ' s france and burgundy , my noble lord .
custom calls me to ' t .
sir , here comes the nobleman that committed the prince for striking him about bardolph .
- bless thy sweet eyes , they bleed .
hastily lead away .
a street enter viola and malvolio at several doors malvolio .
o my sweet lord , that you will stay behind us !
hand ?
women like beasts , we shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard .
so , now y ' are fairly seated .
groaning underneath this age ' s yoke , have wish ' d that noble brutus had his eyes .
tell me , apollo , for thy daphne ' s love , what cressid is , what pandar , and
beaten for loyalty excited me to treason .
a year .
now , fellow , fare thee well .
would all other women could speak this with as free a soul as i do !
' tis far off , and rather like a dream than an assurance that my remembrance warrants .
the plague of company light upon thee !
why , what concerns his freedom unto me ?
the time is free .
i am call ' d dercetas ; mark antony i serv ' d , who best was worthy best to
you have suborn ' d this man of purpose to obscure my noble birth .
refrain to-night , and that shall lend a kind of easiness to the next abstinence ; the next more easy
plains in gascony enter york , with trumpet and many soldiers .
our general cast us thus early for the love of his desdemona ; who let us not therefore blame .
to wife ?
and rosaline they call her .
come , we ' ll obey you .
noses , ears , and lips .
he would not ?
th ' ambition in my love thus plagues itself : the hind that would be mated by the lion must
love her , angelo ; i have confess ' d her , and i know her virtue .
is he not light of brain ?
i am but grace .
that can never be .
how ceremonious , solemn , and unearthly , it was i ' th ' off ' ring !
do you consent we shall acquaint him with it , as needful in our loves , fitting our duty ?
come , some music !
less young , more strong , not beneath him in fortunes , beyond him in the advantage of the time
have patience , madam ; there ' s no doubt his majesty will soon recover his accustom ' d health
if i had a monopoly out , they would have part on ' t .
it ; whereupon , after a little amazedness , we were all commanded out of the chamber ; only this
enter bardolph how now , bardolph !
, in right of arthur , do i claim of thee ; wilt thou resign them and lay down thy
my pulse , and with no face , as ' twere , outfacing me , cries out i was possess
' boy ' !
your statue spouting blood in many pipes , in which so many smiling romans bathed , signifies that from you
the guise of russians moth .
his insolence draws folly from my lips ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, and all men ' s ears grew to his tunes .
hamlet , this pearl is thine ; here ' s to thy health .
he shall submit , or i will never yield .
deep shame had struck me dumb , made me break off , and those thy fears might have wrought fears
such ; and , as you say , there was ' a gaming ; there o ' ertook in '
why then , i care not for thee .
do become your physician .
let there be no noise made , my gentle friends ; unless some dull and favourable hand will whisper music
the king is not himself , but basely led by flatterers ; and what they will inform , merely in
she ' s dead .
why , what a monstrous fellow art thou , thus to rail on one that ' s neither known of
untutor ' d lad , thou art too malapert .
you have earn ' d them .
no more that thane of cawdor shall deceive our bosom interest .
messenger .
hence , prating peasant !
i led him off , persuaded him from any further act ; but still where danger was , still there
i prithee , sister kate , untie my hands .
she is .
enter ariel ariel .
from a god to a bull ?
absence .
the lady beatrice hath a quarrel to you .
no doubt they rose up early to observe the rite of may ; and , hearing our intent , came
the french ambassador upon that instant crav ' d audience ; and the hour , i think , is come
thou bring ' st good news : i am call ' d to be made free .
them , cut this head off from my shoulders .
enter lucio lucio .
what sayest thou ?
but how comes it he is to sojourn with you ?
murtherer ' s gibbet throw into the flame .
why , that ' s nothing ; and he begin once , he ' ll rail in his rope-tricks .
further revenge ?
come on , sir ; i shall now put you to the height of your breeding .
good signior leonato , are you come to meet your trouble ?
ay , casca , tell us what hath chanced today that caesar looks so sad .
txt cominius .
no , my lord , my humble duty rememb ' red , i will not be your suitor .
we meet like men that had forgot to speak .
farewell .
madam , i wish it may .
endeavour thyself to sleep , and leave thy vain bibble-babble .
garret one night , as we were scouring my lord of york ' s armour .
lose that they combine not there .
the prince of wales .
then let us say you are sad because you are not merry ; and ' twere as easy for you
i shall entreat him to answer like himself .
thy life answer !
night ' s body be called thieves of the day ' s beauty .
mars his true moving , even as in the heavens so in the earth , to this day is not
the way they be not fought withal .
, his fines , his double vouchers , his recoveries .
for i am he .
i wot well where he is .
yet for the outside of thy poverty we must make an exchange ; therefore discase thee instantly- thou must think
enter the king and his train , the lord chief justice among them falstaff .
to brutus clitus , " " " claudio , " " " strato , " " " lucius , "
d , canonized , and worshipp ' d as a saint , that takes away by any secret course thy
go , lead the way ; i long to see my prison .
fierce dragons ' spleens- have sold their fortunes at their native homes , bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs
from forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept a hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death .
then you have lost a sight which was to be seen , cannot be spoken of .
most absolute lord , my mistress cleopatra sent me to thee .
nay , then i see that edward needs must down .
fame , at the which he aims- in whom already he is well grac ' d- cannot better be held
so loud ; repair thy wit , good youth , or it will fall to cureless ruin .
nothing , madam .
what woman ' s man , and how besides thyself ?
' tis death for any one in mantua to come to padua .
is there yet another dotes upon rib-breaking ?
this is the third time ; i hope good luck lies in odd numbers .
whence hast thou this becoming of things ill , that in the very refuse of thy deeds , there is
pronounce free pardon to them all that will forsake thee and go home in peace .
see you , my princes and my noble peers , these english monsters !
no , no ; and therefore we ' ll have his head .
why are you silent ?
i will have my revenge ere i depart his house .
by good euriphile , our mother .
there ' s my cap .
a merry song , come .
ay , too gentle .
txt my gorgeous palace for a hermitage , my gay apparel for an almsman ' s gown , my figur
what harmony is this ?
be still thy true love ' s recompense .
enter somerset somerset .
the people ' s enemy is gone , is gone !
now shine it like a comet of revenge , a prophet to the fall of all our foes !
is there not wars ?
that they lack ; for if their heads had any intellectual armour , they could never wear such heavy head-pieces
thence me and thy crying self .
until life ' s composition be recured , by those swift messengers returned from thee , who even but now
towers , whose wanton tops do buss the clouds , must kiss their own feet .
peace be with burgundy !
it suffices me thou art .
do kiss the most exalted shores of all .
no soldier .
sir thomas lovell , i as free forgive you as i would be forgiven .
sir nicholas gawsey hath for succour sent , and so hath clifton .
i do not shame to tell you what i was , since my conversion so sweetly tastes , being the
what would these strangers ?
my lady goes to kill horns ; but , if thou marry , hang me by the neck , if
the actors are come hither , my lord .
their dear loss , the more of you ' twas felt , the more it shap ' d unto my
and that i have not heard examin ' d .
england , impatient of your just demands , hath put himself in arms .
bolingbroke my gracious uncle , let me know my fault ; on what condition stands it and wherein ?
i prithee , do not hold me to mine oath ; bid me do anything but that , sweet greek
what says my sweet queen , my very very sweet queen ?
tell him i ' ll none of it .
no , so god help me , they spake not a word ; but , like dumb statues or breathing
' d .
now is the time of help ; your eye in scotland would create soldiers , make our women fight ,
i think it well , my lord .
enter richard richard .
_num_ shall i compare thee to a summer ' s day ?
sir michael , a friend to the archbishop of york .
at every putting by mine honest neighbors shouted .
pray you , sir , do you know of this matter ?
, an envious emulator of every man ' s good parts , a secret and villainous contriver against me his
why , he drinks you with facility your dane dead drunk ; he sweats not to overthrow your almain ;
therefore no more , but to the matter !
let this be so .
there ' s something in ' t more than my father ' s skill , which was the great '
but who comes here , led by a lusty goth ?
[exit caius] my husband will not rejoice so much at the abuse of falstaff as he will chafe at the
em ; but for every trifle are they set upon me ; sometime like apes that mow and chatter at
rosalind lacks , then , the love which teacheth thee that thou and i am one .
to pass , as most like it was .
we ' ll part the time between ' s then ; and in that i ' ll no gainsaying .
it in might , not merit .
[exit davy] where are you , sir john ?
truly , sir , all that i live by is with the awl ; i meddle with no tradesman '
come , officer , away .
here is the sister of the man condemn ' d desires access to you .
o pretty isabella , i am pale at mine heart to see thine eyes so red .
but why stands macbeth thus amazedly ?
soldiership .
; there ' s not a hollow cave or lurking-place , no vast obscurity or misty vale , where bloody
why art thou patient , man ?
stand up , good canterbury ; thy truth and thy integrity is rooted in us , thy friend .
mine can pluck the diadem from faint henry ' s head and wring the awful sceptre from his fist ,
txt because you are not sad .
you were as flow ' rs , now wither ' d .
father did , giving no ground unto the house of york , they never then had sprung like summer flies
blow !
are the horses ready ?
there is no crossing him in ' s humour , else i should tell him- well i ' faith ,
, and puts himself in posture that acts my words .
what weapons is he ?
re-enter lafeu lafeu .
i ' ll seem the fool i am not .
as freely , son , as god did give her me .
so thou , that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee , with urging helpless patience would relieve me ;
sweet now , silence ; juno and ceres whisper seriously .
let him go up into the public chair ; we ' ll hear him .
home-bred hate ; nor never by advised purpose meet to plot , contrive , or complot any ill , '
he ' s fall ' n in love with your foulness , and she ' ll fall in love with
polixenes .
were but his picture left amongst you here , it would amaze the proudest of you all .
this is as ' t should be .
thus out of season , threading dark-ey ' d night .
not now , sweet desdemona ; some other time .
what would my potent master ?
tell him the daughter of the king of france , on serious business , craving quick dispatch , importunes personal
out upon him !
we doubt not of a fair and lucky war , since god so graciously hath brought to light this dangerous
a fool ; the second mads him ; and a third drowns him .
in his bright radiance and collateral light must i be comforted , not in his sphere .
which is the least ?
all but metellus cimber , and he ' s gone to seek you at your house .
cross his humour .
you do the nobler .
txt devis ' d at first to keep the strong in awe .
seal then , and all is done .
but half sense .
look ' st thou pale , france ?
sweet men , come to him .
i know they do , and i have well deserv ' d it .
all those which were his fellows but of late- some better than his value- on the moment follow his strides
rock , which being violently borne upon , our helpful ship was splitted in the midst ; so that ,
tell him he must awake , and that quickly too .
thou liest , thou shag-ear ' d villain !
i would it were no worse .
you take your pennyworths now !
margaret my name , and daughter to a king , the king of naples-whosoe ' er thou art .
exit ariel awake , dear heart , awake ; thou hast slept well ; awake .
but is ?
[within] mome , malt-horse , capon , coxcomb , idiot , patch !
how know ' st thou this ?
any penny tribute paid .
' tis torture , and not mercy .
' duchess .
what horse ?
moan ?
crew are gone to frustrate both his oath and what beside may make against the house of lancaster .
but let my favours hide thy mangled face ; and , even in thy behalf , i ' ll thank
nous fishes do a vessel follow that is new-trimm ' d , but benefit no further than vainly longing .
harm have i done to them , but ne ' er was harmed ; kept hearts in liveries , but
but are not some whole that we must make sick ?
this new and gorgeous garment , majesty , sits not so easy on me as you think .
two or three groan ; it is a heavy night .
enter morton northumberland .
i credit her false-speaking tongue , on both sides thus is simple truth suppressed : but wherefore says she not
men ' s names : ' tis too respective and too sociable for your conversion .
and aid me in this enterprise !
and kindly creatures turn all to serpents !
another service ; for many so arrive at second masters upon their first lord ' s neck .
to see him kiss his hand , and how most sweetly ' a will swear !
to you , my noble lord of westmoreland .
he should have liv ' d , save that his riotous youth , with dangerous sense , might in the
another part of the fortifications .
come , suffolk , i must waft thee to thy death .
fight .
other mad without any .
it almost turns my dangerous nature mild .
so upward and upward , and all was as cold as any stone .
your ocean all among .
an ' twere not as good deed as drink to break the pate on thee , i am a very
touching this vision here , it is an honest ghost , that let me tell you .
i ' ll be at charges for a looking-glass , and entertain a score or two of tailors to study
six or seven thousand is their utmost power .
where dwell you , pretty youth ?
steel enter benvolio .
you , in the right of lady blanch your wife , may then make all the claim that arthur did
until your further time of trial .
you three serve three usurers ?
and when this arm of mine hath chastised the petty rebel , dull-brain ' d buckingham , page _num_ complete
alack , sir , no !
foul weather ?
mamillius .
begin to dazzle .
now antony must leave her utterly .
coriolanus must i can thee ?
i ' ll see thee hang ' d on sunday first .
to wail the title , as her mother doth .
we will do it ; let him be sent for to-morrow eight o ' clock , to have amends .
cassius .
whose honourable thoughts- thoughts high for one so tender- cleft the heart that could conceive a gross and foolish sire
i will come to your worship to-morrow morning .
he uses his folly like a stalking-horse , and under the presentation of that he shoots his wit : enter
i shall not need transport my words by you ; here comes his grace in person .
the ireful bastard orleans , that drew blood from thee , my boy , and had the maidenhood of thy
so please it you , my lord , ' twere not amiss he were created knight for his good service
[reads] ' with a small compass ' d cape ' - grumio .
at last , a little shaking of mine arm , and thrice his head thus waving up and down ,
s now .
i ' ll do ' t , my lord .
if thou be ' st valiant- as they say base men being in love have then a nobility in their
i then did use the person of your father ; the image of his power lay then in me ;
[all sleep but alonso , sebastian and antonio] alonso .
re-enter servant .
let us be sacrificers , but not butchers , caius .
' tis hot , ' tis hot .
place or know not what we are .
[looking at the jewel] ' tis a good form .
why , didst thou not come from heaven ?
i cannot too much muse such shapes , such gesture , and such sound , expressing , although they want
i am not weary , and ' tis long to night ; i pray you , let us satisfy our
we have , my liege .
not so much hold , nor need i tallies thy dear love to score , therefore to give them from
to-morrow is the day .
it lies in you , my lord , to bring me in some grace , for you did bring me
, in every cabin , i flam ' d amazement .
to say ' ay ' and ' no ' to everything i said !
an it be not four by the day , i ' ll be hang ' d .
the bruit is hector ' s slain , and by achilles .
why , i say , my lords , has done fair service , and slain in fight many of your
harry the sixth bids thee despair and die .
strew ' d it in the common ear , and so it is received .
of the king , beside , a thousand pounds by th ' year : thus runs the bill .
third roman .
txt dramatis personae solinus , duke of ephesus aegeon , a merchant of syracuse antipholus of ephesus twin brothers and
a thousand more mischances than this one have learn ' d me how to brook this patiently .
ha , ha , excellent !
you would say so , master , if your garments were thin .
and be laugh ' d at .
shout .
i do not like the office ; but sith i am enter ' d in this cause so far ,
honour against the romans with cassibelan , but had his titles by tenantius , whom he serv ' d with
d up with mud , and the quaint mazes in the wanton green , for lack of tread , are
then on , my lords ; and france be fortunate !
value , differing in the owners , are prized by their masters .
' for to serve bravely is to come halting off ; you know , to come off the breach with
' antipholus of ephesus .
in that dead time when gloucester ' s death was plotted i heard you say ' is not my arm
to tell thee whence thou cam ' st , of whom deriv ' d , were shame enough to shame
therefore hear it , antony .
, it shapes them to your feature .
come , go with me , peruse this as thou goest ; fair jessica shall be my torch-bearer .
seyton !
o , my dear orlando , how it grieves me to see thee wear thy heart in a scarf !
if it be fond , can it a woman ' s fear ; which fear if better reasons can supplant
my riches are these poor habiliments , of which if you should here disfurnish me , you take the sum
i your lady , sir john ?
txt appear ' d to me , with other spritely shows of mine own kindred .
fields near saint albans alarum .
hastings and rivers , take each other ' s hand ; dissemble not your hatred , swear your love .
friar , not i ; i have been drinking hard all night , and i will have more time to
enter a troop of citizens menenius .
a word .
belike the elder ; clarence will have the younger .
well bandied both ; a set of wit well play ' d .
for shame , put on your gown ; your heart is burst , you have lost half your soul ;
[as the spirit speaks , southwell writes the answer] bolingbroke .
: i grant i never saw a goddess go , my mistress when she walks treads on the ground .
ride in triumph over all mischance .
death of one person can be paid but once , and that she has discharg ' d .
a good old man , sir ; he will be talking .
who said he came hurt home to-day ?
her beauty i commend my vows , she bids me think how i have been forsworn in breaking faith with
have you any levers to lift me up again , being down ?
my tongue should stumble in mine earnest words , mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint , mine hair
' cardinal .
a mile where my land and living lies ; and , having flown over many knavish professions , he settled
nay , come not near th ' old man .
dear sovereign , hear me speak .
others .
you , my lord , under the conduct of young lancaster and westmoreland .
fie on thee , wretch !
there , tyrant , there !
thou that threw ' st dust upon his goodly head , when through proud london he came sighing on after
i am meat for your master .
s head horrors accumulate ; do deeds to make heaven weep , all earth amazed ; for nothing canst thou
when his disguise and he is parted , tell me what a sprat you shall find him ; which you
call me but love , and i ' ll be new baptiz ' d ; henceforth i never will be
it alter not love ' s sole effect , yet doth it steal sweet hours from love ' s delight
the cognizance of her incontinency is this : she hath bought the name of whore thus dearly .
thou wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts , having no other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes
do you hear me , and let this count kill me .
westminster hall enter , as to the parliament , bolingbroke , aumerle , northumberland , percy , fitzwater , surrey
patience perforce with wilful choler meeting makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting .
for anything .
nay , i ' ll give my word for her too : our kindred , though they be long ere
apply a moral medicine to a mortifying mischief .
as a little snow , tumbled about , anon becomes a mountain .
how now , sweetheart , who ' s at home besides yourself ?
this day all quarrels die , andronicus ; and let it be mine honour , good my lord , that
there is means , madam .
[lays him in the tomb .
enough !
exeunt [lear and cordelia , guarded] .
you know the course is common .
hoy-day , what a sweep of vanity comes this way !
a battery .
antony , the posture of your blows are yet unknown ; but for your words , they rob the hybla
anything , he cares not ; an the devil come to him , it ' s all one .
to the sweet julia .
a soul rememb ' ring my good friends ; and as my fortune ripens with thy love , it shall
ay , that ' s my name .
' pray thee let me in .
[beating him] out of my door , you witch , you hag , you .
kisses her .
richard hath best deserv ' d of all my sons .
honours , shall say against their hearts ' we thank the gods our rome hath such a soldier .
yes , but it held not ; for when the king once heard it , out of anger he sent
he that but fears the thing he would not know hath by instinct knowledge from others ' eyes that what
, and soon and safe arrived where i was .
now , as can be offert ; in your conscience , now , is it not ?
i make them !
i have offended reputation- a most unnoble swerving .
enter warwick warwick .
our prerogative calls not your counsels ; but our natural goodness imparts this ; which , if you- or stupified
his head is off and sent to angelo .
thy nephews ' souls bid thee despair and die .
give us some music ; and , good cousin , sing .
an if my hand be out , then belike your hand is in .
with one hand beats cold death aside and with the other sends it back to tybalt , whose dexterity retorts
or , if i live , is it not very like the horrible conceit of death and night , together
o god , your only jig-maker !
is it not hard , nerissa , that i cannot choose one , nor refuse none ?
[kisses titus] these sorrowful drops upon thy blood-stain ' d face , the last true duties of thy noble son
_num_ whoever hath her wish , thou hast thy will , and ' will ' to boot , and '
england for itself .
then will i swear beauty herself is black , and all they foul that thy complexion lack .
goer-back .
rather on nilus ' mud lay me stark-nak ' d , and let the water-flies blow me into abhorring !
welcome , you !
we are beholding to you , good andronicus .
" cassius .
he calls for drink , i ' ll have prepar ' d him a chalice for the nonce ; whereon
he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds and sails upon the bosom of the air .
d walls can hide you from our messengers of war , though all these english and their discipline were harbour
his heart , to bring it into danger .
let us deal justly .
a swine ; ' tis pretty ; it is well .
benedick , a young lord of padua .
o , in the battle think on buckingham , and die in terror of thy guiltiness !
tell you you in your throat , if you say i am any other than an honest man .
for our advantage ; therefore hear us first .
and yet i know not- thou didst hate her deadly , and she is dead ; which nothing , but
anew .
[enter nurse .
why , i pray you ?
if this should fall , and that our drift look through our bad performance .
they are all couch ' d in a pit hard by heme ' s oak , with obscur ' d
o , why rebuke you him that loves you so ?
this is some changeling .
o that i were a mockery king of snow , standing before the sun of bolingbroke to melt myself away
present fears are less than horrible imaginings : my thought , whose murther yet is but fantastical , shakes so
why , this fellow hath banish ' d two on ' s daughters , and did the third a blessing
what , at your book so hard ?
i think there ' s no man speaks better welsh .
i ' ll bring you to him .
a boatswain master .
here , my lord .
i heard thee speak me a speech once , but it was never acted ; or if it was ,
empress i am , but yonder sits the emperor .
and there , troop home to churchyards .
fellow grumio !
his is the right , and therefore pardon me .
compounded it with dust , whereto ' tis kin .
have with thee , pole .
txt enter sir andrew aguecheek aguecheek .
remember , boys , i pour ' d forth tears in vain to save your brother from the sacrifice ;
thus will i fold them one upon another ; now kiss , embrace , contend , do what you will
his title , smooths the wrong , inferreth arguments of mighty strength , and in conclusion wins the king from
the wind sits in the shoulder of your sail , and you are stay ' d for .
rest on my word , and let not discontent daunt all your hopes .
, whiles a more frosty people sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields- poor we call them in
peace in this prison !
ride , ride , messala , ride , and give these bills unto the legions on the other side .
as ' twixt a miser and his wealth is found .
she ' s a fool to stay behind her father .
he says , my lord , your daughter is not well .
ish a villain , and a bastard , and a knave , and a rascal .
helen of greece was fairer far than thou , although thy husband may be menelaus ; and ne ' er
but this place is too cold for hell .
before me !
prayer have they been held up , and they have serv ' d me to effectless use .
; pernicious protector , dangerous peer , that smooth ' st it so with king and commonweal .
let us be satisfied !
me , now to deliver her possession up on terms of base compulsion !
and what hast thou there under thy cloak , pretty flaminius ?
well then , i am the shooter .
the money shall be paid back again with advantage .
i say , amen .
avaunt , thou witch !
with ne ' er a tooth in her head , though she has as many diseases as two and fifty
then though my heart ' s content firm love doth bear , nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear
this is my charge .
it is reported that he has taken their great ' st commander ; and that with his own hand he
let not the virgin ' s cheek make soft thy trenchant sword ; for those milk paps that through the
for ' t ; being press ' d to th ' war even when the navel of the state was
txt enter seyton .
was hang ' d with tapestry of silk and silver ; the story , proud cleopatra when she met her
behold her that gave aim to all thy oaths , and entertain ' d ' em deeply in her heart
your majesty hath been this fortnight ill ; and these unseasoned hours perforce must ad unto your sickness .
why should i war without the walls of troy that find such cruel battle here within ?
i-not all so much for love as for another secret close intent by marrying her which i must reach unto
your good worship is welcome .
our father ' s love is to the bastard edmund as to th ' legitimate .
i shall be with you presently , good master puppy .
return for conscience ' sake , to help to get thee a wife .
but let your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my trial ; wherein if i be foil
of feather in our host- good argument , i hope , we will not fly- and time hath worn us
the several colours we do wear .
it is engend ' red in the eyes , with gazing fed ; and fancy dies in the cradle where
yet i am sworn , and i did purpose , boy , with this same very iron to burn them
as one relying on your lordship ' s will , and not depending on his friendly wish .
for if the king like not the comedy , why then , belike he likes it not , perdy .
and is ' t not to be damn ' d to let this canker of our nature come in further
we ' ll wait upon you .
alone as secret as i may .
i pray thee , jack , i pray thee , do not draw .
my brother had but justice , in that he did the thing for which he died ; for angelo ,
i will , my lord .
belike it hath some burden then .
o wonderful son , that can so stonish a mother !
o gull !
madam , myself have lim ' d a bush for her , and plac ' d a quire of such
let us on heaps go offer up our lives .
did this companion with the saffron face revel and feast it at my house to-day , whilst upon me the
but cuckold !
met here both to thank and to remember with honours like himself .
what , a knave too ?
love ; and with the vantage of mine own excuse hath he excepted most against my love .
for a bark .
the princess is the better english-woman .
quarrel no more , but be prepar ' d to know the purposes i bear ; which are , or
camp before florence enter bertram , and the two french lords second lord .
as i remember , adam , it was upon this fashion bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns
but i consider by med ' cine ' life may be prolong ' d , yet death will seize the
go to , go to ; no matter for the dish , sir .
for my sake be comfortable ; hold death awhile at the page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
by my troth , ' s not so good , and i warrant your cousin will say so .
i do desire it .
old man loves money , with no stomach .
yet the first bringer of unwelcome news hath but a losing office , and his tongue sounds ever after as
but yet i would your father had been here .
and unmatched force the aweless lion could not wage the fight nor keep his princely heart from richard ' s
i am for you .
] how now , roderigo !
a book ?
[trumpets cease] diomedes .
re-enter pandarus with cressida pandarus .
' d , as he thinks , with excellencies that it is his grounds of faith that all that look
but your news is not true .
enter erpingham good morrow , old sir thomas erpingham : a good soft pillow for that good white head were
offender ' s scourge is weigh ' d , but never the offence .
say , is my kingdom lost ?
mistress , dispatch you with your safest haste , and get you from our court .
[exit iago .
senseless brands will sympathize the heavy accent of thy moving tongue , and in compassion weep the fire out ;
the lamb , vary deserved praise on my palfrey .
well as jove .
had he a hand to write this ?
be simple-answer ' d , for we know the truth .
here is a letter found in the pocket of the slain roderigo , and here another .
so true a fool is love , that in your will , (though you do any thing) he thinks no
o love !
another part of the plain enter achilles , with myrmidons achilles .
nor night nor day no rest !
you shall ha ' it , worthy sir .
the voice of cassio ; iago keeps his word .
but manhood is melted into cursies , valour into compliment , and men are only turn ' d into tongue
more in them than mortal knowledge .
swing ' d , i ' ll forswear half-kirtles .
' tis a fault i will not change for your best virtue .
the fairest is confession .
and died so ?
and tell him this from me : i count it one of my greatest afflictions , say , that i
do it presently .
but i do bend my speech to one that can my part in him advertise .
not all together ; better far , i guess , that we do make our entrance several ways ; that
but what will you be call ' d ?
through this the well-beloved brutus stabb ' d ; and as he pluck ' d his cursed steel away ,
[aside] and in that time shall master slender steal my nan away , and marry her at eton .
another way i have to man my haggard , to make her come , and know her keeper ' s
give me a case to put my visage in .
find him , and bring him hither .
and i ' ll still stay , to have thee still forget , forgetting any other home but this .
more feet than the verses would bear .
may we be gone ?
alas , look here , my lord !
i ' ll go along , no such sight to be shown , but to rejoice in splendour of my
set down the basket , villain !
' tis safer to be that which we destroy than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy .
, ne ' er so tame , so cherish ' d and lock ' d up , will have a
oath .
i fear ' tis deepest winter in lord timon ' s purse ; that is , one may reach deep
-how do you , cousin ?
you see this fellow that is gone before ; he is a soldier fit to stand by caesar and give
the sun doth gild our armour ; up , my lords !
when he is gone , i would on great occasion speak with you .
grandsire , ' tis ovid ' s metamorphoses ; my mother gave it me .
enter catesby catesby .
if he be old enough , what needs your grace to be protector of his excellence ?
a dreadful oath , sworn with a solemn tongue !
come with my lady hither .
events can never fall out good .
and be pitied , let gentleness my strong enforcement be ; in the which hope i blush , and hide
best of dearest , and mine only care , art left the prey of every vulgar thief .
be in suffering .
now , brother of gloucester , lord hastings , and the rest , stand you thus close to steal the
here , quite confounded with this mutiny .
can for them all three , for so i have promis ' d , and i ' ll be as
seas and shores between my father and my mother lay , as i have heard my father speak himself ,
no , i am promised forth .
an inviting eye ; and yet methinks right modest .
_num_ who is it that says most , which can say more , than this rich praise , that you
if you will swear you have not done ' t , you lie ; and i will kill thee if
we ' ll set thy statue in some holy place , and have thee reverenc ' d like a blessed
our heralds go with him : bring me just notice of the numbers dead on both our parts .
enter lancaster , clarence , gloucester , westmoreland , and others warwick .
may be betray ' d with trees , and bears with glasses , elephants with holes , lions with toils
incline , what ' s mine is yours , and what is yours is mine .
thy lord ' s a bountiful gentleman ; but thou art wise , and thou know ' st well enough
when we withdrew , my liege , we left it here .
that you are no fool .
an you ' ll come to supper tonight , you may ; an you will not , come when you
whence grows this insolence ?
a madman ?
enter egeus , and his daughter hermia , lysander , and demetrius egeus .
nay , nay , let rape and murder stay with me , or else i ' ll call my brother
my lords , i do beseech you , know me .
he left behind him myself and a sister , both born in an hour ; if the heavens had been
but ere we go , regard this dying prince , the valiant duke of bedford .
nor are they such that these great tow ' rs , trophies , and schools , should fall for private
grandam , i will pray , if ever i remember to be holy , for your fair safety .
then , since this earth affords no joy to me but to command , to check , to o '
[aside to troilus] follow his torch ; he goes to calchas ' tent ; i ' ll keep you company
alack , for mercy !
that be made more bitter .
shall support by his dear absence .
well , he is gone ; and with him go these thoughts !
berowne .
; but we pay them for it with stamped coin , not stabbing steel ; therefore they do not give
hew them to pieces , hack their bones asunder , whose life was england ' s glory , gallia '
go thy ways , old jack , die when thou wilt ; if manhood , good manhood , be not
' tis a peascod , or a codling when ' tis almost an apple ; ' tis with him in
why , right !
what cannot be avoided ' twere childish weakness to lament or fear .
both by myself and many other friend ; but he , his own affections ' counsellor , is to himself-
no , i ' ll none of you .
will you sing ?
poison , i see , hath been his timeless end .
or say , sweet love , what thou desirest to eat .
do not deny to him that you love me .
the gain i seek is quiet in the match .
we are no tell-tales , madam , fear you not .
i did not send you .
s brother ' s son , now by my sceptre ' s awe i make a vow , such neighbour
he might have died in war .
pray you trust me here .
whom thou dost hate .
o , thou art deceiv ' d !
here , but prayers .
thus far our fortune keeps an upward course , and we are grac ' d with wreaths of victory .
how now , cassio !
some of them will fall to-morrow , i hope .
" hor .
soft , take thy physic first ; thou too , and thou .
the merciless macdonwald- worthy to be a rebel , for to that the multiplying villainies of nature do swarm upon
welcome , dread fury , to my woeful house .
go before into the park ; we two must go together .
as if it had lungs , and rotten ones .
here , youth , there is my purse ; i give thee this for thy sweet mistress ' sake ,
to fly .
good boy , in virgo ' s lap !
what may it be ?
a green-a box .
but , cousin , what if we assay ' d to steal the clownish fool out of your father '
i ' ll interrupt his reading .
yet , though thou stand ' st more sure than i could do , thou art not firm enough ,
i have brought count claudio , whom you sent me to seek .
villainy , take your rapier .
god grant him health !
thou shalt die .
a sweet woman !
this youthful parcel of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing , o ' er whom both sovereign power and father
admired ?
you stubborn ancient knave , you reverent braggart , we ' ll teach you- kent .
how do you now ?
, thy safety being the motive .
' tis true ; she rides me , and i long for grass .
txt ' a can carve too , and lisp ; why this is he that kiss ' d his hand
therefore our sometime sister , now our queen , th ' imperial jointress to this warlike state , have we
then , in the name of god and all these rights , advance your standards , draw your willing swords
i am not married , caesar .
madam , ' tis now in tune .
grant that , and then is death a benefit ; so are we caesar ' s friends that have abridged
or thou not false like him ?
but to her love concerneth us to ad her father ' s liking ; which to bring to pass ,
read it , great caesar .
answered .
our last king , whose image even but now appear ' d to us , was , as you know
this story shall the good man teach his son ; and crispin crispian shall ne ' er go by ,
i am bound to thee , reverend feeble .
enter three soldiers : john bates , alexander court , and michael williams court .
of haunt this mad young man .
i do pity his distress in my similes of comfort , and leave him to your lordship .
he came , one ; saw , two ; overcame , three .
ancient , what makes he here ?
, if not so , until the sun be set .
servilius .
>> _num_ king john by william shakespeare dramatis personae king john prince henry , his son arthur , duke of
, a wandering hair , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
make pastime with us a day or two , or longer .
have i my pillow left unpress ' d in rome , forborne the getting of a lawful race , and
it is plain pocketing up of wrongs .
ay , hand from hand , my love , and heart from heart .
o , pity , god , this miserable age !
i will deal in poison with thee , or in bastinado , or in steel ; i will bandy with
in jest .
into me with considerate eyes .
give me the letter , sir .
nay , an thou ' lt mouth , i ' ll rant as well as thou .
th ' heels , and suddenly ; and on your heads clap round fines for neglect .
go , faulconbridge ; now hast thou thy desire : a landless knight makes thee a landed squire .
i ' ll drown more sailors than the mermaid shall ; i ' ll slay more gazers than the basilisk
why , i can teach you , cousin , to command the devil .
i could marry this wench for this device .
better at home , if ' would i might ' were ' may .
what fool is this ?
, common suitors , will crowd a feeble man almost to death .
and pay again when i have found it .
side , his youthful hose , well sav ' d , a world too wide for his shrunk shank ;
we must speak by the card , or equivocation will undo us .
why , doctor she !
i knew it would be your answer .
[aside] i cannot daub it further .
that screws me from my true place in your favour , live you the marble-breasted tyrant still ; but this
this royal infant-heaven still move about her !
a shrew and charm her chattering tongue .
call that same isabel here once again ; i would speak with her .
witness the hole you made in caesar ' s heart , crying " long live !
thanks , guildenstern and gentle rosencrantz .
tongue , lose thy light ; moon , take thy flight .
thank you-wondrous heavy !
txt then torture my wife , pluck the borrowed veil of modesty from the so seeming mistress page , divulge
will you go ?
rest that you shall rest but little .
to our proceedings .
c ; to weep , like a young wench that had buried her grandam ; to fast , like one
sow ' d cockle reap ' d no corn , and justice always whirls in equal measure .
the duke knows him for no other but a poor officer of mine ; and writ to me this other
thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel .
that man i ' th ' world who shall report he has a better wife , let him in nought
fast to your affection , still close as sure .
' s son ; that blood already , like the pelican , hast thou tapp ' d out , and
take not away the taper , leave it burning ; and if thou canst awake by four o ' th
he could not miss ' t .
counterfeit , but the true and perfect image of life indeed .
though they are of monstrous shape yet , note , their manners are more gentle-kind than of our human generation
bid me farewell .
all adoration , duty , and observance , all humbleness , all patience , and impatience , all purity ,
what though the mast be now blown overboard , the cable broke , the holding-anchor lost , and half our
] thy lips are warm !
greybeard , thy love doth freeze .
would he were gelt that had it , for my part , since you do take it , love ,
what think you on ' t ?
churchmen so hot ?
i am afeard there are few die well that die in a battle ; for how can they charitably dispose
exit with his train portia .
i am justly kill ' d with mine own treachery .
faith , i know more than i ' ll speak .
a street in westminster enter two gentlemen , meeting one another first gentleman .
octavius .
blow no sneaping winds at home , to make us say ' this is put forth too truly .
among ' em .
[drinks] caliban .
there rest .
and win them too ; therefore let us devise some entertainment for them in their tents .
for a cup of madeira and a cold capon ' s leg ?
falstaff will learn the humour of the age ; french thrift , you rogues ; myself , and skirted page
i swear to you i think helen loves him better than paris .
how had you been my friends else ?
here ent ' red pucelle and her practisants ; now she is there , how will she specify here is
he ' s married .
we will speak further .
_num_ o me !
he is in heaven , where thou shalt never come .
because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts , and what he hath scanted men in hair he
downwards to behold our cheeks how they are stain ' d , like meadows yet not dry with miry slime
good , yet remember whom thou hast aboard .
catesby returns mayor .
a crow without feather ?
, because in york this breeds suspicion ; and let these have a day appointed them for single combat in
thus have you breath ' d your curse against yourself .
his sword , which was declining on the milky head of reverend priam , seem ' d i ' th
marry ; i remember it well .
well , hal , well ; and in some sort it jumps with my humour as well as waiting in
in all her trim , freshly beheld our royal , good , and gallant ship ; our master cap '
[he whispers to the maskers] wolsey .
txt richard .
i would not take a knighthood for my fortune .
my dear ' st sister !
here , winchester , i offer thee my hand .
perfectly he is page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
dost thou love hawking ?
o kate , content thee ; prithee be not angry .
boyet , you can carve .
if you have any pity , grace , or manners , you would not make me such an argument .
seeing ill .
what now , my son !
if i did bear you ; for i think you have no money in your purse .
under whose government come they along ?
nay , if we talk of reason , let ' s shut our gates and sleep .
good lady and would not have knaves thrive long under her ?
my master sues to her ; and she hath taught her suitor , he being her pupil , to become
they may seize on the white wonder of dear juliet ' s hand and steal immortal blessing from her lips
when julius caesar- whose remembrance yet lives in men ' s eyes , and will to ears and tongues be
pay thy dower ; for i can guess that by thy honest aid thou kept ' st a wife herself
je te prie , m ' enseignez ; il faut que j ' apprenne a parler .
pray you now , forget and forgive .
wherein have i so deserv ' d of you that you extol me thus ?
assist me , knight ; i am undone .
your honour not o ' erthrown by your desires , i am friend to them and you .
nay , if the gentle spirit of moving words can no way change you to a milder form , i
christendom gives out .
' but ah , who ever shunned by precedent the destined ill she must herself assay ?
ne ' er stained with revolt ; fresh expectation troubled not the land with any long ' d-for change or
so shall i hope your virtues will bring him to his wonted way again , to both your honours .
as e ' er my mother did , and would not , but in fury , fright my youth ;
' en a hurt , did come to languish ; and , indeed , my lord , the wretched animal
you taught me how to know the face of right , acquainted me with interest to this land , yea
enow .
of the sea-water green , sir .
why , you whoreson round man , what ' s the matter ?
a good shallow young fellow .
wife .
twelve year since , miranda , twelve year since , thy father was the duke of milan , and a
they say one taurus .
this is the excellent foppery of the world , that , when we are sick in fortune , often the
then did they imitate that which i compos ' d to my courser ; for my horse is my mistress
entreat some power to change this currish jew .
pull ' t off , i say .
why , buckingham , i say i would be king .
so should he look that seems to speak things strange .
more than the world enjoys .
mercy and remorse , more strange than is thy strange apparent cruelty ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
an th ' hadst hated medlars sooner , thou shouldst have loved thyself better now .
frederick phebe , a shepherdes audrey , a country wench lords , pages , foresters , and attendants <<this electronic
this is the cause that i , poor margaret , with this my son , prince edward , henry '
faith , i intend so .
i am indeed , sir , a surgeon to old shoes ; when they are in great danger , i
the boy never need to understand any thing ; for ' tis not good that children should know any wickedness
accuser and the accused freely speak .
she has brown hair , and speaks small like a woman .
their throng and press to that last hold , confound themselves .
in me thou seest the twilight of such day , as after sunset fadeth in the west , which by
it is reported , mighty sovereign , that good duke humphrey traitorously is murd ' red by suffolk and the
o my lord , press not a falling man too far !
nay , let me have ' t ; i long .
and , madam , list to me , for i am bold to counsel you in this : although we
i cannot stay to hear these articles .
then why should they love edward more than me ?
; with my love ' s picture then my eye doth feast , and to the painted banquet bids my
if to be fat be to be hated , then pharaoh ' s lean kine are to be loved .
no , he ' s not himself .
ah , that thy father had been so resolv ' d !
where your good word cannot advantage him , your slander never can endamage him ; therefore the office is indifferent
[ they step aside .
how look you ?
exit re-enter iras , with a robe , crown , &c .
unchain your spirits now with spelling charms , and try if they can gain your liberty .
good night , ladies .
my fault being nothing- as i have told you oft- but that two villains , whose false oaths prevail '
now could thou and i rob the thieves and go merrily to london , it would be argument for a
eye aside , what need ' st thou wound with cunning when thy might is more than my o '
there was no thought of pleasing you when she was christen ' d .
, to the common ferry which trades to venice .
lay hold upon him , priam , hold him fast ; he is thy crutch ; now if thou lose
i am sorry thou wilt leave my father so .
my lord , will ' t please you to fall to ?
heavy son and private in his chamber pens himself , shuts up his windows , locks fair daylight and makes
give me thy knife , i will insult on him , flattering myself as if it were the moor come
i am the drudge , and toil in your delight ; but you shall bear the burthen soon at night
smelt , with that part cheers each part ; being tasted , slays all senses with the heart .
for what sum ?
there ' s a great abatement of kindness appears as well in the general dependants as in the duke himself
bid them farewell , cordelia , though unkind .
so i do , sir .
never talk of it .
hard , and full of rage , but music for the time doth change his nature .
but look you pray , all you that kiss my lady peace at home , that our armies join not
thus it must be .
, to find out shames and idle hours in me , the scope and tenure of thy jealousy ?
i have wasted myself out of my means .
warlike and martial talbot , burgundy enshrines thee in his heart , and there erects thy noble deeds as valour
is this the poultice for my aching bones ?
my lord , i say !
why , i can smile , and murder whiles i smile , and cry ' content !
what , talking with a priest , lord chamberlain !
give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me to this submission .
when you depart , and save your thanks .
why do you keep alone , of sorriest fancies your companions making , using those thoughts which should indeed have
nay , ' tis no matter , sir , what he ' leges in latin .
had made men , and not made them well , they imitated humanity so abominably .
' speed .
voices , strive to speak big , and clap their female joints in stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown ;
o , pardon me , my liege !
you should wear it in your cap .
ha ?
uncle , even in the glasses of thine eyes i see thy grieved heart .
that ' s certain ; i , for my part , knew the tailor that made the wings she flew
txt othello .
[to aumerle] we do debase ourselves , cousin , do we not , to look so poorly and to speak
<exeunt page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
was he not born of woman ?
something then in rhyme .
paris .
then show it me .
i do defy thee , france .
give me my armor .
when were you at ilium ?
you will set cock-a-hoop !
why , madam , if i were your father ' s dog , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
by him that rais ' d me to this careful height from that contented hap which i enjoy ' d
to leave my julia , shall i be forsworn ; to love fair silvia , shall i be forsworn ;
they shall go forward , kate , at thy command .
who should that be ?
are here writ , and can never find what names the writing person hath here writ .
god-den , our neighbours .
who loses and who wins ; who ' s in , who ' s out- and take upon ' s
swear me , kate , like a lady as thou art , a good mouth-filling oath ; and leave '
then , feeling what small things are boisterous there , your vile intent must needs seem horrible .
very good orators , when they are out , they will spit ; and for lovers lacking- god warn us
, in lieu thereof , dispatch me hence .
enter cominius the general , and titus lartius ; between them , coriolanus , crown ' d with an oaken
commend me to your daughter .
jove bless thee , master parson .
it must be thought on .
and , honest company , i thank you all that have beheld me give away myself to this most patient
wast thou mad , that thus so madly thou didst answer me ?
proud and ambitious tribune , canst thou tell ?
that we were all , as some would seem to be , from our faults , as his faults from
hold , there ' s money for thee ; let me have thy voice in my behalf .
the time of universal peace is near .
if her breath were as terrible as her terminations , there were no living near her ; she would infect
these are but wild and whirling words , my lord .
ask him his purposes , why he appears upon this call o ' th ' trumpet .
know then , i here forget all former griefs , cancel all grudge , repeal thee home again , plead
fe , fe , fe fe !
follow her .
here ' s a sight for thee ; look thee , a bearing-cloth for a squire ' s child !
for me , he ' s more and more a cat .
and mine , a hundred and forty .
shall have leisure for as much .
not so , sir ; i do care for something ; but in my conscience , sir , i do
i once more take my leave .
how fares our cousin , noble lord of york ?
that ' s certain , if the devil may be her judge .
- for shame !
heaven and earth !
a poor virgin , sir , an ill-favour ' d thing , sir , but mine own ; a poor
but i have words that would be howl ' d out in the desert air , where hearing should not
staves as lift them against the roman state ; whose course will on the way it takes , cracking ten
what damned minutes tells he o ' er who dotes , yet doubts , suspects , yet strongly loves !
indeed , i would be consul .
base tike , call ' st thou me host ?
dost thou hear me , hal ?
>> _num_ the tempest by william shakespeare dramatis personae alonso , king of naples sebastian , his brother page _num_
if thou wilt outstrip death , go cross the seas , and live with richmond , from the reach of
and will they undertake to do me good ?
one- when heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness- who from the sacred ashes of her honour shall
see , where he comes .
what , do you tremble ?
when he was personal in the irish war .
i think this be the most villanous house in all london road for fleas .
before baptista ' s house enter tranio as lucentio , and hortensio as licio tranio .
i will go get her picture .
take the fool away .
pisanio , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
how am i beset !
what might i have been , might i a son and daughter now have look ' d on , such
we ' ll have no cupid hoodwink ' d with a scarf , bearing a tartar ' s painted bow
fare thee well , lord .
fie on lust and luxury !
that touches this my first-born son and heir .
o heavens , what some men do , while some men leave to do !
this is the hand that stabbed thy father york ; and this the hand that slew thy brother rutland ;
i have full cause of weeping , but this heart shall break into a hundred thousand flaws or ere i
some of your teeth .
by my life , this is against our pleasure .
and smith the weaver- george .
miscreant !
now , good aufidius , were you in my stead , would you have heard a mother less , or
second lady .
, the fragments , scraps , the bits , and greasy relics of her o ' er-eaten faith , are
one good deed dying tongueless slaughters a thousand waiting upon that .
thy spirit within thee hath been so at war , and thus hath so bestirr ' d thee in thy
] o , that ' s well said : the chair .
txt you must be gone from hence immediately .
luck he beats thee ' gainst the odds .
all these and more we hazard by thy stay ; all these are sav ' d if thou wilt fly
the liquid drops of tears that you have shed shall come again , transform ' d to orient pearl ,
do you hear , sir ?
worthy tribunes , there is a slave , whom we have put in prison , reports the volsces with several
let them be well us ' d ; for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the time .
one dead , or drunk ?
by heaven , thy love is black as ebony .
ay , that there was , mine host ; one that hath taught me more wit than ever i learn
i have maintained that salamander of yours with fire any time this two-and-thirty years .
esteem , letting " i dare not " wait upon " i would " like the poor cat i '
what mean you , madam ?
my sworn friend , and then mine enemy ; my parasite , my soldier , statesman , all .
patroclus is a fool .
txt and , in conclusion , dumbly have broke off , not paying me a welcome .
sir , he fell upon me ere admitted .
for in that sleep of death what dreams may come when we have shuffled off this mortal coil , must
why , sir , that is as fit as can be to serve for your oration ; and let him
a strange beginning- ' borrowed majesty ' !
what you want in meat , we ' ll have in drink .
not with drunken knaves .
o harry ' s wife , triumph not in my woes !
jealousy , comes me in the instant of our , encounter , after we had embrac ' d , kiss
he ' s coming hither ; now , i ' th ' night , i ' th ' haste ,
- with all good speed at plashy visit me .
go ; i ' ll to dinner ; hie you to the cell .
what art thou ?
nay , hear you , kate- in sooth , you scape not so .
o , help , ho !
drowsy beds , they did amongst the troops of armed men leap o ' er the walls for refuge in
saint george ' s half-cheek in a brooch .
give battle to the lioness , who quickly fell before him ; in which hurtling from miserable slumber i awak
i will tell you a thing , but you shall let it dwell darkly with you .
exeunt boyet and maria costard .
enter othello , lodovico , desdemona , emilia , and attendants .
we ' ll no more meet , no more see one another .
where man doth not inhabit-you ' mongst men being most unfit to live .
and my lieutenant ?
come on ; thou art granted space .
tell me , sirrah-but tell me true i charge you , not fearing the displeasure of your master , which
the empress sends it thee , thy stamp , thy seal , and bids thee christen it with thy dagger
what , my lord !
the ground indeed is tawny .
why , man , they did make love to this employment !
on the narrow seas ; the goodwins i think they call the place , a very dangerous flat and fatal
love make your fortunes twenty times above her that so wishes , and her humble love !
i must not break my faith .
just the contrary : the better for thy friends .
the guard , what ho !
a parlous boy !
away with the join-stools , remove the court-cubbert , look to the plate .
thou seek ' st the greatness that will overwhelm thee .
did he make with the most noble bottom of our fleet that very envy and the tongue of los cried
why look ' st thou pale ?
new act of parliament to blot out me and put his own son in .
if it might please you to enforce no further the griefs between ye- to forget them quite were to remember
o god , sir , here ' s a dish i love not !
darest thou be as good as thy word now ?
the forehead of this action for the wide world ' s revenue .
if you went in pain , master , this ' knave ' would go sore .
i beg of you to know me , good my lord , t ' accept my grief , and whilst
by the hand of a soldier , i will undertake it .
you have not indeed loved the common people .
if he will not stand when he is bidden , he is none of the prince ' s subjects .
enter lysander and helena lysander .
nay , guiltiness will speak , though tongues were out of use .
grim .
caesar , ' tis his schoolmaster : an argument that he is pluck ' d , when hither he sends
i must confess to you , sir , i am no fighter ; i am false of heart that way
i pray you , since my exion is ent ' red , and my case so openly known to the
gates on his back like a porter ; and he was in love .
alas , now ; pray you , work not so hard ; i would the lightning had burnt up those
young ravens must have food .
[tucket] we have lost our labour ; they are gone a contrary way .
not , for all the mud in egypt .
out , dog !
pray you pass on .
ape .
what need one ?
spend the time to end it .
vault , that mought not be distinguish ' d ; but at last , i well might hear , delivered
there thou shouldst be ; by this great clatter , one of greatest note seems bruited .
; checks and disasters grow in the veins of actions highest rear ' d , as knots , by the
my honour ' d lord !
but what , but what , come they to visit us ?
; this cannot go to war .
not what you are , i know it will excuse this sudden execution of my will .
hie you to church ; i must another way , to fetch a ladder , by the which your love
deadly enmity between two friends ; make poor men ' s cattle break their necks ; set fire on barns
how far hence is thy lord , mine honest fellow ?
save , lay me , o , where sad true lover never find my grave , to weep there !
thank you , your most sweet voices .
drop on you both !
' tis for the head .
henry now lives in scotland at his case , where having nothing , nothing can he lose .
they please us well .
their own right by the law of nature .
the conqueror is dismay ' d .
self-same sun that shines upon his court hides not his visage from our cottage , but looks on alike .
by thy beauty tempting her to thee , thine by thy beauty being false to me .
fast bind , fast find- a proverb never stale in thrifty mind .
of them ?
poor tom ' s acold .
give the word .
and i , seeing this , came thence for very shame ; and after me , i know , the
tis to let a queen kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain .
from his presence i am barr ' d , like one infectious ; my third comfort , starr ' d
nay , by god , soft !
god ye good morrow , gentlemen .
cannot praise us , as little accuse us .
salute our rightful sovereign with honour of his birthright to the crown .
txt while greasy joan doth keel the pot .
if we shall stand still , in fear our motion will be mock ' d or carp ' d at
ah , cousin york !
shadow , whose son art thou ?
you did .
enter brutus and messala .
yet one word more- grief boundeth where it falls , not with the empty hollowness , but weight .
enter proteus and launce proteus .
why , know ' st thou any harm ' s intended towards him ?
noyance ; but much more that spirit upon whose weal depends and rests the lives of many .
my powers are there already .
on my honour , i speak my good lord cardinal to this point , and thus far clear him .
only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter- a kind of yesty collection , which carries
building .
royal commanders , be in readiness ; for with a band of thirty thousand men comes warwick , backing of
come , go along , and see the truth hereof ; for our first merriment hath made thee jealous .
o that a man should speak those words to me !
if i think so , i think the same of you .
hence with him to the tower : let him not speak .
o that my death would stay these ruthful deeds !
the cords that romeo bid thee fetch ?
you were not bid to speak .
is he in person ready ?
and so the earl of armagnac may do , because he is near kinsman unto charles .
of despite , bloody as the hunter , attends thee at the orchard end .
d for mercy , and still run and roar ' d , as ever i heard bullcalf .
fear not thou , man ; thou shalt lose nothing here .
; but , alas , to make me a fixed figure for the time of scorn to point his slow
his soldiers , spying his undaunted spirit , ' a talbot !
believe not so .
be angry when you will , it shall have scope ; do what you will , dishonor shall be humor
but now thy uncle is removing hence , as princes do their courts when they are cloy ' d with
how is ' t with aged gaunt ?
that ' s he that was othello .
, is your brother saved , your honour untainted , the poor mariana advantaged , and the corrupt deputy scaled
of man and beast the infinite malady crust you quite o ' er !
warlike queen , that robb ' d my soldiers of their heated spleen , or whether ' twas report of
it is an offence to stay a man against his will .
o , my fortunes have corrupted honest men !
than yet can be imagin ' d or suppos ' d .
thy hope turn back to me : and play the mother ' s part , kiss me , be kind
for my love thou usest , but yet be blamed , if thou thy self deceivest by wilful taste of
and the blows you gave were ink , your own handwriting would tell you what i think .
you know now your hostages : your uncle ' s word and my firm faith .
[aside] no ; but he fled forward still , toward your face .
now , now , now , now !
thy lips rot off !
ay , madam , knowingly .
then burst his mighty heart , and , in his mantle muffling up his face , even at the base
what call you rich ?
it is past the infinite of thought .
it was more of his courtesy than your deserving .
when dinner ' s done show me this piece .
this is not well , my lord ; this is not well .
there ' s fire ready ; and therefore , good grumio , the news ?
o , fie upon thee , slanderer !
hautboys and torches .
where each second stood heir to the first .
and so to arms , victorious father , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
do you not hear him ?
qualm , perhaps .
i have known when there was no music with him but the drum and the fife ; and now had
wherein am i guilty ?
speak , my fair , and fairly , i pray thee .
rude am i in my speech , and little blest with the soft phrase of peace ; for since these
beseech you give me leave to retire myself .
exit hastings prince john .
my father ' s wit my mother ' s tongue assist me !
you are but now cast in his mood , a punishment more in policy than in malice ; even so
why , greek !
[aside] it is the poison ' d cup ; it is too late .
i warrant you , my lord- more grace than boy .
have you any letters ?
therefore be merry , coz ; since sudden sorrow serves to say thus , ' some good thing comes to-morrow
therefore ' tis not amiss we tender our loves to him in this suppos ' d distress of his ;
time debateth with decay to change your day of youth to sullied night , and all in war with time
to-night in harfleur will we be your guest ; to-morrow for the march are we addrest .
txt ' no man must know .
for more assurance that a living prince does now speak to thee , i embrace thy body ; and to
god ' s arm strike with us !
nay , i ' ll help too .
do not forget .
subtle , and as prone to mischief as able to perform ' t , his mind and place infecting one
exeunt gratiano and lorenzo antonio .
excellent wench , say i .
before you fight the battle , ope this letter .
enter fortinbras with his army over the stage .
i am debating of my present store , and , by the near guess of my memory , i cannot
comfort , your majesty !
exeunt coriolanus and aufidius the two servingmen come forward first servant .
to be dishonoured by my sons in rome !
and give me leave , and do not say ' tis superstition that i kneel , and then implore her
down , and shortly must i fell it .
fellow , come from the throng ; look upon caesar .
come , ' tis a foolish saying .
is ' t possible , friend licio , that mistress bianca doth fancy any other but lucentio ?
list !
i feel too much thy blessing .
of the which we being members should bring ourselves to be monstrous members .
a cold world , curtis , in every office but thine ; and therefore fire .
, as i do now , to carve out dials quaintly , point by point , thereby to see the
that ' s my brave lord !
sweet montague , be true .
where are these lads ?
fellows in the world , an a man could light on them , would take her with all faults ,
there is your ring , and , look you , here ' s your letter .
gentle my liege- [kneeling] duke .
clarence and gloucester , love my lovely queen ; and kiss your princely nephew , brothers both .
where shall i find one that can steal well ?
there ' s law and warrant , lady , for my curse .
nurse to juliet .
jamy .
and true challenger .
it is the east , and juliet is the sun !
they will along with company , for they have great charge .
if thou embowel me to-day , i ' ll give you leave to powder me and eat me too to-morrow
now the dog all this while sheds not a page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o sweet maria , empress of my love !
hopes , not surfeited to death , stand in bold cure .
what now ?
a poor physician ' s daughter my wife !
txt doubt truth to be a liar ; but never doubt i love .
enter peter .
welcome , signior .
and these few precepts in thy memory look thou character .
thou art here but to thrash troyans , and thou art bought and sold among those of any wit like
her store .
honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief ; and by these badges understand the king .
; there resides to make me slave to it ; and for your sake am i this patient log-man .
for at bassanio ' s feast .
else would put you to your fortune and the hazard of much blood .
a plague call you him ?
i love long life better than figs .
of the matter .
even so , lucilius .
' but !
kill ' d !
it is the emperor , madam .
what beast couldst thou be that were not subject to a beast ?
by east and west let france and england mount their battering cannon , charged to the mouths , till their
my discourse as mad men ' s are , at random from the truth vainly expressed .
-why do you not speak to her ?
his ambition .
o , look , titinius , look , the villains fly !
nails , for they shall hang out for the lion ' s claws .
shall i entreat a word ?
hairs , but competency lives longer .
fifth harry from curb ' d license plucks the muzzle of restraint , and the wild dog shall flesh his
nor need ' st thou much importune me to that whereon this month i have been hammering .
he hath not told his thought to the king ?
noble ventidius !
i ' ll to the court in the morning .
come , sisters , cheer we up his sprites , and show the best of our delights .
i will ; and so will she , i know , my lord .
a lion .
thou dost shame thy mother , and wound her honour with this diffidence .
my lord , you have one eye left to see some mischief on him .
until the goose came out of door , staying the odds by adding four .
brother anthony-- ant .
d , rude , and shallow , his hours fill ' d up with riots , banquets , sports ;
ding , dong , bell .
decrepit miser !
[to moth] chirrah !
this diamond he greets your wife withal , by the name of most kind hostess , and shut up in
god is much displeas ' d that you take with unthankfulness his doing .
yet slight ones will not carry it .
for others say thou dost deserve , and i believe it better than reportingly .
cato .
so they sell page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
welcome , sir ; this cell ' s my court ; here have i few attendants , and subjects none
exit enter another servingman second servant .
to express the like kindness , myself , that have been more kindly beholding to you than any , freely
first witch .
number , and nobles bearing banners , there lie dead one hundred twenty-six ; added to these , of knights
i may and will , if she be so contented .
very well , madam .
countrymen , my heart doth joy that yet in all my life i found no man but he was true
let me have war , say i ; it exceeds peace as far as day does night ; it '
thou hast forspoke my being in these wars , and say ' st it is not fit .
adieu , adieu , adieu !
we have made inquiry of you , and we hear such goodness of your justice that our soul cannot but
exit philostrate hippolyta , i woo ' d thee with my sword , and won thy love doing thee injuries
' good friend , ' quoth he ' say the firm roman to great egypt sends this treasure of an
i grant indeed it hath not appeared , and your suspicion is not without wit and judgement .
stars ; as if we were villains on necessity ; fools by heavenly compulsion ; knaves , thieves , and
why should i not ?
not true in love ?
' [gives back the paper .
come hither , william ; hold up your head ; come .
look back , defend thee ; here are enemies .
even when i wake it is without me , as within me ; not imagin ' d , felt .
or , rather , do i not in plainest truth tell you i do not nor i cannot love you
from whose so many weights of baseness cannot a dram of worth be drawn .
farewell , all-hallown summer !
the mercy that was quick in us but late by your own counsel is suppress ' d and kill '
at supper .
i will depart in quiet , and in despite of mirth mean to be merry .
you are deceived , ' tis not so .
poor venomous fool , be angry and dispatch .
nay , tarry ; i ' ll go along with thee ; i can tell thee pretty tales of the
before thy coming , lewis was henry ' s friend .
who was last with them ?
thee the loathsomest scab in greece .
thy half o ' th ' kingdom hast thou not forgot , wherein i thee endow ' d .
[exit attendant .
is she shrill-tongu ' d or low ?
quittance .
, cuts beauty off from all posterity .
judge , my masters .
happy victories , sought to entrap me by intelligence ; rated mine uncle from the council board ; in rage
i smell it .
so i did , fearing to strengthen that impatience which seem ' d too much enkindled , and withal hoping
pedlar , let ' s have the first choice .
bargulus , the strong illyrian pirate .
have been blown out of your gates with sighs , and conjure thee to pardon rome and thy petitionary countrymen
yet you see how this world goes .
for i have sworn thee fair : more perjured i , to swear against the truth so foul a be
if every one knows us , and we know none , ' tis time , i think , to trudge
delivering your letter ; and being so hard to me that brought your mind , i fear she ' ll
at my depart i gave this unto julia .
therefore , good mother , to whom am i beholding for these limbs ?
sooth , but you must .
large gifts have i bestow ' d on learned clerks , because my book preferr ' d me to the
a most singular and choice epithet .
' ' certain , ' said she , a wise gentleman .
cleopatra , not what you have reserv ' d , nor what acknowledg ' d , put we i '
feed him , keep in your bosom ; yet remain assur ' d that he ' s a made-up villain
stand away , captain gower ; i will give treason his payment into plows , i warrant you .
roasted in wrath and fire , and thus o ' ersized with coagulate gore , with eyes like carbuncles ,
for fear , i promise you , if i look pale .
you lay out too much pains for purchasing but trouble .
church stands by thy tabor , if thy tabor stand by the church .
direct mine arms i may embrace his neck and in his bosom spend my latter gasp .
[to claudio] means your lordship to be married tomorrow ?
he is but one ; you and my brother search what companies are near .
i would do much to atone them , for the love i bear to cassio .
edmund stands back .
sweet clifford , hear me speak before i die .
[snatching a weapon and killing one] go thou and fill another room in hell .
yet you must be saying marcius is proud ; who , in a cheap estimation , is worth all your
' to that which grieves my heart , and wet my cheeks with artificial tears , and frame my face
nay , if we be forbidden stones , we ' ll fall to it with our teeth .
marshal , ask yonder knight in arms , both who he is and why he cometh hither thus plated in
exeunt jessica and lorenzo now , balthasar , as i have ever found thee honest-true , so let me find
still a-repairing , ever out of frame , and never going aright , being a watch , but being watch
o , these i lack to make you garlands of , and my sweet friend to strew him o '
gaolers , to mortimer charles , dauphin , and afterwards king of france reignier , duke of anjou , and
why was my cressid then so hard to win ?
tell me truly .
what we can do , we ' ll do , to do you service .
who told me how the poor soul did forsake the mighty warwick and did fight for me ?
which sometime on the buds was wont to swell like round and orient pearls stood now within the pretty flowerets
my lord , i did ; but answer made it none .
briefly to this end : we are all diseas ' d and with our surfeiting and wanton hours have brought
to fly out of your sight and raise this present head ; whereby we stand opposed by such means as
the hour that fools should ask .
i go , my lord .
[shaking hands] well , then , that ' s the humour of ' t .
you would think that i had a hundred and fifty tattered prodigals lately come from swine-keeping , from eating draff
who shall be true to us , when we are so unsecret to ourselves ?
what is the matter , aumerle ?
let ' s hear .
it is brabantio .
you shall mark many a duteous and knee-crooking knave , that doting on his own obsequious bondage wears out his
they do retire .
of clay for to be made for such a guest is meet .
were call ' d forth by their mistress to carry me in the name of foul clothes to datchet lane
you ' ll ne ' er be good , nor suffer others .
that you are worthless .
but will you be more justified ?
thy stay , thou on him leaning , and all troy on thee , fall all together .
a child to fear i know not what .
lucy .
' d ; and those few i have almost no better than so many french ; who when they were
o brave new world that has such people in ' t !
enter celia , with a writing rosalind .
boskos vauvado .
away , fond woman !
txt forswear the full stream of the world and to live in a nook merely monastic .
what may be sworn by , both divine and human , seal what i end withal !
what should a man do but be merry ?
that ' s the dog ' s name .
pray be content .
what are his words ?
may he not do it by fine and recovery ?
my good camillo , she is as forward of her breeding as she is i ' th ' rear o
peace , for shame , peace !
this is some token from a newer friend .
] why , what is that to you ?
love me ?
if they love they know not why , they hate upon no better a ground .
' she lov ' d not the savour of tar nor of pitch , yet a tailor might scratch her
recreation .
wert thou as we are , we might recover all our loss again .
that we know one another .
the poet ' s eye , in a fine frenzy rolling , doth glance from heaven to earth , from
should all despair that hath revolted wives , the tenth of mankind would hang themselves .
before your faces .
d to us ; and for him forthwith , ere the first sacrifice , within this hour , we must
enter hubert hubert .
for the women ?
upon his place , and with full line of his authority , governs lord angelo , a man whose blood
how is it , general ?
without the walls of athens enter timon timon .
that is done , sir ; they have all stomachs .
be it lying , note it , the woman ' s ; flattering , hers ; deceiving , hers ;
well , if you were but an inch of fortune better than i , where would you choose it ?
second warder .
" that they did wake each other .
no abuse , hal .
if thou wilt , tell them there i have gold ; look , so i have .
now , by my george , my garter , and my crown- queen elizabeth .
if not a present remedy , at least a patient sufferance .
hold , toby ; on thy life , i charge thee hold .
rise in- a sure and safe one , though thy master miss ' d it .
brother gloucester , who shall reward you better for my life than edward will for tidings of my death .
we do , sir ; tell us what hath brought you to ' t .
of neither , girl ; for if of joy , being altogether wanting , it doth remember me the more
stand and unfold yourself .
if i mistake not , thou art harry monmouth .
, if you yield not to your father ' s choice , you can endure the livery of a nun
thee now like a man of steel .
to th ' grave .
faith , i ' ll lie down and sleep .
go speedily , and bring again the count .
scandal ' d company i have forsworn .
of six preceding ancestors , that gem conferr ' d by testament to th ' sequent issue , hath it
much is breeding which , like the courser ' s hair , hath yet but life and not a serpent
god shall mend my soul !
as manhood shall compound : push home .
o what a rogue and peasant slave am i !
where high profits might come home , but par ' d my present havings to bestow my bounties upon you
did he not say my brother was fled ?
it is now high supper-time , and the night grows to waste .
in one little body thou counterfeit ' st a bark , a sea , a wind : for still thy
not so , my lord ; it is not so , i swear ; we have had pastimes here ,
come , come away .
varlet , thou liest ; thou liest , wicket varlet ; the time is yet to come that she was
will ' t please your grace to go along with us ?
saw you no more ?
why hast thou slain thine only daughter thus ?
and therefore haste i to the parliament , either to be restored to my blood , or make my ill
the latter end of his commonwealth forgets the beginning .
; which if they do , yet will i keep thee safe , and they shall feel the vengeance of
plead for him .
you , prince dauphin , with all swift dispatch , to line and new repair our towns of war with
falling there to find his fellow forth , unseen , inquisitive , confounds himself .
am i in earth , in heaven , or in hell ?
' tis a gentleman here .
so god help warwick , as he loves the land and common profit of his country !
it is determin ' d , not concluded yet ; but so it must be , if the king miscarry
coronation .
- what , my young lady and mistress ?
it is impossible you should see this were they as prime as goats , as hot as monkeys , as
you are jealous now that this is from some mistress , some remembrance .
yet , i think , we are not brought so low but that between us we can kill a fly
stand you both forth now : stroke your chins , and swear by your beards that i am a knave
things known betwixt us three , i ' ll write you down ; the which shall point you forth at
txt is not this something more than fantasy ?
but yet i call you servile ministers , that will with two pernicious daughters join your high-engender ' d battles
now , have you left pursuit ?
come on , brave soldiers ; doubt not of the day , and , that once gotten , doubt not
dear , look up .
might be whipt .
once more let me behold it .
his eldest sister , anne , my mother , being heir unto the crown , married richard earl of cambridge
now see the issue of your peace !
they would have stol ' n away , they would , demetrius , thereby to have defeated you and me
i care not for my spirits , if my legs were not weary .
let the king have the letters i have sent , and repair thou to me with as much speed as
look , how he laughs already !
i am fire and air ; my other elements i give to baser life .
thank you , sir .
' [a retreat sounded] hark !
a tapster , sir ; parcel-bawd ; one that serves a bad woman ; whose house , sir , was
what a jaunce have i had !
, as tom , dick , and francis .
young men must live .
i will give him a present shrift , and advise him for a better place .
shall not in their issue stand ; never mole , hare-lip , nor scar , nor mark prodigious , such
a certain queen to caesar in a mattress .
is this your speeding ?
are you contented to resign the crown ?
northumberland , i hold thee reverently .
i think it be , sir ; i deny it not .
and mother to king john constance , mother to arthur blanch of spain , daughter to the king of castile
bear you with franker spirit .
graceless , wilt thou deny thy parentage ?
[aside] my tears begin to take his part so much they ' ll mar my counterfeiting .
o mischief , thou art swift to enter in the thoughts of desperate men !
no valentine , if silvia have forsworn me .
i know your lady does not love her husband ; i am sure of that ; and at her late
i will lead forth my soldiers to the plain , and thus my battle shall be ordered : my foreward
hold , take this letter .
o , what a scene of fool ' ry have i seen , of sighs , of groans , of
the worst fault you have is to be in love .
chill not let go , zir , without vurther ' cagion .
o hard condition , twin-born with greatness , subject to the breath of every fool , whose sense no more
of taste- well , my conscience says ' launcelot , budge not .
[oberon leading , the fairies sing and dance] oberon .
winchester goose !
faith , i will live so long as i may , that ' s the certain of it ; and
mayor .
world ' s desires- our late edict shall strongly stand in force : navarre shall be the wonder of the
let us be diana ' s foresters , gentlemen of the shade , minions of the moon ; and let
up , vanity : down , royal state .
think you it is so ?
i will stand for ' t a little , though therefore i die a virgin .
how now , roderigo !
pedascule , i ' ll watch you better yet .
to your good life for ever .
if edgar live , o , bless him !
very reverent sport , truly ; and done in the testimony of a good conscience .
confirm it so ?
kent , on thy life , no more !
now the lord help !
him in the sun , and rail ' d on lady fortune in good terms , in good set terms-
as thou lov ' st silvia , though not for thyself , regard thy danger , and along with me
to think , my lord , if you delight not in man , what lenten entertainment the players shall receive
on the man !
of thralled discontent , whereto th ' inviting time our fashion calls : it fears not policy that heretic ,
they know not what they do .
on , speak to him .
stain ' d with blood ?
for with the dark , poor thief , i ' ll steal away .
bardolph , follow him .
this armado is a spaniard , that keeps here in court ; a phantasime , a monarcho , and one
there is the man of my soul ' s hate , aufidius , piercing our romans ; then , valiant
stabs roderigo .
othello , the fortitude of the place is best known to you ; and though we have there a substitute
you shall see him a palm in athens again , and flourish with the highest .
beseech you , sir , be merry ; you have cause , so have we all , of joy ;
exeunt all but hastings , lovel , and ratcliff hastings .
faith , mistress , then i have no cause to stay .
thump ?
or under your arm , like a lieutenant ' s scarf ?
txt else would i very shortly see thee there .
now , my friendly knave , i thank thee .
but here ' s a villain that would face me down he met me on the mart , and that
nay , i prithee , put on this gown and this beard ; make him believe thou art sir topas
stir a wing if warwick shake his bells .
the king shall be contented .
' s disgrace !
o , let no noble eye profane a tear for me , if i be gor ' d with mowbray
be not her maid , since she is envious .
my lord , will you vouchsafe me a word ?
their purpose is to parley , court , and dance ; and every one his love-feat will advance unto his
, call edward king , and at his hands beg mercy ?
come , cassius ' sword , and find titinius ' heart .
such head as thou shalt reign but by their sufferance .
i pray you , fail me not .
condemns me for a villain .
promise .
myself for doing these fair rites of tenderness .
dumain was at my service , and his sword .
let them alone awhile , and then open the door .
have been horn-mad .
why , we will set forth before or after them and appoint them a place of meeting , wherein it
exit enter malvolio page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
so may the outward shows be least themselves ; the world is still deceiv ' d with ornament .
right welcome , sir !
andronicus , i will entreat the king .
o , hear me , isabella .
no longer earl of march , but duke of york ; the next degree is england ' s royal throne
and so i am !
txt by wasting ruin of the cruel foe ; as looks the mother on her lowly babe when death doth
look to ' t in time ; she ' ll hamper thee and dandle thee like a baby .
by cock and pie , you shall not choose , sir !
then ' tis very credent thou mayst co-join with something ; and thou dost- and that beyond commission ; and
bring it on .
how fit his garments serve me !
d than thou art .
other treasure to give your followers ; for it appears by their bare liveries that they live by your bare
o cromwell , cromwell !
do with your injuries as seems you best in any chastisement .
what can be avoided whose end is purposed by the mighty gods ?
course , intent- and this same bias , this commodity , this bawd , this broker , this all-changing word
i am unarm ' d ; forego this vantage , greek .
enter the duchess of gloucester in a white sheet , and a taper burning in her hand , with sir
enter the post post .
antony ' s house enter enobarbus and eros , meeting enobarbus .
i lie ; i am no counterfeit .
you had much ado to make his anchor hold ; when you cast out , it still came home .
reputed son of coeur-de-lion , lord of thy presence and no land beside ?
i sent the for a rope ; and told thee to what purpose and what end .
what does this mean , my lord ?
, but forc ' d by need and accident .
it ; for it engenders choler , planteth anger ; and better ' twere that both of us did fast
for sorrow ' s eye , glazed with blinding tears , divides one thing entire to many objects , like
o my prophetic soul !
end , i see , a better state to me belongs than that , which on thy humour doth depend
i have served him from the hour of my nativity to this instant , and have nothing at his hands
one , and yet not many .
, must needs appear unkinglike .
what shout is this ?
so much at heart .
they , knowing dame eleanor ' s aspiring humour , have hired me to undermine the duchess , and buzz
for what cause thou cam ' st to ephesus .
enter the prince and the lord of westmoreland .
ay , spare us not .
the star is fall ' n .
good night to you .
help , and we shall have more wars befor ' t be long .
was stirr ' d with such an agony he sweat extremely , and something spoke in choler , ill and
nothing ; for indeed i have engag ' d myself to a dear friend , engag ' d my friend
deliver what you will , i ' ll say ' tis so .
a customer !
brutus hath a suit that caesar will not grant .
a hall in the palace .
should catch cold and starve .
txt though now we must appear bloody and cruel , as , by our hands and this our present act
ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears , that long time have been barren .
good grandsire , leave these bitter deep laments ; make my aunt merry with some pleasing tale .
ay , ay , prithee now .
three thousand ducats for three months , and antonio bound .
how wildly then walks my estate in france !
what , is brutus sick , and will he steal out of his wholesome bed to dare the vile contagion
enter bassanio , antonio , gratiano , and their followers bassanio .
spake he so doubtfully thou could ' st not feel his meaning ?
these things change from their ordinance , their natures , and preformed faculties to monstrous quality , why , you
therefore mine .
' and full as oft came edward to my side with purple falchion , painted to the hilt in blood
ay ; i know thy errand , i will go with thee ; the day , my friends , and
and thou unfit for any place but hell .
but , like the martlet , builds in the weather on the outward wall , even in the force and
so children temporal fathers do appease ; gods are more full of mercy .
go to , i know you well enough .
my lord constable , the armour that i saw in your tent page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
which you are to do me both a present and a dangerous courtesy .
so please your highness , the question did at first so stagger me- bearing a state of mighty moment in
alas , poor heart , that kiss is comfortless as frozen water to a starved snake .
he hath wronged me in some humours ; i should have borne the humour ' d letter to her ;
i cannot tell ; i fear ' tis choleric .
learn ; happiest of all is that her gentle spirit commits itself to yours to be directed , as from
so did we all .
do you change colour ?
it resounds as if it felt with scotland and yell ' d out like syllable of dolor .
there is my honour ' s pawn ; engage it to the trial , if thou darest .
o , i see that nose of yours , but not that dog i shall throw it to .
before the cave of belarius enter , from the cave , belarius , guiderius , arviragus , and imogen belarius
but , for certain , he cannot buckle his distemper ' d cause within the belt of rule .
no matter what ; he ' s poor , and that ' s revenge enough .
, and thou shalt have to pay for it of us .
ay , that he raz ' d .
ah , fie !
sister , it is not little i have to say of what most nearly appertains to us both .
you shall hear .
i had rather break mine own .
most mischievous foul sin , in chiding sin ; for thou thyself hast been a libertine , as sensual as
this is the news at full .
and lend no ear unto my purposes .
my lord , this is my daughter here asleep , and this lysander , this demetrius is , this helena
how chance moonshine is gone before thisby comes back and finds her lover ?
if i could speak so wisely under an arrest , i would send for certain of my creditors ; and
would he not stumble ?
here come our brothers .
our hearts receive your warnings .
trebonius doth desire you to o ' er read , at your best leisure , this his humble suit .
meantime i writ to romeo that he should hither come as this dire night to help to take her from
nay , then good-night our part !
go , by this token .
' d shrub to make an envious mountain on my back , where sits deformity to mock my body ;
marriage is a matter of more worth than to be dealt in by attorneyship ; not whom we will ,
traitor to his god , his king , and him ; and dares him to set forward to the fight
but , before god , kate , i cannot look greenly , nor gasp out my cloquence , nor i
as from your graves rise up , and walk like sprites to countenance this horror !
o , now be gone !
i could be sad .
generally thankful .
long live lord titus , my beloved brother , gracious triumpher in the eyes of rome !
have i hurt him ?
now farewell , flatt ' ry ; die , andronicus .
now show yourselves men ; ' tis for liberty .
royal sir , since the exile of posthumus , most retir ' d hath her life been ; the cure
how many prodigal bits have slaves and peasants this night englutted !
what is ' lapis , ' william ?
sky and ground .
pray you let ' s to him .
if over-boldly we have borne ourselves in the converse of breath- your gentleness was guilty of it .
ask me when thou wilt , and , thou shalt have it .
the heavens hold firm the walls of thy dear honour , keep unshak ' d that temple , thy fair
but- wind away , begone , i say , i will not to wedding with thee .
noble lady !
compassing the crown !
' allow , ' allow , loo , loo !
if the gentlewoman that attends the general ' s wife be stirring , tell her there ' s one cassio
i have heard , sir , of such a man , who hath a daughter of most rare note .
txt he swore had neither motion , guard , nor eye , if you oppos ' d them .
on yellow stockings , and to frown upon sir toby and the lighter people ; and , acting this in
but at this hour the house doth keep itself ; there ' s none within .
sextus pompeius hath given the dare to caesar , and commands the empire of the sea ; our slippery people
thy case , dear friend , shall be my precedent ; as thou got ' st milan , i '
i could not forget you , for i never saw you before in all my life .
survey with thy chaste eye , from thy pale sphere above , thy huntress ' name that my full life
within which space she died , and left thee there , where thou didst vent thy groans as fast as
woe to the hand that shed this costly blood !
marry , i thank your good worship for it .
thou liest ; i can .
i do beseech ye , if you bear me hard , now , whilst your purpled hands do reek and
enter a servingman first servant .
i would not be a stander-by to hear my sovereign mistress clouded so , without my present vengeance taken .
d him-privily deals with our cardinal ; and , as i trow- which i do well , for i am
we must do something , and i ' th ' heat .
be pleas ' d awhile .
determinations , which is indeed to return to their home , and to trouble you with no more suit ,
you basket-hilt stale juggler , you !
with my life .
the tune of imogen !
hear a little further , and then i ' ll bring thee to the present busines which now ' s
to the dread rattling thunder have i given fire , and rifted jove ' s stout oak with his own
' d footing and the scaffoldage- such to-be-pitied and o ' er-wrested seeming he acts thy greatness in ; and
glory which brought them to be lamented .
the sheriff and all the watch are at the door .
old sir , i know she prizes not such trifles as these are .
profess myself her adorer , not her friend .
so may it be indeed .
all different .
o , let me kiss this princess of pure white , this seal of bliss !
i ' ll wait upon your honour .
i hope , my lord , all ' s well .
, and touch ' d with choler , hot as gunpowder , and quickly will return an injury ; follow
i ' ll to clifton straight .
then shall i bleed to death .
a jew would have wept to have seen our parting ; why , my grandam having no eyes , look
what , john rugby ?
[retreat sounded] talbot .
i do confess my fault , and do submit me to your highness ' mercy .
belike she thinks that proteus hath forsook her .
i want more uncles here to welcome me .
' you have made fair hands , you and your crafts !
dull of tongue and dwarfish !
shall seek thy love .
first , there is the neapolitan prince .
come , go .
kinsmen , his sorrows are past remedy .
for you , edmund , whose virtue and obedience doth this instant so much commend itself , you shall be
o , then , by day where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough to mask thy monstrous visage ?
the thieves are scattered , and possess ' d with fear so strongly that they dare not meet each other
my next poor petition page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
commonly do get their children ; but in this case of wooing a child shall get a sire , if
the visage of ragozine , more like to claudio ?
but i hear no ; they say my son of york has almost overta ' en him in his growth
i would you knew .
, right joyful of your reformation .
lent you .
out , sword , and to a sore purpose !
my leg is cut in two .
not i , i assure thee ; setting the attraction of my good parts aside , i have no other
or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood .
how comes it , michael , you are thus forgot ?
let him that loves me , strike me dead .
what company ?
who struck this heat up after i was gone ?
the common people swarm like summer flies ; and whither fly the gnats but to the sun ?
go , get thee hence , for i will not away .
spirit out , and strew ' d repentant ashes on his head .
nay , certainly , there is no truth in him .
ay , good my lord .
how goes it here ?
faith , here it is .
may as french , french englishmen , receive each other .
txt caius .
talbotites .
ay , sir ; that soaks up the king ' s countenance , his rewards , his authorities .
timandra .
with mine own hands , since i was cast ashore .
when be was a babe , a child , a shrimp , thus did he strangle serpents in his manus
who would not have his wife so ?
i have a brother is condemn ' d to die ; i do beseech you , let it be his
faith , i can tell her age unto an hour .
chain of me , though most dishonestly he doth deny it .
those my former fortunes wherein i liv ' d the greatest prince o ' th ' world , the noblest
more kindness ; or , if you like elsewhere , do it by stealth ; muffle your false love with
ghost of vaughan .
i wonder on ' t ; he was wont to shine at seven .
what counsel give you in this weighty cause ?
found both .
no , not a denier .
why , am i dead ?
i come to wive it wealthily in padua ; if wealthily , then happily in padua .
dost thou know her ?
butcher ' d , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
how found thy father ' s court ?
stir not !
re-enter menenius with brutus and sicinius menenius .
i had as lief they would put ratsbane in my mouth as offer to stop it with security .
o , let thy vow first made to heaven , first be to heaven perform ' d , that is
txt he were dead .
haste before , and , ere our coming , see thou shake the bags of hoarding abbots ; imprisoned angels
confine !
more flowers i noted , yet i none could see , but sweet , or colour it had stol '
' ' above my fortunes , yet my state is well : i am a gentleman .
do little good upon him .
saw before ; of whom i have receiv ' d a second life ; and second father page _num_ complete
then up he rose and donn ' d his clo ' es and dupp ' d the chamber door ,
him we go to find : there ' s not a hair on ' s head but ' tis a
what , are you packing , sirrah ?
what dream ' d my lord ?
i warrant it is ; and thy head stands so tickle on thy shoulders that a milkmaid , if she
' twas odds , belike , when valiant warwick fled .
i have seen them in the church together .
exit le beau thus must i from the smoke into the smother ; from tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother
she told her , while she kept it , ' twould make her amiable and subdue my father entirely to
i do presume , sir , that you are not fall ' n from the report that goes upon your
[shuts simple in the closet] he will not stay long .
fashion ; we are the makers of manners , kate ; and the liberty that follows our places stops the
what though i be not so in grace as you , so hung upon with love , so fortunate ,
by heaven , fond wretch , thou know ' st not what thou speak ' st , or else thou
[berowne tears the letter] king .
in most strange postures we have seen him set himself .
i fear me you but warm the starved snake , who , cherish ' d in your breasts , will
brother clarence and the king in deadly hate the one against the other ; and if king edward be as
i mean , to go , sir , to enter .
no , sure , my lord , my mother cried ; but then there was a star danc ' d
that he bids good morrow with such spirit .
exeunt antonio and sebastian gonzalo .
it is .
fire and brimstone !
tell me , thou villain , where is my son , lucentio ?
custom hath made it in him a property of easiness .
then must the jew be merciful .
how long her face is drawn !
alack , my lord , that fault is none of yours : he should , for that , commit your
go with me to my tent , where you shall see how hardly i was drawn into this war ,
well , lords , we have not got that which we have ; ' tis not enough our foes are
do you not hear , fellows ?
if thou that bid ' st me be content wert grim , ugly , and sland ' rous to thy
enter gloucester , and edgar [like a peasant] .
if we conclude a peace , it shall be with such strict and severe covenants as little shall the frenchmen
o my breast , thy hope ends here !
now lost- she , eros , has pack ' d cards with caesar , and false-play ' d my glory
all this i see ; and i see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man .
i will hold my peace when achilles ' brach bids me , shall i ?
mechanic slaves , with greasy aprons , rules , and hammers , shall uplift us to the view ; in
hold little faith , though thou has too much fear .
i like you , lads ; about your business straight ; go , go , dispatch .
therefore he will be , timon .
you shall have sport ; i will show you a monster .
is man so hateful to thee that art thyself a man ?
i speak too loud .
haply in private .
with the soul of love .
how now , mine host pistol !
[aside to hamlet] no , my good lord .
re-enter attendant , with two murtherers .
, his alliance .
my visor is philemon ' s roof ; within the house is jove .
no , let me be obsequious in thy heart , and take thou my oblation , poor but free ,
shall seem as light as chaff , and good from bad find no partition .
what , dares the slave come hither , cover ' d with an antic face , to fleer and scorn
i ' ll stir them to it .
, and my dear father .
he does smile his face into more lines than is in the new map with the augmentation of the indies
thence it came that she whom all men prais ' d , and whom myself , since i have lost
dost thou come here to whine ?
and so she did .
' d him and notch ' d him like a carbonado .
some slight measure it will pay , if for his tender here i make some stay .
watchmen .
i will do it , sir , in print .
gentlemen both , i thank you .
say , is your tardy master now at hand ?
no , indeed , will i not , pompey ; it is not the wear .
not a word of me .
i answer you !
beetle with his drowsy hums hath rung night ' s yawning peal , there shall be done a deed of
ay , good now , love , love , nothing but love .
what louring star now envies thy estate that these great lords , and margaret our queen , do seek subversion
y ' are well met once again .
she has nobody to do anything about her when i am gone ; and she is old , and cannot
flow , flow , you heavenly blessings , on her !
mistake me not , my lord ; ' tis not my meaning to raze one title of your honour out
your honour calls you hence ; therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly , and all the gods go with
, and lost .
for god ' s sake , send some other messenger .
no ; i ' ll not meddle .
king ' s remembrance .
and i to norfolk with my followers .
; an old rusty sword ta ' en out of the town armoury , with a broken hilt , and
thee place .
i did enact julius caesar ; i was kill ' d i ' th ' capitol ; brutus kill '
what says achilles ?
stand , diomed .
nay then , farewell !
in which i have commended to his goodness the model of our chaste loves , his young daughter- the dews
philip .
fair youth , come in .
she did indeed .
noble sebastian , thou let ' st thy fortune sleep-die rather ; wink ' st whiles thou art waking .
; and there he blasts the tree , and takes the cattle , and makes milch-kine yield blood , and
' what fates await the duke of suffolk ?
i will be treble-sinew ' d , hearted , breath ' d , and fight maliciously .
come hither , aaron , i ' ll deceive them both ; lend me thy hand , and i will
muster up , and thou , son clarence , shalt stir up in suffolk , norfolk , and in kent
hath he been in thy heart ?
continues well my lord ?
their points being broken- poins .
and long live thou , and these thy forward sons !
her sight .
macduff .
and wake him to the answer , think you ?
and well he might so do , for well i know he was unnatural .
he did it .
well then , no more but this : go , gentle catesby , and , as it were far off
may bear him hence .
o , forfend it , god , that in a christian climate souls refin ' d should show so heinous
caesar ' s will ?
how blessed are we that are not simple men !
what other bond than secret romans that have spoke the word and will not palter ?
' hunters .
i had rather hear them scold than fight .
cousin of york , we here discharge your grace from being regent i ' th ' parts of france ,
birds and beasts from quality and kind , why old men , fools , and children calculate , why all
from hell , be thy intents wicked or charitable , thou com ' st in such a questionable shape that
fair , give us gold ; methinks they are such a gentle nation that , but for the mountain of
speak , salisbury ; at least , if thou canst speak .
enforc ' d thee !
price .
o my lord aberga ' ny , fare you well !
i commend you well .
txt if that thy bent of love be honourable , thy purpose marriage , send me word to-morrow , by
of charity , what kin are you to me ?
i ' faith , your hand is out .
your graces find me here part of housewife ; i would be all , against the worst may happen .
you english princes an , i do salute you .
leave it to his discretion , and let us listen to the moon .
to a determin ' d scope .
adieu , valour ; rust , rapier ; be still , drum ; for your manager is in love ;
i am thine .
once more remove , good friends .
-come , away , away !
i am afeard , being in night , all this is but a dream , too flattering-sweet to be substantial
d , and wiv ' d .
- obedient as the scabbard .
a brave vessel , who had no doubt some noble creature in her , dash ' d all to pieces
but to return to the verses : did they please you , sir nathaniel ?
lucius , all hail , rome ' s royal emperor !
friend that loves you .
irreparable is the loss ; and patience says it is past her cure .
to the platform , masters ; come , let ' s set the watch .
o , do not swear !
of canterbury a shrewd turn and he ' s your friend for ever .
st .
i shall be reconcil ' d to him again .
advantage should achieve , and lace it self with his society ?
draw , you whoreson cullionly barbermonger !
' lucetta .
there is your crown , and he that wears the crown immortally long guard it yours !
o then , tread down my need , and faith mounts up : keep my need up , and faith
it is no matter-a ver dat .
[they fight .
you say seven years together ?
' look you , a sweet virtue in a maid with clean hands .
madam , sit you , and fear not : whom we raise we will make fast within a hallow '
s honest .
but let the ruffian boreas once enrage the gentle thetis , and anon behold the strong-ribb ' d bark through
adieu , good master doctor .
you have displaced the mirth , broke the good meeting , with most admired disorder .
, but surcease ; no warmth , no breath , shall testify thou livest ; the roses in thy lips
but hear thee , gratiano : thou art too wild , too rude , and bold of voice- parts that
have i not reason , think you , to look pale ?
give first admittance to th ' ambassadors .
what means that bloody knife ?
nay , then she must needs come .
they do me wrong , and i will not endure it .
therefore prepare thyself .
my boy- god rest his soul !
they vex me past my patience .
the grief that does not speak whispers the o ' erfraught heart , and bids it break .
wherefore hast thou accus ' d him all this while ?
crowns for his reward .
and toward the education of your daughters i here bestow a simple instrument , and this small packet of greek
i was not much afeard ; for once or twice i was about to speak and tell him plainly the
show me briefly how .
the virtue of your eye must break my oath .
out of their saddles into the dirt ; and thereby hangs a tale .
away !
the castle enter the countess and her porter countess .
dare he presume to scorn us in this manner ?
' s might : o let my looks be then the eloquence , and dumb presagers of my speaking breast
i am sorry now that i did draw on him .
they call him doricles , and boasts himself to have a worthy feeding ; but i have it upon his
more light and light it grows .
--verona ; mantua .
what if my house be troubled with a rat , and i be pleas ' d to give ten thousand
exit an attendant sit , my preserver , by thy patient ' s side ; and with this healthful hand
not away my blood , were there twenty brothers betwixt us .
their instruments tune a deploring dump- the night ' s dead silence will well become such sweet-complaining grievance .
dies i ' th ' search , and hath as oft a sland ' rous epitaph as record of fair
mark her eyes .
s chamber window .
clifford , repent in bootless penitence .
th ' dreadful thunder-claps , more momentary and sight-outrunning were not ; the fire and cracks of sulphurous roaring the
down with that sword !
; and were they but attired in grave weeds , rome could afford no tribunes like to these .
all springs reduce their currents to mine eyes that i , being govern ' d by the watery moon ,
when such strings jar , what hope of harmony ?
>> _num_ king richard iii by william shakespeare dramatis personae edward the fourth sons to the king edward , prince
o my royal father !
here comes romeo !
well , i must wait , [aside] and watch withal ; for , but i be deceiv ' d ,
beg relief among rome ' s enemies ; who drown ' d their enmity in my true tears , and
well , i do so .
come , dolabella , see high order in this great solemnity .
good news , gods !
and what ' s the news , good cousin lodovico ?
when this same lusty gentleman was got .
txt he is gone , he is gone , and we cast away moan .
at my lodging .
ciel !
courageous richmond , well hast thou acquit thee !
own tinct .
troilus will stand to the proof , if you ' ll prove it so .
if he were dead , you ' ld weep for him ; if you would not , it were a
i love you with so much of my heart that none is left to protest .
this is no answer , thou unfeeling man , to excuse the current of thy cruelty .
come in , titinius !
not worth my thinking .
so shalt thou show me friendship .
[laying down the child] there lie , and there thy character ; there these [laying down a bundle] which may
what ' s this , cornelius ?
so smooth he daub ' d his vice with show of virtue that , his apparent open guilt omitted ,
enter cymbeline , belarius , guiderius , arviragus , pisanio , and roman captives .
methinks the power that edward hath in field should not be able to encounter mine .
tedious , i ' ll tell thee what befell me on a day in this self-place where now we mean
[aside to sampson] say ' better .
if i be not ashamed of my soldiers , i am a sous ' d gurnet .
yellowness ; for the revolt of mine is dangerous .
such may rail against great buildings .
but you , sir , alter ' d that ; for some hour before you took me from the breach
be gone !
our quaint spirits .
angel whiteness beat away those blushes , and in her eye there hath appear ' d a fire to burn
to say ' one .
now by my maiden honour , yet as pure as the unsullied lily , i protest , a world of
your estate and your great flow of debts .
i assure you , carthage .
put to know that your own science exceeds , in that , the lists of all advice my strength can
to rot ; this sensible warm motion to become a kneaded clod ; and the delighted spirit to bathe in
now he ' ll outstare the lightning .
what says maria ?
death is our physician .
hermia ' s love i yield you up my part ; and yours of helena to me bequeath , whom
if my heart were great , ' twould burst at this .
let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth , with cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks , turn
how shall we do for money for these wars ?
charles , i will play no more to-night ; my mind ' s not on ' t ; you are
good night to everyone .
thou ow ' st not ; and hast put thyself upon this island as a spy , to win it
but i have reasons strong and forcible .
doth not the day break here ?
beast .
as high as heaven , for recordation to my noble husband .
or betimes let ' s reinforce or fly .
by heaven , hubert , i am almost asham ' d to say what good respect i have of thee
if ill , why hath it given me earnest of success , commencing in a truth ?
you are my father too , and did relieve me to see this gracious season .
nay , heaven doth know .
good king of cats , nothing but one of your nine lives .
, to call him villain ; and then to glance from him to th ' duke himself , to tax
come on , my boy .
chiron , with aaron the moor , and others , as many as can be .
you are not young , no more am i ; go to , then , there ' s sympathy .
' staves as master shallow .
never mind was to be so unwise to be so kind .
his blessings touch me alike ; th ' are breath i not believe in .
] will you two help to hasten them ?
lo , there thou stand ' st , a breathing valiant man , of an invincible unconquer ' d spirit
strike the vessels , ho !
younger than she are happy mothers made .
i have seen the time .
privilege to live .
to you and yours than ever you or yours by me were harm ' d !
brave peers of england , pillars of the state , to you duke humphrey must unload his grief your grief
' sblood , an he were here , i would cudgel him like a dog if he would say so
she is a strumpet .
enter hamlet and horatio afar off .
sir , in argier .
please you come something nearer .
then be it so .
thus i conceive by him .
' tis no counterfeit .
my sons , i must for mine own part unfold a dangerous speech , though haply well for you .
you here shall swear upon this sword of justice page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
fair beatrice , i thank you for your pains .
and perjur ' d from thy great fail .
i have your alms .
brace of courtezans , but meditating with two deep divines ; not sleeping , to engross his idle body ,
madam , i had .
have i , in my poor and old motion , the expedition of thought ?
all away .
thou seest i have more flesh than another man , and therefore more frailty .
come hither , my dear hamlet , sit by me .
and yet it irks me the poor dappled fools , being native burghers of this desert city , should ,
an uproar , i dare warrant , begun through malice of the bishop ' s men .
this shows a sound affection .
goth .
their form confounded makes most form in mirth , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hector , thou sleep ' st ; awake thee .
come on , young master !
o , she deceives me past thought !
unless you could teach me to forget a banished father , you must not learn me how to remember any
make haste ; the hour of death is expiate .
le beau .
txt his humble ambition , proud humility , his jarring concord , and his discord dulcet , his faith ,
the wiser , the waywarder .
pray you now , buy it .
scorn , ' ' horn ' --a hard rhyme ; for ' school ' , ' fool ' --a babbling
who saw the sun to-day ?
to doff their dire distresses .
hold off the earth awhile , till i have caught her once more in mine arms .
corrupt , corrupt , and tainted in desire !
thou hast quarrell ' d with a man for coughing in the street , because he hath wakened thy dog
than at feasts , full of warm blood , of mirth , of gossiping .
you ' re very welcome .
i am more bound to you than your fellows , for they are but lightly rewarded .
this , fellow .
him from it ; but he is resolute .
' tis all engag ' d , some forfeited and gone ; and what remains will hardly stop the mouth
if reasons were as plentiful as blackberries , i would give no man a reason upon compulsion , i .
' twere good yours did ; for , sir , to tell you plain , i ' ll find a
sufficeth not that we are brought to rome to beautify thy triumphs , and return captive to thee and to
what say you to a piece of beef and mustard ?
i ' ll disrobe me of these italian weeds , and suit myself as does a britain peasant .
to bid you welcome .
the field of battle alarums .
how got she out ?
how often he had met you , sword to sword ; that of all things upon the earth he hated
' tis a woman ' s fault .
cap till i see him once again , and then i will tell him a little piece of my desires
our sacks shall be a mean to sack the city , and we be lords and rulers over rouen ;
did grace the shame of those that turn ' d their backs , and in his flight , stumbling in
txt they say , she hath abjur ' d the company and sight of men .
enter menenius with the senators menenius .
in our heels and that we are most lofty runaways .
she had one eye declin ' d for the loss of her husband , another elevated that the oracle was
i saw ' t not , thought it not , it harm ' d not me ; i slept the
in an urinal , that not an eye that sees you but is a physician to comment on your malady
i pray you , sir , my ring , or else the chain ; i hope you do not mean
here stand , my lords , and send discoverers forth to know the numbers of our enemies .
tut , tut , my lord , we will not stand to prate ; talkers are no good doers .
so think i too .
enter desdemona , cassio , and emilia .
gentlemen , whose fault is this ?
most sweet queenpage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
clubs , bills , and partisans !
n ' avez-vous pas deja oublie ce que je vous ai enseigne ?
txt about surrender up of aquitaine to her decrepit , sick , and bedrid father ; therefore this article is
farewell to me , sir , and welcome to you .
look you pale , mistress ?
i feel ' t upon my bones .
, thrust this enterprise into my heart ; and come ye now to tell me john hath made his peace
your decrees at nought , to pluck down justice from your awful bench , to trip the course of law
stand not amaz ' d .
i see men ' s judgments are a parcel of their fortunes , and things outward do draw the inward
my lord , she may be a punk ; for many of them are neither maid , widow , nor
to my fortunes and the people ' s favour commit my cause in balance to be weigh ' d .
we shall be much unfurnish ' d for this time .
slave , soulless villain , dog !
under your pardon .
honour , riches , marriage-blessing , long continuance , and increasing , hourly joys be still upon you !
bless me from marrying a usurer !
heavens keep him from these beasts !
why , that was he .
he ' s to make his requests by particulars , wherein every one of us has a single honour ,
nothing , my lord .
and what wilt thou do ?
he kill ' d my cousin marcus .
i warrant you , madam .
our thorns to prick ourselves , and mock us with our bareness .
consider what you first did swear unto : to fast , to study , and to see no woman- flat
a word with you .
come , away ; for you shall hence upon your wedding day .
nay , but hear me .
frateretto calls me , and tells me nero is an angler in the lake of darkness .
so poor a pinion of his wing , which had superfluous kings for messengers not many moons gone by .
are not you the chief woman ?
impudency , learned without opinion , and strange without heresy .
thou canst tell why one ' s nose stands i ' th ' middle on ' s face ?
away , old man !
, although thou com ' st to me , that this is no time to lend money , especially upon
signior bassanio , hear me : if i do not put on a sober habit , talk with respect ,
riper days : not that the summer is less pleasant now than when her mournful hymns did hush the night
spent !
some sixteen months , and longer might have stay ' d , if crooked fortune had not thwarted me .
pardon , guest justice .
] " sing willow , willow , willow- " prithee , hie thee ; he ' ll come anon- [sings
here , as before , never , so help you mercy , how strange or odd soe ' er i
, shall for thy love kill a far truer love ; to both their deaths shalt thou be accessary .
what are you made of ?
stand , stand !
a field between the two camps .
their particular functions and wonder at him .
since his majesty went into the field , have seen her rise from her bed , throw her nightgown upon
why , sir , what ' s your conceit in that ?
you mistake me , sir .
head where late the diadem stood , and for a robe , about her lank and all o ' erteemed
the games are done , and caesar is returning .
resolve thee , richard ; claim the english crown .
to lapse in fulness page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
captain !
though thou speak ' st truth , methinks thou speak ' st not well .
something he left imperfect in the state , which since his coming forth is thought of , which imports to
there shall be order for ' t .
, upbraid my falsehood when th ' have said ' as false as air , as water , wind ,
here is his cave .
my tale provokes that question .
come , lay aside your stitchery ; i must have you play the idle huswife with me this afternoon .
in himself to know , grace to stand , and virtue go ; more nor less to others paying than
so did i , i ' ll be sworn .
forbear me .
his dishonesty appears in leaving his friend here in necessity and denying him ; and for his cowardship , ask
why , then , though loath , yet must i be content .
[beating him] dromio of syracuse .
so , so , thou common dog , didst thou disgorge thy glutton bosom of the royal richard ; and
your ear is good .
from whence ?
petit monsieur , que dit-il ?
fort .
make us thy ministers of chastisement , that we may praise thee in the victory !
re-enter antony and enobarbus antony .
exeunt severally scene ii .
as i thought , dead ; and have , in vain , said many a prayer upon her grave .
in the narrow seas that part the french and english , there miscarried a vessel of our country richly fraught
i am dying , egypt , dying ; only i here importune death awhile , until of many thousand kisses
now , my young guest , methinks you ' re allycholly ; i pray you , why is it ?
go to , then- your considerate stone !
that makes sport to the prince and his book-mates .
be the jacks fair within , the jills fair without , the carpets laid , and everything in order ?
fantastic may become a youth of greater time than i shall show to be .
i pray you , sir , go forth , and give us truth who ' tis that is arrived .
who intercepts me in my expedition ?
nay , let them go , a couple of quiet ones .
the earth can yield me but a common grave , when you entombed in men ' s eyes shall lie
peace , ho !
some griefs are med ' cinable ; that is one of them , for it doth physic love- of his
thy flatterers yet wear silk , drink wine , lie soft , hug their diseas ' d perfumes , and
and dogs , then afterward up higher ; but there is no danger in what show of death it makes
damned spirits all that in cross-ways and floods have burial , already to their wormy beds are gone , for
i do , my lord , and in her eye i find a wonder , or a wondrous miracle ,
a fool , sir , at a woman ' s service , and a knave at a man ' s
summer ' s flower is to the summer sweet , though to it self , it only live and die
something is rotten in the state of denmark .
, have talk ' d of monmouth ' s grave .
my mangled body shows , my blood , my want of strength , my sick heart shows , that i
why dost thou lead these men about the streets ?
go , coward as thou art .
' tis thought , my lord , that you took bribes of france and , being protector , stay '
whore still ; paint till a horse may mire upon your face .
a good wench ; give it me .
may be he is not well .
odds with england .
bassianus and his followers at the other , with drums and trumpets saturninus .
found , horatio (o royal knavery !
the gods preserve ye !
the widow from her custom ' d right , and have no other reason for this wrong but that he
superfluous branches we lop away , that bearing boughs may live ; had he done so , himself had home
dream , each buzz , each fancy , each complaint , dislike , he may enguard his dotage with their
our overplus of shipping will we burn , and , with the rest full-mann ' d , from th '
not i , till mutius ' bones be buried .
was ' t you that did so oft contrive to kill him ?
' lower ' hark , again .
third citizen .
is it this , sir ?
god-den to you all , god-den to you an .
no doubt the murd ' rous knife was dull and blunt till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart to
parted you in good terms ?
praise us as we are tasted , allow us as we prove ; our head shall go bare till merit
write , write , that from the bloody course of war my dearest master , your dear son , may
give me mine own again ; ' twere no good part to take on me to keep and kill thy
she was false as water .
have you dispatch ' d ' ?
if he fill ' d his vacancy with his voluptuousness , full surfeits and the dryness of his bones call
oft have you-often have you thanks therefore- desir ' d my cressid in right great exchange , whom troy hath
recreant to my cousin hereford !
our old and faithful friend , we are glad to see you .
hail , worthy timon !
shall we give o ' er orleans , or no ?
and marring fortunes .
he misses not much .
their discipline , now mingled with their courages , will make known to their approvers they are people such that
and octavia , to induce their mediation- must i be unfolded with one that i have bred ?
what simple thief brags of his own attaint ?
murtherer .
go forward , and be chok ' d with thy ambition !
put your torches out .
keep this remembrance for thy julia ' s sake .
a noise within , crying ' room for the queen !
then you are weakly made .
my good use i rememb ' red .
good fool , help me to some light and some paper .
, saving your mincing , the capacity of your soft cheveril conscience would receive if you might please to stretch
well , but to my choice .
i do it not in evil disposition , but from lord angelo by special charge .
o gentlemen , help !
upon my life , petruchio means but well , whatever fortune stays him from his word .
by heaven , i do not , i do not , gentlemen .
to th ' hopeful execution do i leave you of your commissions .
avoid , and leave him .
two deep enemies , foes to my rest , and my sweet sleep ' s disturbers , are they that
i will proclaim thee , angelo , look for ' t .
rue , even for ruth , here shortly shall be seen , in the remembrance of a weeping queen .
o , no more , no more !
that jade hath eat bread from my royal hand ; this hand hath made him proud with clapping him .
this strained passion doth you wrong , my lord .
' and so he vanish ' d .
s offal , and to be thrown in the thames ?
now , sir , is your name menenius ?
despised .
art not acquainted with him ?
sea-swallow ' d , though some cast again , and by that destiny , to perform an act whereof what
enter berkeley northumberland .
these ears of mine , thou know ' st , did hear thee .
how dost thou feel thyself now ?
exit pisanio .
good morrow , uncle pandarus .
is past .
bid ' st thou me rage ?
yes , faith , and all his lords , the duke of milan and his brave son being twain .
necessary , look your grace , that he keep his vow and his oath ; if he be perjur '
my duty then shall pay me for my pains .
so please you , for i never heard it yet ; yet heard too much of phebe ' s cruelty
they found him dead , and cast into the streets , an empty casket , where the jewel of life
to do what ?
dauphin , i am by birth a shepherd ' s daughter , my wit untrain ' d in any kind
it shall be so .
how now , noble pompey !
i remember thine eyes well enough .
think ' st thou to catch my life so pleasantly as to prenominate in nice conjecture where thou wilt hit
let me alone with him .
txt such men my friends than enemies .
points like a man ?
well , bury him , and bury me the next .
exit romeo .
he sits ' mongst men like a descended god : he hath a kind of honour sets him of more
come here about me , you my myrmidons ; mark what i say .
cornelius , courtier .
me so luckily , i will assay thee .
why , she is within .
contradict your liking , makes them thus forward in his banishment .
faith , for their poverty , i know , not where they had that ; and for their bareness ,
doth my simple feature content you ?
where is your husband ?
mass , thou say ' st true .
shall have gold for all .
ha , the prince and monsieur love !
o , good !
aeneas passes cressida .
ah , my sweet moor , sweeter to me than life !
so , so , there !
why dost not speak to me ?
i do not say i am one ; but i have a hand .
shall it for shame be spoken in these days , or fill up chronicles in time to come , that
and he ' s gone .
remember your bold life too .
is the fool sick ?
what knows the laws that thieves do pass on thieves ?
let me hear from thee ; for whereso ' er thou art in this world ' s globe i '
you have been hotly call ' d for , when , being not at your lodging to be found ,
exit scene vii .
re-enter bardolph falstaff .
and in the wood where often you and i upon faint primrose beds were wont to lie , emptying our
fair lady , by your leave ; i come by note , to give and to receive .
speak , captain , shall i stab the forlorn swain ?
primo , secundo , tertio , is a good play ; and the old saying is ' the third pays
why either were you ignorant to see ' t , or , seeing it , of such childish friendliness to
this is th ' imposthume of much wealth and peace , that inward breaks , and shows no cause without
come all to ruin .
the wrongs he did me were nothing prince-like ; for he did provoke me with language that would make me
and take good note what caesar doth , what suitors press to him .
first let my words stab him , as he hath me .
for your voices i have fought ; watch ' d for your voices ; for your voices bear of wounds
seek none , conspiracy ; hide it in smiles and affability ; for if thou path , thy native semblance
i but through my prison once a day behold this maid .
i will here shroud till the dregs page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
what is in thy mind that makes thee stare thus ?
her eye is sick on ' t ; i observe her now .
i would fain have it a match , and i doubt not but to fashion it if you three will
enter messenger .
i thank you , gentle uncle .
yes , thou must die : thou art too noble to conserve a life in base appliances .
( _num_ ) are not distributed or used commercially .
nor by th ' matter which your heart prompts you , but with such words that are but roted in
believe my words , for they are certain and unfallible .
by jupiter , an angel !
though i am not bookish , yet i can read waiting-gentlewoman in the scape .
o you leaden messengers , that ride upon the violent speed of fire , fly with false aim ; move
of your speech .
me ganymede .
fell rage some beauty peeped through lattice of seared age .
i commend my duty to your lordship .
borachio .
stay with us .
o cassius , brutus gave the word too early , who , having some advantage on octavius , took it
or endure your heaviest censure .
the widow lords , officers , soldiers , etc .
why , this passes , master ford ; you are not to go loose any longer ; you must be
whoop , jug , i love thee !
a clout steep ' d in the faultless blood of pretty rutland- his curses then from bitterness of soul denounc
[aside] sir hugh is there , is he ?
i never prosper ' d since i forswore myself at primero .
look where it comes again !
say , what thing ?
trust to ' t .
; for the best is yet to do ; and here , where you are , they are coming to
thou sing ' st sweet music .
why , what of him ?
tranio .
pointing on him .
bid them home .
wilt thou love such a woman ?
mere fetches- the images of revolt and flying off !
show against a sworder !
are you now persuaded that talbot is but shadow of himself ?
tybalt under romeo ' s arm thrusts mercutio in , and flies [with his followers] .
o , we are spoil ' d ; and yonder he is !
he , my lord ; but he hath since done good service at shrewsbury , and , as i hear
but bear me to that chamber ; there i ' ll lie ; in that jerusalem shall harry die .
like green timber warp , warp .
false-boding woman , end thy frantic curse , lest to thy harm thou move our patience .
i prithee , when thou seest that act afoot , even with the very comment of thy soul observe my
exit messenger there ' s a great spirit gone !
see thy beauty , thy beauty that doth make me like thee well , thou must be married to no
may ' t please your majesty to give us leave freely to render what we have in charge ; or
exit king john .
if i do so , it will be of more price , being spoke behind your back , than to
all the conspirators , save only he , did that they did in envy of great caesar ; he only
enter king edward , gloucester , clarence , and forces , with queen margaret , oxford , and somerset ,
enter philotus lucius ' servant .
till i be gentle , stay thou for thy good morrow ; when thou art timon ' s dog ,
, to show in articles ; which long ere this we offer ' d to the king , and might
he , most humane and fill ' d with honour , to my kingly guest unclasp ' d my practice
justle it from what it purpos ' d ; since to wail friends lost is not by much so wholesome-profitable
that an eel is quick .
the volsces fly , and marcius follows them to the gates page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
farewell , you muddy knave .
the maid to answer ' whoop , do me no harm , good man ' - puts him off ,
dost lack any money ?
will they return ?
four rogues in buckram let drive at me .
mi perdonato , gentle master mine ; i am in all affected as yourself ; glad that you thus continue
' tis strange .
re-enter gaoler , with emilia page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and yet it cannot overtake your slow purse .
first captain .
i can be secret as a dumb man , i would have you think so ; but , on my
since thou dost give me pains , let me remember thee what thou hast promis ' d , which is
what means death in this rude assault ?
by the woman ' s means ?
why look you pale ?
valentine i ' ll hold an enemy , aiming at silvia as a sweeter friend .
re-enter york , with king richard , and officers bearing the regalia king richard .
leonatus ?
i never saw you in my life till now .
i ' this general applause and cheerful shout argues your wisdoms and your love to richard .
i had well hop ' d thou wouldst have denied beatrice , that i might have cudgell ' d thee
i pray you , give me leave to go from hence ; i am not well ; send the deed
and hymen now with luckier issue speeds than this for whom we rend ' red up this woe .
gloucester , uncle to the king , and protector duke of bedford , uncle to the king , and regent
traitors have never other company .
we three are married , but you two are sped .
[within] what is ' t o ' clock ?
hold thee , there ' s my purse .
that ' s as much as to say ' bastard virtues ' ; that indeed know not their fathers ,
so bold that dares do justice on my proper son ; and not less happy , having such a son
this england never did , nor never shall , lie at the proud foot of a conqueror , but when
let this be duly performed , with a thought that more depends on it than we must yet deliver .
flames o ' fire ; and his lips blows at his nose , and it is like a coal of
good deceit which mates him first that first intends deceit .
eternity was in our lips and eyes , bliss in our brows ' bent , none our parts so poor
shut , we have but pinn ' d with rushes ; they ' ll open of themselves .
that truth should be silent i had almost forgot .
] i never knew a florentine more kind and honest .
these news , my lords , may cheer our drooping spirits : ' tis said the stout parisians do revolt
here lies my gown .
i know this is a joyful trouble to you , but yet ' tis one .
, and those kin which , in the bluster of thy wrath , must fall with those that have offended
such welcome and unwelcome things at once ' tis hard to reconcile .
txt scene _num_ .
i have letters sent me that sets him high in fame .
meat .
- i come , i come !
well , we ' ll see ' t .
i do , thou most usurping proditor , and not protector of the king or realm .
hooks .
thou art as wise as thou art beautiful .
talk must only be of benedick .
euphronius .
it would make any man cold to lose .
i ' ll creep up into the chimney .
love is food for fortune ' s tooth .
if we be not reliev ' d within this hour , we must return to th ' court of guard
you laugh when boys or women tell their dreams ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me , and hurl the name of husband in my face
o julius caesar , thou art mighty yet !
what call you the carriages ?
their emperor .
enter young siward .
here was a royal fellowship of death !
[advancing] hear me , you wrangling pirates , that fall out in sharing that which you have pill ' d
and when they show ' d me this abhorred pit , they told me , here , at dead time
shall in despite enforce a watery eye .
that speak ' st with every tongue to every purpose !
exeunt abhorson and pompey enter provost provost .
o , i cannot speak !
you , lord archbishop , whose see is by a civil peace maintain ' d , whose beard the silver
, not to trust , enjoyed no sooner but despised straight , past reason hunted , and no sooner had
would not my lords return to me again after they heard young arthur was alive ?
to die is to be banish ' d from myself , and silvia is myself ; banish ' d from
with a proud heart he wore his humble weeds .
who loves the king , and will embrace his pardon , fling up his cap and say ' god save
come , your hand ; and , daughter , yours .
tell her we measure them by weary steps .
from whom ?
i thee defy again .
to practise your severity .
txt hostess .
' which , as i remember , hight costard , ' costard .
pray you sit still .
the presence chamber in the king ' s palace enter the king , gloucester , bedford , exeter , warwick
now to that name my courage prove my title !
go , bear patroclus ' body to achilles , and bid the snail-pac ' d ajax arm for shame .
pish !
turn ' d coward but by example- o , a sin in war damn ' d in the first beginners
that pure congealed white , high taurus ' snow , fann ' d with the eastern wind , turns to
i think you have hit the mark ; but is ' t not cruel that she should feel the smart
she robs thee of thy name ; and thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous when she is
o ' th ' court .
if thou canst cuckold him , thou dost thyself a pleasure , me a sport .
' tis i must snuff it ; then out it goes .
come , high or low ; thyself and office deftly show !
o good iago , what shall i do to win my lord again ?
[to edmund] let the drum strike , and prove my title thine .
had i been seized by a hungry lion , i would have been a breakfast to the beast rather than
if not , i ' th ' name of god , your pleasure be fulfill ' d !
show ' d , ' the romans ' this we receiv ' d , ' and each in either side
nay , i told you your son was well beloved in padua .
mother to a hopeful prince- here standing to prate and talk for life and honour fore who please to come
the base o ' th ' mount is rank ' d with all deserts , all kind of natures that
saw you my master ?
go these news as fast as horse can carry them- a sorry breakfast for my lord protector .
the son and heir to that same faulconbridge .
and yours as blunt as the fencer ' s foils , which hit but hurt not .
, my field , my barn , my horse , my ox , my ass , my any thing ,
let him go , gertrude .
a pretty period !
spend my latter days , to sin ' s rebuke and my creator ' s praise .
what ' s the matter , sweetheart ?
muffled !
for this i owe you .
golden care !
bound , you must enquire your way , which you are out of , with a gentler spirit , or
the time when ?
like to have fought one .
a subtle knave !
besom that must sweep the court clean of such filth as thou art .
tell him i ' ll send duke edmund to the tower- and somerset , we will commit thee thither until
but , my good lord , your grace ' s words shall serve as well as i had seen and
my wrath .
pray that the right may thrive .
he cannot come , my lord ; he is grievous sick .
did deserve his change .
queen margaret .
methinks his lordship should be humbler ; it fitteth not a prelate so to plead .
of those impieties for the which they are now visited .
priamus and hecuba on knees , their eyes o ' ergalled with recourse of tears ; nor you , my
o , farewell , honest soldier .
assist me , some extemporal god of rhyme , for i am sure i shall turn sonnet .
[they converse apart] boyet .
their glutt ' nous maws .
exit cominius .
, old nedar ' s helena .
he surely affected her for her wit .
i talk ' d with no man at that hour , my lord .
will not you ?
juno have mercy !
but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant .
virtues else- be they as pure as grace , as infinite as man may undergo- shall in the general censure
to us the speaker in his parliament , to us th ' imagin ' d voice of god himself ,
sufferance bide each check , without accusing you of injury .
more and less came in with cap and knee ; met him on boroughs , cities , villages , attended
hazard life , and rescue you from him that would have forc ' d your honour and your love .
s bank drove back again unto my native clime ?
stuff ; if damned custom have not braz ' d it so that it is proof and bulwark against sense
but which of you was by- [to warwick] you , cousin nevil , as i may remember- when richard ,
must i stand and crouch under your testy humor ?
and cheeks shall fade to paly ashes , thy eyes ' windows fall like death when he shuts up the
i never heard the absent duke much detected for women ; he was not inclin ' d that way .
that ' s my mind too .
dead shepherd , now i find thy saw of might : ' who ever lov ' d that lov '
how holily he works in all his business !
her weeping , or a dog that seems a-sleeping , or a keeper with my freedom , or my friends
assuredly the thing is to be sold .
your grace hath still been fam ' d for virtuous , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
their eyes do offices of truth , their words are natural breath ; but , howsoe ' er you have
o , whither shall we fly from this reproach ?
confounded be your strife ; and perish ye , with your audacious prate !
and i will help thee to prefer her too : she shall be dignified with this high honour- to bear
to write and read be henceforth treacherous !
, that thy mother was , again , in pity of my hard distress , levied an army , weening
and yet he would not swear ; prais ' d women ' s modesty , and gave such orderly and
drunk ?
i say , without characters , fame lives long .
enter talbot in an excursion talbot .
forsooth , i have forgot .
antonio , gratify this gentleman , for in my mind you are much bound to him .
understands me .
] away , i say ; go out and cry a mutiny .
come on ; obey .
o my dear father , restoration hang thy medicine on my lips , and let this kiss repair those violent
he greets me well .
so you left him .
antony will use his affection where it is ; he married but his occasion here .
and when you saw his chariot but appear , have you not made an universal shout that tiber trembled underneath
s languish .
world ' s pleasure and the increase of laughter .
welcome , good cambio .
_num_ your love and pity doth th ' impression fill , which vulgar scandal stamped upon my brow , for
pray heaven it be not full of knight again .
are you his brother ?
it back or yield up aquitaine .
as flies to wanton boys are we to th ' gods .
[dies] plantagenet .
recover them .
i am rapt , and cannot cover the monstrous bulk of this ingratitude with any size of words .
shallow plash to plunge him in the deep , and with satiety seeks to quench his thirst .
look there , my lords ; by virtue of that ring i take my cause out of the gripes of
tears wash the congealment from your wounds and kiss the honour ' d gashes whole .
one score ' twixt sun and sun , madam , ' s enough for you , and too much too
can you love the maid ?
arms ; not to break peace , or any branch of it , but to establish here a peace indeed
of ragged stone , where hotspur ' s father , old northumberland , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
, and trim ones too .
[throwing down somerset ' s head] york .
how these were they that made away his brother .
haste thee for thy life .
i prithee rend me thy sword .
cousin aumerle , how far brought you high hereford on his way ?
your grace in marriage , with a large and sumptuous dowry .
o poverty in wit , kingly-poor flout !
ere the bat hath flown his cloister ' d flight , ere to black hecate ' s summons the shard-borne
command , i mean , friend .
away , i prithee ; do as i bid thee .
finish , good lady ; the bright day is done , and we are for the dark .
there are some shrewd contents in yond same paper that steals the colour from bassanio ' s cheek : some
i will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight , so drunken
rejoice , beseeching god and you to pardon me .
[gives a favour .
; or if it did not , your first is dead- or ' twere as good he were as living
strive to mend .
away with them !
enter murtherers .
when i have seen the hungry ocean gain advantage on the kingdom of the shore , and the firm soil
if you seek us afterwards in other terms , you shall find us in our salt-water girdle .
lest it make you choleric , and purchase me another dry basting .
have apprehended in the fact , raising up wicked spirits from under ground , demanding of king henry ' s
the moon sleeps with endymion , and would not be awak ' d .
thou art in a parlous state , shepherd .
i know not , mighty sovereign , but by guess .
much afear ' d my lady his mother play ' d false with a smith .
the poor world is almost six thousand years old , and in all this time there was not any man
brutus hath rived my heart .
i am for france .
a tender , a kind of tender , made afar off by sir hugh here .
and mine ; but it grows something stale with me .
which she yet wears for his sake ; and he , a marble to her tears , is washed with
father would enforce me marry vain thurio , whom my very soul abhors .
we ' ll sift this matter further .
re-enter servants with supper why , when , i say ?
there is thy gold- worse poison to men ' s souls , doing more murther in this loathsome world ,
, that eye shall be his heed , and give him light that it was blinded by .
madam , how like you this play ?
good fool , as ever thou wilt deserve well at my hand , help me to a candle , and
come , let us in , and with all speed provide to see her coronation be perform ' d .
my lord shall never rest ; i ' ll watch him tame and talk him out of patience ; his
from the two parties , forsooth .
not have had him .
fetch my life and being from men of royal siege , and my demerits may speak unbonneted to as proud
driven out of doors with it when i go from home ; welcom ' d home with it when i
a speaker is but a prater : a rhyme is but a ballad .
since i am crept in favour with myself , i will maintain it with some little cost .
you were also , jupiter , a swan , for the love of leda .
fond woman , let me go .
your lord does know my mind ; i cannot love him .
let us be jocund ; will you troll the catch you taught me but while-ere ?
god ' s light , with two points on your shoulder ?
this oath i willingly take , and will perform .
sweet lady , you have given me life and living ; for here i read for certain that my ships
' d and choice-drawn cavaliers to france ?
wrecked) i am a worthless boat , he of tall building , and of goodly pride .
what is in silvia ' s face but i may spy more fresh in julia ' s with a constant
deny me this , and an eternal curse fall on you !
have you nothing said upon his party ' gainst the duke of albany ?
first , for his weeping into the needless stream : ' poor deer , ' quoth he ' thou mak
now , in good sadness , son petruchio , i think thou hast the veriest shrew of all .
; then prophet-like they hail ' d him father to a line of kings .
am i made ?
you should love the friend of france ; for i love france so well that i will not part with
well , sir , what did this gentleman to her ?
how now , oswald ?
exit enter doctor caius caius .
i cannot think you are my son .
might deprive your sovereignty of reason and draw you into madness ?
will ' t please your worship to come in , sir ?
go take this shape , and hither come in ' t .
farewell , bertram .
i will hear further reason for this .
lo , upon thy wish , our messenger chatillon is arriv ' d .
and since we have the vaward of the day , my love shall hear the music of my hounds .
in god ' s name , what art thou ?
' tis better said than done , my gracious lord .
s spring became a harvest , liv ' d in court- which rare it is to do- most prais '
the courtier ' s , scholar ' s , soldier ' s , eye , tongue , sword , th
i protest i take these wise men that crow so at these set kind of fools no better than the
i do consent- octavius .
thinks .
but say , lucetta , now we are alone , wouldst thou then counsel me to fall in love ?
to comfort thee , though thou art banished .
contempt , farewell !
exeunt officers with lucio she , claudio , that you wrong ' d , look you restore .
such an exploit have i in hand , ligarius , had you a healthful ear to hear of it .
nay , that you shall not ; since you have begun , have at you for a bitter jest or
, and that shall be the ransom for their fault .
just , and impartial spirit as you have done ' gainst me .
you are welcome ; take your place .
fewness and truth , ' tis thus : your brother and his lover have embrac ' d .
if truth and upright innocency fail me , i ' ll to the king my master that is dead ,
thou seest the world , volumnius , how it goes ; our enemies have beat us to the pit ;
and among other importunate and most serious designs , and of great import indeed , too- but let that pass
a curse begin at very root on ' s heart that is not glad to see thee !
you may direct me to him from whom you brought them .
loving uncle , twenty times his worth , they say , is shamefully bereft of life .
as fire .
wit ' s own grace to grace a learned fool .
all one word to understand .
' to testify your bounty , i thank you , you have testern ' d me ; in requital whereof
my lord , your valiant kinsman , faulconbridge , desires your majesty to leave the field and send him word
i think his soul is in hell , madonna .
accuse doth level at my life .
tell them so , decius .
nay , my lord , he call ' d you jack and said he would cudgel you .
i have not done .
if ever i live to see it , i will challenge it .
forsooth , a blind man at saint albans shrine within this half hour hath receiv ' d his sight ;
, that we must lave our honors in these flattering streams , and make our faces vizards to our hearts
with mistress ford .
, clapp ' d on the outward eye of fickle france , hath drawn him from his own determin '
my hand to thee ; mine honour on my promise .
from the dread summit of this chalky bourn .
sir , there is a proclamation that you are vanished .
, being over-full of self-affairs , my mind did lose it .
sir , i do depend upon the lord .
good hearts , devise something ; any extremity rather than a mischief .
known a play ; but by ten words , my lord , it is too long , which makes it
the language i have learnt these forty years , my native english , now i must forgo ; and now
company detest .
your name , i beseech you , sir ?
' twere as good a deed as to drink when a man ' s ahungry , to challenge him the
what thing is ' t that i never did see man die !
thou chid ' st me well .
where all alike do dote .
down truth .
and am her knight by proof .
enter lady macbeth and a servant .
if it do , you shall have a dozen of cushions again ; you have but eleven now .
look , prithee , charmian , how this herculean roman does become the carriage of his chafe .
pardon me , i am but as a guiltless messenger .
, that our play leaps o ' er the vaunt and firstlings of those broils , beginning in the middle
and so , farewell .
tack ' d together and thrown over the shoulders like a herald ' s coat without sleeves ; and the
quicken with kissing .
he bears both the sentence and the sorrow that , to pay grief , must of poor patience borrow .
next night well , was free and merry ; i found not cassio ' s kisses on her lips .
ay , alack , how new is ' husband ' in my mouth !
finds meat ; or rather , where i eat it .
' but never once again turn back and fly .
petruchio is my name , antonio ' s son , a man well known throughout all italy .
but fare thee well ; thou art a gallant youth ; i would thou hadst told me of another father
exit ratcliff .
condition i may quietly enjoy mine own , the country maine and anjou , free from oppression or the stroke
why , ' jack boy !
' ll stop mine ears against the mermaid ' s song .
good as the best .
did the cyclops ' hammers fall on mars ' s armour , forg ' d for proof eterne , with
next night following enjoy not desdemona , take me from this world with treachery and devise engines for my life
as she liv ' d now .
their age .
acquit myself .
what authority surfeits on would relieve us ; if they would yield us but the superfluity while it were wholesome
txt edg .
moreover , to descry the strength o ' th ' enemy .
why , look you now , how unworthy a thing you make of me !
, which are , indeed , nought else but the protractive trials of great jove to find persistive constancy in
that love hath given me the knife that made it .
lo , where comes that rock that i advise your shunning .
enter pembroke pembroke .
from such a cause as fills mine eyes with tears and stops my tongue , while heart is drown '
fie on ambitions !
whose noise is this that cries on murther ?
youthful goats , wild as young bulls .
what is the figure ?
how , i ' th ' name of thrift , does he rake this together ?
sweet thief which sourly robs from me .
what was th ' impediment that broke this off ?
therefore , as you unwind her love from him , lest it should ravel and be good to none ,
glad am i that your highness is so arm ' d to bear the tidings of calamity .
do grow together ; grant that , and tell me in peace what each of them by th ' other
my trespass .
judicious punishment !
before the belching whale ; then is he yonder , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
say , gentle princess , would you not suppose your bondage happy , to be made a queen ?
thy tongue some say of breeding breathes , what safe and nicely i might well delay by rule of knighthood
well , i ' ll make ' s excuse .
was he a gentleman ?
working of your own affections , had time coher ' d with place , or place with wishing , or
who art thou ?
lucilius , come , and come , young cato ; let us to the field .
these likelihoods confirm her flight from hence ; therefore , i pray you , stand not to discourse , but
see , my lord , would you not deem it breath ' d , and that those veins did verily
and i beseech you instantly to visit my too much changed son .
of the king ' s ship , the mariners , say how thou hast dispos ' d , and all
stands that to my foes this body must be prey , yet that thy brazen gates of heaven may ope
be proud of thy bondage .
where ' s the prince dauphin ?
god , for thy mercy !
nor do we find him forward to be sounded , but with a crafty madness keeps aloof when we would
messala , i have here received letters that young octavius and mark antony come down upon us with a mighty
that would i , were i of all kingdoms king .
truth ' s a dog must to kennel ; he must be whipp ' d out , when lady the
prince henry .
of needful value .
then was that noble worcester too soon ta ' en prisoner ; and that furious scot , the bloody douglas
my master calls for him .
banish usury that makes the senate ugly .
good then ; if his face be the worst thing about him , how could master froth do the constable
these arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet ; my heart , sweet boy , shall be thy sepulchre ,
then warwick disannuls great john of gaunt , which did subdue the greatest part of spain ; and , after
to bring you thus together ' tis no sin , sith that the justice of your title to him doth
sweet duke of york , our prop to lean upon , now thou art gone , we have no staff
do not cry havoc , where you should but hunt with modest warrant .
stay ; the king !
words pay no debts , give her deeds ; but she ' ll bereave you o ' th ' deeds
dad .
faults to have amended .
can this be so that in alliance , amity , and oaths , there should be found such false dissembling
with all my heart , gentlemen both !
upon our first , he sent out to suppress his nephew ' s levies ; which to him appear '
nay , be not angry , sir .
despise me , if i do not .
speed then to take advantage of the field .
let him alone awhile .
a merrier day did never yet greet rome , no , not th ' expulsion of the tarquins .
why should i , mother ?
this seeming brow of justice , did he win the hearts of all that he did angle for ; proceeded
it was no better than picture-like to hang by th ' wall , if renown made it not stir- was
no profit grows where is no pleasure ta ' en ; in brief , sir , study what you most
shall be pleas ' d till he be eas ' d with being nothing .
i have now found thee ; when i lose thee again i care not ; yet art thou good for
i warrant you that man is not alive might so have tempted him as you have done without the taste
i cannot mend it , i must needs confess , because my power is weak and all ill left ;
o , pardon me , thou bleeding piece of earth , that i am meek and gentle with these butchers
o , could their master come and go as lightly , himself would lodge where , senseless , they are
she was then a bona-roba .
with all my heart !
exit prospero .
fare ye well ; we leave you now with better company .
' d wye at monmouth , but it is out of my prains what is the name of the other
] hark , hark !
he excels his brother for a coward ; yet his brother is reputed one of the best that is .
to dinner , and prays that you will hie you home to dinner .
just proof repeals and reconciles thee .
we leave you .
you ' re liars all .
what is to be said to him , lady ?
where will the old duke live ?
shall be fortunate .
heaven , from thy endless goodness , send prosperous life , long and ever-happy , to the high and mighty
where is he , denny ?
madam , they are not yet ; but there is come a messenger before , to signify their coming .
let it not cumber your better remembrance .
you are so sick of late , so far from cheer and from your former state .
third lord .
peace , drums !
i had as lief not be as live to be in awe of such a thing as i myself .
a heaven-kissing hill : a combination and a form indeed where every god did seem to set his seal to
and , which is worse , all you have done hath been but for a wayward son , spiteful and
i say she never did invent this letter : this is a man ' s invention , and his hand
well , say i am ; why should proud summer boast before the birds have any cause to sing ?
judas i am , ycliped maccabaeus .
that ' s a lie in thy throat .
of the eight .
something that hath a reference to my state : no longer celia , but aliena .
though parting be a fretful corrosive , it is applied to a deathful wound .
nay , look not big , nor stamp , nor stare , nor fret ; i will be master of
follow me .
if god prevent not , i purpose so .
prayers might prevail to join your hearts in love and amity .
it will be thought by some that know not why he is away , that wisdom , loyalty , and
a man , sir .
what said master dommelton about the satin for my short cloak and my slops ?
thou scurvy patch !
it shall be so ; he shall to brittany .
ay , i warrant you , and not without his true purchasing .
you whoreson villain !
hector ' s trumpet .
this hand of yours requires a sequester from liberty , fasting , and prayer , much castigation , exercise devout
nay , what are you , sir ?
i am absolute ' twas very cloten .
lord , lord , how subject we old men are to this vice of lying !
and mistress anne page .
easily because he cannot study , and the other lives merrily because he feels no pain ; the one lacking
d him some design , which , being believ ' d , it was much like to do .
my lord , the first time that i ever saw him page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[aside] i do suspect you , madam ; but you shall do no harm .
hortensio , peace !
and with presented nakedness outface the winds and persecutions of the sky .
and is not that your bondman dromio ?
on his hook , which he with fervency drew up .
and each (though enemies to either ' s reign) do in consent shake hands to torture me , the one
answer me to that- and poins there ?
with you , goodman boy , an you please !
would i could answer this comfort with the like !
thy wife too !
his own , words him , i doubt not , a great deal from the matter .
by gar , a boy ; it is not anne page ; by gar , i am cozened .
i ' faith , lady , i think your blazon to be true ; though i ' ll be sworn
strike him , aumerle .
music and a song , " black spirits .
i am glad to see you mad .
into my dispatch , which shall to all our nights and days to come give solely sovereign sway and masterdom
is thy name mouldy ?
there is scarce truth enough alive to make societies secure ; but security enough to make fellowships accurst .
o , you have liv ' d in desolation here , unseen , unvisited , much to our shame .
enter father capulet , mother , nurse , and servingmen , two or three .
i have told my neighbour how you have been solicited by a gentleman his companion .
grave tribunes , once more i entreat of you .
peter !
children and servants , which do but what they should , by doing everything safe toward your love and honor
lady , wherefore talk you so ?
why , thou whoreson ass , thou mistak ' st me .
why , shall i always keep below stairs ?
nay , do not think i flatter ; for what advancement may i hope from thee , that no revenue
wear the print of his remembrance out , and then she ' s yours .
of mantua .
exeunt suffolk and warwick king henry .
a noble ship of venice hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance on most part of their fleet .
txt our abbeys and our priories shall pay this expedition ' s charge .
he cries aloud ' tarry , my cousin suffolk .
be thus upbraided , chid , and rated at , and the offender granted scope of speech , ' twill
butcher to the sire ; all this divided york and lancaster , divided in their dire division , o ,
i have three pound to free mouldy and bullcalf .
then , gentle clarence , welcome unto warwick ; and welcome , somerset .
primogenity and due of birth , prerogative of age , crowns , sceptres , laurels , but by degree ,
i humbly do desire your grace of pardon ; i must away this night toward padua , and it is
here ' s a bohemian-tartar tarries the coming down of thy fat woman .
a former husband posthumus leonatus , a gentleman , husband to imogen belarius , a banished lord , disguised under
ay me , i am forsworn !
a journey to my loving proteus .
no , my lord , not i .
to be by him cut off nearest the merchant ' s heart .
sweet marjoram .
, pack and be gone .
i do , sans question .
shed together , by th ' vows we have made to endure friends , that you directly set me against
here he comes ; i pray you make us friends ; i will pursue the amity enter parolles parolles .
why , it is affectations .
to the duke of buckingham brandon , and a sergeant-at-arms doorkeeper of the council chamber porter , and his man
, if thereon you rely .
a partial slander sought i to avoid , and in the sentence my own life destroy ' d .
i have a suit unto your lordship .
there ' s honour for you !
come down ; behold no more .
come , be a man !
cyprus .
presence ?
belike ' tis but a rumour .
and they shall be themselves .
heaven wet this place to wash away my woeful monuments .
[aside] short summers lightly have a forward spring .
fight , gentlemen of england !
great hercules is presented by this imp , whose club kill ' d cerberus , that three-headed canus ; and
discard , bully hercules ; cashier ; let them wag ; trot , trot .
volumes of report run with these false , and most contrarious quest upon thy doings .
alas , i look ' d when some of you should say i was too strict to make mine own
sheriff .
i in thought felt not her very sorrow .
my lord , i pray you hear me .
i pray you , sir , of what disposition was the duke ?
what is ' fair , ' william ?
exit page how many thousands of my poorest subjects are at this hour asleep !
pompey thrives in our idleness .
good mother , fetch my bail .
every inordinate cup is unblest , and the ingredient is a devil .
first , tell me , have you ever been at pisa ?
fancy more than any other .
you .
my noble brother !
' tis virtue .
enter miranda ; and prospero at a distance , unseen miranda .
come me to what was done to her .
to see how god in all his creatures works !
the queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to laertes before you fall to play .
swear a merrier hour was never wasted there .
' twas made .
no , sir , no jot ; i know your favour well , though now you have no sea-cap on
lose the royalty of england ' s throne .
it were well the general were put in mind of it .
i will despair , and be at enmity with cozening hope-he is a flatterer , a parasite , a keeper-back
, sir , i can mend you .
' i shall despair .
and what says my conceal ' d lady to our cancell ' d love ?
what art thou that counterfeit ' st the person of a king ?
no , if rightly taken , halter .
of our friends ?
nerissa , cheer yond stranger ; bid her welcome .
now stay your strife .
toward belmont .
deceit .
to leave a rich jew ' s service to become the follower of so poor a gentleman .
o my lord , i would your spirit were easier for advice .
what wouldst thou ?
a mad fellow met me on the way , and told me i had unloaded all the gibbets and press
look here he comes himself .
hath my poor boy done aught but well , whose face i never saw ?
that from your first of difference and decay have followed your sad steps .
[presenting his poem] vouchsafe my labour , and long live your lordship !
to be whipt ?
in the ear ; and he that speaks doth gripe the hearer ' s wrist , whilst he that hears
this nothing ' s more than matter .
no , sir , ' twas never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging .
something after death- the undiscover ' d country , from whose bourn no traveller returns- puzzles the will , and
txt constance .
[aside] this is a piece of malice .
by a slave , no gender than my dog , his fairest daughter is contaminated .
from our brother of england ?
but list to me , my humphrey , my sweet duke : methought i sat in seat of majesty in
how now , brother edmund ?
txt or at your hand th ' account of hours to crave , being your vassal bound to stay your
the subjects ' grief comes through commissions , which compels from each the sixth part of his substance , to
if he please to give me conquer ' d egypt for my son , he gives me so much of
of all thy suitors here i charge thee tell whom thou lov ' st best .
come you and the old woman down ; my husband will come into the chamber .
' tis no matter ; ne ' er a fantastical knave of them all shall flout me out of my
muse , wilt thou not haply say , ' truth needs no colour with his colour fixed , beauty no
o that i could but can these dead to life !
, cut out my tongue , so i may keep mine eyes .
brother , i like not this ; for many men that stumble at the threshold are well foretold that danger
txt by signior angelo .
the most sovereign prescription in galen is but empiricutic and , to this preservative , of no better report than
let your remembrance apply to banquo ; present him eminence , both with eye and tongue : unsafe the while
in love ; in which cage of rushes i am sure you are not prisoner .
ay , in truth , my lord ; trim gallants , full of courtship and of state .
a lane by the wall of capulet ' s orchard .
argal , the gallows may do well to thee .
stand to ' t .
re-enter puck hast thou the flower there ?
farewell ; adieu .
i do not sue to stand ; pardon is all the suit i have in hand .
i do not without danger walk these streets : once in a sea-fight ' gainst the count his galleys i
fetch desdemona hither .
i think she has .
most certain .
may i be bold to say so , sir ?
now , what news on the rialto ?
but he that hath the steerage of my course direct my sail !
there is anne page , which is daughter to master george page , which is pretty virginity .
post .
if he come not , then the play is marr ' d ; it goes not forward , doth it
a life ; you coin ' d it .
while she did call me rascal fiddler and twangling jack , with twenty such vile terms , as she had
o plague right well prevented !
to him , patroclus .
hold , worthy lady , hold , [disarms her] do not yourself such wrong , who are in this reliev
i will , sweet queen .
touraine , maine , desiring thee to lay aside the sword which sways usurpingly these several titles , and put
and ' tis this fever that keeps troy on foot , not her own sinews .
there is no remedy .
fell banning hag ; enchantress , hold thy tongue .
as the dove ; she is not hot , but temperate as the morn ; for patience she will prove
o noble fellow !
encore qu ' il est contre son jurement de pardonner aucun prisonnier , neamnoins , pour les ecus que vous
pardon me , gods !
o phebe , phebe , phebe !
yes , you are .
reason , in madness !
for this the foolish over-careful fathers have broke their sleep with thoughts , their brains with care , their bones
in soft and delicate lethe .
[descending] now step i forth to whip hypocrisy , ah , good my liege , i pray thee pardon me
thou hast suborn ' d the goldsmith to arrest me .
private schooling for you both .
the keeper of the prison- call to him ; let him have knowledge who i am .
sons presents that i intend to send them both .
i will not have to do with you .
she well instructs me .
no hope that way is another way so high a hope , that even ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond
nay , nay , octavia , not only that- that were excusable , that and thousands more of semblable import-
seize on him , furies , take him unto torment !
portia , what mean you ?
lord douglas , go you and tell him so .
a fellow , sir , that i have known to go about with troll-my-dames ; i knew him once a
but if thou strive , poor soul , what are thou then ?
if lucius live , he will requite your wrongs and make proud saturnine and his emperess beg at the gates
indeed , sir , she was the sweet-marjoram of the sallet , or , rather , the herb of grace
down with the montagues !
before hortensio ' s house enter petruchio and his man grumio petruchio .
man ' s fees .
[he lays his breast open ; she offers at it with his sword] nay , do not pause ; for
enter lavinia lavinia .
you have bid us ask his liberty ; which for our goods we do no further ask than whereupon our
play music .
villain , forbear .
a silken doublet , a velvet hose , a scarlet cloak , and a copatain hat !
there ' s the respect that makes calamity of so long life .
o slave , of no more trust than love that ' s hir ' d !
down fell their hose .
thurio .
your wife and brother made wars upon me , and their contestation was theme for you ; you were the
' love .
o , give me pardon , that i , your vassal have employ ' d and pain ' d your
] ros .
mayst prove to shame unvulnerable , and stick i ' th ' wars like a great sea-mark , standing every
but to persever in obstinate condolement is a course of impious stubbornness .
why , he was met even now as mad as the vex ' d sea , singing aloud , crown
i think not on my father ; and these great tears grace his remembrance more than those i shed for
- the wise gods seel our eyes , in our own filth drop our clear judgments , make us adore
seal ' d-up oracle , by the hand deliver ' d of great apollo ' s priest ; and that
i have said my prayers ; and devil envy say ' amen .
enter la pucelle , guarded , and a shepherd shepherd .
come , enough .
marry , i will teach you !
with patient expectation to see great pompey pass the streets of rome .
our purposes god justly hath discover ' d , and i repent my fault more than my death ; which
i would to god my heart were flint like edward ' s , or edward ' s soft and pitiful
vernon , of the white rose or york faction basset , of the red rose or lancaster faction a lawyer
done .
goes fleance with you ?
come , fellow , follow us for thy reward .
i am maim ' d forever .
lov ' d you ; speak me fair in death ; and , when the tale is told , bid
for her poor brother ' s pardon .
hold !
well , you must now speak sir john falstaff fair ; which swims against your stream of quality .
i did send to you for certain sums of gold , which you denied me , for i can raise
most dull , honest dull !
and so they are ; alas , that they are so !
come , come , thersites , help to trim my tent ; this night in banqueting must all be spent
else wherefore breathe i in a christian land ?
hysterica passio !
what shall i need to draw my sword ?
enter the duke of florence , bertram , parolles , soldiers , drum and trumpets duke .
antony ' s dead !
made of our rank feud ; but the just gods gainsay that any drop thou borrow ' dst from thy
i know you not : in ephesus i am but two hours old , as strange unto your town as
[reads] ' imprimis : it is agreed between the french king charles and william de la pole , marquess of
why , then will i no more .
' there ' s scarce a maid westward but she sings it ; ' tis in request , i can
me superfluous death .
villains , set down the corse ; or , by saint paul , i ' ll make a corse of
talk you of killing ?
dear my lord , make me acquainted with your cause of grief .
i was once before him for getting a wench with child .
augmenting it with tears .
] o my lord !
to bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now , whose state and honour i for aye allow .
as i before imparted to your worship , i am to get a man- whate ' er he be it
in parthia did i take thee prisoner , and then i swore thee , saving of thy life , that
did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound ?
videsne quis venit ?
i should see behind me th ' inevitable prosecution of disgrace and horror , that , on my command ,
no , but the barber ' s man hath been seen with him , and the old ornament of his
let one be sent to pray achilles see us at our tent .
[enter beatrice .
' tis so ; and as war in some sort may be said to be a ravisher , so it
look , the good man weeps !
take place when virtue ' s steely bones looks bleak i ' th ' cold wind ; withal , full
i thank god i have as little patience as another man , and therefore i can be quiet .
the trick of it ?
last thing he did , dear queen , he kiss ' d- the last of many doubled kisses- this orient
found- you did suspect she had dispos ' d with caesar , and that your rage would not be purg
exeunt yorkists [march .
what doth gravity out of his bed at midnight ?
there ' s not , i think , a subject that sits in heart-grief and uneasines under the sweet shade
for my business seethes .
exit [they lay hold on chiron and demetrius] chiron .
pledges of my fealty and love .
things sweet to taste prove in digestion sour .
' tis very like .
all must slack wanting his manage ; and they will almost give us a prince of blood , a son
or loss , what is or is not , serves as stuff for these two to make paradoxes .
i , gentle mistress .
though their injunction be to bar my doors and let this tyrannous night take hold upon you , yet have
it is the green-eyed monster , which doth mock the meat it feeds on .
mine own ends have been mine so that evermore they pointed to th ' good of your most sacred person
it ' s true , good lieutenant .
henry the fourth by conquest got the crown .
, i cannot truly say how i came here , but , as i think- for truly would i speak
how ' s the day ?
sirs , cover the while ; the duke will drink under this tree .
mighty lord unto the daughter of a worthless king , having neither subject , wealth , nor diadem .
sister to my wife , this gentlewoman , thy son by this hath married .
and how his piety does my deeds make the blacker !
how quickly the wrong side may be turn ' d outward !
txt that you , cleomenes and dion , have been both at delphos , and from thence have brought this
wood within this wood , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
welcome to a place till some certain shot be paid , and the hostess say ' welcome !
yet to bite his lip and hum at good cominius much unhearts me .
i met you at page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my resolution and my hands i ' ll trust ; none about caesar antony .
if thou beest not immortal , look about you .
for all that beauty that doth cover thee , is but the seemly raiment of my heart , which in
and , sir , it is no little thing to make mine eyes to sweat compassion .
by heart and in heart , boy .
[reads] ' great deputy , the welkin ' s vicegerent and sole dominator of navarre , my soul ' s
what does his cashier ' d worship mutter ?
txt that our french gallants shall to-day draw out , and sheathe for lack of sport .
priam .
nay , pray you , sir .
nay , an you be so tardy , come no more in my sight .
come on , lord hastings , will you go with me ?
' tis a hooded valour , and when it appears it will bate .
come away ; it is almost clear dawn .
open your purse , that the money and the matter may be both at once delivered .
life ; this , and what needful else that calls upon us , by the grace of grace we will
i am a bastard begot , bastard instructed , bastard in mind , bastard in valour , in everything illegitimate
why , no ; no more than reason .
ask my lady beatrice else .
conclude , conclude , he is in love .
i come before to tell you .
she takes upon her bravely at first dash .
god bless your worship !
no such matter !
i would unstate myself to be in a due resolution .
not hermia but helena i love : who will not change a raven for a dove ?
or to a vow of single life .
therefore , lord constable , haste on montjoy , and let him say to england that we send to know
for her , my lord , i dare my life lay down- and will do ' t , sir ,
the duke ' s palace enter duke and thurio duke .
this is she- rom .
and if you can be merry then , i ' ll say a man may weep upon his wedding-day .
; for by the way i ' ll sort occasion , as index to the story we late talk '
come on , sir .
ever see that face of hers again .
i must inform you of a dismal fight betwixt the stout lord talbot and the french .
txt till the foul crimes done in my days of nature are burnt and purg ' d away .
where ' s simple , my man ?
enter octavia , with her train octavia .
stand you ?
upon my soul- bastard .
he can report , as seemeth by his plight , of the revolt the newest state .
i will but spend a word here in the house and go with you .
o , i cry you mercy !
titus andronicus , for thy favours done to us in our election this day i give thee thanks in part
i do believe it against an oracle .
do this , and purchase us thy lasting friends .
for wealth and not for perfect love .
nay , i know not .
txt jove , i thank thee .
but if i could , by him that gave me life , i would attach you all and make you
be it as your wisdom will .
but little : i am arm ' d and well prepar ' d .
but , sirrah , how did thy master part with madam julia ?
vow is made to ransack troy , within whose strong immures the ravish ' d helen , menelaus ' queen
trail of policy so sure as it hath us ' d to do- that i have found the very cause
god ' s blessing on your beard !
a ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats , and for the same he promis ' d me a
to furnish me upon my longing journey .
; is not more manlike than cleopatra , nor the queen of ptolemy more womanly than he ; hardly gave
so that , i say , he has borne all things well ; and i do think that , had
had you such leisure in the time of death to gaze upon these secrets of the deep ?
dear my lord , pardon !
fled with a christian !
then , antony- but now .
then he disdains to shine ; for by the book he should have brav ' d the east an hour
their obedience !
assent of all these learned men , she was divorc ' d , and the late marriage made of none
he knows not yet of his honorable fortune .
no , noble ajax ; you are as strong , as valiant , as wise , no less noble ,
' d from off their backs , stand bare and naked , trembling at themselves ?
are we undone , cast off , nothing remaining ?
creature that it sees .
; and , about evening , come yourself alone to know the reason of this strange restraint .
his evasions have ears thus long .
there ' s a good grandam , boy , that would blot thee .
do your will .
auvergne .
sworn upon ' t she never shrouded any but lazars .
and of women .
o most gentle pulpiter !
i know no news , my lord .
the king is mov ' d , and answers not to this .
] that every like is not the same , o caesar , the heart of brutus yearns to think upon
i told him , and i think i told him true , that your grace had got the good will
her soft laws , she did corrupt frail nature with some bribe to shrink mine arm up like a wither
stay , my lord , and let your reason with your choler question what ' tis you go about .
you have to court her at your pleasure .
o lear , lear , lear !
i would to god , my lords , he might be found .
i ' ll lug the guts into the neighbour room .
eyes not see .
[queen and ladies retire] gardener .
pray you , arise , my good and gracious lord of canterbury .
if it should come to the car of the court how i have been transformed , and how my transformation
bedlam , have done .
what is this castle call ' d that stands hard by ?
but keep your way , a god ' s name !
o hermione , as every present time doth boast itself above a better gone , so must thy grave give
in troth , i think i should , and undo ' t when i had done .
i do not know what witchcraft ' s in him , but your soldiers use him as the grace fore
yet i have known those which have walked in their sleep who have died holily in their beds .
that it may know he can command , lets it straight feel the spur ; whether the tyranny be in
' tis in grain , sir ; ' twill endure wind and weather .
famous by their birth , renowned for their deeds as far from home , for christian service and true chivalry
sir john and master mine , i combat challenge of this latten bilbo .
all murders past do stand excus ' d in this ; and this , so sole and so unmatchable ,
match and weight of such a winnowed purity in love .
new matter still ?
the best courtier of them all , when the court lay at windsor , could never have brought her to
there is no more such masters .
have not saints lips , and holy palmers too ?
hang him , dishonest rascal !
pursue him , ho !
all would not do .
i know it is the moon .
the army breaking , my husband hies him home ; where , heaven aiding , and by the leave of
as the honey of hybla , my old lad of the castle- and is not a buff jerkin a most
first keeper .
doth not the gentleman deserve as full , as fortunate a bed as ever beatrice shall couch upon ?
how far is it to berkeley ?
i am a king that find thee ; and i know ' tis not the balm , the sceptre ,
i have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak ' st .
exeunt all but the clown clown sings when that i was and a little tiny boy , with hey ,
by the spoil , unless by robbing of your friends and us .
why , thou must be thyself .
frights , changes , horrors , divert and crack , rend and deracinate , the unity and married calm of
a king ?
, and flow henceforth in formal majesty .
the captive is enrich ' d ; on whose side ?
lucentio .
a pox of wrinkles !
how many is one thrice told ?
admit no other way to save his life , as i subscribe not that , nor any other , but
where ' s he ?
no blown ambition doth our arms incite , but love , dear love , and our ag ' d father
fellow , where goest ?
[aside] clubs , clubs !
he shall not live .
my purpose is , indeed , a horse of that colour .
and therefore , lovely tamora , queen of goths , that , like the stately phoebe ' mongst her nymphs
an eagle , madam , hath not so green , so quick , so fair an eye as paris hath
one i ' th ' neck and two i ' th ' thigh- there ' s nine that i know
and thou wert best look to ' t ; for if thou dost him any slight disgrace , or if
fair purgation to the world , than malice , i ' m sure , in me .
no faith , proud mistress , hope not after it ; ' tis not your inky brows , your black
yet must not we put the strong law on him .
ever since you left it .
sir topas , sir topas , good sir topas , go to my lady .
years in doing and now newly perform ' d by that rare italian master , julio romano , who ,
waters ' bove the main , that things might change or cease ; tears his white hair , which the
what , in thy quips and thy quiddities ?
he made confession of you ; and gave you such a masterly report for art and exercise in your defence
and if thou please , thou mayst befriend me so much as to think i come one way of the
, in his rage and his wrath , cries , ah , ha !
, die in their own pride .
arm ' d , brother ?
and i will follow , more to cross that love than hate for silvia , that is gone for love
farewell , hostess .
txt was ever woman in this humour woo ' d ?
proceeded well , to stop all good proceeding !
i do suffer love indeed , for i love thee against my will .
sea , which serves it in the office of a wall , or as a moat defensive to a house
no money by vile means .
o gentle aaron , we are all undone !
fair cousin !
have you married my daughter without asking my good will ?
armado a th ' t ' one side- o , a most dainty man !
i am sick in displeasure to him , and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine .
say , somerville , what says my loving son ?
we would have all such offenders so cut off .
god ' s mercy , maiden !
he ' s as good at any thing , and yet a fool .
plead you to me , fair dame ?
exit lieutenant king henry .
an you serve me such another trick , never come in my sight more .
to drink in ; and now the word ' sallet ' must serve me to feed on .
to a hair .
art thou king and wilt be forc ' d ?
not propp ' d by ancestry , whose grace chalks successors their way , nor call ' d upon for
tropically .
well , for your favour , sir , why , give god thanks and make no boast of it ;
alack , my fellows , what should i say to you ?
bagot , forbear ; thou shalt not take it up .
you for , i made no offence ; therefore , i beseech your highness pardon me .
why , then , young bertram , take her ; she ' s thy wife .
know we this face or no ?
well ; come to me to-morrow .
he that hath lost her too .
all unwarily devoured by the unexpected flood .
i have not that alacrity of spirit nor cheer of mind that i was wont to have .
i hear the news , my lord .
prithee stand away .
he reads much , he is a great observer , and he looks quite through the deeds of men .
pay him six thousand , and deface the bond ; double six thousand , and then treble that , before
alas , she hath from france too long been chas ' d !
as monumental alabaster .
thus much of this will make black white , foul fair , wrong right , base noble , old young
each changing place with that which goes before , in sequent toil all forwards do contend .
hell .
and so swear i .
in kent , my liege , the guilfords are in arms ; and every hour more competitors flock to the
will you , i pray , demand that demi-devil why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body ?
lorenzo here shall witness i set forth as soon as you , and even but now return ' d ;
o comfortable friar !
and you by land .
fear thou no wife ; i ' ll have no wife , paulina .
will you hoist sail , sir ?
art thou gone so , my lord , my love , my friend ?
ne ' er long ' d my mother so to see me first as i have now .
had you not come upon your cue , my lord , william lord hastings had pronounc ' d your part-
to prove that true needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds , those mouthed wounds , which
a mote will turn the balance , which pyramus , which thisby , is the better- he for a man
poor queen !
let us die in honour : once more back again ; and he that will not follow bourbon now ,
be merry , peter , and fear not thy master : fight for credit of the prentices .
be there bears i ' th ' town ?
blood hath bought blood , and blows have answer ' d blows ; strength match ' d with strength ,
speak thou , boy ; perhaps thy childishness will move him more than can our reasons .
your greatest want is , you want much of meat .
good master silence , i ' ll give you a health for that anon .
heir and substituted in the place of mine , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[falstaff hides himself] re-enter mistress page and robin what ' s the matter ?
till thou hast howl ' d away twelve winters .
to this your son is mark ' d , and die he must t ' appease their groaning shadows that
this that you heard was but a colour .
and fubb ' d off , from this day to that day , that it is a shame to be
him , who , dipping all his faults in their affection , would , like the spring that turneth wood
which is the queen of egypt ?
are they return ' d ?
all his offences live upon my head and on his father ' s .
the moor , howbeit that i endure him not , is of a constant , loving , noble nature ,
i ' ll after , more to be reveng ' d on eglamour than for the love of reckless silvia
i ' ll call .
not almost appears- it doth appear ; for , upon these taxations , the clothiers all , not able to
may it please you , madam , that he bid helen come to you .
txt from clifford ' s and northumberland ' s pursuit .
' and then i stole all courtesy from heaven , and dress ' d myself in such humility that i
sure he is by this ; or will be presently ; but truly he is very courageous mad about his
serious considering .
signior antonio , many a time and oft in the rialto you have rated me about my moneys and my
most sweet voices !
i am not for him .
txt on blossoming caesar ; and this pine is bark ' d that overtopp ' d them all .
oppressed nature sleeps .
why , universal plodding poisons up the nimble spirits in the arteries , as motion and long-during action tires the
a traveller !
alack , why am i sent for to a king , before i have shook off the regal thoughts wherewith
thou didst swear to me upon a parcel-gilt goblet , sitting in my dolphin chamber , at the round table
i will take cold .
richard plantagenet , my friend , is he come ?
she [drinks and] falls upon her bed within the curtains .
i would not be a roman , of all nations ; i had as lief be a condemn ' d
die with us !
txt their several counsels they unbosom shall to loves mistook , and so be mock ' d withal upon the
it struck mine ear most terribly .
you are a tame man ; go !
i will keep still with my philosopher .
and yet i come not well .
we cannot cross the cause why we were born , therefore of all hands must we be forsworn .
come , sir , you peevishly threw it to her ; and her will is it should be so return
keeper .
why , and where , this handkercher was stain ' d .
nothing but peace and gentle visitation .
careless livery that it wears thin settled age his sables and his weeds , importing health and graveness .
enter an old widow of florence , her daughter diana , violenta , and mariana , with other citizens widow
this comes too near the praising of myself ; therefore , no more of it ; hear other things .
it is impossible that ever rome should breed thy fellow .
tyranny range on till each man drop by lottery .
give me a sword , i ' ll chop off my hands too , for they have fought for rome
we will stay your leisure .
restrained , captivated , bound .
d , a fashion she detests ; and he will smile upon her , which will now be so unsuitable
barely in title , not in revenues .
under that ' s above me .
he must know ' tis none of your daughter nor my sister ; we are gone else .
in this the heaven figures some event .
did not you speak ?
o , how my heart abhors to hear him nam ' d and cannot come to him , to wreak
and destroy the realm .
and there ' s for twitting me with perjury .
how now , monsieur !
unless it be to think that she is by , and feed upon the shadow of perfection .
being here she gave strange eliads and most speaking looks to noble edmund .
shall i prick him , sir john ?
fare you well now .
and do you now put on your best attire ?
o , matter and impertinency mix ' d !
' d- to the court i ' ll knock her back , foot her home again .
' well , to the rest : ' tell me what fate awaits the duke of suffolk ?
well , i hope it be not so .
[a trumpet within .
but this is mere digression from my purpose .
, that goes to bed wi ' th ' sun , and with him rises weeping ; these are flow
you bear a gentle mind , and heav ' nly blessings follow such creatures .
holla , dennis !
you are pleasant , sir , and speak apace .
porter , turn the key .
by the lord , i ' ll be a brave judge .
o fates !
made all the unbak ' d and doughy youth of a nation in his colour .
what do you know of it ?
it was a black soul burning in hell ?
he shall be happy that can find him , if our grace can make him so .
project .
shall be in all places alike .
i know it ; but ' tis so lately alter ' d that the old name is fresh about me
wilt thou go to bed , malvolio ?
this day , lest that their hopes prodigiously be cross ' d ; but on this day let seamen fear
it is the cowish terror of his spirit , that dares not undertake .
, whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves , being lass-lorn ; thy pole-clipt vineyard ; and thy sea-marge , sterile
might express some part of our zeals , we should think ourselves for ever perfect .
at upper end o ' th ' table ; no question asked him by any of the senators but they
and on my side it is so well apparell ' d , so clear , so shining , and so
goes upright with his carriage .
done all this .
o husband !
s petticoat ?
long live caesar !
wife and england ' s queen .
approach there .
thoughts and remembrance fitted .
what canst thou answer to my majesty for giving up of normandy unto mounsieur basimecu the dauphin of france ?
five thousand drops pays that .
thou seest that all the grace that she hath left is that she will not add to her damnation a
his confession is taken , and it shall be read to his face ; if your lordship be in '
to his ankle ; pale as his shirt , his knees knocking each other , and with a look so
then came wand ' ring by a shadow like an angel , with bright hair dabbled in blood , and
or , with the rest , where is your darling rutland ?
that affrights our children so .
now , the murkiest den , the most opportune place , the strong ' st suggestion our worser genius can
a mark , says my lady !
heaven whereon hyperion ' s quick ' ning fire doth shine- yield him , who all thy human sons doth
caesar must think when one so great begins to rage , he ' s hunted even to falling .
his mother , and his lady , offence of mighty note ; but to himself the greatest wrong of all
ay , a thousand times .
grow this to what adverse issue it can , i will put it in practice .
think you my uncle did dissemble , grandam ?
and maiden pride , adieu !
this letter , then , to friar peter give ; ' tis that he sent me of the duke '
and god keep him out of my sight when the dance is done !
thou whoreson , senseless villain !
my son , thou sham ' st to acknowledge me in misery .
knights attending on lear , officers , messengers , soldiers , attendants .
in ' ; now ill as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder , and by-and-by in as
my body shall pay recompense , if you will grant my suit .
go fetch me something ; i ' ll break ope the gate .
' tis but a man gone .
and yet not so ; since i am sure my love ' s more richer than my tongue .
glasses , glasses , is the only drinking ; and for thy walls , a pretty slight drollery , or
i beseech you , heartily , some of you go home with me to dinner : besides your cheer ,
before aufidius ' house enter coriolanus , in mean apparel , disguis ' d and muffled coriolanus .
you tallow-face !
well , she shall be there .
i have suit to you .
am i not an inch of fortune better than she ?
i shall be sent for soon at night .
paysans , pauvres gens de france poor market-folks that come to sell their corn .
sack , and live cleanly , as a nobleman should do .
come , there ' s no more tribute to be paid .
suitor of desdemona bianca , mistress of cassio montano , a cypriot official a clown in service to othello senators
i know thee now .
she is sad and passionate at your highness ' tent .
he goes away in a cloud .
yet , zounds , i lie ; for they pray continually to their saint , the commonwealth , or rather
slave to each incensed will .
now i perceive the devil understands welsh ; and ' tis no marvel , be is so humorous .
the duke of hereford that appeals me ; and , by the grace of god and this mine arm ,
all comfort that the dark night can afford be to thy person , noble father-in-law !
i have the most cause to be glad of yours .
but one word more- first witch .
] now , hal , to the news at court .
hugh evans evans .
my hat than my heart , i will practise the insinuating nod and be off to them most counterfeitly .
worthy gentleman !
exit wolsey re-enter wolsey with gardiner wolsey .
this shoe is my father ; no , this left shoe is my father ; no , no , left
go , muster men .
and thus i cur ' d him ; and this way will i take upon me to wash your liver
why dost ask that ?
- do you know this noble gentleman , edmund ?
but tell us , do you hear whether antonio have had any loss at sea or no ?
if your majesty know the man ; his face is all bubukles , and whelks , and knobs , and
for no man , sir .
i like your work , and you shall find i like it ; wait attendance till you hear further from
s organ , shrill and sound , and all is semblative a woman ' s part .
falstaff , good night .
put up thy gold .
d the jack with us .
i pray you , sir , receive the money now , for fear you ne ' er see chain nor
i do not seek to quench your love ' s hot fire , but qualify the fire ' s extreme
why , old soldier , wilt thou undo the worth thou art unpaid for by tasting of our wrath ?
and now ' tis up again .
be mine .
flower of this purple dye , hit with cupid ' s archery , sink in apple of his eye .
at the trade .
i do not fly ; but advantageous care withdrew me from the odds of multitude .
, his brother greek commanders : achilles ajax ulysses nestor diomedes patroclus thersites , a deformed and scurrilous greek alexander
young lords , beware ; an should the empress know this discord ' s ground , the music would not
come , come , antipholus , we dine too late .
txt but thou dost in thy passages of life make me believe that thou art only mark ' d for
guess at her years , i prithee .
my emperor hath wrote ; i must from hence , and am right sorry that i must report ye my
i cannot speak nor think , nor dare to know that which i know .
they fell together all , as by consent ; they dropp ' d , as by a thunder-stroke .
a mind .
his rank before , then others , for the breath of words respect , me for my dumb thoughts ,
vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming , and suddenly resolve me in my suit .
wear this sleeve .
v s .
[aside] she was , indeed , a pedlar ' s daughter , and sold many laces .
fie on myself , that have a sword and yet am ready to famish !
sir , his definement suffers no perdition in you ; though , i know , to divide him inventorially would
now , brother of clarence , how like you our choice that you stand pensive as half malcontent ?
a callat of boundless tongue , who late hath beat her husband , and now baits me !
what dost thou think ?
your sister is the better soldier .
doth not the crown of england prove the king ?
for know , iago , but that i love the gentle desdemona , i would not my unhoused free condition
, who was in his youth an inland man ; one that knew courtship too well , for there he
let ordinance come as the gods foresay it .
what , drunk with choler ?
moderate lamentation is the right of the dead : excessive grief the enemy to the living .
what is become of marcius ?
doth spot the beauty of thy budding name !
so great a power without his leave , or dare to bring thy force so near the court .
antonio , you are welcome ; and i have better news in store for you than you expect .
i leave your highness .
[to nerissa] by yonder moon i swear you do me wrong ; in faith , i gave it to the
this villain of mine comes under the prediction ; there ' s son against father : the king falls from
would he be mov ' d , to draw him from his holy exercise .
take heed you dally not before your king ; lest he that is the supreme king of kings confound your
let me be ta ' en , let me be put to death .
come , your hovel .
and we do not , it is pity of our lives .
the gods protect you , and bless the good remainders of the court !
why , all the souls that were were forfeit once ; and he that might the vantage best have took
the sinking sands and would not dash me with their ragged sides , because thy flinty heart , more hard
in offence with my niece that i cannot pursue with any safety this sport to the upshot .
richard starts out of his dream] king richard .
no ; but to the gate , and there will the devil meet me like an old cuckold with horns
but in battalions !
out , cur !
what scene of death hath roscius now to act ?
another street enter corpse of king henry the sixth , with halberds to guard it ; lady anne being the
so strong and fortunate as i .
wast not to this end that thou began ' st to twist so fine a story ?
[flourish] bassianus .
his majesty !
i know the young king is sick for me .
until the goose came out of door , and stay ' d the odds by adding four .
peace , and be still !
mark , king of scotland , mark .
volt .
kindling coals that fires all my breast , and burns me up with flames that tears would quench .
ross .
notre seigneur , indigne serviteur ; excusez-moi , je vous supplie , mon tres puissant seigneur .
and , in good time , here comes the sweating lord .
in , in , in , in !
what do you mean ?
his name is romeo , and a montague , the only son of your great enemy .
call me goddess , nymph , divine , and rare , precious , celestial ?
' ' twas well writ .
, the bishop of carlisle , the abbot of westminster , and others ; herald , officers , and bagot
were born in a merry hour .
methinks sometimes i have no more wit than a christian or an ordinary man has ; but i am great
friar patrick ' s cell should meet me .
what , doth she swoon ?
txt he calls me to a restitution large of gold and jewels that i bobb ' d from him ,
- marry , amen .
tread not upon him .
come , come , it may not be .
then lucifer take all !
if she will stir hither , i shall seem to notify unto her .
needful talk .
here ' s a change indeed !
enter lovel and ratcliff , with hastings ' head gloucester .
through the airy region stream so bright that birds would sing and think it were not night .
bid them prepare within .
to read would show the britons cold ; so caesar shall not find them .
sure my brother is amorous on hero and hath withdrawn her father to break with him about it .
hath into monstrous habits put the graces that once were his , and is become as black as if besmear
here ' s neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all , and another storm brewing ;
txt re-enter biondello now , where ' s my wife ?
my face so thin that in mine ear i durst not stick a rose lest men should say ' look
from him i have express commandment that thou nor none of thine shall be let in .
look , menelaus .
i find it , and that to the infection of my brains and hard ' ning of my brows .
s trial !
i am resolv ' d to bear a greater storm than any thou canst conjure up to-day ; and that
i thank you , honest lord .
lastly , he frets that lepidus of the triumvirate should be depos ' d ; and , being , that
i shall but lend my diamond till your return .
these words become your lips as they pass through them .
you know my father hath no child but i , nor none is like to have ; and , truly
to fright them hence with that dread penalty .
how many , as you guess ?
i should know that voice ; it should be-but he is drown ' d ; and these are devils .
not broken , nor my brothers died .
as i do think , to-morrow .
why then tomorrow night , or tuesday morn , on tuesday noon , or night , on wednesday morn .
ah , gentle villain , do not turn away !
what , hath thy fiery heart so parch ' d thine entrails that not a tear can fall for rutland
fear her not , lucius ; somewhat doth she mean .
the court of pandarus ' house enter troilus and cressida troilus .
art thou led in triumph ?
' tis well .
fear , as i am sick with working of my thoughts .
why , thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more or a hair less in his beard
i marvel why i answer ' d not again ; but that ' s all one : omittance is no
depart the chamber , leave us here alone .
women .
to take is not to give .
some say he shall be ston ' d ; but that death is too soft for him , say i
o that she could speak now like a wood woman !
; fierce fiery warriors fight upon the clouds , in ranks and squadrons and right form of war , page
a woman ' s general ; what should we fear ?
for ' t indeed .
this savours not much of distraction .
, athwart the heart of his lover ; as a puny tilter , that spurs his horse but on one
thrice-noble suffolk , ' tis resolutely spoke .
[aside] my land amounts not to so much in all .
i shall forestall thee , lord ulysses , thou !
in which you , father , shall have foremost hand .
' s seed ; the obligation of our blood forbids a gory emulation ' twixt us twain : were thy
we see yonder the beginning of the day , but i think we shall never see the end of it
to be discomfited .
' d at , strikes him into melancholy ; and then there ' s a partridge wing saved , for
and stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head , and kiss thy fair large ears , my gentle joy .
, to put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver .
how now , old lad !
why , sir , if i cannot serve you , i can serve as great a prince as you are
for my own part , i came in late .
why , how now , claudio , whence comes this restraint ?
one grave shall be for both .
we lov ' d him , but , like beasts and cowardly nobles , gave way unto your clusters ,
great apollo turn all to th ' best !
exuent in manner as they entered <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ -
besides , there is no king , be his cause never so spotless , if it come to the arbitrement
minds , pre-occupied with what you rather must do than what you should , made you against the grain to
and his active parts kingdom ' d achilles in commotion rages , and batters down himself .
if she must teem , create her child of spleen , that it may live and be a thwart disnatur
faith , i ' ll not meddle in it .
fault withal .
and an ill singer , my lord .
for suffolk- he that can do all in all with her that hateth thee and hates us all- and york
fair sir , you are well o ' erta ' en .
o , antony !
<<this electronic version of the complete works of william page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you are keen , my lord , you are keen .
you are rapt , sir , in some work , some dedication to the great lord .
now , citizens of angiers , ope your gates , let in that amity which you have made ; for
[within] a woman , and thine aunt , great king ; ' tis i .
lord , lord , your worship ' s a wanton !
i have o ' erheard a plot of death upon him .
take what wife you will to bed , i will ever be your head .
[to northumberland] you , my lord , your son in scotland being thus employ ' d , shall secretly into
wilt thou at ninny ' s tomb meet me straightway ?
let me not burst in ignorance , but tell why thy canoniz ' d bones , hearsed in death ,
and till she come , as truly as to heaven i do confess the vices of my blood , so
at a few drops of women ' s rheum , which are as cheap as lies , he sold the
i had the most of them out of prison .
_num_ or whether doth my mind being crowned with you drink up the monarch ' s plague this flattery ?
no , caesar , we will answer on their charge .
a table and flagons of wine on it .
pol .
farthest sea , i would adventure for such merchandise .
ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring their fiery torcher his diurnal ring , ere twice in murk
i am too mean a subject for thy wrath ; be thou reveng ' d on men , and let
the trumpet .
exeunt blunt and others and now dispatch we toward the court , my lords .
make a swift return ; for i would commune with you of such things that want no ear but yours
i pray you , sir .
marry , well said , very well said .
enter eros with armour come , good fellow , put mine iron on .
' s mind than i do ; nor can do more than i do with her , i thank heaven
nay , come ; for if they do approach the city we shall lose all the sight .
know you not he has ?
yes , to smell pork , to eat of the habitation which your prophet , the nazarite , conjured the
horner .
they say the owl was a baker ' s daughter .
you know your mother means to feast with me , and calls herself revenge , and thinks me mad .
come to fetch you to church .
prince , i fear thee as i fear the roaring of the lion ' s whelp .
thou sure and firm-set earth , hear not my steps , which way they walk , for fear thy very
turns to grace .
how long hath this possession held the man ?
read the will !
pompey is moved .
mark ' d you his lip and eyes ?
o , from this time forth , my thoughts be bloody , or be nothing worth !
hostess , i forgive thee .
it is perchance that you yourself were saved .
o , she is ten times more gentle than her father ' s crabbed ; and he ' s compos
lay her i ' th ' earth ; and from her fair and unpolluted flesh may violets spring !
both dame and servant ; welcom ' d all ; serv ' d all ; would sing her song and
what , was it you that would be england ' s king ?
why , how couldst thou know these men in kendal green when it was so dark thou couldst not see
grief to give .
she shall be- but few now living can behold that goodness- a pattern to all princes living with her ,
the dauphin crowned king !
evident , that it will glimmer through a blind man ' s eye .
thy spacious and dilated parts .
stumbling on abuse .
i have none .
' when we granted that , here was ' i thank you for your voices .
txt a sea of melting pearl , which some call tears ; those at her father ' s churlish feet
, and dreaming night will hide our joys no longer , i would not from thee .
it must be an answer of most monstrous size that must fit all demands .
nay , i have done already .
and hath given countenance to his speech , my lord , with almost all the holy vows of heaven .
ay , but mildly .
hail to thee , worthy timon , and to all that of his bounties taste !
the gold i gave to dromio is laid up safe at the centaur , and the heedful slave is wand
humble-bee on the top of a thistle ; and , good mounsieur , bring me the honey-bag .
assur ' d , i feel such sharp dissension in my breast , such fierce alarums both of hope and
to-morrow morning let us meet him then .
she is delivered , lord ; she is delivered .
[pindarus stabs him .
go to ; i have spoke at a word .
miles about ; else had i , sir , half an hour since brought my report .
if he be not born to be hang ' d , our case is miserable .
why , and i trust i may go too , may i not ?
txt upon thy promising fortune .
why , no ; but sadly tell me who .
; this shame derives itself from unknown loins ' ?
how now , my dear othello !
[to varro ' s servant] there ' s the fool hangs on your back already .
' what scourge for perjury can this dark monarchy afford false clarence ?
mark you that ?
tell him of his hounds and horse , and that his lady mourns at his disease ; persuade him that
thee more than e ' er the coward hand of france can win .
o , sir , your presence is too bold and peremptory , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
not his that spoils her young before her face .
enter talbot , bedford , burgundy , and forces , with scaling-ladders ; their drums beating a dead march talbot
cleopatra , catching but the least noise of this , dies instantly ; i have seen her die twenty times
you shall hate it both .
i think your highness saw this many a day .
from princes into pages .
i ha ' told them over and over ; they lack no direction .
true , the people are the city .
come , then ; and , eros , thy master dies thy scholar .
thy babes were sweeter than they were , and he that slew them fouler than he is .
good romeo , hide thyself .
can i go forward when my heart is here ?
you can do better yet ; but this is meetly .
_num_ by world library , inc .
with no less religion than if thou wert indeed my rosalind ; so , adieu .
dead , forsook , cast off ; and none of you will bid the winter come to thrust his icy
for grief that they are past recovery ; for were there hope to conquer them again my sword should shed
learn ' d .
there is a fat friend at your master ' s house , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
death himself to scape from it ; and , if thou dar ' st , i ' ll give thee
age , and cold decay , if all were minded so , the times should cease , and threescore year
true , uncle .
d by his next neighbour , by sir smile , his neighbour .
' s throat , come hither , come hither , come hither .
therefore we meet not now .
send for your daughter by your servant here ; my boy shall fetch the scrivener presently .
to-morrow , caesar , i shall be furnish ' d to inform you rightly both what by sea and land
nay , i ' ll not warrant that ; for i can speak against the thing i say .
now , my spruce companions , is all ready , and all things neat ?
why , how now , charmian !
come to the capitol .
ay , with cassio .
they will give page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the fire too .
why , this is flat knavery to take upon you another man ' s name .
an inn yard .
poor lord !
' be opposite with kinsman , surly with servants ; let thy tongue tang with arguments of state ; put
behind cleopatra .
what , worse than nought ?
so like you , sir , ambassadors from rome ; the one is caius lucius .
but shall i go mourn for that , my dear ?
methinks i see my cousin ' s ghost seeking out romeo , that did spit his body page _num_ complete
of anjou and maine , yet is he poor , and our nobility will scorn the match .
come , come , thou art as hot a jack in thy mood as any in italy ; and as
there ' s neer a villain dwelling in all denmark but he ' s an arrant knave .
he is ready at the door ; he comes , my lord .
long continuance in a settled place .
exit into the town retreat ; excursions .
well thought on .
throw your vile guesses in the devil ' s teeth , from whence you have them .
you ' ll take it ill .
' d on our side , but for their spirits and souls this word ' rebellion ' - it had
my queen and eros have , by their brave instruction , got upon me a nobleness in record .
at a word , hang no more about me , i am no gibbet for you .
enter valentine and speed third outlaw .
but , notwithstanding , haste , make no delay ; we may effect this business yet ere day .
quoth she ' here ' s but two and fifty hairs on your chin , and one of them is
let me wipe it first ; it smells of mortality .
of god , sir , and he hath enough .
in witness , take ye that .
free lords , cold snow melts with the sun ' s hot beams : henry my lord is cold in
dog .
' pandarus .
what , my gracious lord ?
good sir , draw near to me , i ' ll speak to him .
- how now , pisanio !
the deadly-handed clifford slew my steed ; but match to match i have encount ' red him , and made
now , by god ' s will , thou wrong ' st him , somerset ; his grandfather was lionel
[aside] o heavens !
they lighted , how they clung in their embracement , as they grew together ; which had they , what
is thy master stirring ?
back , edmund , to my brother .
enter grandpre grandpre .
as in this king .
ah , women , women , look , our lamp is spent , it ' s out !
upon mine honour , thou shalt marry her .
i ventur ' d to come seek you out and bring you where both fire and food is ready .
the fraud of england , not the force of france , hath now entrapp ' d the noble minded talbot
for mine own part , when i said banish him , i said ' twas pity .
well , seeing gentle words will not prevail , assail them with the army of the king .
i must be one of these same dumb wise men , for gratiano never lets me speak .
do you not see that i am out of breath ?
eaves of reeds .
hearts for the event .
why should i then be false , since it is true that i must die here , and live hence
by innocence i swear , and by my youth , i have one heart , one bosom , and one
constance .
dark needs no candles now , for dark is light .
fool and a prodigal .
d , to harry monmouth , whose swift wrath beat down the never-daunted percy to the earth , from whence
not so , but as we change our courtesies .
countenances .
i must go look my twigs ; he shall be caught .
at mine , sir , and theirs that love music .
france , thou shalt rue this hour within this hour .
i will not leave him now till cassio be call ' d to him .
and all indign and base adversities make head against my estimation !
away , i do beseech you , both away i ' ll board him presently .
honest madam ' s issue ?
give me my steeled coat ; i ' ll fight for france .
that ' s not so good .
why do you put these sayings upon me ?
she but a foul contending rebel and graceless traitor to her loving lord ?
why are you virtuous ?
' attest of eyes and ears ; as if those organs had deceptious functions created only to calumniate .
now shall i sin in my wish ; i would thy husband were dead ; i ' ll speak it
for andrew , if he were open ' d and you find so much blood in his liver as will
for here comes sir andrew agueface .
enter lennox .
how does the boy ?
many other mannish cowards have that do outface it with their semblances .
a trojan priest , taking part with the greeks pandarus , uncle to cressida agamemnon , the greek general menelaus
verona .
we here attend you .
most wonderful !
' ercast .
when you have brought him thither , what shall be done with him ?
god save your majesty !
faith , i perceive our masters may throw their caps at their money .
go with me , silvius .
no sheep , sweet lamb , unless we feed on your lips .
, come thou on my side and entreat for me- as you would beg were you in my distress .
note him , note him , good charmian ; ' tis the man ; but note him !
a page ?
call ' st thou that harm ?
yet mark ' d i where the bolt of cupid fell .
well ; for there is figures in all things .
then after to her father will i break , and the conclusion is , she shall be thine .
he wakes .
sauf votre honneur , en verite , vous prononcez les mots aussi droit que les natifs d ' angleterre .
that ' s more than some whose tailors are as dear as yours can justly boast of .
with all my heart ; and much it joys me too to see you are become so penitent .
ay , surely , mere the truth ; i know his lady .
' er-snowed and bareness every where : then were not summer ' s distillation left a liquid prisoner pent in
truly , the more to blame he ; we were christians enow before , e ' en as many as
that sense of pain .
zounds , consort !
ye gods !
were one .
tribulation of tower-hill or the limbs of limehouse , their dear brothers , are able to endure .
let us go ; if you say ay , the king will not say no .
by ' r lady , you fought fair ; so did you , peto ; so did you , bardolph
he hath stay ' d for a better man than thee .
it is a kind of history .
brandon .
pray you go with us .
, and then again begin , and stop again , as if thou were distraught and mad with terror ?
if !
her excellence but , like a thrifty goddess , she determines herself the glory of a creditor , both thanks
by heaven i charge thee speak !
we must both give and take , my loving lord .
that ' s all one ; has hurt me , and there ' s th ' end on ' t
messala !
farewell , good master oliver .
yet weep that harry ' s dead , and so will i ; but harry lives that shall convert those
i was contracted to them both .
you shall have a sight of them .
and let thee out .
[aside] i will be patient ; i will find out this .
t and he ' s not robb ' d at all .
exeunt scene vi .
come , come , my boy ; we will to sanctuary .
is this done ?
old men and beldams in the streets do prophesy upon it dangerously ; young arthur ' s death is common
god keep you from them and from such false friends !
it follows , then , the cat must stay at home ; yet that is but a crush ' d
' ' that i believe ' said she , ' for he swore a thing to me on monday night
, but with advice and silent secrecy .
, and having obtain ' d her , give her to count claudio .
friends all but now , even now , in quarter , and in terms like bride and groom devesting them
exit gloucester enter the lord mayor , aldermen , and citizens welcome , my lord .
me acquainted with a weighty cause of love between your daughter and himself ; and- for the good report i
away , then , with good courage !
then ' tis like the breath of an unfeed lawyer- you gave me nothing for ' t .
power , shall never see his pardon ; for my state stands on me to defend , not to debate
thou diest , though i the sicker be .
aemilius , do this message honourably ; and if he stand on hostage for his safety , bid him demand
to break our country ' s laws .
the presence of a king engenders love amongst his subjects and his loyal friends , as it disanimates his enemies
where slept our scouts or how are they seduc ' d that we could hear no news of his repair
then comes she to me and with wild looks bid me devise some mean to rid her from this second
and to behold his sway , i will , as ' twere a brother of your order , visit both
thy years and art could to no issue of true honour bring .
that villanous abominable misleader of youth , falstaff , that old white-bearded satan .
and so farewell .
i have serv ' d you ever since i was a child ; but better service have i never done
it is a tale told by an idiot , full of sound and fury , signifying nothing .
queen margaret lady grey , afterwards queen to edward iv bona , sister to the french queen soldiers , attendants
the exhalations whizzing in the air give so much light that i may read by them .
some trumpet summon hither to the walls these men of angiers ; let us hear them speak whose title they
chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon .
here , mighty theseus .
my father hath set guard to take my brother ; and i have one thing , of a queasy question
i ' ll teach you differences .
is your lady come ?
so he is .
but what is the sport , monsieur , that the ladies have lost ?
[applies an asp] o , come apace , dispatch .
good hamlet , cast thy nighted colour off , and let thine eye look like a friend on denmark .
well , i will thither .
neanmoins , je reciterai une autre fois ma lecon ensemble : d ' hand , de fingre , de nails
too , ' tis a foul thing .
well shone , moon .
an ante-chamber in the king ' s palace enter the archbishop of canterbury and the bishop of ely canterbury .
join with the goths , and with revengeful war take wreak on rome for this ingratitude , and vengeance on
percy , northumberland , the archbishop ' s grace of york , douglas , mortimer capitulate against us and are
this lanthorn doth the horned moon present ; myself the man i ' th ' moon do seem to be
have you spoke ?
hence with her , out o ' door !
sir , i shall study deserving .
[he descends] gloucester .
a presence here to plead my thoughts ; but i beseech your grace that i may know the worst that
whence is that knocking ?
no other weapon but his name .
growing a bath and healthful remedy , for men discased , but i my mistress ' thrall , came there
why , uncle , what ' s the matter ?
what brings you here to court so hastily ?
blessing upon your vows ; and in your bed find fairer fortune , if you ever wed !
em till they obey the manage .
, but when i sleep , in dreams they look on thee , and darkly bright , are bright in
, sir .
no , madam , no .
enter certain reapers , properly habited ; they join with the nymphs in a graceful dance ; towards the end
one , gentlewoman , that god hath made for himself to mar .
[aside to her] speak louder .
great god , how just art thou !
master ford , awake ; awake , master ford .
but tell me , where is princely richmond now ?
my long sickness of health and living now begins to mend , and nothing brings me all things .
i shall not only receive this villainous wrong , but stand under the adoption of abominable terms , and by
thee in courage , courtship , and proportion ; but all his mind is bent to holiness , to number
down , court !
enter speed speed .
this night ' s the time that i should do what i abhor to name , page _num_ complete works
nearness to our sacred blood should nothing privilege him nor partialize the unstooping firmness of my upright soul .
yea , a daniel !
i marvel where troilus is .
' tis not so .
but , as i said , on lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen ; that shall she ,
i know thou dost .
- what thriftless sighs shall poor olivia breathe !
in good time .
' tis known before .
thy age confirm ' d , proud , subtle , sly , and bloody , more mild , but yet
there is reasons and causes for it .
as i am a christians soul , now , look you , this is the place appointed .
sir , pardon ; ' tis for agamemnon ' s ears .
[aside] thy father , pompey , would ne ' er have made this treaty .
boy ' s love , or a whore ' s oath .
when slender sees his time to take her by the hand and bid her go , she shall go with
and cry ' a miracle !
how now , friend eros !
what ' s the new news at the new court ?
sirs , what ' s o ' clock ?
come for lancaster .
ay , truly ; for the power of beauty will sooner transform honesty from what it is to a bawd
toward dover , do it for ancient love ; and bring some covering for this naked soul , who i
kings .
to face the garment of rebellion with some fine colour that may please the eye of fickle changelings and poor
a maiden battle then ?
enter lear and fool .
i cannot , nor i will not hold me still ; my tongue , though not my heart , shall
good cromwell , neglect him not ; make use now , and provide for thine own future safety .
o jesu , my lord the prince !
if a man will be beaten with brains , ' a shall wear nothing handsome about him .
what ' s the need ?
for here lies the point : if i drown myself wittingly , it argues an act ; and an act
to you : ' do this or this ; take in that kingdom and enfranchise that ; perform ' t
tailor , i ' ll pay thee for thy gown to-morrow ; take no unkindness of his hasty words .
they think they are mine ; and though train ' d up thus meanly i ' th ' cave wherein
thou art my love , i think .
i would not be the villain that thou think ' st for the whole space that ' s in the
i arn no breeching scholar in the schools , i ' ll not be tied to hours nor ' pointed
why , headstrong liberty is lash ' d with woe .
yet , for i lov ' d thee , take this along ; i writ it for thy sake [gives
who heard me to deny it or forswear it ?
do not consent page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
if broken , then it is no fault of mine ; if by me broke , what fool is not
o for your reason !
i ' ll stay no longer question .
- donc votre est france et vous etes mienne .
honest , my lord ?
think upon patience .
yes , if it please your majesty , my liege .
let us be clear ' d of being tyrannous , since we so openly proceed in justice , which shall
what course i mean to hold shall nothing benefit your knowledge , nor concern me the reporting .
who didst thou leave to tend his majesty ?
the mind i sway by and the heart i bear shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear .
the carv ' d-bone face on a flask .
one that i ' ll procure to come to thee , where and what time thou wilt perform the rite
quiver with the cooling wind and make a chequer ' d shadow on the ground ; under their sweet shade
exit proteus .
shall we steal upon them , ned , at supper ?
here , peter quince .
farewell , my gracious lord ; i ' ll to my castle .
who would be a father !
there is a monastery two miles off , and there we will abide .
so other foes may set upon our backs .
' ' jupiter !
now the melancholy god protect thee ; and the tailor make thy doublet of changeable taffeta , for thy mind
constant fools .
their graves .
john ' s foot ; fetch you a hair off the great cham ' s beard ; do you any
good master fabian , grant me another request .
decreed to bury bassianus .
enter antony and canidius enobarbus .
, " " " thyreus , " " " gallus , " " " menas , friend to pompey menecrates
txt in proof whereof , there is my honour ' s pawn ; engage it to the trial , if
we should for perpetuity go hence in debt .
come on , then , and remove him .
why urgest thou so oft young arthur ' s death ?
good brother , let me request you off ; our graver business frowns at this levity .
give me a staff of honour for mine age , but not a sceptre to control the world .
any shape but that , and my firm nerves shall never tremble .
txt and now is york in arms to second him .
by this day and this light , the fellow has mettle enough in his belly : hold , there is
why , that were covetousness .
no reason i , since of your lives you set so slight a valuation , should reserve my crack '
from me , and other more , suitors to her and rivals in my love ; supposing it a thing
o mistress , villainy hath made mocks with love !
with the rabble ' s curse .
lies , that she might think me some untutored youth , unlearned in the world ' s false subtleties .
that thou bear it to some remote and desert place , quite out of our dominions ; and that there
peace , my lord .
caught with tickling .
enter portia and lucius .
there is money ; spend it , spend it ; spend more ; spend all i have ; only give
by gar , i see ' tis an honest woman .
[to angelo] sir , by your leave .
all gold and silver rather turn to dirt , as ' tis no better reckon ' d but of those
we should have else desired your good advice , which still hath been both grave and prosperous in this day
exeunt host and bardolph falstaff .
and constant loyalty !
doom of banishment .
varrius .
my madness speaks .
" fear not , till birnam wood do come to dunsinane , " and now a wood page _num_ complete
thus do i leave thee .
one may smell in such a will most rank , foul disproportion , thoughts unnatural .
your lord and master did well to make his recantation .
[they talk apart] re-enter ariel , invisible , with music and song ariel .
but hadst thou not cross ' d me , thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she under
it was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from the state and usurp the beggary he was never
what think you of this fool , malvolio ?
the weary way hath made you melancholy .
seek him out , and play the tune the while .
and to the last bended their light on me .
o lord , my lord !
whereof the king my brother was possess ' d .
and i mine .
some guard these traitors to the block of death , treason ' s true bed and yielder-up of breath .
get thee to a nunnery .
what is it , timon ?
she will endite him to some supper .
good day to both of you .
so love be thou , although to-day thou fill thy hungry eyes , even till they wink with fulness ,
here comes a messenger .
unless you may be won by some other sort than your father ' s imposition , depending on the caskets
in bohemia can learnedly handle , though they come to him by th ' gross ; inkles , caddisses ,
past sense we deem .
enter othello , iago , and attendants with torches .
lost ; the mares would bear a soldier and his horse .
' out with the dog ' says one ; ' what cur is that ?
the palace enter the king , gloucester , winchester , york , suffolk , somerset , warwick , exeter ,
i went to her in white and cried ' mum ' and she cried ' budget ' as anne and
here did she fall a tear ; here in this place i ' ll set a bank of rue ,
[they wake] alonso .
but that i do not .
you lie , up to the hearing of the gods .
[reads] ' to my lord protector !
your hand , leonato .
i care not , i , knew she and all the world : i love lavinia more than all the
' d as you shall deem yourself lodg ' d in my heart , though so denied fair harbour in
i will subscribe for thee ; thou art both knave and fool .
not i , sir ; you are my elder .
and therefore tell me , most fair katherine , will you have me ?
the wheel is come full circle ; i am here .
he was a man , take him for all in all .
the little casket bring me hither .
, and directly too , thou hast contrived against the very life of the defendant ; and thou hast incurr
in a most weak- parolles .
that she is bound in honour still to do what you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say .
' assay of arms against your majesty .
my good lysander !
if again it was not well cut , he would answer i spake not true .
it is the show and seal of nature ' s truth , where love ' s strong passion is impress
loss hath pierc ' d him deep and scarr ' d his heart ; and rather comfort his distressed plight
good my lord !
my youthful travel therein made me happy , or else i often had been miserable .
his qualities being at this poor price , i need not to ask you if gold will corrupt him to
one part of our roman power .
you , cousin hereford , upon pain of life , till twice five summers have enrich ' d our fields
an oath , an oath !
the forest enter orlando and adam adam .
txt margaret .
in what part of her body stands ireland ?
nay , indeed , if you had your eyes , you might fail of the knowing me : it is
an officer .
, - page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
dry up your tears and stick your rosemary on this fair corse , and , as the custom is ,
own marring .
a .
every scope by the immoderate use turns to restraint .
go together , you precious winners all ; your exultation partake to every one .
he is a very valiant trencherman ; he hath an excellent stomach .
meet the bear i ' th ' mouth .
god on our side , doubt not of victory .
hark you .
corrupt , they turn to vicious forms , ten times more ugly than ever they were fair .
arragon .
" " dardanius , " " " pindarus , servant to cassius the ghost of caesar a soothsayer a poet
' when he ' quoth she ' shall split thy heart with sorrow , remember margaret was a prophetess .
o most wicked fiend !
txt where all my sins are writ , and that ' s myself .
upon the rack , bassanio ?
let me not die your debtor , my red dominical , my golden letter : o that your face were
the word is well cull ' d , chose , sweet , and apt , i do assure you ,
exit bastard go after him ; for he perhaps shall need some messenger betwixt me and the peers ; and
no matter ; for we must not seem to understand him , unless some one among us , whom we
if you have poison for me , i will drink it .
come to me , i ' ll give you gold enough .
you must send her your page ; no remedy .
o , where , my lord ?
hence , vile instrument !
what is the gross sum that i owe thee ?
other , less fine in carat , is more precious , preserving life in med ' cine potable ; but
come , desdemona , once more well met at cyprus .
now i promise you you have show ' d a tender fatherly regard to wish me wed to one half
' tis known , achilles , that you are in love with one of priam ' s daughters .
brother of your loving bride .
exton , thy fierce hand hath with the king ' s blood stain ' d the king ' s own
join with the present sickness that i have ; and thy unkindness be like crooked age , to crop at
york , that reaches at the moon , whose overweening arm i have pluck ' d back , by false
why , sir john , what do you think , sir john ?
sea , where i am drown ' d .
whatsoever i did bid thee do , thou shouldst attempt it .
what think you , if he were convey ' d to bed , wrapp ' d in sweet clothes ,
what was it you told me of to-day ?
] he does well to commend it himself ; there are no tongues else for ' s turn .
[to the page] and welcome , my tall fellow .
[to cordelia] the gods to their dear shelter take thee , maid , that justly think ' st and hast
i see thee compass ' d with thy kingdom ' s pearl that speak my salutation in their minds ,
westmoreland .
looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled ?
txt enter laertes and ophelia .
o villains , vipers , damn ' d without redemption !
no , i will speak .
visage .
dog is dead .
fate , to my determin ' d time thou gav ' st new date .
speak suddenly , my lords- are we all friends ?
also king lewis the tenth , who was sole heir to the usurper capet , could not keep quiet in
guiderius .
my friends were poor , but honest ; so ' s my love .
o , your desert speaks loud ; and i should wrong it to lock it in the wards of covert
nothing but songs of death ?
d enfranchisement , more than my dancing soul doth celebrate this feast of battle with mine adversary .
o , let the heavens give him defense against the elements , for i have lost him on a dangerous
good faith , a little one ; not past a pint , as i am a soldier .
god give me patience !
yea , ' light o ' love ' with your heels !
ah , rogue !
worthy of an empress ' love .
meaner man .
so proudly as if he disdain ' d the ground .
i like him well .
have i not reason , beldams as you are , saucy and overbold ?
yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime in it- a villanous coward !
they stared , and were distracted ; no man ' s life was to be trusted with them .
a trumpet sounds .
the best way is to slander valentine with falsehood , cowardice , and poor descent- three things that women highly
possess it , york ; for this is thine , and not king henry ' s heirs ' .
enter a son that hath kill ' d his father , at page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
would they make peace ?
i kiss thy hand , but not in flattery , caesar , desiring thee that publius cimber may have an
if that thy valour stand on sympathy , there is my gage , aumerle , in gage to thine .
not enter in your mind of love ; be merry , and employ your chiefest thoughts to courtship , and
threefold death .
but when we in our viciousness grow hard- o misery on ' t !
s .
of my instruction hast thou nothing bated in what thou hadst to say ; so , with good life and
you mock me , sir .
our battle is more full of names than yours , our men more perfect in the use of arms ,
speak , edmund , where ' s the king ?
, more than the locking up the spirits a time , to be more fresh , reviving .
ere i ope his letter , i pray you tell me how my good friend doth .
that jack-an-apes with scarfs .
i have sworn ; i am firm .
i had rather be such a man as troilus than agamemnon and all greece .
frown on , you heavens , effect your rage with speed .
the duke ' s palace enter duke frederick , with lords frederick .
i dare you to this match : here ' s my ring .
meat , their talk at table , and their thanks at end ; and you are dark ' ned in
on the casque of thy adverse pernicious enemy .
accurs ' d , unhappy , wretched , hateful day !
re-enter gaoler gaoler .
we split , we split , we split !
venice .
, i will determine this before i stir .
then let me go , and hinder not my course .
i will upon all hazards well believe thou art my friend that know ' st my tongue so well .
heard you all this , her women ?
he was ever too hard for him , i have heard him say so himself .
- nay , prithee be gone .
shall think it a most plenteous crop to glean the broken ears after the man that the main harvest reaps
men and if i do not leave you all as dead as a door-nail , i pray god i may
i know their complot is to have my life ; and if my death might make this island happy and
and come you now with ' knocking at the gate ' ?
my wife , my liege !
o curse of marriage , that we can call these delicate creatures ours , and not their appetites !
did i , bardolph ?
[trumpet within] all .
d a woman ' s heart of prouder stuff than that of beatrice .
ascend , brave talbot ; we will follow thee .
duke of suffolk , in his robe of estate , his coronet on his head , bearing a long white
i heard thee say even now , thou like ' st not that , when cassio left my wife .
would i had done ' t , so the revenge alone pursu ' d me !
shall we after them ?
re-enter ariel , driving in caliban , stephano , and trinculo , in their stolen apparel stephano .
hearing so much , will speed her foot again , led hither by pure love .
what cause hath my behaviour given to your displeasure that thus you should proceed to put me of and take
txt because i cannot meet my hermia .
but the second generation removed from thy sin-conceiving womb .
when i know not what else to do , i ' ll see thee again .
adorn his temples with a coronet and yet , in substance and authority , retain but privilege of a private
no , his conscience has crept too near another lady .
gives me the lie i ' th ' throat as deep as to the lungs ?
more at your request than to please myself .
that i may give the local wound a name , and make distinct the very breach whereout hector ' s
if i be waspish , best beware my sting .
when once he was mature for man , in britain where was he that could stand up his parallel ,
' look , sir , my wounds i got them in my country ' s service , when some certain
why will you mew her up , signior baptista , for this fiend of hell , and make her bear
no , no , he will seem to break loose- take on as you would follow , but yet come
what , art thou devout ?
what we see doth lie , made more or less by thy continual haste : this i do vow and
how is ' t with you , man ?
frankly judge and gather by him , as he is behav ' d , if ' t be th '
to thee resort : page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the issue of th ' exploit .
dost make hose of thy sleeves ?
go get thee to thy love , as was decreed , ascend her chamber , hence and comfort her .
exeunt marching .
o , thou wilt be a wilderness again .
o , now you weep , and i perceive you feel the dint of pity .
a goodly city is this antium .
love waking cries to see what ' s done , while shameful hate sleeps out the afternoon .
in happy time , iago .
to tire in repetition .
sirrah , where have you been ?
mischief , thou art afoot , take thou what course thou wilt .
my lord , you ' ll bear us company ?
their master to the flow ' red fields , and be aveng ' d on cursed tamora .
we must obey the time .
meet at supper : how thirty , at least , he fought with ; what wards , what blows ,
why , buckingham , is the traitor cade surpris ' d ?
feed !
out .
alarbus goes to rest , and we survive to tremble under titus ' threat ' ning look .
the people ' twixt philippi and this ground do stand but in a forced affection , for they have grudged
see , brother , see !
if thou hadst fear ' d to break an oath by him , th ' imperial metal , circling now
is clarence dead ?
is my kinsman , whom the king hath wrong ' d , whom conscience and my kindred bids to right
are you three usurers ' men ?
nothing of me , has ' a ?
all that follow their noses are led by their eyes but blind men , and there ' s not a
this casket threatens ; men that hazard all do it in hope of fair advantages .
wake when some vile thing is near .
heavings- such as you nourish the cause of his awaking : i do come with words as medicinal as true
of the dead , which now appear , but things removed that hidden in thee lie .
" octavius .
shall i do that which all the parthian darts , though enemy , lost aim and could not ?
but the los of what is past .
ah , know you not the city favours them , and they have troops of soldiers at their beck ?
exeunt cupid and ladies timon .
his mother , wife , his child , and this brave fellow too- we are the grains : you are
d with fox on lamb-skins too , to signify that craft , being richer than innocency , stands for the
" upon the word , accoutred as i was , i plunged in and bade him follow .
nay more , some parcels of their power are forth already , and only hitherward .
who is that calls so coldly ?
good morrow , and god save your majesty !
with voices and applause of every sort , patricians and plebeians , we create lord saturninus rome ' s great
, " " " scarus , " " " dercetas , " " " demetrius , " " " philo
the cordial that ye bring a wretched lady- a woman lost among ye , laugh ' d at , scorn
fly not ; for shouldst thou take the river styx i would swim after .
him , for the enfreed antenor , the fair cressid .
i mean that my heart unto yours is knit , so that but one heart we can make of it
neither know what is betid to cloten , but remain perplex ' d in all .
o , wonder !
[aside to pompey] forsake thy seat , i do beseech thee , captain , and hear me speak a word
how ?
you can do it , sir ; you can do it .
angelo ' s house enter angelo and escalus escalus .
equal had awak ' d them ; and his honour , clock to itself , knew the true minute when
why i your purse ?
know you any , hero ?
' tis his highness ' pleasure and our consent , for better trial of you , from hence you be
what ' s yet in this that bears the name of life ?
than be so , better to cease to be .
at home , my lord .
pluck but off these rags ; and then , death , death !
it bitter , pretty fool , to see it tetchy and fall out with the dug !
first , the fair reverence of your highness curbs me from giving reins and spurs to my free speech ;
] [clown digs and] sings .
would i were assur ' d of my condition !
mistress , what ' s your opinion of your sister ?
katherine , that cap of yours becomes you not : off with that bauble , throw it underfoot .
what satisfaction canst thou have to-night ?
flourish of trumpets within] enter captains and soldiers captain .
all these the enemies to our poor bark .
varying tide , to rot itself with motion .
tend me to-night ; may be it is the period of your duty .
i can live no longer by thinking .
an alien to the hearts of all the court and princes of my blood .
prithee , horatio , tell me one thing .
for your partaker pole , and you yourself , i ' ll note you in my book of memory to
call , that is , to watch her , as we watch these kites that bate and beat , and
and he that hath commanded is our king .
therefore proceed .
why then i think cassio ' s an honest man .
then you are mad indeed , if you be no better in your wits than a fool .
if proteus like your journey when you come , no matter who ' s displeas ' d when you are
ah , joan , sweet daughter joan , i ' ll die with thee !
with thine antique pen , him in thy course untainted do allow , for beauty ' s pattern to succeeding
in me ' tis villainy : in thee ' t had been good service .
[exit an attendant] pray you , my lord , give me leave to question ; you shall see how i
no treachery , but want of men and money .
rebuke from every car that heard it .
he is a dreamer ; let us leave him .
the woe ' s to come ; the children yet unborn shall feel this day as sharp to them as
these are begot in the ventricle of memory , nourish ' d in the womb of pia mater , and
they were villains , murtherers .
that i should be attach ' d in ephesus , i tell you ' twill sound harshly in her cars
in her chamber .
enough ; hold , or cut bow-strings .
this is a way to kill a wife with kindness , and thus i ' ll curb her mad and
' tis gone , ' tis gone , ' tis gone !
how will you do to content this substitute , and to save your brother ?
in his own chamber- i mean , the lines of my body are as well drawn as his ; no
i will not look upon your master ' s lines .
abide to be with ; therefore wast thou deservedly confin ' d into this rock , who hadst deserv '
i had as lief be woo ' d of a snail .
so far ?
and did not they put on my brows this wreath of victory , and bid me give it thee ?
>> scene vi .
since he went into france i have been in continual practice .
contempt ; while great promotions are daily given to ennoble those that scarce some two days since were worth a
hung be the heavens with black , yield day to night !
o , damn her !
son , who shall take notice of thee .
be patient , gentlemen .
txt [snatches romeo ' s dagger .
pray ye , go !
so did i yours .
that i brought up of a puppy ; one that i sav ' d from drowning , when three or
if we did think his contemplation were above the earth and fix ' d on spiritual object , he should
bigamy .
tribunes for them !
her sister adriana .
to yoke the enemies of rome .
: o change thy thought , that i may change my mind , shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle
not prize them without her love ; for her employ them all ; commend them and condemn them to her
we will ourselves provide .
d aid , from a resolv ' d and honourable war , to a most base and vile-concluded peace .
o simple !
certain , ' tis certain ; very sure , very sure .
enter juliet and nurse .
heaven prosper our sport !
ay , lord ; she will become thy bed , i warrant , and bring thee forth brave brood .
and she is mine ; and all my right of her i do estate unto demetrius .
, more than thy desert , is privilege for thy departure hence .
so , farewell , reignier .
and now they never meet in grove or green , by fountain clear , or spangled starlight sheen , but
i am courtier cap-a-pe , and one that will either push on or pluck back thy business there ; whereupon
eloquence , and the eyes of th ' ignorant more learned than the ears- waving thy head , which often
this is true that i say ; an i had thee in place where , thou shouldst know it .
exit with cressida nestor .
never .
by him that justly may bear his betroth ' d from all the world away .
be it a lordship , thou shalt have it for that word .
on like a butcher , and sit like a jack-an-apes , never off .
pistol !
promises , that , were his heart almost impregnable , his old ears deaf , yet should both ear and
i know you are no truant .
it is a pretty mocking of the life .
veins !
away towards salisbury !
was not the knight forsworn .
a word , mounseur mockwater .
he sought my life but lately , very late .
and thou , fresh piece of excellent witchcraft , who of force must know the royal fool thou cop '
' le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement , et la truie lavee au bourbier .
dear friends , my thanks are too dear a halfpenny .
spring .
why stay we prating here ?
enter an officer , and three or four citizens with clubs or partisans .
so your flesh and blood is not to be punish ' d by him .
casca .
when the next thing he espies may be the lady .
sir , in my heart there was a kind of fighting that would not let me sleep .
what then became of them i cannot tell ; i to this fortune that you see me in .
' sword ; and for we think the eagle-winged pride of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts , with rival-hating envy ,
indeed , brother-in-law was the farthest off you could have been to him ; and then your blood had been
but i fear they ' ll roar him in again .
we are true subjects to the king , king edward .
which now they hold by force , and not by right ; for richard , the first son ' s
if thou wilt lend this money , lend it not as to thy friends- for when did friendship take a
do you hear , roderigo ?
now , my masters , for a true face and good conscience .
assault thee .
nay , then , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
but thus , i trust , you will not marry her .
therefore , i prithee , supply me with the habit , and instruct me how i may formally in person
be ready , claudio , for your death to-morrow .
a street enter sir john falstaff , with his page bearing his sword and buckler falstaff .
o sleep , thou ape of death , lie dull upon her !
be thy lord and master .
what not put upon his spongy officers , who shall bear the guilt of our great quell ?
truly , sir , i am a poor fellow that would live .
come , come , you ' re mocking ; we will have no telling .
comes he with it presently ; where , if it please you , you may intercept him .
he loves your wife ; there ' s the short and the long .
an adder did it ; for with doubler tongue than thine , thou serpent , never adder stung .
stay , stay , i say !
when he came to himself again , he said , if he had done or said anything amiss , he
thou art even natural in thine art .
all the pictures fairest lin ' d are but black to rosalinde .
i wish ' d your venison better ; it was ill kill ' d .
txt richard plantagenet , duke of york edward and richard , his sons duke of somerset duke of suffolk duke
i tell thee she is ; therefore make her grave straight .
god mend all !
go to , i ' ll no more on ' t !
come , come .
, so conceitless , to be seduced by thy flattery that hast deceiv ' d so many with thy vows
god join ' d my heart and romeo ' s , thou our hands ; and ere this hand ,
there ' s some ill planet reigns .
sister first be wed .
to the war , the rites for which i love him are bereft me , and i a heavy interim
i cannot delve him to the root ; his father was call ' d sicilius , who did join his
ways ; therefore tremble and depart .
ay , my good lord , he ' s dead .
that is the very defect of the matter , sir .
women nearest ; but men , men are the things themselves .
o villain , villain !
buyer ; by which means i saw whose purse was best in picture ; and what i saw , to
lord , of a strange fever .
who dares receive it other , as we shall make our griefs and clamor roar upon his death ?
the king , sir- ham .
, will have your tongue too .
if i could win a lady at leap-frog , or by vaulting into my saddle with my armour on my
why the great toe ?
i am not valiant neither , but every puny whipster gets my sword .
' -why do you now the issue of your proper wisdoms rate , and do a deed that never fortune
to prove him , in defending of myself , a traitor to my god , my king , and me
let him fly far .
were moulded in their mother ' s womb to chase these pagans in those holy fields over whose acres walk
would grow into extremes .
the general world beside and prodigally gave them all to you .
but this cannot continue .
yielding up thy body to my will ; or else he must not only die the death , but thy
death , and what a terror he had been to france .
hear me one word ; beseech you , tribunes , hear me but a word .
leave me alone , for i must think of that which company will not be friendly to .
i do well believe your highness ; and did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen , who are of
why did he come ?
it is a beast for perseus : he is pure air and fire ; and the dull elements of earth
make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine with repetition of my romeo ' s name .
to man , as the malice of this age shapes them , are not worth a gooseberry .
enter the king , gloucester , and exeter king henry .
re-enter desdemona , attended .
sir valentine ' s page ; and sent , i think , from proteus .
good lord , how bright and goodly shines the moon !
here is her hand , the agent of her heart ; here is her oath for love , her honour
a man , as you are .
the lamb .
i know not what may fall ; i like it not .
what , is my beaver easier than it was ?
third guard .
come , kate , i ' ll have your song too .
ay , my good lord ; and no man in the presence but his red colour hath forsook his cheeks
[the duke of york knocks at the door and crieth] york .
what is between you ?
ay ; but peace !
should set hell on fire ; he would never else cross me thus .
please your lordship , here is the wine .
plain and not honest is too harsh a style .
you have conspir ' d against our royal person , join ' d with an enemy proclaim ' d ,
norfolk , so far as to mine enemy .
i have good witness of this ; therefore i beseech your majesty , do not cast away an honest man
and am i guerdon ' d at the last with shame ?
far into the bowels of the land have we march ' d on without impediment ; and here receive we
meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall .
receive him , and see him safe i ' th ' tower .
d up , that thou thereby mayst smile at this .
she ' ll take the enterprise upon her , father , if you advise it .
come , kate , thou art perfect in lying down .
she ' s but the sign and semblance of her honour .
what answer makes your grace unto my suit ?
he hath disgrac ' d me and hind ' red me half a million ; laugh ' d at my
, to his grave .
a monk , i tell you ; a resolved villain , whose bowels suddenly burst out .
the prejudice of her present state , or touch of her good person ?
yet again your fingers to your lips ?
myself will straight aboard , and to the state this heavy act with heavy heart relate .
- queen margaret .
prince john .
the fair adventure of to-morrow .
txt scene _num_ the mart enter antipholus of syracuse , dromio of syracuse , and first merchant first merchant .
greater than both , by the all-hail hereafter !
she phebes me : mark how the tyrant writes .
no , i will be the pattern of all patience ; i will say nothing .
why , there ' s more gold .
great king , i am no strumpet , by my life ; i am either maid , or else this
his promises were , as he then was , mighty ; but his performance , as he is now ,
that ' s more than we know .
you are so without these follies that these follies are within you , and shine through you like the water
it may be so ; but yet my inward soul persuades me it is otherwise .
in praising antony i have disprais ' d caesar .
; spoke your deservings like a chronicle ; making you ever better than his praise by still dispraising praise valued
pull off my boots .
ay , widow dido .
others personal use only , and ( _num_ ) are not distributed or used commercially .
look ' d sadly , it was for want of money .
go release them , ariel ; my charms i ' ll break , their senses i ' ll restore ,
by night and day ?
thou hast , they ' ll grind the one the other .
now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee .
for that i am some twelve or fourteen moonshines lag of a brother ?
the person written unto : ' your ladyship ' s in all desired employment , berowne .
who builds his hope in air of your good looks lives like a drunken sailor on a mast , ready
you are amaz ' d , my liege , at her exclaim .
the unguarded duncan ?
farewell ; good night .
heralds that trudge betwixt the king and mistress shore .
why , now let me die , for i have liv ' d long enough ; this is the period
but how does it well ?
dames commit the war of white and damask in their nicely gawded cheeks to th ' wanton spoil of phoebus
yield to his humour , smooth and speak him fair , and tarry with him till i turn again .
gave aries such a knock that down fell both the ram ' s horns in the court ; and who
go you before to gloucester with these letters .
exit gentleman good lady !
" and controversy hence a question takes whether the horse by him became his deed , or he his manage
d one out of the table .
depriv ' d me of your grace and favour ; but even for want of that for which i am
thus was i , sleeping , by a brother ' s hand of life , of crown , of queen
, i desire to lay my bones there .
you may glean , whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus that , open ' d , lies within
o , say so , and so be !
another room in philario ' s house enter posthumus posthumus .
how fares my lord ?
never was monarch better fear ' d and lov ' d than is your majesty .
my endeavours , have ever come too short of my desires , yet fil ' d with my abilities ;
bitter .
where are the vile beginners of this fray ?
pardon me , sir , this jewel did she wear ; and lord berowne , i thank him , is
cannot your grace win her to fancy him ?
enter doctor caius caius .
a rascal !
a parley with the duke of burgundy !
[to richard] let me sit heavy in thy page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[a parley sounded] gower .
th ' working , mark you , your party in converse , him you would sound , having ever seen
of brass , and with a gad of steel will write these words , and lay it by .
progress to be hatch ' d and born- are now to have no successive degrees , page _num_ complete works
walk with me ; speak freely .
you must excuse me , master robert shallow .
a crown ?
french march .
a street enter portia and nerissa portia .
his king .
this man ' s threats to whom i am subdu ' d , are but light to me , might
marry , they say my uncle grew so fast that he could gnaw a crust at two hours old .
reads the letter .
not a whit ; i have a device to make all well .
thee of thy son , alonso , they have bereft ; and do pronounce by me ling ' ring perdition
the lives of all your loving complices lean on your health ; the which , if you give o '
no , i think thou art not ; i think thou art quit for that .
exeunt sir toby , sir andrew , and fabian i prithee , gentle friend , let thy fair wisdom ,
will you sup with me , master gower ?
away , you trifler !
o me unhappy !
but i do think it is their husbands ' faults if wives do fall ; say that they slack their
why , say , fair queen , whence springs this deep despair ?
he is full so valiant , and in his commendations i am fed ; it is a banquet to me
courage , man .
exeunt bianca , katherina , and widow petruchio .
sir , i could perceive nothing at all from her ; no , not so much as a ducat for
txt greg .
o pretty , pretty pledge !
will you come presently ?
as they were dead- unwieldy , slow , heavy and pale as lead .
eye , and a most noble carriage ; and , as i think , his age some fifty , or
i pray you , know me when we meet again ; i wish you well , and so i take
txt their blood is cak ' d , ' tis cold , it seldom flows ; ' tis lack of
welcome , good messala .
will you go , gentles ?
and .
' edm .
axe upon the humbled neck but first begs pardon .
what wilt thou prove ?
for this new-married man approaching here , whose salt imagination yet hath wrong ' d your well-defended honour , you
if i bring you no sufficient testimony that i have enjoy ' d the dearest bodily part of your mistress
of those lands lost by his father , with all bands of law , to our most valiant brother .
what foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies whom thou , in terms so bloody and so dear , hast
names that were his lackeys .
ursula , bring my picture there .
come hither , catesby .
helenus .
o that he were here to write me down an ass !
can i not say ' i thank you ' ?
he went hence even now .
get you to bed again , it is not day .
honour and allegiance cannot think .
with all my heart i ' ll send the emperor my hand .
rescue , my lord of norfolk , rescue , rescue !
take thy face hence .
if thou canst like this creature as a maid , i can create the rest .
there cannot be those numberless offences ' gainst me that i cannot take peace with .
d some direful slaught ' ring death , as punishment for his most wicked life .
sigh ' d but they ask ' d one another the reason ; no sooner knew the reason but they
no more moving ?
my sweet ounce of man ' s flesh , my incony jew !
grave and austere quality , tender down their services to lord timon .
[pulls off the friar ' s bood and discovers the duke] duke .
but this virtuous maid subdues me quite .
the jew shall have my flesh , blood , bones , and all , ere thou shalt lose for me
come hither , francis .
how painted ?
my gracious liege , this too much lenity and harmful pity must be laid aside .
what hast thou been ?
a friend !
' ll bear your cares .
in the prenominate crimes the youth you breathe of guilty , be assur ' d he closes with you in
perchance she weeps because they kill ' d her husband ; perchance because she knows them innocent .
in a mallet .
o marcius , marcius !
what said she ?
look , where he stands and glares !
and what stir keeps good old york there with his men of war ?
[aside] i ' ll write to my lord she ' s dead .
i will lay odds that , ere this year expire , we bear our civil swords and native fire as
beginning , yet heaven may decrease it upon better acquaintance , when we are married and have more occasion to
lack i credit ?
by my troth , he ' ll yield the crow a pudding one of these days : the king has
upon thy wedding-day ?
nay , an i do , i pray god my girdle break .
what ' s his else ?
stand back , you lords , and give us leave awhile .
not tonight , good iago .
five days we do allot thee for provision to shield thee from diseases of the world , and on the
the lie unto him .
alas , good lady !
well , we will hear further of it by your daughter .
no sooner had they told this hellish tale but straight they told me they would bind me here unto the
master conquer , and earns a place i ' th ' story .
txt for , by my fathers ' reverend tomb , i vow they shall be ready at your highness '
madam , although i speak it in your presence , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
methinks thou art more honest now than wise ; for by oppressing and betraying me thou mightst have sooner got
be struck off .
- stay for me ; where souls do couch on flowers , we ' ll hand in hand , and
we have lost best half of our affair .
courtesy .
i will roar that i will do any man ' s heart good to hear me ; i will roar
or that we would , against the form of law , proceed thus rashly in the villain ' s death
enter the king , exeter , gloucester , warwick , somerset , and suffolk ; the bishop of winchester ,
poinards in our flesh till all were told , the words would add more anguish than the wounds .
you perceive she stirs .
s harbinger ; bear a fair presence , though your heart be tainted ; teach sin the carriage of a
rod , and bird of peace , and all such emblems laid nobly on her ; which perform ' d
what , boy !
and , most dear actors , eat no onions nor garlic , for we are to utter sweet breath ;
the court gate .
a bedchamber in the castle .
the word is short , but not so short as sweet ; no word like ' pardon ' for kings
now , sir , her father counts it dangerous that she do give her sorrow so much sway , and
are we not beaten ?
peace to your highness !
of york and him ; with other vile and ignominious terms in confutation of which rude reproach and in defence
bid every noise be still .
counsel , his competitor .
there is no terror , cassius , in your threats , for i am arm ' d so strong in
exit margarelon .
your name , honest gentleman ?
what are they call ' d ?
knows he not thy voice ?
good night , good night !
' deliver helen , and all damage else- as honour , loss of time , travail , expense , wounds
the temple garden , shall send between the red rose and the white a thousand souls to death and deadly
txt that hid the worse and show ' d the better face .
the gods forbid else !
is this moorfields to muster in ?
follow your function , go and batten on cold bits .
' fore me , i speak in respect- parolles .
hang him , poor cuckoldly knave !
pourquoi , my dear knight ?
why will he not , upon our fair request , untent his person and share the air with us ?
on his evils .
sleep thou , and i will wind thee in my arms .
it gives me wonder great as my content to see you here before me .
hazard all he hath .
he shall have nothing but the penalty .
is beaufort term ' d a kite ?
[skirmish again] gloucester .
suffer , yourself , your queen , your son .
the great achilles , whom opinion crowns the sinew and the forehand of our host , having his ear full
i will peat the door for master page .
for thy sake .
come , come , they are almost here .
if it prove so , then loving goes by haps ; some cupid kills with arrows , some with traps
e ' en so , my lord .
exeunt all but buckingham and gloucester buckingham .
trent shall run in a new channel fair and evenly .
look behind you , my lord .
tarry you a little-a-while .
i have known when he would have walk ' d ten mile afoot to see a good armour ; and
sir proteus , as i take it .
mad call i it ; for , to define true madness , what is ' t but to be nothing
out , i say !
fie upon him !
here is for thy pains .
txt what will be said ?
i must be round with him .
a noble gentleman ' tis , if he would not keep so good a house .
what services canst thou do ?
o , gentlemen , see , see !
good morrow , cousin cressid .
' countess .
of a gentlewoman ; i long to hear him call the drunkard ' husband ' ; and how my men
for her sake that i have been-for i feel the last fit of my greatness-good your graces , page _num_
nay , i beseech you , mark it well .
o blood-bespotted neapolitan , outcast of naples , england ' s bloody scourge !
go to ; i ' ll make ye know your times of business .
in that , and all things , will we show our duty .
if you shall send them word you will not come , their minds may change .
thou hast hawks will soar above the morning lark .
i will be satisfied !
he is of a very melancholy disposition .
[sings] my lady is unkind , perdy .
we will rather sleep than talk .
you a brother of us , it fits we thus proceed , or else no witness would come against you
the count ' s palace enter countess , steward , and clown countess .
herself [mamillius is led out] with that she ' s big with- for ' tis polixenes has made thee swell
o , speak no more !
come , my masters ; the duchess , i tell you , expects performance of your promises .
then confess what treason there is mingled with your love .
[the conspirators draw and kill coriolanus , who falls .
shall we call back northumberland , and send defiance to the traitor , and so die ?
how chance thou art not with the prince thy brother ?
o , heaven be judge how i love valentine , whose life ' s as tender to me as my
i will discharge it in either your straw-colour beard , your orange-tawny beard , your purple-in-grain beard , or your
brother , revenge my death .
ah , my good lord , i grieve at what i speak , and am right sorry to repeat what
let him know ' t .
let him die for ' t .
s page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hector is gone .
ever laid up to make parents happy , may hourly fall upon ye !
what , art so near ?
throes thee much to yield .
go to , they are not men o ' their words !
re-enter iago , with a light .
of her- and , in conclusion , she shall watch all night ; and if she chance to nod i
feasting on your sight , and by and by clean starved for a look , possessing or pursuing no delight
francis !
piety and fear , religion to the gods , peace , justice , truth , domestic awe , night-rest ,
and thus i prophesy , that many a thousand which now mistrust no parcel of my fear , page _num_
i have rubb ' d this young quat almost to the sense , and he grows angry .
now to london to see these honours in possession .
since cassius first did whet me against caesar i have not slept .
what should you need of more ?
widow !
now york and lancaster are reconcil ' d .
not so , neither ; but i am resolv ' d on two points .
therefore lay hold of him ; bear him to th ' rock tarpeian , and from thence into destruction cast
heir- and such high vaunts of his nobility , did instigate the bedlam brainsick duchess by wicked means to frame
where are his talons ?
] beat .
madam , he ' s well .
dogg ' d with two strange followers .
have i not hideous death within my view , retaining but a quantity of life , which bleeds away even
[they retire] enter ford with pistol , and page with nym ford .
the court awards it and the law doth give it .
breath compos ' d as made the things more rich .
we do not know how he may soften at the sight o ' th ' child : the silence often
leap thou , attire and all , through proof of harness to my heart , and there ride on the
protector of the realm ; and yet shalt thou be safe ?
their fortunes both are weigh ' d .
txt art thou a messenger , or come of pleasure ?
then should you be nothing but musical ; for you are altogether govern ' d by humours .
such aid as i can spare you shall command , but i am troubled here with them myself ; the
and therefore , tranio , for the time i study , virtue and that part of philosophy will i apply
her better judgement , may fall to match you with her country forms , and happily repent .
this is fery fantastical humours and jealousies .
vernon .
o , wilt thou darkling leave me ?
love you the man that wrong ' d you ?
the rascal ' s drunk .
come , come , you ' ll never meet a more sufficient man .
enter costard boyet .
i sin in envying his nobility ; and were i anything but what i am , i would wish me
both against the deed ; then , as his host , who should against his murtherer shut the door ,
in both our armies there is many a soul shall pay full dearly for this encounter , if once they
[to diana] if thou beest yet a fresh uncropped flower , choose thou thy husband , and i ' ll
they offend none but the virtuous .
we may as well push against paul ' s as stir ' em .
i did not give the lie .
of the element in favor ' s like the work we have in hand , most bloody , fiery ,
no , my good lord ; but , as you did command , i did repel his letters and denied
chamber and used their very daggers , that they have done ' t ?
he rages ; none dare come about him .
mistress !
assembly .
madam , in rome i look ' d her in the face , and saw her led between her brother
my lord northumberland will soon be cool ' d .
he ' s sentenc ' d ; ' tis too late .
break my staff , bury it certain fathoms in the earth , and deeper than did ever plummet sound i
three lads of cyprus , noble swelling spirits , that hold their honors in a wary distance , the very
she cannot be convey ' d away .
o rare !
why , go to , then !
can you play ' the murther of gonzago ' ?
thou shalt be punish ' d for thus frighting me , for i am sick and capable of fears ,
i cannot choose .
the life of a man ; but to counterfeit dying when a man thereby liveth , is to be no
it is decreed hector the great must die .
now well coloured shall see thee withered , bloody , pale , and dead .
i would have said it ; you say well .
i was about to tell thee : when my heart , as wedged with a sigh , would rive in
the country gives me proof and precedent of bedlam beggars , who , with roaring voices , strike in their
were you sworn to the duke , or to the deputy ?
such a pother , as if that whatsoever god who leads him were slily crept into his human powers ,
ne ' er see thou man , and let me ne ' er see thee .
sleep hath seiz ' d me wholly .
must get a father , call ' d suppos ' d vincentio ; and that ' s a wonder- fathers
and yet my sky shall not want .
re-enter troilus troilus .
exit enter agamemnon , ulysses , nestor , diomedes , ajax , and calchas agamemnon .
bear it tamely ; touch me with noble anger , and let not women ' s weapons , water drops
with the barbarous multitudes .
come i too late ?
and the right valiant banquo walk ' d too late , whom , you may say , if ' t
nay , then thou lov ' st it not , and all my pains is sorted to no proof .
then come , o ' god ' s name ; i fear no woman .
new disgraces with these you bear already .
never to england shall he bear his life , but dies betray ' d to fortune by your strife .
i ' ll wear a boot to make it somewhat rounder .
so inform the lords ; but come yourself with speed to us again ; for more is to be said
being green , there is great hope of help .
such as she is , in beauty , virtue , birth , is the young dauphin every way complete- if
why then , give way , dull clouds , to my quick curses !
for i have sworn thee fair , and thought thee bright , who art as black as hell , as
sentinel , the wolf , whose howl ' s his watch , thus with his stealthy pace , with tarquin
when he shall hear she died upon his words , th ' idea of her life shall sweetly creep into
our strong possession and our right for us !
imposition , as for the enjoying of thy life , who i would be sorry should be thus foolishly lost
the wanton edward and the lusty george ?
the duke hath offered him letters of commendations to the king .
swear that he shall , and then i will begin .
why , she that bears the bow .
than the master .
enter hotspur .
exit servingman gentlemen , will you go muster men ?
darkness .
give to a gracious message an host of tongues ; but let ill tidings tell themselves when they be felt
households ' rancour to pure love .
no ; bear it with you , lest i come not time enough .
i will drain him dry as hay : sleep shall neither night nor day hang upon his penthouse lid ;
hector ' s opinion is this , in way of truth .
then if she that lays thee out says thou art a fair corse , i ' ll be sworn and
the scythe , all uncorrected , rank , conceives by idleness , and nothing teems but hateful docks , rough
' d that it may still go right !
[exeunt rosencrantz and guildenstern now i am alone .
here comes thersites .
i ' ll venture so much of my hawk or hound , but twenty times so much upon my wife
enter marcius cominius .
on our side like the token ' d pestilence , where death is sure .
one hour more ' twill be eleven ; and so , from hour to hour , we ripe and ripe
are you meditating on virginity ?
what subject can give sentence on his king ?
_num_ ah wherefore with infection should he live , and with his presence grace impiety , that sin by him
me , as ascanius did when he to madding dido would unfold his father ' s acts commenc ' d
the pale moon shines by night ; and when i wander here and there , i then do most go
tut , i am in their bosoms , and i know wherefore they do it .
buy food and get thyself in flesh .
what art thou that usurp ' st this time of night together with that fair and warlike form in which
let us not leave him out .
and in this resolution i defy thee ; not willing any longer conference , since thou deniest the gentle king
ay , that you shall .
' o indistinguish ' d space of woman ' s will !
, champagne , rheims , orleans , paris , guysors , poictiers , are all quite lost .
as well wound the loud winds , or with bemock ' d-at stabs kill the still-closing waters , as diminish
i will make your peace with him if i can .
with kin and kind with kind confound ; disorder , horror , fear , and mutiny , shall here inhabit
no more than i am well acquitted of .
you should have been well on your way to york .
person , with such powers as might hold sortance with his quality , the which he could not levy ;
anon comes in a fellow , takes off his crown , kisses it , pours poison in the sleeper '
he rose against him , being his sovereign , and made him to resign his crown perforce .
what dost thou know me for ?
go , get thee hence and find my dog again , or ne ' er return again into my sight
d up my heart , where either i must live or bear no life ; the fountain from the which
call him ' madam , ' do him obeisance .
txt cassius .
bell and burial .
thou art a great fool .
with him ?
where is a book ?
good heaven , the souls of all my tribe defend from jealousy !
this fish will bite .
enter buckingham [aside] whom have we here ?
to keep that oath were more impiety than jephtha when he sacrific ' d his daughter .
[strikes him down] messenger .
a street enter duke humphrey and his men , in mourning cloaks gloucester .
himself doth say he wishes earnestly you never may .
; whereon i begg ' d his pardon for return .
thanks , gentle tribune , noble brother marcus .
you shall have anything .
if your will want not , time and place will be fruitfully offer ' d .
pray thee , peace .
why , this it is when men are rul ' d by women : ' tis not the king that
it is marring indeed , if he quarter it .
i know my hour is come .
it out , but fights not .
brother , archbishop of york .
please you , repeat their names ; i ' ll show my mind according to my shallow simple skill .
i do not , till you practise them on me .
but he , poor man , by your first order died , and that a winged mercury did bear ;
which is bolingbroke ?
rome ; and so to tripoli , if god lend me life .
find the sharded beetle in a safer hold than is the full-wing ' d eagle .
have at it then by leave !
this prince hath neither claim ' d it nor deserv ' d it , and therefore , in mine opinion
shall i enforce thy love ?
what thou art like to be , cast thy humble slough and appear fresh .
some light-foot friend post to the duke of norfolk .
during this song they pinch falstaff .
ll have an iris that shall find thee out .
and pluck nights from me , but not lend a morrow ; thou can ' st help time to furrow
re-enter titus andronicus with a knife , and lavinia , with a basin titus .
he is already traduc ' d for levity ; and ' tis said in rome that photinus an eunuch and
then , true pisanio- who long ' st like me to see thy lord , who long ' st- o
i call thee not .
own ; his subject am i not , nor here provincial .
a dead man ' s tomb !
this palpable-gross play hath well beguil ' d the heavy gait of night .
you may so in the end .
what , is antonio here ?
my boy , my arthur , my fair son !
cause .
we make woe wanton with this fond delay .
what should we do ?
y ' are lazy knaves ; and here ye lie baiting of bombards , when ye should do service .
pity me then dear friend , and i assure ye , even that your pity is enough to cure me
i would they ' d fight i ' th ' fire or i ' th ' air ; we '
so please you- exit .
yet your maidenheads growing .
let that suffice you .
and what art thou that dar ' st appear thus to us ?
thou mak ' st me merry ; i am full of pleasure .
if such tricks as these strip you out of your lieutenantry , it had been better you had not kissed
a false conclusion !
to th ' capitol !
here goths have given me leave to sheathe my sword .
twenty merchants , the duke himself , and the magnificoes of greatest port , have all persuaded with him ;
why , man , why ?
and , to atone your fears with my more noble meaning , not a man shall pass his quarter or
come-amen !
have been as speedy in your end as all the poisonous potions in the world , and sav ' d
o woman , if it were not for one trifling respect , i could come to such honour !
particular to foresee , smells from the general weal .
liberty , and they their lives .
i never thought to hear you speak again .
go after .
' if pisanio have ' said she ' given his mistress that confection which i gave him for cordial ,
caphis .
i will denounce a curse upon his head .
sir , i do assure .
and to be a soldier ?
at the saint francis here , beside the port .
by my troth , isabel , i lov ' d thy brother .
elements of this warlike isle , have i tonight fluster ' d with flowing cups , and they watch too
such love must needs be treason in my breast .
go get thee from the door .
fairies , black , grey , green , and white , you moonshine revellers , and shades of night ,
txt mine honour lives when his dishonour dies , or my sham ' d life in his dishonour lies .
shall rome , etc .
my lords , we were forewarned of your coming and shut the gates for safety of ourselves , for now
but in them nature ' s copy ' s not eterne .
txt i am afraid ; and yet i ' ll venture it .
enobarbus !
the forest page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
most noble empress , you have heard of me ?
o heavens forfend !
txt it is the woman ' s part .
no more than when my daughters call thee mother .
and mine , with my heart in ' t .
and not the least of these but can do more in england than the king .
third outlaw .
this world i do renounce , and , in your sights , shake patiently my great affliction off .
yet be well assur ' d you put sharp weapons in a madman ' s hands .
the plot is laid ; if all things fall out right , i shall as famous be by this exploit
, westmoreland , and attendants king henry .
so you grant pasture for me .
if you have victory , let the trumpet sound for him that brought it .
prithee no more ; cease .
is leaning cheek to cheek ?
' there ' s a double meaning in that .
but out , affection !
but thou didst understand me by my signs , and didst in signs again parley with sin ; yea ,
and cymbals , and the shouting romans , make the sun dance .
, behold dissentious numbers pest ' ring streets than see our tradesmen singing in their shops , and going about
bottled spider , that foul bunch-back ' d toad !
i am- and by my fancy ; if my reason will thereto be obedient , i have reason ; if
with adverse planets in the heavens .
and hope of action ; but we do learn , by those that know the very nerves of state ,
where is thy instrument ?
here he comes ; to beguile two hours in a sleep , and then to return and swear the lies
txt i do repent it from my very soul .
good morrow to your worship .
cawdor to me promised no less to them ?
' what shall befall the duke of somerset ?
' tis thou that rig ' st the bark and plough ' st the foam , settlest admired reverence in
the testament !
not a poor boy , sir , but the rich jew ' s man , that would , sir ,
you are a lover .
this polydore , the heir of cymbeline and britain , who the king his father call ' d guiderius- jove
powers are ent ' red in the roman territories , and with the deepest malice of the war destroy what
the loss you have is but a son being king , and by that loss your daughter is made queen
hark ye : the queen your mother rounds apace .
but i do wonder his insolence can brook to be commanded under cominius .
' " and , lo , behold these talents of their hair , with twisted metal amorously empleached , i
txt th ' unkindest beast more kinder than mankind .
a greater pow ' r than we denies all this ; and till it be undoubted , we do lock
favours , in those freckles live their savours .
o cross !
not so ; but it hath been the longest night that e ' er i watch ' d , and
o my lord , must i then leave you ?
alas , poor harry of england !
to her , believe not the word of the noble .
learn her by heart .
they say this angelo was not made by man and woman after this downright way of creation .
burn but his books .
enter two other servingmen [abram and balthasar] .
need of ' em ?
my liege , i did deny no prisoners .
all his study ; list his discourse of war , and you shall hear a fearful battle rend ' red
give me the lie , do ; and try whether i am not now a gentleman born .
prince , thou art sad .
, great nature ' s second course , chief nourisher in life ' s feast- lady macbeth .
o , be sick , great greatness , and bid thy ceremony give thee cure !
sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell : [burden : ding-dong .
let us come in , that we may bind him fast , and bear him home for his recovery .
' tis but early days .
when thou clovest thy crown i ' th ' middle and gav ' st away both parts , thou bor
go , masters , get you be not dismay ' d ; these are a side that would be glad
i need not add more fuel to your fire , for well i wot ye blaze to burn them out
i am not yet so low but that my nails can reach unto thine eyes .
hector was but a troyan in respect of this .
look to th ' door there , francis .
too-much .
i tell thee my master is become a hot lover .
ah , what ' s more dangerous than this fond affiance ?
o perdita , what have we twain forgot !
bitch ' s puppies , fifteen i ' th ' litter ; and you may know by my size that
, whose love-suit hath been to me as fearful as a siege .
to the devil , like a mad lad , pare thy nails , dad .
i ' ll graff it with you , and then i shall graff it with a medlar .
call france !
his sword to his great master ; who , thereat enrag ' d , flew on him , and amongst
wherefore should you so ?
do , young sir ; your reputation shall not therefore be misprised : we will make it our suit to
living blood doth in these temples beat which owe the crown that thou o ' er-masterest ?
with thought .
hadst thou no poison mix ' d , no sharp-ground knife , no sudden mean of death , though ne
softly , gentle patience .
wish to jump a body with a dangerous physic page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
led them to it ; who to disobey were against all proportion of subjection .
now , my dearest queen- cleopatra .
; you look as you had something more to say .
nay , i ' ll show you the manner of it .
you rascal !
and this withal .
' tis with cares .
, and you say ' shylock , we would have moneys .
speak it again , and even with the word this hand , which for thy love did kill thy love
in a kind of praise , naming thy name , blesses an ill report .
we ' ll betray him finely .
if so , then be not tongue-tied .
if you please to shoot another arrow that self way which you did shoot the first , i do not
enemy .
no thisby do i see .
why dost thou stay ?
geese ; you are no surer , no , than is the coal of fire upon the ice or hailstone
thee , fell clifford , and thee , false frenchwoman .
why , the wrong is but a wrong i ' the world ; and having the world for your labor
pardon it ; the phrase is to the matter .
thy king and sovereign , and neither by treason nor hostility to seek to put me down and reign thyself
i durst have denied that , before you were so choleric .
sit down and feed , and welcome to our table .
what things in the world canst thou nearest compare to page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
turned to the rams ; and when the work of generation was between these woolly breeders in the act ,
for this description of thine honesty ?
we ' ll set thee to school to an ant , to teach thee there ' s no labouring i
ford] look who comes yonder ; she shall be our messenger to this paltry knight .
when i have been dry , and bravely marching , it hath serv ' d me instead of a quart-pot
emperor ; and say ' long live our emperor saturnine !
than no skill , by so much is horn more precious than to want .
damnable both-sides rogue !
archbishop of canterbury bishop of ely earl of cambridge , conspirator against the king lord scroop , " " "
[sings] jog on , jog on , the footpath way , and merrily hent the stile-a ; a merry heart
[comes forward] no , my lord .
hey , mountain , hey !
marry and amen !
mark him ; note him .
the moor already changes with my poison : dangerous conceits are in their natures poisons , which at the first
your eyes are in a heavy case , your purse in a light .
fear him not , caesar ; he ' s not dangerous ; he is a noble roman and well given
thy friend , as thou usest him , and thy sworn enemy , andrew aguecheek .
our son shall win .
is it possible , on such a sudden , you should fall into so strong a liking with old sir
speak to me home ; mince not the general tongue ; name cleopatra as she is call ' d in
winter , the fairest flow ' rs o ' th ' season are our carnations and streak ' d gillyvors
bloody turbulence , and this whole night hath nothing been but shapes and forms of slaughter .
no , madam , ' tis not so well that i am poor , though many of the rich are
think ' st thou that we fear them ?
child i for that at frugal nature ' s frame ?
and i am witness with her that she did .
gargrave .
i think he will carry this island home in his pocket , and give it his son for an apple
' i hate ' , from hate away she threw , and saved my life saying ' not you '
[aside to portia] i ' ll see if i can get my husband ' s ring , which i did
a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested .
there ' s fennel for you , and columbines .
what things again most dear in the esteem and poor in worth !
why , then i will do what your grace commands .
please it your honours to call me to your senate , i ' ll deliver myself your loyal servant ,
french hose off and in your strait strossers .
reason : because they then less need one another .
no child but hero ; she ' s his only heir .
, are put to silence .
with this answer .
enter the prince [and attendants] .
this royal throne of kings , this scept ' red isle , this earth of majesty , this seat of
here is the scroll of every man ' s name which is thought fit , through all athens , to
i ' ll to the tuscan wars , and never bed her .
would you , in their serving , and with what imitation you can borrow from youth of such a season
level of your frown , but shoot not at me in your wakened hate : since my appeal says i
here comes the duke .
hermione , my dearest , thou never spok ' st to better purpose .
pride against that power that bred it .
but what a point , my lord , your falcon made , and what a pitch she flew above the
and yet thou wilt tutor me from quarrelling !
my steps too loud .
to stone , convert his gives to graces ; so that my arrows , too slightly timber ' d for
you ' d be king o ' the isle , sirrah ?
canst thou the conscience lack to think i shall lack friends ?
the devil himself with courtesy .
no further service , doctor , until i send for thee .
ay me , i fell , and yet do question make what i should do again for such a sake
goblin , lead them up and down .
thus rosalinde of many parts by heavenly synod was devis ' d , of many faces , eyes , and
o woful day !
have i done well ?
world !
sorrow that he quit being ; and his gentle lady , big of this gentleman , our theme , deceas
the king is now in progress towards saint albans , with him the husband of this lovely lady ; thither
county claudio , when mean you to go to church ?
crystal is muddy .
banish ' d his .
sufficeth that i have maintains my state , and sends the poor well pleased from my gate .
farewell , my liege .
set at liberty ; the fat ribs of peace must by the hungry now be fed upon .
they were suborn ' d : malcolm and donalbain , the king ' s two sons , are stol '
i ' ll set my teeth , and send to darkness all that stop me .
yet have i left a daughter , who i am sure is kind and comfortable .
have it in a particular ballad else , with mine own picture on the top on ' t , colville
season the slaves for tubs and baths ; bring down rose-cheek ' d youth to the tub-fast and the diet
the tyrant has not batter ' d at their peace ?
boy !
beware the ides of march .
i have what i would have , now my old arms are young john talbot ' s grave .
lady , i shall not fail t ' approve the fair conceit the king hath of you .
i hear the strain of strutting chanticleer cry , cock-a-diddle-dow .
' why should this a desert be ?
, and make it halt behind her .
your tongue , though but bastards and syllables of no allowance to your bosom ' s truth .
, who all in one , one pleasing note do sing : whose speechless song being many , seeming one
' and long upon these terms i held my city , till thus he ' gan besiege me : "
at that place call upon me ; and dispatch with angelo , that it may be quickly .
this shepherd ' s passion is much upon my fashion .
she mocks all her wooers out of suit .
of thoughts the worst of words .
whiles i threat , he lives ; words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives .
pray you , leave your curtsy , good mounsieur .
elders .
o , the better , sir !
as tedious as go o ' er .
alexas .
if such a one will smile and stroke his beard , bid sorrow wag , cry ' hem ' when
if sack and sugar be a fault , god help the wicked !
else .
fool lepidus !
exeunt othello , desdemona , and attendants .
what is the business ?
bring forth the gallant ; let us hear him speak .
, so help you truth and god , embrace each other ' s love in banishment ; nor never look
god help the noble claudio !
' now take them up , ' quoth he ' if any list .
exeunt [all but gloucester and kent] .
you have not been inquir ' d after ; i have sat here all day .
i am a gentleman : thou art a drawer .
an easy task ; ' tis but to love a king .
return to plague the inventor .
you owe me money , sir john , and now you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it .
ll none of me ; the count himself here hard by woos her .
but well when i discourse of love and peace ?
mock not my senseless conjuration , lords .
or else what follows ?
wear this .
pray come and crush a cup of wine .
my way of life is fall ' n into the sear , the yellow leaf , and that which should
now am i dead , now am i fled ; my soul is in the sky .
fie , fie , fie !
go , ye giddy goose .
but a man that were to sleep your sleep , and a hangman to help him to bed , i
now let thy friendly hand put strength enough to ' t .
false , false ; this , this .
" aroint thee , witch !
under-bear .
they say she ' s mad .
' tis noble .
o , rejoice beyond a common joy , and set it down with gold on lasting pillars : in one
but do not look for further recompense than thine own gladness that thou art employ ' d .
behold ; and say ' tis well .
close ; whereto constrain ' d by her infirmity she should that duty leave unpaid to you which daily she
composition ; but in chief for that her reputation was disvalued in levity .
enter king edward , attended ; lady grey , as queen ; pembroke , stafford , hastings , and others
[here an alarum , and it thunders and lightens] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
now i feel of what coarse metal ye are moulded-envy ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
it ish give over ; i would have blowed up the town , so chrish save me , la ,
ay , all the talbots in the world , to save my life .
samp .
if it be possible for you to displace it with your little finger , there is some hope the ladies
txt good , scald knave , as eat it ?
nature wants stuff to vie strange forms with fancy ; yet t ' imagine an antony were nature ' s
' d goblets for a dish of wood , my sceptre for a palmer ' s walking staff , my
here ' s yet some liquor left .
your grace may starve , perhaps , before that time .
now , princely buckingham , seal thou this league with thy embracements to my wife ' s allies , and
why , as black as ink .
capacity of it .
sweet lords , entreat her hear me but a word .
will you with counters sum the past-proportion of his infinite , and buckle in a waist most fathomless with spans
how i mean to martyr you .
let me embrace with old vincentio ; and wander we to see thy honest son , who will of thy
o , they have liv ' d long on the alms-basket of words .
lose the tide , and the voyage , and the master , and the service , and the tied !
the night gone by .
an hour after , ' a trifle , a trifle .
appertain to you ?
i come to bury caesar , not to praise him .
could penetrate her uncompassionate sire- but valentine , if he be ta ' en , must die .
[aside to caius] pray you use your patience ; in good time .
that the comparison may stand more proper , my eye shall be the stream and wat ' ry death-bed for
she better would have fitted me or clarence ; but in your bride you bury brotherhood .
richard scroop , archbishop of york .
that i mean to make bold withal , and , as you shall use me hereafter , dry-beat the rest
here is ulysses .
why , this bond is forfeit ; and lawfully by this the jew may claim a pound of flesh ,
dear master , i can go no further .
pray , good shepherd , what fair swain is this which dances with your daughter ?
thriftless ambition , that wilt ravin up thine own life ' s means !
most unnatural wounds , which thou thyself hast given her woeful breast .
hence with distaffs .
in earth .
make thee think thy swan a crow .
it was his word .
txt pompey .
very good .
look not pale , bianca ; thy father will not frown .
him with injustice ?
it is not words that shakes me thus .
the white sheet bleaching on the hedge , with heigh !
txt enter aeneas , paris , antenor , deiphobus , and diomedes fear not my truth : the moral of
i am too sore enpierced with his shaft to soar with his light feathers ; and so bound i cannot
weeds , with overwhelming brows , culling of simples .
pretty soul !
west with this disgrace : even so my sun one early morn did shine , with all triumphant splendour on
hard hands of peasants their vile trash by any indirection .
i shall crave your forbearance a little .
unconstant womankind !
there ' s no such thing : it is the bloody business which informs thus to mine eyes .
' tis politic and safe to let him keep at point a hundred knights ; yes , that on every
[above .
fare ye well .
be call ' d but viceroy of the whole ?
now by this hand i gave it to a youth , a kind of boy , a little scrubbed boy
if dearth or foison follow .
where ' s caius marcius ?
it is love ' s spring , and these the showers to bring it on .
sort , rising and cawing at the gun ' s report , sever themselves and madly sweep the sky ,
in love , i ' faith , to the very tip of the nose .
the service that you three have done is more unlike than this thou tell ' st .
something of moment then .
er to stormy passion , must perforce decay .
pet .
enter baptista , and lucentio as cambio signior baptista , you are happily met .
then , for the truth and plainness of the case , i pluck this pale and maiden blossom here ,
hast thou or word , or wit , or impudence , that yet can do thee office ?
prithee , no more prattling ; go .
your commission ' s ready ; follow me and receive ' t .
she doth think she has strange ling ' ring poisons .
but youth in ladies ' eyes that flourisheth .
ay , there ' s the point , as- to be bold with you- not to affect many proposed matches
friendship is constant in all other things save in the office and affairs of love .
with stronger blood , we should have answer ' d heaven boldly ' not guilty , ' the imposition clear
you shall read us the will , caesar ' s will .
was ever precise in promise-keeping .
then march to paris , royal charles of france , and keep not back your powers in dalliance .
enter , several ways , bastard , alencon , reignier , half ready and half unready alencon .
you , as your business and desires shall point you , for every man hath business and desire , such
say we read lectures to you , how youngly he began to serve his country , how long continued ;
_num_ what ' s in the brain that ink may character , which hath not figured to thee my true
permissive pass and not the punishment .
enter gloucester gloucester .
so , haply , are they friends to antony .
let drive at me ; for it was so dark , hal , that thou couldst not see thy hand
, his corporal motion govern ' d by my spirit .
till lionel ' s issue fails , his should not reign .
to what end did i bid thee hie thee home ?
if drawing my sword against the humour of affection would deliver me from the reprobate thought of it , i
but , alas the while !
her , the bloody book of law you shall yourself read in the bitter letter after your own sense ,
for doting , not for loving , pupil mine .
on her wedding-day , and for your love to her lead apes in hell .
exit bianca katherina .
the duke is very strangely gone from hence ; bore many gentlemen , myself being one , in hand ,
have you conspir ' d , have you with these contriv ' d , to bait me with this foul
we therefore have great cause of thankfulness , and shall forget the office of our hand sooner than quittance of
braving arms against thy sovereign .
no court in europe is too good for thee ; what dost thou then in prison ?
nay , but you part in anger .
join ' em both ; and , for i know your reverend ages love security , i ' ll pawn
thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years ago and wert taken with the manner , and ever since thou
faith , sir , ' a has an english name ; but his fisnomy is more hotter in france than
enter sir john falstaff , page , and bardolph yonder he comes ; and that arrant malmsey-nose knave , bardolph
o most delicate fiend !
good brabantio , take up this mangled matter at the best : men do their broken weapons rather use than
thou speak ' st cheerfully .
enter bolingbroke , the duke of york , with other lords and attendants bolingbroke .
scoff on , vile fiend and shameless courtezan .
but if you would consider the true cause why all these fires , why all these gliding ghosts , why
octavia weeps to part from rome ; caesar is sad ; and lepidus , since pompey ' s feast ,
but , if my father had not scanted me , and hedg ' d me by his wit to yield
and that is more than i will yield unto .
remember ' st thou any that have died on ' t ?
to-day promis ' d to tell me of ?
my uttermost .
exeunt hostess and boy bardolph .
mine is , an ' t please your grace , against john goodman , my lord cardinal ' s man
i wot your love pursues a banish ' d traitor .
i did but tell her she mistook her frets , and bow ' d her hand to teach her fingering
and how much honour pick ' d from the chaff and ruin of the times , to be new varnish
but indeed , sir , we make holiday to see caesar and to rejoice in his triumph .
prick not your finger as you pluck it off , lest , bleeding , you do paint the white rose
' let each take some .
and then his banishment .
go to , go to .
in this same interlude it doth befall that i , one snout by name , present a wall ; and
they dance ?
no thought of him !
his aspiring rider seem ' d to know , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
fie , uncle beaufort !
" and " amen " the other , as they had seen me with these hangman ' s hands .
i could myself take up a brace o ' th ' best of them ; yea , the two tribunes
our king , being ready to leap out of himself for joy of his found daughter , as if that
i promis ' d we would be contributors and bear his charge of wooing , whatsoe ' er .
o , thou hast damnable iteration , and art indeed able to corrupt a saint .
' is very sequent to your whipping .
get you therefore hence , poor miserable wretches , to your death ; the taste whereof god of his mercy
jack cade proclaims himself lord mortimer , descended from the duke of clarence ' house , and calls your grace
but why should honor outlive honesty ?
trick .
far be it we should honour such as these with humble suit : no , rather let my head stoop
an ' t please your grace , the two great cardinals wait in the presence .
if this be known , cassius or caesar never shall turn back , for i will slay myself .
what , no man at door to hold my stirrup nor to take my horse !
the courtier ' s hands are perfum ' d with civet .
at her nose .
caesar ' s house enter antony , caesar , octavia between them antony .
there ' s letters seal ' d ; and my two schoolfellows , whom i will trust as i will
txt were but my trials of thy love , and thou hast strangely stood the test ; here , afore
chamberlain .
txt ' you are an honest woman and well thought on , therefore take heed what guests you receive .
' all cruels else subscrib ' d .
enter mardian o , thy vile lady !
it is impossible that i should die by such a lowly vassal as thyself .
the grief is fine , full , perfect , that i taste , and violenteth in a sense as strong
poor king reignier , whose large style agrees not with the leanness of his purse .
, disappointed , unanel ' d , no reckoning made , but sent to my account with all my imperfections
but there is mordake , vernon , lord harry percy , and there is my lord of worcester , and
in that i ' ll war with you .
i know our safety is to follow them ; for , as i hear , the king is fled to
' s delight .
are these your herd ?
she hath prevented me .
by this time , had the king permitted us , one of our souls had wand ' red in the
, meeting with an old religious man , after some question with him , was converted both from his enterprise
dorcas .
this outward-sainted deputy , whose settled visage and deliberate word nips youth i ' th ' head , and follies
now , ye familiar spirits that are cull ' d out of the powerful regions under earth , help me
_num_ mine eye and heart are at a mortal war , how to divide the conquest of thy sight ,
your lord sends now for money .
what is about to be ?
let me know .
this .
the temple of virtue was she ; yea , and she herself .
he had rather see the swords and hear a drum than look upon his schoolmaster .
of our blood , no , not our kin , farre than deucalion off .
is ' t not enough to break into my garden and like a thief to come to rob my grounds
, and this is my left .
alas , dear love , i cannot lack thee two hours !
if you will jest with me , know my aspect , and fashion your demeanour to my looks , or
- bless thee , master !
john duke of norfolk , thomas earl of surrey , shall have the leading of this foot and horse .
enter mother .
i pray you spare me .
fulvia perchance is angry ; or who knows if the scarce-bearded caesar have not sent his pow ' rful mandate
yes , without all doubt .
, quit his fortunes here , which you knew great , and to the certain hazard of all incertainties himself
[he writes his name with his staff , and guides it with feet and mouth] this sandy plot is plain
not by my consent , i promise you .
i know not whether god will have it so , for some displeasing service i have done , that ,
ay , i do .
of the blood royal if thou darest not stand for ten shillings .
what , hast thou been long blind and now restor ' d ?
] fellow thou , awake !
' ll find some cunning practice out of hand to scatter and disperse the giddy goths , or , at
so rushling , i warrant you , in silk and gold ; and in such alligant terms ; and in
i flatter not , but say thou art a caitiff .
save yourself , my lord : the ocean , overpeering of his list , eats not the flats with more
foul wrinkled witch , what mak ' st thou in my sight ?
i have lost a seal-ring of my grandfather ' s worth forty mark .
a whoreson , beetle-headed , flap-ear ' d knave !
god save thy grace , king hal ; my royal hal !
can he be angry ?
it is our part and promise to th ' athenians to speak with timon .
ay , marry , go , i say , and fetch him hither .
i take it your own business calls on you , and you embrace th ' occasion to depart .
how were they lost ?
find .
go , tubal , fee me an officer ; bespeak him a fortnight before .
but words are words ; i never yet did hear that the bruised heart was pierced through the ear .
o , calm thee , gentle lord !
the angry northern wind will blow these sands like sibyl ' s leaves abroad , and where ' s our
where is mine host ?
o that you had mine eyes ; or your own eyes had the lights they were wont to have when
our lands , our lives , and an , are bolingbroke ' s .
go get you home , you fragments .
mouth , as wine comes out of narrow-mouth ' d bottle- either too much at once or none at all
lie not a night from home ; watch me like argus ; if you do not , if i be
o my lord , my lord , i have been so affrighted !
quickly .
heaven gives for him , which buys a place next to the king .
' s ; where how he did prevail i shame to speak- but truth is truth : large lengths of
prays , curses-- ' o sweet benedick !
practice of it lives in john the bastard , whose spirits toil in frame of villanies .
whose phrase of sorrow conjures the wand ' ring stars , and makes them stand like wonder-wounded hearers ?
txt but for thee , fellow- fellow , thy words are madness .
house and ply his book , welcome his friends , visit his countrymen , and banquet them ?
waste no time in words , but get thee gone ; i shall be there before thee .
then there ' s achilles , a rare engineer !
madam , i ' ll follow you unto the death .
o noble dauphin , go with me to the king .
if consequence do but approve my dream , my boat sails freely , both with wind and stream .
but they say the duke will be here to-morrow .
i see this is the time that the unjust man doth thrive .
i am glad i am so acquit of this tinder-box : his thefts were too open ; his filching was
what , will not this castle yield ?
, unless things be cut shorter exeunt .
" here will i stand till caesar pass along , and as a suitor will i give him this .
i see the trick on ' t : here was a consent , knowing aforehand of our merriment , to
an had been a man of any occupation , if i would not have taken him at a word ,
now is my day ' s work done ; i ' ll take good breath : rest , sword ;
now fair befall your mask !
in saying so , you shall but say the truth .
see who it is .
by my soul i swear there is no power in the tongue of man to alter me .
i think she ' ll sooner prove a soldier : iron may hold with her , but never lutes .
and go in peace , humphrey , no less belov ' d than when thou wert protector to thy king
' welkin ' s cheek , dashes the fire out .
if i want gold , steal but a beggar ' s dog and give it timon , why , the
no , by my life and soul !
his wife , an ' t like your worship .
courage with hard labour tame and dull , that not a horse is half the half of himself .
o cunning enemy , that , to catch a saint , with saints dost bait thy hook !
make no noise- in such a night , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i crave your highness ' pardon .
, pragging knave , pistol- which you and yourself and all the world know to be no petter than a
no , let the fiend give fire .
and we must do it wisely .
it were no less ; but yet i ' ll make a pause .
sixth to turn thy hated back upon our kingdom .
thou dost beguile the world , unbless some mother .
cassius , be constant .
a grave unto a soul ; holding th ' eternal spirit , against her will , in the vile prison
i may not leave it so ; i am bound by oath , and therefore pardon me .
this shall be answer ' d .
but , as the devil would have it , three misbegotten knaves in kendal green came at my back and
to dover .
you mean to stop any of william ' s wages about the sack he lost the other day at hinckley
read over julia ' s heart , thy first best love , for whose dear sake thou didst then rend
i drunk !
and by whose power i well might lodge a fear to be again displac ' d ; which to avoid
you have no true debitor and creditor but it ; of what ' s past , is , and to
mind , whether that thy youth and kind page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
why should she live to fill the world with words ?
men .
the duke of norfolk sends you word by me the queen is coming with a puissant host , and craves
speak softly ; yonder , as i think , he walks .
sir proteus , your father calls for you ; he is in haste ; therefore , i pray you ,
enter lodovico , montano , cassio carried in a chair , and officers with iago , prisoner .
into the custard ; and out of it you ' ll run again , rather than suffer question for your
what is ' t i dream on ?
naples ?
a sound and pristine health , i would applaud thee to the very echo , that should applaud again .
lady constance , peace !
o ' th ' compass .
what old woman ' s that ?
but , o vain boast !
a horse-drench .
a lousy knave , to have his gibes and his mockeries !
enter alexas alexas .
o , she was naught , and long of her it was that we meet here so strangely ; but
enter the tribunes and senators aloft ; and then enter below saturninus and his followers at one door , and
this is a match , and made between ' s by vows .
ay ; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lantern , and say he
if you had known the virtue of the ring , or half her worthiness that gave the ring , or
having no more but thought of what thou wast to torture thee the more , being what thou art .
[edmund falls .
what , go you toward the tower ?
do not plunge thyself too far in anger , lest thou hasten thy trial ; which if-lord have mercy on
i beseech your honour , ask me .
let him show his skill in the construction .
cannot , is false , and that i dare not , falser : i will not come today .
exeunt citizens brutus .
sirrah , no more .
his life , according to the statute of the town , dies ere the weary sun set in the west
help , signior baptista !
see how the morning opes her golden gates and takes her farewell of the glorious sun .
taunt him with the license of ink ; if thou thou ' st him some thrice , it shall not
bound a pitch above dull woe .
we two will walk , my lord , and leave you to your graver steps .
who shall be the speaker ?
' i duly am inform ' d his grace is at marseilles , to which place we have convenient convoy
you have your wish ; my will is even this , that presently you hie you home to bed .
why then , some be of laughing , as , ah , ha , he !
dead , i think .
and thy saints for aye be crown ' d with plagues , that thee alone obey !
a crack , madam .
ay , my lord cardinal , how think you by that ?
they said they were an-hungry ; sigh ' d forth proverbs- that hunger broke stone walls , that dogs must
[kisses octavia] antony .
come between us , good benvolio !
pours the poison in his ears .
i thank you sir .
o god , have i overcome mine enemies in this presence ?
he wore his beaver up .
say it , othello .
i conjure thee by rosaline ' s bright eyes .
measure for measure must be answered .
indeed , the french may lay twenty french crowns to one they will beat us , for they bear them
me rather had my heart might feel your love than my unpleas ' d eye see your courtesy .
[singing] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
of thy misprision must perforce ensue some true love turn ' d , and not a false turn ' d
good fool , some ink , paper , and light ; and convey what i will set down to my
o , my offence is rank , it smells to heaven ; it hath the primal eldest curse upon '
he that will have a cake out of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding .
txt northampton , and in leicestershire , shalt find men well inclin ' d to hear what thou command '
follow him at foot ; tempt him with speed aboard .
' tis good .
it sall be vary gud , gud feith , gud captains bath ; and i sall quit you with gud
i had thought , my lord , to have learn ' d his health of you .
but now i ' ll tell thee joyful tidings , girl .
evermore peep through their eyes , and laugh like parrots at a bag-piper ; and other of such vinegar aspect
a jewel .
, and if mine arm be heaved in the air , thy grave is digg ' d already in the
the hoar leprosy ador ' d , place thieves and give them title , knee , and approbation , with
be thou but true of heart- cressida .
in brief , a braver choice of dauntless spirits than now the english bottoms have waft o ' er did
ornaments to wield old partisans , in hands as old , cank ' red with peace , to part your
have comfort , for i know your plight is pitied of him that caus ' d it .
now go to the door , and stay there till we call .
get thee glass eyes and , like a scurvy politician , seem to see the things thou dost not .
hector , then ' tis wars .
my more-having would be as a sauce to make me hunger more , that i should forge quarrels unjust against
ay , and to wage this battle at pharsalia , where caesar fought with pompey .
thus far i count my gain , that she that makes me sin , awards me pain .
by how much unexpected , by so much we must awake endeavour for defence , for courage mounteth with occasion
all this is so ; but what of this , my lord ?
go thou with her to the west end of the wood ; there is our captain ; we ' ll
or women ' s sake , by whom we men are men- let us once lose our oaths to find
after the bloody fray at wakefield fought , where your brave father breath ' d his latest gasp , tidings
o that i were upon the hill of basan to outroar the horned herd !
some dishonour we had in the loss of that drum ; but it is not to be recovered .
txt as priam was for all his valiant sons .
master gower , if they become me not , he was a fool that taught them me .
this is close dealing .
if there were no foes , that were enough to overcome him .
i warrant thee .
' " my parts had pow ' r to charm a sacred nun , who , disciplined , ay ,
come , seek the conspirators .
let him that will a screech-owl aye be call ' d go in to troy , and say there '
what news abroad , friar ?
yet they are not join ' d .
he that commends me to mine own content commends me to the thing i cannot get .
rest ?
; equality of two domestic powers breed scrupulous faction ; the hated , grown to strength , are newly grown
by day and night !
[aside to menas] say in mine ear ; what is ' t ?
go some , and follow him ; and he that brings his head unto the king shall have a thousand
i can behold no longer .
all days of glory , joy , and happiness .
[a short alarum] o mechante fortune !
thisby , the flowers of odious savours sweet- quince .
poor heart bail , whoe ' er keeps me , let my heart be his guard , thou canst not
' ] what tumult ' s this ?
own defence .
forbear to judge , for we are sinners all .
good my mother , pardon .
come on , nerissa , i have work in hand that you yet know not of ; we ' ll
brothers both , commend me to the princes in our camp ; do my good morrow to them , and
by your example and put on the dauntless spirit of resolution .
angry with my fancy , more bright in zeal than the devotion which cold lips blow to their deities ,
away , make haste .
oui , dat de tongues of de mans is be full of deceits- dat is de princess .
and steep ' d in blood ?
i did so .
bless him at home in peace , whilst i from far his name with zealous fervour sanctify .
no , on both in one , or one in both .
, shall receive the benefit of his dying , a place in the commonwealth , as which of you shall
letters , my lord , from hamlet : this to your majesty ; this to the queen .
doors .
now the red pestilence strike all trades in rome , and occupations perish !
as for these silken-coated slaves , i pass not ; it is to you , good people , that i
sweet sir , you honour me .
indeed , it does stink in some sort , sir ; but yet , sir , i would prove- duke
to see thee there ; to see thee pass thy punto , thy stock , thy reverse , thy distance
now , bull !
o , the fates !
i kneel ' d before him ; ' twas very faintly he said ' rise ' ; dismiss ' d
so angle we for beatrice , who even now is couched in the woodbine coverture .
dreadful note .
why , ' tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath shot out in our latter times .
myself , and to no love beside .
where was she born ?
why do you show me this ?
good master peaseblossom , i shall desire you of more acquaintance too .
peace , except ye thirst for blood .
, draw their swords] you fools !
shall you find ready and willing with one consent to have her so bestow ' d ; for curious i
herself , almost at fainting under the pleasing punishment that women bear , had made provision for her following me
well , jove , not i , is the doer of this , and he is to be thanked .
i have seen the time with my long sword i would have made you four tall fellows skip like rats
why , all delights are vain ; but that most vain which , with pain purchas ' d , doth
stood the state so ?
if she be false , o , then heaven mocks itself !
the vow is made .
pish for thee , iceland dog !
by thy approach thou mak ' st me most unhappy .
he ' s flung in rage from this ingrateful seat of monstrous friends ; nor has he with him to
singularity , he goes upon this present action .
all unavoided is the doom of destiny .
would they speak with me ?
not i , my lord .
who is it that can tell me who i am ?
where did you study all this goodly speech ?
you are most welcome home .
with my moan .
, for he understands you are in arms , he craves a parley at your father ' s house ,
nor shall this peace sleep with her ; but as when the bird of wonder dies , the maiden phoenix
uncouple here , and let us make a bay , and wake the emperor and his lovely bride , and
you may be rightly just , whatever i shall think .
to what effect ?
the fore-hand and vantage of a king .
exeunt goths with aaron .
have you the tongues ?
o , fear me not !
i am faint .
a million .
horatio says ' tis but our fantasy , and will not let belief take hold of him touching this dreaded
a street enter helena , widow , and diana , with two attendants helena .
well , believe this : no ceremony that to great ones longs , not the king ' s crown nor
[within] right , sir ; i ' ll tell you when , an you ' ll tell me wherefore .
to th ' palace , an it like your worship .
anything that ' s mended is but patch ' d ; virtue that transgresses is but patch ' d with
in truth , la , go with me ; and i ' ll tell you excellent news of your husband
us , and we are barren and bereft of friends , yet know-my master , god omnipotent , is mustering
' good joy , my lord and lady !
wilt thou be pleas ' d to hearken once again to the suit i made to thee ?
awake , awake , english nobility !
ship them all for ireland .
what talk you of debating ?
up as best becomes a gentlewoman ; her only fault , and that is faults enough , is- that she
behold , this is the happy wedding torch that joineth rouen unto her countrymen , but burning fatal to the
in his buttons ; he will carry ' t .
we hither came in peace , so let us still continue peace and love .
let me confirm my princely brother ' s greeting .
be not offended , dear cesario- rudesby , be gone !
at ' closes in the consequence , ' at ' friend or so , ' and gentleman .
camp near sardis .
and as the thing that ' s heavy in itself upon enforcement flies with greatest speed , so did our
o , my good lord , the duke of cornwall ' s dead , slain by his servant , going
[hector falls] so , ilion , fall thou next !
for thee , and get thee wood enough .
' meaning me a beast .
who hath made this havoc with them ?
; ' tis nameless woe , i wot .
s anguish ; turn giddy , and be holp by backward turning ; one desperate grief cures with another '
o my good lord , at many times i brought in my accounts , laid them before you ; you
not having struck one stroke ; hence grew the general wreck and massacre .
[aside] thus , like the formal vice , iniquity , i moralize two meanings in one word .
nor i , assure thee , regan .
exeunt queen margaret and the prince king henry .
i shall be glad if he have deceived me .
acquainted .
your right depends not on his life or death .
if you think other , remove your thought ; it doth abuse your bosom .
i had a hundred pound on ' t ; and then a whoreson jackanapes must take me up for swearing
the palace enter richard , john of gaunt , with other nobles and attendants king richard .
no ; for we were subjects but while you were king .
in thy fats our cares be drown ' d , with thy grapes our hairs be crown ' d .
to love .
enter desdemona , emilia , and clown .
- he does deny him , in respect of his , what charitable men afford to beggars .
is ' t not i that undergo this charge ?
but i ' ll swear it ; and i would thou wouldst be a tall fellow of thy hands .
there ' s some among you have beheld me fighting ; come , try upon yourselves what you have seen
by heaven , it is as proper to our age to cast beyond ourselves in our opinions as it is
no , in good sooth ; the fire is dead with grief , being create for comfort , to be
in so high a style , margaret , that no man living shall come over it ; for in most
help me into some house , benvolio , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
down saint magnus ' corner !
the virtue of this jest will lie the incomprehensible lies that this same fat rogue will tell us when we
no , dear queen ; for we intend so to dispose you as yourself shall give us counsel .
appear it to your mind that , through the sight i bear in things to come , i have abandon
is not his brother , thomas of clarence , with him ?
not so , my lord ; the gods of rome forfend i should be author to dishonour you !
othello .
taken treasure from her lips- paulina .
; and mere instinct of love and loyalty , free from a stubborn opposite intent , as being thought to
either consent to pay this sum for me , or i attach you by this officer .
and whether that my angel be turned fiend , suspect i may , yet not directly tell , but being
general , take thou my soldiers , prisoners , patrimony ; dispose of them , of me ; the walls
txt third servant .
hic est sigeia tellus ' i trust you not- ' hic steterat priami ' take heed he hear us not-
and i must to lorenzo and the rest ; but we will visit you at supper-time .
even so ; an ' t please your worship , brakenbury , you may partake of any thing we say
believe me , i am not ; i tell thee true .
i pray you do not fall in love with me , for i am falser than vows made in wine
commend me to my wife .
shed tears , as being overjoyed to see her noble lord restor ' d to health , who for this
they use to write it on the top of letters ; ' twill go hard with you .
why should poor beauty indirectly seek , roses of shadow , since his rose is true ?
would i were a neat-herd ' s daughter , and my leonatus our neighbour shepherd ' s son !
and shall it in more shame be further spoken that you are fool ' d , discarded , and shook
your company to th ' capitol ; where , i know , our greatest friends attend us .
my due from thee is this imperial crown , which , as immediate from thy place and blood , derives
will you and leave lord talbot ?
good master fenton , come not to my child .
and now my lady worm ' s , chapless , and knock ' d about the mazzard with a sexton
welcome from egypt , sir .
an indian king .
good sir , be not offended ; she is an heir of falconbridge .
thou art perfect .
only dog , my duck .
the treacherous labour of your son .
you take my house when you do take the prop that doth sustain my house ; you take my life
' if the scorn of your bright eyne have power to raise such love in mine , alack , in
, and not a man of them that we shall take shall taste our mercy .
yes ; no wonder , when rich ones scarce tell true .
txt and , by the glorious worth of my descent , this arm shall do it , or this life
_num_ sweet love renew thy force , be it not said thy edge should blunter be than appetite , which
madam , please you peruse this letter .
come nearer .
[he unbinds her] go ply thy needle ; meddle not with her .
store for you ; remember that you call on me today ; be near me , that i may remember
reverence .
my tears that my poor mistress , moved therewithal , wept bitterly ; and would i might be dead if
if anything fall to you upon this more than thanks and good fortune , by the saint whom i profess
one of our covent , and his confessor , gives me this instance .
i will not struggle , i will stand stone-still .
enter , above , marcus andronicus and tribunes ; re-enter saturninus , bassianus , and attendants marcus .
[aside to simple] i am glad he is so quiet ; if he had been throughly moved , you should
where art thou , proud demetrius ?
might we but have that happiness , my lord , that you would once use our hearts , whereby we
the fool hath planted in his memory an army of good words ; and i do know a many fools
the lofty cedar , royal cymbeline , personates thee ; and thy lopp ' d branches point thy two sons
therefore like her , i sometime hold my tongue : because i would not dull you with my song .
the brightness of her cheek would shame those stars as daylight doth a lamp ; her eyes in heaven would
nay , if the devil have given thee proofs for sin , thou wilt prove his .
i ' ll be suppos ' d upon a book his face is the worst thing about him .
your own .
i hear none , madam .
so wise to lose an oath to win a paradise ?
o , teach me how i should forget to think !
and give him his desire .
txt which i denying , they fell sick and died- i could not do withal .
from tamworth thither is but one day ' s march .
but that ' s no argument for kissing now ; for thus popp ' d paris in his hardiment ,
sir , i will eat no meat ; i ' ll not drink , sir ; if idle talk will
and yet methinks your grace hath not done well to give the heir and daughter of lord scales unto the
les mains d ' un chevalier , je pense , le plus brave , vaillant , et tres distingue seigneur
the sea receiv ' d it ; and so i wish ' d thy body might my heart .
come hither to me , master elbow ; come hither , master constable .
[exit luciana] this i wonder at : thus he unknown to me should be in debt .
i can see yet without spectacles , and i see no such matter .
a notorious bawd .
they meet with charity ; but i , who never knew how to entreat , nor never needed that i
ragged sails , lean , rent , and beggar ' d by the strumpet wind !
the sixth age shifts into the lean and slipper ' d pantaloon , with spectacles on nose and pouch on
would not a pair of these have bred , sir ?
cannot pleasure such an honourable gentleman .
well , peace be with him that hath made us heavy !
to win me soon to hell my female evil , tempteth my better angel from my side , and would
s danger ; and their gesture sad investing lank-lean cheeks and war-worn coats presenteth them unto the gazing moon so
i am sorry one so learned and so wise as you , lord angelo , have still appear ' d
i ' ll fetch you one .
sans ' sans , ' i pray you .
or , as ' twere perfum ' d by a fen .
this ring , you say , was yours ?
you would play upon me ; you would seem to know my stops ; you would pluck out the heart
to prove thou hast a true divining heart , aaron and thou look down into this den , and see
[to leontes] care not for issue ; the crown will find an heir .
though sometimes it show greatness , courage , blood- and that ' s the dearest grace it renders you- yet
who unfit for other life , compell ' d by hunger and lack of other means , in desperate manner
i am surd they never learn ' d that of me .
take from me .
now of another thing she may , and that cannot i help .
give me thy hand , kate ; i will unto venice , to buy apparel ' gainst the wedding-day .
lady , with me , with me thy fortune lies .
txt i cannot blame his conscience .
pray you , sir , whose daughter ?
i see thee still , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
am i a woodman , ha ?
a bold brave gentleman .
in , and prepare .
why shak ' st thou so ?
bid her devise some means to come to shrift this afternoon ; and there she shall at friar laurence '
ay , fool .
if at home , sir , he ' s all my exercise , my mirth , my matter ; now
, friends , and what else dear that is consum ' d in hot digestion of this cormorant war- shall
a lover , that kills himself most gallant for love .
will ' t please you walk aside ?
reach .
the king ' s not here .
an impair thought with breath ; manly as hector , but more dangerous ; for hector in his blaze of
let ' s consult together against this greasy knight .
speak , good sicinius .
you are a young huntsman , marcus ; let alone ; and come , i will go get a leaf
i saw him in the battle range about , and watch ' d him how he singled clifford forth .
i ' ll bear him no more sticks , but follow thee , thou wondrous man .
give us the place alone ; we will hear this divinity .
what name , sir ?
that will i bestow among my wife and her confederates , for locking me out of my doors by day
i call ' d thee then vain flourish of my fortune ; i call ' d thee then poor shadow
quickly , now married to pistol lords , ladies , officers , soldiers , messengers , attendants scene : england
you are strangely troublesome .
true , noble prince .
shorn , what comes the wool to ?
come , friar francis , be brief .
thee ; thy husband he is dead , and for his death thy brothers are condemn ' d , and
is ' t not well done ?
shall we curse the planets of mishap that plotted thus our glory ' s overthrow ?
enter an aedile what , will he come ?
would i were the first that ever dissembled in such a gown .
[to the fool] come , help to bear thy master .
i found it by the barrenness , hard in the palm of the hand .
more wonderful when angels are so angry .
her prophetic fury sew ' d the work ; the worms were hallow ' d that did breed the silk
would i might never o ' ertake pursu ' d success , but i do feel , by the rebound
may it please your highness to resolve me now ; and what your pleasure is shall satisfy me .
" " brutus , thou sleep ' st : awake !
o that it could be prov ' d that some night-tripping fairy had exchang ' d in cradle clothes our
yea ; i thank your pretty sweet wit for it .
i fear your disposition .
if the true concord of well-tuned sounds , by unions married do offend thine ear , they do but sweetly
- my niece , that flies away so fast ?
ay , ay , antipholus , look strange and frown .
look you what hacks are on his helmet !
troth-plight .
go , father , with thy son .
and let my sovereign , virtuous henry , command my eldest son , nay , all my sons , as
how has he the leisure to be sick in such a justling time ?
you would bless you to hear what he said .
he lov ' d me-o false wench !
why , then the maid is mine from all the world by your firm promise ; gremio is out-vied .
my lord cardinal , i do excuse you ; yea , upon mine honour , i free you from '
who , he ?
to an unknown fear .
edward ' s camp , near warwick enter three watchmen , to guard the king ' s tent first watchman
and what beast art thou already , that seest not thy loss in transformation !
the sword !
honest iago , my desdemona must i leave to thee .
and ulysses thersites .
[to catesby] go thou to friar penker .
i have been feasting with mine enemy , where on a sudden one hath wounded me that ' s by
you must go with me , master doctor .
bianca ' s love- to labour and effect one thing specially .
a wretched soul , bruis ' d with adversity , we bid be quiet when we hear it cry ;
and apparent shame ?
as he shall be , and henry put apart , the next for me .
speak , speak !
much sack as i to-day ?
did ever dragon keep so fair a cave ?
holy , fair , and wise is she ; the heaven such grace did lend her , that she might
and ador ' d !
heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art .
' d , came crying ' mongst his foes , a thing of pity .
come , warwick , take the time ; kneel down , kneel down .
in all cupid ' s pageant there is presented no monster .
[he stabs saturninus .
well , petruchio , this has put me in heart .
lorenzo , certain ; and my love indeed ; for who love i so much ?
god forgive me !
let her not walk i ' th ' sun .
i shall be , if i claim by open war .
remain ; but when you depart from me , sorrow abides and happiness takes his leave .
did not i say he would work it out ?
he , when he hears of her , cannot refrain page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
their places vacant , in their rooms come thronging soft and delicate desires , all prompting me how fair young
never was such a sudden scholar made ; never came reformation in a flood , with such a heady currance
these are unsightly tricks .
you are very short with us ; but if we live we ' ll be as sharp with you .
when nature calls thee to be gone , what acceptable audit canst thou leave ?
cell be shriv ' d and married .
o , vengeance !
now say , what would augustus caesar with us ?
' good ' should be pertinent ; but so it is , it is not .
thee commend ; all ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder ; which is to me some praise that
verefore will you not meet-a me ?
come , lucius , come ; stay not to talk with them .
king edward , valiant richard , montague , stay we no longer , dreaming of renown , but sound the
sweet-savour ' d in thy taste , unless i spake , or look ' d , or touch ' d
if you speed well in it , the duke shall both speak of it and extend to you what further
that man that sits within a monarch ' s heart and ripens in the sunshine of his favour , would
my master through his art foresees the danger that you , his friend , are in ; and sends me
my brother hath a daughter , almost the copy of my child that ' s dead , and she alone
take another ; nothing so certain as your anchors , who do their best office if they can but stay
stand you not so amaz ' d .
perjur ' d men .
some bloody passion shakes your very frame .
all my travels warrant me they live .
[beneath] swear .
i think it freely ; and betimes in the morning i will beseech the virtuous desdemona to undertake for me
] what should be spoken here , where our fate , hid in an auger hole , may rush and
i know by that he ' s dead ; and by my soul , if this right hand would buy
' and thou hast talk ' d of sallies and retires , of trenches , tent , of palisadoes ,
how long is ' t since ?
hath to the marbled mansion all above never presented !
[unmuffling him] so look about you ; know you any here ?
state holy or unhallow ' d , what of that ?
d him , heaven knows how dearly .
but , mistress , know yourself .
exit ford .
be moved , be moved .
do , if it will not stand .
then what intends these forces thou dost bring ?
you have said , sir .
upon my honour , myself , my brother , and this grieved count did see her , hear her ,
servants , leave me and her alone .
strong as pluto ' s gates : cressid is mine , tied with the bonds of heaven .
exeunt desdemona and emilia .
madam , sleeps still .
txt together .
exeunt the yorkists king henry .
second lord .
your passion .
exit [polonius] .
hor .
i have belied a lady , the princess of this country , and the air on ' t revengingly enfeebles
therefore let ' s hence , and with our fair entreaties haste them on .
buried one and twenty valiant sons , knighted in field , slain manfully in arms , in right and service
one that but performs the bidding of the fullest man , and worthiest to have command obey ' d .
the time was , father , that you broke your word , when you were more endear ' d to
no , not till a hot january .
what means this scorn , thou most untoward knave ?
you have a double tongue within your mask , and would afford my speechless vizard half .
anointed , i implore so much expense of thy royal sweet breath as will utter a brace of words .
such a house broke !
son of richard late earl of cambridge , afterwards duke of york earl of warwick earl of salisbury earl of
o , now forever farewell the tranquil mind !
camillo was his help in this , his pander .
if the cook help to make the gluttony , you help to make the diseases , doll .
he says he will return incontinent .
well may you prosper !
where reason can revolt without perdition , and loss assume all reason without revolt : this is , and is
he that stirs next to carve for his own rage holds his soul light ; he dies upon his motion
be it lawful i take up what ' s cast away .
no leisure had he to enrank his men ; he wanted pikes to set before his archers ; instead whereof
most fair return of greetings and desires .
o , think ' st thou we shall ever meet again ?
and yet she ' ll kneel and pray ; i have seen her do ' t .
honour from corruption , but such an honest chronicler as griffith .
lo thus by day my limbs , by night my mind , for thee , and for my self ,
[aside] her looks doth argue her replete with modesty ; her words doth show her wit incomparable ; all her
, to have my praise for this , perform a part thou hast not done before .
o , yes , i saw sweet beauty in her face , such as the daughter of agenor had ,
, with which the time will load him .
bid them rise and live .
yea , and a case to put it into .
then i ' ll enter .
you see how full of changes his age is .
what wouldst thou , boy ?
confin ' d to exhibition ?
than ever at one time the clergy yet did to his predecessors part withal .
this obedience rise , which my most inward true and duteous spirit teacheth this prostrate and exterior bending !
take up my mistress ' gown for thy master ' s use !
what think you of the scottish lord , his neighbour ?
my noble uncle !
friar .
o , would he did !
' tis no matter ; if he could burn us all into one coal we have deserv ' d it
may peruse the men we should have cop ' d withal .
him , the noble percy slain and all his men upon the foot of fear , fled with the rest
be of good cheer ; y ' are fall ' n into a princely hand ; fear nothing .
your reason , mighty lord .
ely house enter john of gaunt , sick , with the duke of york , etc .
this one hand yet is left to cut your throats , whiles that lavinia ' tween her stumps doth hold
gon .
stain with the best blood that i can meet withal in the adventure of this perilous day .
calm ' d by debitor and creditor .
lewis of france is sending over masquers to revel it with him and his new bride .
the lustre in your eye , heaven in your cheek , pleads your fair usage ; and to diomed you
[in this mutiny the tribunes , the aediles , and the people are beat in] menenius .
not yet quite dead ?
o thou whose wounds become hard-favoured death , speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath !
i neither care for th ' world nor your general ; for such things as you , i can scarce
, and is gone forth- to sleep .
i have too much believ ' d mine own suspicion .
d , which even but now , demanding after you , denied me to come in) return , and force
happy thou art not ; for what thou hast not , still thou striv ' st to get , and
she would have made hercules have turn ' d spit , yea , and have cleft his club to make
well , i ' ll find friends to wear my bleeding roses , that shall maintain what i have said
o , god save ye !
but would it please thee , good andronicus , to send for lucius , thy thrice-valiant son , who leads
cardinal beaufort ' s bedchamber enter the king , salisbury , and warwick , to the cardinal in bed king
say , wall-ey ' d slave , whither wouldst thou convey this growing image of thy fiend-like face ?
are punish ' d ere they have done their mischief .
what manner of man , an it like your majesty ?
, though it have no tongue , will speak with most miraculous organ , i ' ll have these players
if it were damnable , he being so wise , why would he for the momentary trick be perdurably fin
he must think us some band of strangers i ' th ' adversary ' s entertainment .
sir richard and plantagenet .
the conclusion is victory ; on whose side ?
here ' s a good world the while !
or , if you borrow one another ' s love for the instant , you may , when you hear
never name her , child , if she be a whore .
let me be ignorant , and in nothing good but graciously to know i am no better .
i am glad that my weak words have struck but thus much show of fire from brutus .
txt proteus .
a street enter launcelot gobbo launcelot .
' sir-reverence .
but keep that count ' nance still .
that my youth suffer ' d .
that is my lord- leonatus ?
convey him hence .
what , while you were there ?
go you to juliet ere you go to bed ; prepare her , wife , against this wedding day .
zounds , a dog , a rat , a mouse , a cat , to scratch a man to death
dance her turn ; now here at upper end o ' th ' table , now i ' th '
it is an attribute to god himself ; and earthly power doth then show likest god ' s when mercy
who ' s there , i trow ?
txt [to goneril] thou worse than any name , read thine own evil .
] balth .
exeunt scene _num_ page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my lady , to the manner of the days , in courtesy gives undeserving praise .
warwick , westmoreland , and other lords ; at another , the french king , queen isabel , the princess
o my little heart !
i will wink on her to consent , my lord , if you will teach her to know my meaning
i will seek them out .
voice , that she make friends to the strict deputy ; bid herself assay him .
' good morrow , fool , ' quoth i ; ' no , sir , ' quoth he , '
[to robin] hold , sirrah ; bear you these letters tightly ; sail like my pinnace to these golden shores
thou seest we are not all alone unhappy : this wide and universal theatre presents more woeful pageants than the
who then shall blame his pester ' d senses to recoil and start , when all that is within him
no wonder , sir ; but certainly a maid .
the substance of ten thousand soldiers armed in proof and led by shallow richmond .
is no woe to his correction , nor to his service no such joy on earth .
all which time before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers to them for you .
put on the gown the while .
handkerchief ?
wrongs , and labour ' d all i could to do him right ; but in this kind to come
i am sick still ; heart-sick .
, in a general honest thought and common good to all , made one of them .
most friendship is feigning , most loving mere folly .
let us watch the haughty cardinal ; his insolence is more intolerable than all the princes in the land beside
it lives by that which nourisheth it , and the elements once out of it , it transmigrates .
hence , therefore , every leader to his charge ; for , on their answer , will we set on
tickle point now they are gone .
clarence .
grace go with you !
but that her tender shame will not proclaim against her maiden loss , how might she tongue me !
audience , or vouchsaf ' d to think he had partners .
to general filths convert , o ' th ' instant , green virginity .
txt angelo .
[to bona] and , gracious madam , in our king ' s behalf , i am commanded , with your
we ' ll leave you for this time .
and yet methinks i see it in thy face , what thou shouldst be ; th ' occasion speaks thee
i bring no overture of war , no taxation of homage : i hold the olive in my hand ;
enter percy , with the bishop of carlisle percy .
take away the lady .
france rambures , french lord grandpre , " " governor of harfleur montjoy , a french herald ambassadors to the
or so much as it needs to dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds .
where art thou , death ?
what you can make her do i am content to look on ; what to speak i am content to
' so many have , that never touched his hand , sweetly supposed them mistress of his heart .
if he shall think it fit a saucy stranger in his court to mart as in a romish stew ,
all this while you were disguis ' d .
no worse than they are backbitten , sir ; for they have marvellous foul linen .
as thou wilt win my favour , good my knave , do one thing for me that i shall entreat
it is not so ; thou hast misspoke , misheard ; be well advis ' d , tell o '
i have no great devotion to the deed ; and yet he hath given me satisfying reasons .
where we are .
sad nor merry .
txt second murderer .
add water to the sea and give more strength to that which hath too much ; whiles , in his
enter prince henry prince .
faith , madam , i have other holy reasons , such as they are .
come , deal justly with me .
strikes roderigo .
' twere damnation to think so base a thought ; it were too gross to rib her cerecloth in the
and claudio lie , who lov ' d her so that , speaking of her foulness , wash ' d
if he love caesar , all that he can do is to himself , take thought and die for caesar
what wilt thou do , thou peevish officer ?
re-enter cressida thersites .
he is a roman , no more kin to me than i to your highness ; who , being born
i do believe hermione hath suffer ' d death , and that apollo would , this being indeed the issue
so we answer him .
' well , this was signior benedick that said so .
if music be the food of love , play on , give me excess of it , that , surfeiting
harper ' s song .
beseech you all , my lords , with thoughts so qualified as your charities shall best instruct you , measure
to be a queen in bondage is more vile than is a slave in base servility ; for princes should
nay , weep not , gentle eros ; there is left us ourselves to end ourselves .
clarence , beware ; thou keep ' st me from the light , but i will sort a pitchy day
be removed .
had not gone out .
fold ?
' my lord , ' the horses your lordship sent for , with all the care had , i saw
be accus ' d on true report , bear with her weakness , which i think proceeds from wayward sickness
txt or else the lady ' s mad ; yet if ' twere so , she could not sway her
masters , spread yourselves .
[aside] o , give ye good ev ' n !
of my young harry .
the cardinal ' s not my better in the field .
o my dear hamlet !
no , no , no life !
i must live among my neighbours ; i ' ll no swaggerers .
gentle cousin , let us go thank him , and encourage him ; my father ' s rough and envious
exit saturninus .
more to know did never meddle with my thoughts .
exeunt rosencrantz and guildenstern] and , england , if my love thou hold ' st at aught , - as
will money buy ' em ?
why , he esteems her no more than i esteem an addle egg .
, i never did incense his majesty against the duke of clarence , but have been an earnest advocate to
sigh no more , ladies , sigh no more !
, and for your rapier most especially , that he cried out ' twould be a sight indeed if one
exeunt , first passing over the stage in order and state , and then a great flourish of trumpets second
as you hear of me , so think of me .
i ' ll go seek him .
] kent .
enter oxford and somerset somerset .
that idle rank remain beyond all date even to eternity .
so he wishes you all happiness that remains loyal to his vow , and your increasing in love leonatus posthumus
lo , at their birth good stars were opposite .
what stuff is this !
look about , davy .
remember , william : focative is caret .
now , antony , our hopes are answered .
i think i am as like to ride the mare , if i have any vantage of ground to get
there doth my father lie ; and there this night we ' ll pass the business privately and well .
no more but plain and bluntly ' to the king !
to the death , my lord .
stanley , look to your wife ; if she convey letters to richmond , you shall answer it .
wilt thou use thy wit ?
or heard him say- as knaves be such abroad , who having , by their own importunate suit , or
day and cry all ' we died at such a place ' - some swearing , some crying for a
old , and sexes both enchanted , to dwell with him in thoughts , or to remain in personal duty
railing in known discreet man , though he do nothing but reprove .
well , god be thanked for these rebels .
good epilogues .
is not this just ?
' unloose ; smooth every passion that in the natures of their lords rebel , bring oil to fire ,
his man enters with his boots duchess .
here comes antony .
we hate alike : not afric owns a serpent i abhor more than thy fame and envy .
txt enter bottom bottom .
, despite of all grace .
what see ' st thou there ?
might hardly endure the din ?
necks put on with holy prayers ; and ' tis spoken , to the succeeding royalty he leaves the healing
he ' s gone , he ' s kill ' d , he ' s dead !
forester .
men say we be men of good government , being governed as the sea is , by our noble and
let him alone ; he did inform the truth .
, and i in better state than e ' er i was .
thou wilt write to antony ?
talks as familiarly of roaring lions as maids of thirteen do of puppy-dogs !
come , madam , come ; i in all haste was sent .
is it possible a cur can lend three thousand ducats ?
so farewell .
go on before ; i ' ll talk with this good fellow .
how lovely !
is this certain ?
this to me page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
but for our gentlemen , the common file- a plague !
come , wrack !
so the poor third is up , till death enlarge his confine .
still exaction !
d ; you are betroth ' d both to a maid and man .
i think so , charmian .
i have brought him a present .
mak ' st thou this shame thy pastime ?
- how now , you wanton calf , art thou my calf ?
myrmidon .
true , my good lord ; i know you for no less .
fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you !
the grand conspirator , abbot of westminster , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
of) , the lady is disloyal .
our duty to your honour .
' tis , their own , which we have goaded onward .
you will answer ' the slaves are ours .
creep into the kiln-hole .
the image of it gives me content already ; and i trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection
us .
then there ' s more sympathy .
for all the rest , let lion , moonshine , wall , and lovers twain , at large discourse while
well made .
ah , sirrah , by my fay , it waxes late ; i ' ll to my rest .
not that i know .
all vict ' lers do so .
town and thee , and all those friends that deign to follow me .
exit shylock duke of venice .
therefore be double-damn ' d ; swear thou art honest .
sir , can you tell where he bestows himself ?
woo ' t tear thyself ?
by this , i think , the dial points at five ; anon , i ' m sure , the
bell , book , and candle , shall not drive me back , when gold and silver becks me to
you a lover !
i humbly thank your highness .
and yet a motley fool .
come hither , sirrah , i must examine thee .
for this time leave me .
country ' s ruin , and bear the palm for having bravely shed thy wife and children ' s blood
i drink to the general joy o ' the whole table , and to our dear friend banquo , whom
when it is lighted , come and call me here .
how long hast thou been blind ?
the queen shall then have courtesy , so she will yield us up .
my will , not all the world !
man !
well , i will meet you , so i may have good cheer .
trail , never trust me when i open again .
while idly i stood looking on , i found the effect of love in idleness ; and now in plainness
good morrow , good wife .
come , come , have with you .
she will find him by starlight .
equal theirs till they had stol ' n our jewel .
the tower enter buckingham , derby , hastings , the bishop of ely , ratcliff , lovel , with others
away , away , be gone !
txt enforce their charity .
sing ; to his music plants and flowers ever sprung , as sun and showers there had made a lasting
i lost my children .
rome , i have been thy soldier forty years , and led my country ' s strength successfully , and
not he which says the dead is not alive .
i ' ll turn my part thereof into thy throat .
he plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his throat to cut .
serve god , love me , and mend .
yea , and paid me richly for the practice of it .
, to quit the penalty and to ransom him .
my crown i am ; but still my griefs are mine .
o , who can hold a fire in his hand by thinking on the frosty caucasus ?
item , bread .
you use me well , master ford , do you ?
your distinction ?
i command the to open thy affair .
abominations , turns you off , and gives his potent regiment to a trull that noises it against us .
come , my young soldier , put up your iron ; you are well flesh ' d .
did not i tell you how you should know my daughter by her garments ?
scotland hath will to help , but cannot help ; our people and our peers are both misled , our
he hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age , doing in the figure of a lamb the feats
being holiday , the beggar ' s shop is shut .
hear me , queen : the strong necessity of time commands our services awhile ; but my full heart remains
enter the prince and poins [in buckram suits] .
you must he purged too , your sins are rack ' d ; you are attaint with faults and perjury
those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts and give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak .
on fortune ' s cap we are not the very button .
and i dare think he ' ll prove to desdemona a most dear husband .
alive may i not light if i be traitor or unjustly fight !
come , good sir thomas , we shall be late else ; which i would not be , for i
exit with the body enter richard and somerset to fight .
but , alas , i swerve ; many dream not to find , neither deserve , and yet are steep
how couldst thou in a mile confound an hour , and bring thy news so late ?
and , jove ' s accord , nothing so full of heart .
come , bring me where they are .
fellow kings , i tell you that that lord say hath gelded the commonwealth and made it an eunuch ;
i love and honour him , but must not break my back to heal his finger .
cow in june- hoists sails and flies .
weigh you the worth and honour of a king , so great as our dread father ' s , in
tears the passion of loud laughter never shed .
there is cold meat i ' th ' cave ; we ' ll browse on that whilst what we have
they say he yesterday cop ' d hector in the battle and struck him down , the disdain and shame
have at you with a proverb : shall i set in my staff ?
o no , it is an ever-fixed mark that looks on tempests and is never shaken ; it is the
salerio by the way , he did entreat me , past all saying nay , to come with him along
a cloak as long as thine will serve the turn ?
mules , you use in abject and in slavish parts , because you bought them ; shall i say to
her fair-judgment , without the which we are pictures or mere beasts ; last , and as such containing as
the prince of wales and i must have some private conference ; but be near at hand , for we
still are overthrown ; our thoughts are ours , their ends none of our own .
alack , our terrene moon is now eclips ' d , and it portends alone the fall of antony .
i would not hear your enemy say so , nor shall you do my ear that violence to make it
' d with that ceremonious affection as you were wont .
good body , i thank thee .
i shall be counsel ' d .
tidings of his good escape .
' o , thus ' quoth dighton ' lay the gentle babes ' - ' thus , thus , '
now mark me how i will undo myself : i give this heavy weight from off my head , and
speak within door .
a roan , a crop-ear , is it not ?
under the earth .
henry the sixth , in infant bands crown ' d king of france and england , did this king succeed
these foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit ; adieu !
fie on thee , jolt-head ; thou canst not read .
i ' ll to the king , and from a mouth of honour quite cry down this ipswich fellow '
death , having prey ' d upon the outward parts , leaves them invisible , and his siege is now
shall we discourse .
not yet , sir thomas lovell .
he hath , my lord ; but be you well assured , no more than he ' ll unswear .
nay , by th ' mass , that he did not ; he beat him most unpitifully methought .
i ' ll go in couples with her ; than when i feel and see her no farther trust her
yonder they lie ; the poor old man , their father , making such pitiful dole over them that all
- oswald , i say !
believe me for mine honor , and have respect to mine honor , that you may believe .
a justice of peace in his country , simple though i stand here .
falsely i ' th ' plain way of his merit .
you have put me now to such a part which never i shall discharge to th ' life .
came to five-score .
you know ?
at the first sight they have chang ' d eyes .
and the end- what should that alphabetical position portend ?
i am not a double man ; but if i be not jack falstaff , then am i a jack
from that place i shall no leading need .
nor as we are , we say , we will not shun it .
benediction .
sauf votre honneur , d ' elbow .
speak it here ; there ' s nothing i have done yet , o ' my conscience , deserves a
my rage is gone , and i am struck with sorrow .
thurio ; for valentine , i need not cite him to it .
good morrow , cousin .
thy heaven is on earth ; thine eyes and thoughts beat on a crown , the treasure of thy heart
then you perceive the body of our kingdom how foul it is ; what rank diseases grow , and with
off , off , you lendings !
i give .
' have i no friend will rid me of this living fear ?
well said , i ' faith , neighbour verges .
consider you what services he has done for his country ?
i wonder much , being men of such great leading as you are , that you foresee not what impediments
i think thou art in mind , and so am i .
' tis well there ' s one above ' em yet .
the citizens , i am sure , have shown at full their royal minds- as , let ' em have
i like the work well .
who is most inward with the noble duke ?
sirrah carrier , what time do you mean to come to london ?
there were two honours lost , yours and your son ' s .
me !
are your doors lock ' d ?
troilus had his brains dash ' d out with a grecian club ; yet he did what he could to
[ within] ho !
on safeguard he came to me , and did curse against the volsces , for they had so vilely yielded
back again , and cleave to no revenge but lucius .
a thousand knees ten thousand years together , naked , fasting , upon a barren mountain , and still winter
men , heavy in hotspur ' s loss , lend to this weight such lightness with their fear that arrows
why , there spoke a king .
no , pompey , i have kept me from the cup .
no matter whither , so you come not here .
which way ran he that kill ' d mercutio ?
is ' t that chase thee from thy country , and expose those tender limbs of thine to the event
herein your highness wrongs both them and me .
it cannot be that desdemona should long continue her love to the moor- put money in thy purse- nor he
' tis thought that richmond is their admiral ; and there they hull , expecting but the aid of buckingham
tullus aufidius , the second name of men , obeys his points as if he were his officer .
this , by the way , i let you understand : my father is here look ' d for every
i pray thee bear my former answer back : bid them achieve me , and then sell my bones .
harry percy , and brave archibald , that ever-valiant and approved scot , at holmedon met , where they did
lord timon , hear me speak .
the younger free for our access- whose hap shall be to have her will not so graceless be to be
more !
o fair return of banish ' d majesty !
troth , no ; no more than reason .
my noble partners and myself thus pray : all comfort , joy , in this most gracious lady , heaven
go to , carry this .
timon ' s wealth , and now ingratitude makes it worse than stealth .
please you t ' accept it- that the queen is spotless i ' th ' eyes of heaven and to
a prize !
father menenius does !
heaven in my mouth , as if i did but only chew his name , and in my heart the
txt full of dear guiltiness ; and therefore this , if for my love , as there is no such
well , my good lady .
tongue of war ; turning your books to graves , your ink to blood , your pens to lances ,
nor are mine cars with thy tongue ' s tune delighted , nor tender feeling to base touches prone ,
beard , and beat them backward home .
[she gives the duchess a box on the ear] i cry your mercy , madam ; was it you ?
the british camp near dover .
invest me in my motley ; give me leave to speak my mind , and i will through and through
god and saint george , talbot and england ' s right , prosper our colours in this dangerous fight !
the office becomes a woman best ; i ' ll take ' t upon me ; if i prove honey-mouth
but , o , how vile an idol proves this god !
the ship is under sail , and here she comes amain .
his lineaments , being nothing like the noble duke my father .
come , more ; another stanzo .
gaunt am i for the grave , gaunt as a grave , whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones .
be it lawful that i invocate thy ghost to hear the lamentations of poor anne , wife to thy edward
do thee good .
sirrah , go fetch the beadle hither straight .
it illumineth the face , which , as a beacon , gives warning to all the rest of this little
great grievance : there have been commissions sent down among ' em which hath flaw ' d the heart of
he was drunk , then , my lord ; it can be no better .
unfathered , as subject to time ' s love or to time ' s hate , weeds among weeds ,
not poppy , nor mandragora , nor all the drowsy syrups of the world , shall ever medicine thee to
here , uncle exeter , fill this glove with crowns , and give it to this fellow .
i am brought hither among th ' italian gentry , and to fight against my lady ' s kingdom .
suitor , you must , as we do , gratify this gentleman , to whom we all rest generally beholding
txt enter the king westmoreland .
there to give up their pow ' r .
mine shall be spent , when theirs are dry , for romeo ' s banishment .
thou think ' st not of this now .
king ' s in europe !
what surety of the world , what hope , what stay , when this was now a king , and
for we have friends that purpose merriment .
what was th ' offence you gave him ?
till the last step have brought me to my love ; and there i ' ll rest as , after
ver .
an you take leave till to-morrow morning- cressida .
[to richard] let me sit heavy in thy soul to-morrow !
swords !
what , not a word ?
he ' s truly valiant that can wisely suffer the worst that man can breathe , and make his wrongs
what fare ?
besides- i ha ' not since put up my sword- against the capitol i met a lion , who glaz
it to all the ' orld : i need not be asham ' d of your majesty , praised be
why , dromio ?
likeness of a man , thy proud heart ' s slave and vassal wretch to be : only my plague
let him away !
what , are my doors oppos ' d against my passage ?
i must leave you .
low , an agate very vilely cut ; if speaking , why , a vane blown with all winds ;
he is now at a cold scent .
i ' ll drink to master bardolph , and to all the cabileros about london .
a drum , a drum !
but if i live , his feigned ecstasies shall be no shelter to these outrages ; but he and his
helenus passes cressida .
lavish manners meet together , o , with what wings shall his affections fly towards fronting peril and oppos '
see our husbands before they think of us .
shall tithe or toll in our dominions ; but as we under heaven are supreme head , so , under
lucius , a bowl of wine !
her fortune , and she died singing it .
so i , to find a mother and a brother , in quest of them , unhappy , lose myself
nay , i must tell you , so you do ; or else i could not be in that mind
he would be crown ' d : how that might change his nature , there ' s the question .
that token , the maid hath given consent to go with him .
esteem none friends but such as are his friends , and none your foes but such as shall pretend malicious
a nobleman two keepers a huntsman a son that has killed his father a father that has killed his son
txt [exit bardolph .
exit antonio .
but none returns .
who would not buy thee dear ?
alas , i sent you money to redeem you , by dromio here , who came in haste for it
grant him there .
, d ' arm , d ' elbow , de nick , de sin , de foot , le count
, i have received none , unless experience be a jewel ; that i have purchased at an infinite rate
[aside] yet i ' ll move him to walk this way .
what if he had said ' widower aeneas ' too ?
not all the water in the rough rude sea can wash the balm off from an anointed king ; the
love were set on hereford , whom they doted on , and bless ' d and grac ' d indeed
i have .
how does hamlet ?
poor honest lord , brought low by his own heart , undone by goodness !
can you do it ?
does he not ?
marry , god forfend !
heavens , can you suffer hell so to prevail ?
o mercy , god !
; but no metal can , no , not the hangman ' s axe , bear half the keenness of
worthies away ; the scene begins to cloud .
exeunt scene _num_ another part of the island enter alonso , sebastian , antonio , gonzalo , adrian , francisco
will she none ?
i have given already , but not deliver ' d .
lights ; which , at the very instant of falstaff ' s and our meeting , they will at once
he ' s lov ' d of the distracted multitude , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
now will he interpret to her .
exit scene vi .
[a charge sounded] stay , the king hath thrown his warder down .
most constantly .
plot-proof ; but she i can hook to me- say that she were gone , given to the fire ,
and think it but a minute spent in sport .
at what o ' clock to-morrow shall i send to thee ?
hark , polydore , it sounds .
why dost thou wring thy hands nurse .
he presents hector of troy ; the swain , pompey the great ; the parish curate , alexander ; arinado
o god , that right should thus overcome might !
as good to die and go , as die and stay .
my oath to this my fair belov ' d .
swear by my sword .
i know thou canst , and therefore see thou do it .
[within] let him knock till it ache .
sir , have pity ; i ' ll be his surety .
any , in will peculiar and in self-admission .
hast thou no letters to me from the friar ?
[handing over the paper] there ; and saint nicholas be thy speed .
txt as when brave gaunt , thy father , and myself rescued the black prince , that young mars of
anne .
if that it be the work of any hand !
music ceases .
faith , unless you play the honest troyan , the poor wench is cast away .
what makes your admiration ?
five moons !
advise yourself .
i have seen the dumb men throng to see him and page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o the heavens !
good , i ' faith !
txt crafty swearing rascals-that stale old mouse-eaten dry cheese , nestor , and that same dog-fox , ulysses -is not
fit to govern ?
to fetch my poor distracted husband hence .
go in and rest .
pray you do .
o ' my word , captain , there ' s none such here .
take up the bodies .
nay , mother , where is your ancient courage ?
exit lord mayor gloucester .
never may that state or fortune fall into my keeping which is not owed to you !
now play me nestor ; hem , and stroke thy beard , as he being drest to some oration .
txt mortimer .
it was so , sir ; for she had a green wit .
i think , if i had such a tire , this face of mine were full as lovely as is
say i am sick .
, i get thee with scambling , and thou must therefore needs prove a good soldier-breeder .
exeunt attendants enter three or four conspirators of aufidius ' faction most welcome !
voluble is his discourse .
o illegitimate construction !
that ' s all i seek ; and am moreover suitor that i may produce his body to the marketplace
- all deaths are too few , the sharpest too easy .
great agamemnon , this chaos , when degree is suffocate , follows the choking .
enter mistress ford mrs .
sorrow wept to take leave of them ; for their joy waded in tears .
to your redress !
here let us rest , if this rebellious earth have any resting for her true king ' s queen .
bloody cannibals !
well mayst thou woo , and happy be thy speed but be thou arm ' d for some unhappy words
dost thou affect her , claudio ?
did not the prophet say that before ascension-day at noon my crown i should give off ?
, into a cloven pine ; within which rift imprison ' d thou didst painfully remain a dozen years ;
rude , in sooth ; in good sooth , very rude .
we are not furnish ' d like bohemia ' s son ; nor shall appear in sicilia .
what say you , sir ?
fie upon ' t !
your importunacy cease till after dinner , that i may make his lordship understand wherefore you are not paid .
nay , temperately !
or such business .
and that lie do he in earth as quiet as thy father ' s skull .
charms .
plantagenet , i come , plantagenet ; and this thy son ' s blood cleaving to my blade shall rust
blue , the gilded newt and eyeless venom ' d worm , with all th ' abhorred births below crisp
all our bills .
the headland with wheat ?
where you and douglas , and our pow ' rs at once , as i will fashion it , shall
they murther caesar !
enter cupid cupid .
of his strong-knit limbs .
a victory is twice itself when the achiever brings home full numbers .
with tears of innocency and terms of zeal , my father , in kind heart and pity mov ' d
neer pull your hat upon your brows ; give sorrow words .
[draws] how now ?
proceed , moon .
' o , how hast thou with jealousy infected the sweetness of affiance !
call him back again .
the news , rogero ?
txt the picture , she says , that you wot of .
exit with attendants berowne .
dost thou think , claudio , if i would yield him my virginity thou mightst be freed ?
there stand till she had laid it and conjur ' d it down .
hand , duchess of burgundy .
this is the latest glory of thy praise that i , thy enemy , due thee withal ; for ere
let him let the matter slip , and i ' ll give him my horse , grey capilet .
fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour .
fal .
hold thy peace .
thou wilt be throng ' d to shortly .
what i have done my safety urg ' d me to ; and i embrace this fortune patiently , since
why her ' unhappy brother ' ?
grows not in a fair consent with ours ; nor leave not one behind that doth not wish success and
i am amaz ' d with matter .
stream , enrobe the roaring waters with my silks , and , in a word , but even now worth
exton .
will not this malice , somerset , be left ?
exit alexas let him for ever go- let him not , charmian- though he be painted one way like a
let me twine mine arms about that body , where against my grained ash an hundred times hath broke and
in the most high and palmy state of rome , a little ere the mightiest julius fell , the graves
ah , wherefore dost thou urge the name of hands ?
yea , noise ?
once more , sweet lords , farewell .
a woman impudent and mannish grown is not more loath ' d than an effeminate man in time of action
you ' re loved , sir ; they that least lend it you shall lack you first .
' tis noble kent , your friend .
exeunt all but hamlet and horatio .
beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself ; and yet , thy wealth being forfeit to the state
that ' s hector , that , that , look you , that ; there ' s a fellow !
and moreover , god saw him when he was hid in the garden .
have you not set mine honour at the stake , and baited it with all th ' unmuzzled thoughts that
ay , do , do ; thou sodden-witted lord !
that all your interest in those territories is utterly bereft you ; all is lost .
what dost thou mean ?
et tu brute- wilt thou stab caesar too ?
others king .
what , is it in the case ?
' d and fought , you are disputing of your generals : one would have ling ' ring wars ,
trow you whither i am going ?
fear not slander , censure rash ; arviragus .
this is the king ' s ring .
any bar , any cross , any impediment will be med ' cinable to me .
jove shield your husband from his hounds to-day !
sweet desdemona !
break an hour ' s promise in love !
peace , plenty , love , truth , terror , that were the servants to this chosen infant , shall
s soil .
txt else could you not have motion ; but sure that sense is apoplex ' d ; for madness would
than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell .
why , sir , a carpenter .
and , to begin , wench- so god help me , law !
enter cominius , titus lartius , with other senators ; junius brutus and sicinius velutus first senator .
thou mayst be false , and yet i know it not .
a better instance , i say ; come .
she ' s a most exquisite lady .
what was thy cause ?
therefore this order hath baptista ta ' en , that none shall have access unto bianca till katherine the curst
and thus i clothe my naked villainy with odd old ends stol ' n forth of holy writ , and
what a thrice-double ass was i to take this drunkard for a god , and worship this dull fool !
i confess two sleeves .
i am glad , though you have ta ' en a special stand to strike at me , that your
she wakes ; and i entreated her come forth and bear this work of heaven with patience ; but then
thy name ?
txt receive .
brother , how will she love when the rich golden shaft hath kill ' d the flock of all affections
that ' s as we list to grace him .
enter citizens upon the walls citizen .
exit imogen .
never make denial ; i must and will have katherine to my wife .
and gracious be the issue !
leave you !
one that is well-nigh worn to pieces with age to show himself a young gallant !
near misenum flourish .
you would not come when i sent for you .
know not how their wits to wear , their manners are so apish .
derby .
that i was fain to draw mine honour in and let ' em win the work : the devil was
[beatrice hides in the arbour] .
not for their rhyme , exceeded by the height of happier men .
carlisle .
ay , sir , and very learned .
the queen carouses to thy fortune , hamlet .
and bear the palm alone .
i did endure not seldom , nor no slight checks , when i have prompted you in the ebb of
where wert thou born ?
txt ventidius .
the skies .
prepare thy brow to frown- know ' st thou me yet ?
to tear us all to pieces .
a truant disposition , good my lord .
prithee , my king , be quiet .
' d my knee unto this king of smiles , this bolingbroke- ' s blood !
we did not quote them so .
that engender ' d thee !
txt as he could make me with his eye , or care distinguish him from others , he did keep
txt my soul doth tell my body that he may , triumph in love , flesh stays no farther reason
but thou art all my art , and dost advance as high as learning , my rude ignorance .
a devil , i had rather he should shrive me than wive me .
ay me , detested !
i have no moe sons of the royal blood for thee to slaughter .
re-enter curtis grumio .
for my life , to break with him about beatrice !
o powerful love !
the blow thou hadst shall make thy peace for moving me to rage ; and i will boot thee with
how say you by this change ?
work , work your thoughts , and therein see a siege ; behold the ordnance on their carriages , with
a camp near forres .
andronicus , i do not flatter thee , but honour thee , and will do till i die .
letters from northumberland ; their cold intent , tenour , and substance , thus : here doth he wish his
if you can- your reason .
on my life , my lord , a bubble .
i prithee tell me , doth he keep his bed ?
bring up the brown bills .
then must you speak of one that loved not wisely but too well ; of one not easily jealous ,
his hands .
strength in measure , yet a reasonable measure in strength .
good my liege , i come- and i beseech you hear me , who professes myself your loyal servant ,
nor did you think it folly to keep your great pretences veil ' d till when they needs must show
' tis strange that they should so depart from home , and not send back my messenger .
o , spare mine eyes , though to no use but still to look on you !
here ' s a gentleman , and a friend of mine .
fleance escapes .
wits and all the tribe of hell , thou shalt enjoy her- therefore make money .
lo , how he mocks me !
how came you to this ?
why , warwick , canst thou speak against thy liege , whom thou obeyed ' st thirty and six years
what a coil ' s here !
and have not they suffer ' d ?
a widow , then ?
there are things in this comedy of pyramus and thisby that will never please .
than when she liv ' d indeed .
whether hadst thou rather be a faulconbridge , and like thy brother , to enjoy thy land , or the
see that claudio be executed by nine to-morrow morning ; bring him his confessor ; let him be prepar '
seal the title with a lovely kiss !
this can be no trick .
what news with you so early ?
exit enter vernon and basset vernon .
do you triumph , roman ?
if again it was not well cut , he disabled my judgment .
by dromio ?
o worthiest cousin !
thy palate then did deign the roughest berry on the rudest hedge ; yea , like the stag when snow
was cool , have threaten ' d our prisoners with the sword .
at basingstoke , my lord .
i hear the king my father is sore sick .
it discomfort us .
poor man !
alas , my lord- timon .
o , that which i would hide from heaven ' s eye : our empress ' shame and stately rome
cheeks with tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs ; myself-a prince by fortune of my birth ,
she ' s my good lady and will conceive , i hope , but the worst of me .
pillicock sat on pillicock ' s hill .
commend me to my cousin westmoreland .
hale him away , and let him talk no more .
hear me , o , hear me , here !
you should then have accosted her ; and with some excellent jests , fire-new from the mint , you should
so his mind cankers .
children shall see this and bless heaven .
take it , have stol ' n his bird ' s nest .
by my advice , all humbled on your knees , you shall ask pardon of his majesty .
is this ascension-day ?
' d the lords o ' th ' council , that he is- for so i know he is ,
do not i know you for a favourer of this new sect ?
and do it with all thy heart .
clear rays which she infus ' d on me that beauty am i bless ' d with which you may
not so , gentle beast ; my lips are no common , though several they be .
i brought high hereford , if you call him so , but to the next high way , and there
so she shall : lucentio shall make one , though paris came in hope to speed alone .
either to harbour fled or made a toast for neptune .
a room in leonato ' s house .
i would the friends we miss were safe arrived .
what a plague means my niece to take the death of her brother thus ?
sit down , sweet niece ; brother , sit down by me .
, it is a very vile life .
with five times so much conversation i should get ground of your fair mistress ; make her go back even
my all .
come , gentlemen , let us consult upon to-morrow ' s business .
; the oars were silver , which to the tune of flutes kept stroke , and made the water which
model of a house beyond his power to build it ; who , half through , gives o ' er
of us , and we of thee ; so , if the time thrust forth a cause for thy repeal
what needed then that terrible dispatch of it into your pocket ?
in peace ; the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o ' th ' sere ; and
sir , his wife , some two months since , fled from his house .
why , now ; as fast as she can marry us .
i ' d rather than the worth of thrice the sum had sent to me first , but for my
kings , queens , and states , maids , matrons , nay , the secrets of the grave , this
with your red blood discolour ; and so , montjoy , fare you well .
and mustardseed !
by fame of this so noble and so fair assembly this night to meet here , they could do no
in each thing give him way ; cross him in nothing .
second officer .
' parolles .
' red forth in care to seek me out .
' tis even so .
i would not lose the dog for twenty pound .
all servants .
will you let it fall ?
[cleopatpa kneels] caesar .
earl ' s coronet .
--i will be heard .
the bloody proclamation to escape that follow ' d me so near (o , our lives ' sweetness !
yes , truly is he , and condemn ' d upon ' t .
these old fellows have their ingratitude in them hereditary .
why that way ?
ford ' s house enter falstaff and mistress ford falstaff .
, sitting with her upon the form , and taken following her into the park ; which , put together
think so , iago ?
exeter , the governor of paris , and others gloucester .
i think that one of them is hereabout , and cannot make away .
no master , sir , but a poor man ' s son ; his father , though i say '
] and , noble signior , if virtue no delighted beauty lack , your son-in-law is far more fair than
know ' st thou this country ?
live , and love thy misery !
i had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace for my life .
i can get no remedy against this consumption of the purse ; borrowing only lingers and lingers it out ,
o , yes , into a thousand similes .
villain !
for this slave , if there be any cunning cruelty that can torment him much and hold him long ,
so ennobled , is as ' twere born so .
txt decius .
once more , good night ; and when you are desirous to be blest , i ' ll blessing beg
pray you , if it be , give it me , for i am slow of study .
, we shall ; for his best force is forth to man his galleys .
, unto the shepherd youth that he in sport doth call his rosalind .
; methought it did relieve my passion much , more than light airs and recollected terms of these most brisk
must i observe you ?
good my lord , to come thus was i not constrain ' d , but did it on my free
by th ' pattern of mine own thoughts i cut out the purity of his .
txt arviragus .
look , my lord , it comes !
you will not pay for the glasses you have burst ?
i have heard it said the fittest time to corrupt a man ' s wife is when she ' s
mistress ford , i cannot cog , i cannot prate , mistress ford .
his messenger .
nay , i remember the trick you serv ' d me when i took my leave of madam silvia .
your coriolanus is not much miss ' d but with his friends .
the matter- proceed .
lord bigot , i am none .
i blush to think upon this ignomy .
merchants venture trade abroad ; others like soldiers , armed in their stings , make boot upon the summer '
why , fool , i meant not thee , i meant thy master .
he bid you set it down , obey him ; quickly , dispatch .
with what persuasion did he tempt thy love ?
the two antipholuses balthazar , a merchant angelo , a goldsmith first merchant , friend to antipholus of syracuse second
' item : she hath more hair than wit ' - launce .
, for it concerns your lord ; myself and other noble friends are partners in the business .
[they sit] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o , one too much by thee !
exit lucentio biondello .
road upon ' s again .
o no , my nephew must not know , sir richard , the liberal and kind offer of the king
willing misery outlives incertain pomp , is crown ' d before .
your over-kindness doth wring tears from me .
is not prince troilus here ?
attend you here the door of our stern daughter ?
o jephthah , judge of israel , what a treasure hadst thou !
the king is present ; if it be known to him that i gainsay my deed , how may he
and so , my lord protector , by this means your lady is forthcoming yet at london .
a capon .
show me , show me .
a true-devoted pilgrim is not weary to measure kingdoms with his feeble steps ; much less shall she that hath
this is the way to kindle , not to quench .
hanging is the word , sir ; if you be ready for that , you are well cook ' d
please it you , as much in private , and i ' ll bid adieu .
we shall have great store of room , no doubt , left for the ladies , when they pass back
yet you have all the vantage of her wrong .
in duty bend thy knee to me , that bows unto the grave with mickle age .
that in the captain ' s but a choleric word which in the soldier is flat blasphemy .
recompense more fruitful than their offence can weigh down by the dram ; ay , even such heaps and sums
steward .
i have forgot that name , and that name ' s woe .
mislead night-wanderers , laughing at their harm ?
fulvia ?
your breathing shall expire , paying the fine of rated treachery even with a treacherous fine of all your lives
terms a traitor .
you owe money here besides , sir john , for your diet and by-drinkings , and money lent you ,
caesar , my lord ?
i follow him to serve my turn upon him : we cannot all be masters , nor all masters cannot
take me up .
' tis so , be sure of it .
thou must not stay .
i cannot think but your age has forgot me ; it could not else be i should prove so base
neither !
sweet father , if i shall be thought thy son , let me redeem my brothers both from death .
pandarus ' orchard enter pandarus and troilus ' boy , meeting pandarus .
let me hire him too .
fortune knows we scorn her most when most she offers blows .
i must be patient till the heavens look with an aspect more favourable .
, which is more , within these three days his head to be chopp ' d off .
o lord , have mercy on me , woeful man !
' if this should be thee , malvolio ?
' s garland ; in token of the which , my noble steed , known to the camp , i
enjoy thy plainness ; it nothing ill becomes thee .
with comfort go ; hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe .
as i live , if the king blame me for ' t , i ' ll lay ye an by
go ; i come , i come .
away with him , and do as i command ye .
edward and richard , like a brace of greyhounds having the fearful flying hare in sight , with fiery eyes
i do obey thee till i give thee bail .
case .
lulla , lulla , lullaby ; lulla , lulla , lullaby .
him back ; he attends your ladyship ' s pleasure .
, and follow ' d with the general throng and sweat of thousand friends ; then , in a moment
worthy prince , i know ' t .
higher italy- those bated that inherit but the fall of the last monarchy-see that you come not to woo honour
txt bound with triumphant garlands will i come , and lead thy daughter to a conqueror ' s bed ;
earth dost shine , exhal ' st this vapour-vow ; in thee it is .
take heed of him ; he stabb ' d me in mine own house , and that most beastly .
poor ?
have you forgot the duke of hereford , boy ?
breathe not where princes are .
my share of the feast .
, piece by piece , until i meet the king .
there are a kind of men so loose of soul , that in their sleeps will mutter their affairs ;
jove send her a better guiding spirit !
all may be well ; but , if god sort it so , ' tis more than we deserve or
school .
he could not stay to pick them in a pile of noisome musty chaff .
twice have the trumpets sounded ; the generous and gravest citizens have hent the gates , and very near upon
marry , sir , because silver hath a sweet sound .
reply , reply .
; i ' ll see if his head will stand steadier on a pole , or no .
ah , who is nigh ?
you say well .
middle ; on his shoulder , and his ; her face o ' fire with labour , and the thing
you would not be a queen !
i pray you , remember the porter .
belike that now she hath enfranchis ' d them upon some other pawn for fealty .
if there were not two or three and fifty upon poor old jack , then am i no two-legg '
fetch thy master home .
set your entreatments at a higher rate than a command to parley .
ay , to keep her chamber .
obscur ' d myself , labouring to save his life , and would not rather make rash remonstrance of my
lawful deed , and lawful meaning in a lawful act ; where both not sin , and yet a sinful
who can do good on him ?
will suspect ' twas he that made the slaughter ?
from women ' s eyes this doctrine i derive .
your date is better in your pie and your porridge than in your cheek .
natural gates and alleys of the body , and with a sudden vigour it doth posset and curd , like
i was found false to his children and his wife ' s allies ; this is the day wherein i
yes , forsooth , an your mistriship be emperial .
these coronets) and , as i told you , he put it by once .
no swearing .
a woman , i dare say without vain-glory , never yet branded with suspicion ?
no , sir john ; it is my cousin silence , in commission with me .
exit bardolph have i liv ' d to be carried in a basket , like a barrow of butcher '
even then this forked plague is fated to us when we do quicken .
why come you not ?
but few of any sort , and none of name .
that such a king should play bo-peep and go the fools among .
enter valentine how now !
shall ' s have a play of this ?
_num_ those hours that with gentle work did frame the lovely gaze where every eye doth dwell will play the
in poison there is physic ; and these news , having been well , that would have made me sick
torments will ope your lips .
why does the prince love him so , then ?
news ; you may buy land now as cheap as stinking mack ' rel .
go not you hence till i have thank ' d you .
go call my men , and let us straight to him ; and bring our horses unto long-lane end ;
to my house .
if i could bid the fifth welcome with so good heart as i can bid the other four farewell ,
my uncles both are slain in rescuing me ; and all my followers to the eager foe turn back and
[giving money] autolycus .
stones moe than ' s artificial one .
suppose that i am now my father ' s mouth ; resign thy chair , and where i stand kneel
saw ?
o none , unless this miracle have might , that in black ink my love may still shine bright .
then , taking him from thence that is not there , you break no privilege nor charter there .
i ' ll haste the writer , and withal break with your wives of your departure hence .
the woman falls ; sure , he hath kill ' d his wife .
; therefore is she better than a jade .
, this unbound lover , to beautify him only lacks a cover .
first , provost , let me bail these gentle three .
about your years , my lord .
here was found with these mortals on the ground .
i ' ll go see if the bear be gone from the gentleman , and how much he hath eaten
of yours ; or i of his , my lord , than you of mine .
marry , then , sweet wag , when thou art king , let not us that are squires of the
[cornets , and exeunt] scene ii .
olivia ' s garden enter viola , and clown with a tabor viola .
but i ' ll be true .
bethink yourself wherein you may have offended him ; and at my entreaty forbear his presence until some little time
exit sheriff page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
our stage hath shown ; and , for their sake , in your fair minds let this acceptance take .
o , sir , to such as boasting show their scars a mock is due .
it must be done this afternoon .
' d for .
txt fare you well ; had you such a loss as i , i could give better comfort than you
but no man ' s virtue nor sufficiency to be so moral when he shall endure the like himself .
his valour shown upon our crests today hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds , even in the
' tis the infirmity of his age ; yet he hath ever but slenderly known himself .
no womanhood ?
what of her ensues i list not prophesy ; but let time ' s news be known when ' tis
mark antony shall say i am not well , and , for thy humor , i will stay at home
what , strike his wife !
then thou whose shadow shadows doth make bright how would thy shadow ' s form , form happy show ,
i know they are stuff ' d with protestations , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
show our general louts how you can frown , than spend a fawn upon ' em for the inheritance of
yet , derby , notwithstanding she ' s your wife and loves not me , be you , good lord
that are not dangerous , if you break one jot of your promise , or come one minute behind your
else that live in her ; when liver , brain , and heart , these sovereign thrones , are all
first goth .
what , shall i stab him as he sleeps ?
come your way , sir .
messengers , watch , attendants , etc .
o master , if you did but hear the pedlar at the door , you would never dance again after
and turn the tables up , and quench the fire , the room is grown too hot .
all these , her brother is in secret come from france ; and wants not buzzers to infect his ear
what muffl ' d fellow ' s that ?
a king , a king !
you receiv ' d no gold !
, if sanctimony be the god ' s delight , if there be rule in unity itself , this was
therefore omit him not ; blunt not his love , nor lose the good advantage of his grace by seeming
had she such power , she had just cause .
enter falstaff shallow .
madam , what should i do ?
and then , as we have ta ' en the sacrament , we will unite the white rose and the
she is dead , belike ?
it may be so , but i did never see it .
if it be so , yet bragless let it be ; great hector was as good a man as he
i have a tree , which grows here in my close , that mine own use invites me to cut
enter a lieutenant , a shipmaster and his mate , and walter whitmore , with sailors ; suffolk and other
you , cousin .
alarums .
he capers , he dances , he has eyes of youth , he writes verses , he speaks holiday ,
some six months since , my lord .
for a thousand marks , let him lend me the money , and have at him .
if caesar carelessly but nod on him .
be but duteous and true , preferment shall tender itself to thee .
the most peaceable way for you , if you do take a thief , is to let him show himself
head to foot now is be total gules , horridly trick ' d with blood of fathers , mothers ,
declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of spain ; who sent whole armadoes of caracks to be ballast
we four set upon some dozen- fal .
crown .
you may have very fit occasion for ' t ; he is now in some commerce with my lady ,
sir nathaniel , as concerning some entertainment of time , some show in the posterior of this day , to
are you now going to dispatch this thing ?
hath- out of this fell devouring receptacle , as hateful as cocytus ' misty mouth .
ay , uncle , we will keep it if we can ; but now it is impossible we should .
news , my good lord , from rome .
anything i have , is his to use , so somerset may die .
what you have said i will consider ; what you have to say i will with patience hear , and
my lord of westmoreland , lead him to his tent .
i pray let them be admitted .
i am for the house with the narrow gate , which i take to be too little for pomp to
i prithee now , to bed .
even such a husband hast thou of me as she is for a wife .
another part of the plain canidius marcheth with his land army one way over the stage , and taurus ,
how but well , sir ?
beyond imagination is the wrong that she this day hath shameless thrown on me .
peace live !
shepherdess , look on him better , and be not proud ; though all the world could see , none
what ' s her name ?
for shame !
so thrive i , as i truly swear the like !
french king .
therefore they thought it good you hear a play and frame your mind to mirth and merriment , which bars
is your name shylock ?
the knight may be robb ' d .
but notwithstanding , man , i ' ll do you your master what good i can ; and the very
[starting up] no , i assure you ; the wall is down that parted their fathers .
marry , that should you , if i were your mistress ; or i should think my honesty ranker than
; condemn ' d by angelo .
won you without blows !
knock him down there .
a bare petition of a state to one whom they had punish ' d .
spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root ?
my lord , this would not be believed in venice , though i should swear i saw ' t .
[striking him] curtis .
[aside] ay , well said .
these that survive let rome reward with love ; these that i bring unto their latest home , with burial
come , come , you paraquito , answer me directly unto this question that i ask .
post , and be the supporter to a bench , but he ' ll page _num_ complete works of william
good boy , tell him i come .
thou , it seems , that calls for company to countenance her .
make answer to such questions as by your grace shall be propounded him duchess .
be rend ' red by our assistance , the king ' s command , and this most gallant , illustrate
some blood drawn on me would beget opinion of my more fierce endeavour .
; hold , take thou this , my sweet , and give me thine , so shall berowne take me
my lord , come you again into my chamber .
i train ' d thy brethren to that guileful hole where the dead corpse of bassianus lay ; i wrote
s flood of tears .
mark , jack .
and neighbourhood , instruction , manners , mysteries , and trades , degrees , observances , customs and laws ,
if that thy father live , let him repent thou wast not made his daughter ; and be thou sorry
and , pacing through the forest , chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy , lo , what befell
in thy posterity , but that myself should be the root and father of many kings .
there thou mightst behold the great image of authority : a dog ' s obeyed in office .
is not your husband mad ?
that ' s some wrong indeed .
; swore as many oaths as i spake words , and broke them in the sweet face of heaven ;
why start ' st thou ?
you are welcome , gentlemen !
enter lord stanley come on , come on ; where is your boar-spear , man ?
enter the mayor of saint albans and his brethren , bearing simpcox between two in a chair ; his wife
aiaria .
[sound a parley] what noise is this i hear ?
who comes with her ?
[aside to prince] here , hard by .
ask marian hacket , the fat ale-wife of wincot , if she know me not ; if she say i
why tremblest thou ?
osw .
with it and swear it was the blood of true men .
if thou dost love , my kindness shall incite thee to bind our loves up in a holy band ;
and he ' s as like to do ' t as any man i can imagine .
jeweller .
txt ' tis bitter .
would he had !
tunis was never grac ' d before with such a paragon to their queen .
hector ' s dead .
my lord , their clothes are after such a pagan cut to ' t , that sure th ' have
first , forward to the temple .
hyperion .
thy master ' s .
welcome , ancient pistol .
well , farewell ; i am in great haste now .
tut , lucius , this was but a deed of charity to that which thou shalt hear of me anon
the bed untreasur ' d of their mistress .
signior petruchio , fie !
speak for yourselves ; my wit is at an end .
and brass , and all things that belongs to house or housekeeping .
for that which now torments me to rehearse : i kill ' d a man , whose death i much
wilt thou be gone ?
this cannot save you .
would you buy her , that you enquire after her ?
; nor have we herein barr ' d your better wisdoms , which have freely gone with this affair along
peace to his soul , if god ' s good pleasure be !
to entail him and his heirs unto the crown , what is it but to make thy sepulchre and creep
sign me a present pardon for my brother or , with an outstretch ' d throat , i ' ll
appetite ; lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes that banish what they sue for ; redeem thy brother by
her passions are made of nothing but the finest part of pure love .
that paris is returned home , and hurt .
it is a-making , you must not take for fire .
even so !
like captives bound to a triumphant car .
your three fingers so oft , which now again you are most apt to play the sir in .
a foutra for the world and worldlings base !
away , go ; they say there is divinity in odd numbers , either in nativity , chance , or
leave you your power to draw , and i shall have no power to follow you .
why , give it to my wife , and fetch your money .
how long is ' t , count , since the physician at your father ' s died ?
i would your highness would depart the field : the queen hath best success when you are absent .
it lies much in your holding up .
i shrink with cold , i smile and say ' this is no flattery ; these are counsellors that feelingly
my lord , whoever journeys to the prince , for god sake , let not us two stay at home
' this is abhominable- which he would call ' abbominable .
public ear ; spoke scandy of me ; when perforce he could not but pay me terms of honour ,
you know the way home again .
you will not do it , you !
[aside] perhaps i shall be rescu ' d by the french ; and then i need not crave his courtesy
you men will never tarry .
will ' in over-plus , more than enough am i that vex thee still , to thy sweet will making
strike a free march to troy .
two of them did , the prince and claudio ; but the devil my master knew she was margaret ;
o , did he so ?
thou art a soul in bliss ; but i am bound upon a wheel of fire , that mine own
let ' s draw him hither .
there is a cliff , whose high and bending head looks fearfully in the confined deep .
made for me .
be warn ' d by me , then : they that ride so , and ride not warily , fall
n away and fled , which puts upon them suspicion of the deed .
faith , sir , you need not fear .
it is great , sir .
carpenter ?
i think it be .
<exit first merchant antipholus of syracuse .
, me alone !
thou wouldst else have made thy tale large .
not that which my daughter came to look upon , the statue of her mother .
your sword upon a woman ?
' to the celestial , and my soul ' s idol , the most beautified ophelia , ' - that
farewell , everyone .
come near me now i am much ill .
a perilous gash , a very limb lopp ' d off .
to all and him we thirst , and all to all .
mount them , and make incision in their hides , that their hot blood may spin in english eyes ,
philarmonus !
proud pole , i will , and scorn both him and thee .
the wildest hath not such a heart as you .
i must hence to wait .
, not pray to her , but prey on her , for they ride up and down on her and
can match .
-whose skill was almost as great as his honesty ; had it stretch ' d so far , would have
, howe ' er you lean to th ' nayward .
mine own country , lords .
nay , but do so then ; and , look you , he may come and go between you both
my kind antonio , i can no other answer make but thanks , and thanks , and ever thanks ;
' red for our pains .
not we !
this place , i would give it every foot to have this face !
as you will .
my description , level at my affection .
" now , in the names of all the gods at once , upon what meat doth this our caesar
have depos ' d , some poison ' d by their wives , some sleeping kill ' d , all
sweet mistress-what your name is else , i know not , nor by what wonder you do hit of mine-
by no suit gain our audience : when we are wrong ' d , and would unfold our griefs ,
ever note , lucilius , when love begins to sicken and decay it useth an enforced ceremony .
we , hermia , like two artificial gods , have with our needles created both one flower , both on
villains past , in being , to come !
' s eldest son .
come then , and take the last warmth of my lips .
' mobled queen ' is good .
brother , you have a vice of mercy in you which better fits a lion than a man .
like as rigour of tempestuous gusts provokes the mightiest hulk against the tide , so am i driven by breath
why , then , methinks ' tis time to smile again .
the purple pride which on thy soft check for complexion dwells , in my love ' s veins thou hast
all scholars , lawyers , courtiers , gentlemen , they call false caterpillars and intend their death .
a beard , fair health , and honesty ; with threefold love i wish you all these three .
rage , lest it should burn above the bounds of reason .
i know his gait ; ' tis he .
art may complain of good breeding , or comes of a very dull kindred .
benefactors !
is flown from this bare wither ' d trunk .
hits me , let him be clapp ' d on the shoulder and call ' d adam .
but be it as it may .
dost thou detest her therefore ?
o , why should nature build so foul a den , unless the gods delight in tragedies ?
had i a sister were a grace or a daughter a goddess , he should take his choice .
and peace , no war , befall thy parting soul !
i understand thee : thou hadst some means to keep a dog .
see how yond justice rails upon yond simple thief .
come to me soon at night .
she is at the court , and no less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter ; and never
madam , i go with all convenient speed .
leave and favour , humbly to kiss your hand , and with my tongue to tell the passion of my
o woeful day !
ill , when you talk of war .
look , here comes the duke .
do i stand there ?
sirrah , tell my gentlewoman i would speak with her ; helen i mean .
worthy andronicus , ill art thou repaid page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
but ships are but boards , sailors but men ; there be land-rats and water-rats , water-thieves and land-thieves- i
a coward , a most devout coward , religious in it .
o , ' tis marcius !
heads be bak ' d .
offer them instances ; which shall bear no less likelihood than to see me at her chamber window , hear
but , my most noble lord of westmoreland , i take not on me here as a physician ; nor
distresses and record my woes .
txt enter two murderers but , soft , here come my executioners .
but i prithee , sweet wag , shall there be gallows standing in england when thou art king ?
it could not be judg ' d , sir .
txt pembroke .
you have dancing shoes with nimble soles ; i have a soul of lead so stakes me to the ground
[to juliet] i have provided for you ; stay awhile and you shall be conducted .
varro ' s servant .
thou prat ' st and prat ' st ; serve with thy trencher ; hence !
so he has .
again desires her , being sat , her grievance with his hearing to divide .
let pale-fac ' d fear keep with the mean-born man and find no harbour in a royal heart .
well , be gone ; i will not miss her .
humanely taken , all , all lost , quite lost ; and as with age his body uglier grows ,
[they stand aside .
you may as well forbid the mountain pines to wag their high tops and to make no noise when they
look where the youngest wren of nine comes .
the ottomites , reverend and gracious , steering with due course toward the isle of rhodes , have there injointed
follow unacquainted colours here ?
is ' old dog ' my reward ?
thou know ' st we work by wit and not by witchcraft , and wit depends on dilatory time .
exeunt all but macbeth and lady macbeth .
madam , though venus govern your desires , saturn is dominator over mine .
dead life , blind sight , poor mortal living ghost , woe ' s scene , world ' s shame
for one poor grain or two !
george .
' why , that ' s the lady !
angelo hath seen them both , and will discover the favour .
bosom , when it deserves , with characters of brass , a forted residence ' gainst the tooth of time
if love be rough with you , be rough with love .
] knock , knock , knock !
stay thy revengeful hand ; thou hast no cause to fear .
no porter at his gate , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i never sought their malice- to quench mine honour ; they would shame to make me wait else at door
thee ; so ridest thou triumphing in my woe .
shalt meet both welcome and protection .
condition ?
no , antony , take the lot ; but , first or last , your fine egyptian cookery shall have
how began it first ?
i am sick till i see her .
why , paris hath colour enough .
txt if with myself i hold intelligence , or have acquaintance with mine own desires ; if that i do
the maid ; you lov ' d , i lov ' d ; for intermission no more pertains to me
art thou not , fatal vision , sensible to feeling as to sight ?
not to be married , not to knit my soul to an approved wanton .
you must be watch ' d ere you be made tame , must you ?
an thou wert a lion we would do so .
thyself do grace to them , and bring them in .
i cannot stay thanksgiving .
be otherwise .
to my end ; and as the long divorce of steel falls on me make of your prayers one sweet
enter gremio with lucentio disguised as cambio grumio .
i ' ll die on him that says so but yourself .
here is the cate-log [pulling out a paper] of her condition .
o my poor rosalind !
speak the speech , i pray you , as i pronounc ' d it to you , trippingly on the
as i hope for quiet days , fair issue , and long life , with such love as ' tis
[aside] and worse i may be yet .
have lipp ' d , and trembled kissing .
have you the heart ?
like to the time o ' th ' year between the extremes of hot and cold ; he was nor
ay , marry , i ' ll be gone about it straight .
question her proudly ; let thy looks be stern ; by this means shall we sound what skill she hath
if silent , why , a block moved with none .
a pair of stocks , you rogue !
the lover , all as frantic , sees helen ' s beauty in a brow of egypt .
' blood .
no going then !
you are resolute , then ?
what think ' st thou of the gentle proteus ?
still it cried , " sleep no more !
perhaps you have learned it without book .
romeo , hist !
[she curtsies to the king , and offers to depart] campeius .
let us look in ; the sight will much delight thee .
no quarrel , but a slight contention .
ay , and an ox too ; both the proofs are extant .
mine honourable mistress .
i come to her in white and cry ' mum ' ; she cries ' budget , ' and by
[aside] you are cock and capon too ; and you crow , cock , with your comb on .
come again to-morrow .
first , here ' s young master rash ; he ' s in for a commodity of brown paper and
torments though i should endure , i would not yield to be your house ' s guest ; so much
close prison he commanded her , with many bitter threats of biding there .
; that in the fury of his heart , when the foul fiend rages , eats cow-dung for sallets ,
humanity with a baboon .
if you have tears , prepare to shed them now .
according to the fool ' s bolt , sir , and such dulcet diseases .
marian , i say !
the plain-song is most just ; for humours do abound : knocks go and come ; god ' s vassals
i do believe it .
ii d .
bishop ' s deer ?
, unbonneted he runs , and bids what will take all .
, absolv ' d him with an axe .
often is his gold complexion dimmed , and every fair from fair sometime declines , by chance , or nature
thrice-noble titus , spare my first-born son .
as true hearts cannot bear .
it were for me to throw my sceptre at the injurious gods ; to tell them that this world did
the eye wink at the hand ; yet let that be which the eye fears , when it is done
let patroclus make his demands to me , you shall see the pageant of ajax .
the last of all the romans , fare thee well !
shapes , the goats ran from the mountains , and the herds were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields .
shame on himself !
be to you as us like glorious .
now , messenger , what letters or what news from france ?
than the dust !
hang him , let him tell the king !
enter macbeth , my husband !
what say ' st thou now ?
i will make much of your voices , and so trouble you no farther .
, but now grow fearful , by what yourself , too , late have spoke and done , that you
that may be , sir , when i may be a wife .
seven stars , and not by phoebus , he , that wand ' ring knight so fair .
sir john , you loiter here too long , being you are to take soldiers up in counties as you
double , double , toil and trouble ; fire burn and cauldron bubble .
ay , caesar , but not gone .
you have some moral in this ' benedictus .
flourish .
not in their hands to make ' em gentle , but stop their mouth with stubborn bits and spur '
o troilus !
' for your brother and my sister no sooner met but they look ' d ; no sooner look '
he kills her in her own humour .
d in ; a strange tongue makes my cause more strange , suspicious ; pray speak in english .
the tyranny of the open night ' s too rough for nature to endure .
thy father hath .
do you confess so much ?
as i have perus ' d , i find it not fit for your o ' erlooking .
[exeunt some servants] .
heaven keep me from such counsel !
i ' ll send my prayers with him .
hast thou no suit against my knight , my guest-cavaleiro .
i pray you , pardon me ; i cannot speak .
i pardon that man ' s life .
nay , that ' s true ; that ' s very true .
txt it may be i shall raise you by and by on business to my brother cassius .
if that may be , then all is well .
not have ; but nature should bring forth , of it own kind , all foison , all abundance ,
as much to him , else is his thanks too much .
what , and my old venetian friend , salerio !
plenties , and joyful births , should not in this best garden of the world , our fertile france ,
no it was builded far from accident , it suffers not in smiling pomp , nor falls under the blow
were i the general , thou shouldst have my office ere that correction .
the duke of york ' s palace enter the duke of york and the duchess duchess .
ripened by the sun , forbid the sun to enter--like favourites , made proud by princes , that advance their
away with the dotard ; to the gaol with him !
good morrow , brutus , do we trouble you ?
, not consulting , broke into a general prophecy-that this tempest , dashing the garment of this peace , aboded
thou , old traitor , i am sorry that by hanging thee i can but shorten thy life one week
is she not apt ?
- good my lord , will you see the players well bestow ' d ?
i told him gently of our grievances , of his oath-breaking ; which he mended thus , by now forswearing
he loves us not ; he wants the natural touch ; for the poor wren , the most diminutive of
ay , see the bishop be not overborne .
and attendants king edward .
and bigot .
[bassanio opens the letter] gratiano .
meantime , god grants that i have need of you .
o , i perceive you !
say , how grows it due ?
marry , sir , by my wife ; who , if she had been a woman cardinally given , might
well , sir , i ' ll bring you to our master lear and leave you to attend him .
he speaks latin .
you have good judgment in horsemanship .
sir , sometimes when he is not antony , he comes too short of that great property which still should
effeminate peace ?
sir john !
up to some scaffold , there to lose their heads ?
if either of you know any inward impediment why you should not be conjoined , i charge you on your
is ' t lawful , pray you , to see her women- any of them ?
vault ; meaning to keep her closely at my cell till i conveniently could send to romeo .
a pox o ' your bottle !
put thy fortune to the arbitrement of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war .
had i great juno ' s power , the strong-wing ' d mercury should fetch thee up , and set
[to isabella] art avis ' d o ' that ?
who , young and simple , would not be so lovered ?
that from my mutest conscience to my tongue charms this report out .
i ' ll to the queen .
up , princes , and , with spirit of honour edged more sharper than your swords , hie to the
he has been yonder i ' the sun practising behaviour to his own shadow this half hour .
and his behaviour everywhere .
i beseech you let it be rememb ' red in his punishment .
this basket on your shoulders .
cousin orleans .
noble friends , that which combin ' d us was most great , and let not a leaner action rend
txt make her thanks bless thee .
ignorant what place this is ; and all the skill i have remembers not these garments ; nor i know
secure and safe ; and craves no other tribute at thy hands but love , fair looks , and true
txt that which in mean men we entitle patience is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts .
walter- whitmore .
yet he knew me not at first .
sir , this is the house ; please it you that i call ?
eyne !
how doth the lady ?
saving your tale , petruchio , i pray , let us that are poor petitioners speak too .
has caught me in his eye ; i will present my honest grief unto him , and as my lord
owe him ; and i know , my lord , if law , authority , and power , deny not
your reproof is something too round ; i should be angry with you , if the time were convenient .
read the will ; we ' ll hear it , antony .
come , dromio , let us go .
lay it to thy heart , and farewell .
enter charmian now , charmian !
mine eyes , that i can read no further .
that wants money , means , and content , is without three good friends ; that the property of rain
was i for this nigh wreck ' d upon the sea , and twice by awkward wind from england '
lest i , by marking of your rage , forget your worth , your greatness and nobility .
for all , our thanks .
i must entreat of you some of that money .
you are at point to lose your liberties .
doubt .
i pray , talk me of cassio .
will lose his head ere give consent his master ' s child , as worshipfully he terms it , shall
and sent to me , i should ne ' er have denied his occasion so many talents .
the frenchman speak a word of it .
so you do , hostess .
what , lucius !
txt and humble service till the point of death .
nay , i will take thee too : [applying another asp to her arm] what should i stay- [dies] charmian
could he say less ?
no , some of it is for my child ' s father .
kindness honour me , unless thou take that honour from thy name : but do not so , i love
now we bear the king toward calais .
news from verona !
tent , to bring me thither ?
madam , i pity much your grievances ; which since i know they virtuously are plac ' d , i
but , sir , forgive me ; since my becomings kill me when they do not eye well to you
mock not that i affect the untraded oath ; your quondam wife swears still by venus ' glove .
let me see , let me see ; is not the leaf turn ' d down where i left reading
and i another .
helen still ; for ' tis a cause that hath no mean dependence upon our joint and several dignities .
i ' ll never care what wickedness i do , if this man come to good .
must be- will ' s free hours languish for assured bondage ?
i faint almost to death .
in my true heart i find she names my very deed of love ; only she comes too short ,
what more commands he ?
i told my lord the duke , by th ' devil ' s illusions the monk might be deceiv '
i found it in my chamber .
she is not , madam .
alack , or we must lose the country , our dear nurse , or else thy person , our comfort
belike she minds to play the amazon .
enter fitzwater fitzwater .
] scene iii .
i make bold to press with so little preparation upon you .
how far is ' t call ' d to forres ?
' od ' s heartlings , that ' s a pretty jest indeed !
who is it ?
much good do you , scald knave , heartily .
d for me to joy and weep their gain and loss ; and being seated , and domestic broils clean
go ; say the woman told me so .
marry , if you would put me to verses or to dance for your sake , kate , why you
my knight , i will inflame thy noble liver and make thee rage .
will you rhyme upon ' t , and vent it for a mock ' ry ?
my brother might not claim him ; nor your father , being none of his , refuse him .
o regan , goneril !
from heaven !
is yond despis ' d and ruinous man my lord ?
as they are not , though calved i ' th ' porch o ' th ' capitol .
no , ' tis his kind of speech- he did not mock us .
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene iv .
not , the city being but of small defence , we ' ll quietly rouse the traitors in the same
strong and fast ' ned villain !
no , boy .
whereas the contrary bringeth bliss , and is a pattern of celestial peace .
the duke ' s palace enter celia and rosalind celia .
this passion , and the death of a dear friend , would go near to make a man look sad
what , are you chaf ' d ?
well , i am school ' d .
<exit antipholus of syracuse .
a very even way , but no such friend .
argo , their thread of life is spun .
shall attend , and shrug , i ' th ' end admire ; where ladies shall be frighted and ,
why should she write to edmund ?
why may not that be the skull of a lawyer ?
why , you gave no gold to me .
txt keep your cabins ; you do assist the storm .
but when they would seem soldiers , they have galls , good arms , strong joints , true swords ;
but is he gracious in the people ' s eye ?
hearken after their offence , my lord .
on her left breast a mole cinque-spotted , like the crimson drops i ' th ' bottom of a cowslip
sad interim like the ocean be which parts the shore , where two contracted new , come daily to the
nay , let me alone for swearing .
now , edmund , where ' s the villain ?
marcus luccicos , is not he in town ?
remember first to possess his books ; for without them he ' s but a sot , as i am
thou runaway , thou coward , art thou fled ?
hush .
dealings .
our great designs !
you shall have gold to pay the petty debt twenty times over .
i will redeem all this on percy ' s head and , in the closing of some glorious day ,
there speak and strike , brave boys , and take your turns ; there serve your lust , shadowed from
thou hast done much harm upon me , hal- god forgive thee for it !
i ' ll give ' t him .
' s nurse and caesar ' s .
married .
i am scarce in breath , my lord .
sir , you have done this in the fear of god , very religiously ; and , as a certain
rebuke me not for that which you provoke .
and warwick are no simple peers .
why , sir , he comes not .
have i not , at de place i did appoint ?
till birnam wood remove to dunsinane i cannot taint with fear .
red weapons o ' er our heads , let ' s all cry , " peace , freedom , and
when the means are gone that buy this praise , the breath is gone whereof this praise is made .
that feated them ; and to the graver a child that guided dotards .
your actions are my dreams .
the mortal venus , the heart-blood of beauty , love ' s invisible soul- pandarus .
roots , you clear heavens !
me ; and so the king ' s will be perform ' d !
thou dost ; and think ' st it much to tread the ooze of the salt deep , to run
rom .
' s child !
his approach , so out of circumstance and sudden , tells us ' tis not a visitation fram ' d
would it not make one weep ?
i never heard any soldier dislike it .
and that thou teachest how to make one twain , by praising him here who doth hence remain .
for that which , if myself might be his judge , he should receive his punishment in thanks : he
we here create thee the first duke of suffolk , and girt thee with the sword .
him on bridges , stood in lanes , laid gifts before him , proffer ' d him their oaths ,
nay , an thou pass upon me , i ' ll no more with thee .
no , but brown .
but thoughts the slave , of life , and life time ' s fool , and time , that takes
enter caphis caphis .
witness you that he is borne about invisible .
satan , avoid !
none , and some condemned for a fault alone .
tell me thy mind ; for i have pisa left and am to padua come as he that leaves a
my liege , this was my glove : here is the fellow of it ; and he that i gave
go ask him whither he goes .
, who are dead .
nay , but , my lord- pandarus .
this ' tis : blunt wedges rive hard knots .
and i with him .
nor wince , nor speak a word , nor look upon the iron angrily ; thrust but these men away
shall lewis have blanch , and blanch those provinces ?
for instance , sir , that you may know you shall not want- one word .
boy , i do love that country girl that i took in the park with the rational hind costard ;
we have willing dames enough ; there cannot be that vulture in you to devour so many as will to
o thou well skill ' d in curses , stay awhile and teach me how to curse mine enemies !
speak i like heme the hunter ?
with very much content , my lord ; and i wish it happily effected .
, which is nothing .
here is like to be a good presence of worthies .
my lord , i over-rode him on the way ; and he is furnish ' d with no certainties more
how , i pray ?
the life thou gav ' st me first was lost and done till with thy warlike sword , despite of
i ' th ' city of kites and crows !
they are dissolv ' d .
enter goneril and [edmund the] bastard .
secrecy , to defend mine honesty ; my mask , to defend my beauty ; and you , to defend
most putrified core so fair without , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and i will look on both indifferently .
sit you down and let me wring your heart ; for so i shall if it be made of penetrable
, then he call ' d me sot and told me i had turn ' d the wrong side out
where is my lovely bride ?
you perhaps may think , because she is something lower than myself , that i can match her .
how he takes it .
art a gentleman , and well deriv ' d ; take thou thy silvia , for thou hast deserv '
o love , dispatch all business and be gone !
smatter with your gossips , go !
out-sweet ' ned not thy breath .
now happy he whose cloak and cincture can hold out this tempest .
he plays false , father .
he looks gentler than he did .
for i shall sutler be unto the camp , and profits will accrue .
and so much shall you give , or off goes yours .
henceforth i will not have to do with pity : meet i an infant of the house of york ,
well , i would you did like me .
forward child understanding , it strikes a man more dead than a great reckoning in a little room .
allegiance .
well have you argued , sir ; and , for your pains , of capital treason we arrest you here
what ' s within , boy ?
that she ' s the chosen of signior hortensio .
s song of lullaby to bring her babe asleep .
] edm .
why , nothing comes amiss , so money comes withal .
my father charg ' d you in his will to give me good education : you have train ' d
i give him satisfaction ?
how now , pandarus !
come , shall we fall to work ?
what , wilt thou not ?
oak of herne the hunter let us not forget .
what ' s that , butts ?
nor silver , but in vile apparel , and send you back again to your master , for a jewel-
to the court !
say that you love me not ; but say not so in bitterness .
s son may , but in the end truth will out .
commixtion greek and troyan so that thou could ' st say ' this hand is grecian all , page _num_
big round tears cours ' d one another down his innocent nose in piteous chase ; and thus the hairy
must we all march ?
i can tell you ; but young romeo will be older when you have page _num_ complete works of william
haste you again .
what ' s on this tomb i cannot read ; the character i ' ll take with wax .
adieu , good sir hugh .
o , prenez misericorde ; ayez pitie de moi !
ye , never found again but where they mean to sink ye .
this shall be told our lovers , lord aeneas .
then we are rid of licio .
' d it : that only like a gulf it did remain i ' th ' midst o ' th
you ' ll bear me a bang for that , i fear .
in his own grace he doth exalt himself more than in your addition .
art and baleful sorcery .
good my lord , be good to me ; your honour is accounted a merciful man ; good my lord
causes of our wreck .
ay , now begins a second storm to rise ; for this is he that moves both wind and tide
the evil which is here wrapt up in countenance !
thrust him down stairs !
sailors , my lord , they say ; i saw them not .
i dare vow for her , they touch ' d not any stranger sense .
other half yours- mine own , i would say ; but if mine , then yours , and so all
such a one we show ' d ' em .
in the name of god , how comes it then that thou art call ' d a king , when
us , shall share the good of our returned fortune , according to the measure of their states .
this must not be .
by ' r lakin , a parlous fear .
' i came , saw , and overcame .
it was , villain , ere thy hand did set it down .
easiest passage look for no less than death .
, how in our voiding-lobby hast thou stood and duly waited for my coming forth .
come , come , you talk greasily ; your lips grow foul .
their walk .
where it seems best unto your royal self .
here ' s a costard broken in a shin .
do not count it holy to hurt by being just .
if such thing be , thy mother appear ' d to me last night ; for ne ' er was
why , the hot-blooded france , that dowerless took our youngest born , i could as well be brought to
was my father a traitor , mother ?
grave .
fair lords , take leave and stand not to reply .
worthy menenius agrippa ; one that hath always lov ' d the people .
, following where he haunted .
villainy !
it , he might have moe diseases than he knew for .
why , so this gallant will command the sun .
apprehend nothing but jollity .
into as many gobbets will i cut it as wild medea young absyrtus did ; in cruelty will i seek
yes indeed .
a lover , or a tyrant ?
and seal the bargain with a holy kiss .
i love so well .
so ' tis said , sir- about his son , that should have married a shepherd ' s daughter .
be gone , and come when you are call ' d .
or seven fair branches springing from one root .
god ' s bread i it makes me mad .
great jove , othello guard , and swell his sail with thine own powerful breath , that he may bless
ne ' er a whit .
leon .
[laying down the child] leontes .
i will make my very house reel to-night .
but not away to-morrow !
claudio , whom here you have warrant to execute , is no greater forfeit to the law than angelo who
i pray you , is my master yet return ' d ?
i am now going to resolve him ; i had rather my brother die by the law than my son
there be fools alive iwis silver ' d o ' er , and so was this .
lie on her !
for you , prince bassianus , i have pass ' d my word and promise to the emperor that you
what gentleman ?
i did not , sir .
thou wilt be condemn ' d into everlasting redemption for this .
so cries a pig prepared to the spit .
' have you no ears ?
look on them .
common men ; for many of our princes- woe the while !
thou flea , thou nit , thou winter-cricket thou- brav ' d in mine own house with a skein of
midnight , and by eight to-morrow thou must be made immortal .
no time shall be omitted that will betime , and may by us be fitted .
might but my bending down reprieve thee from thy fate , it should proceed .
marry , master schoolmaster , he that is likest to a hogshead .
goneril , daughter to lear .
the weight of this sad time we must obey , speak what we feel , not what we ought to
he hates him that would upon the rack of this tough world stretch him out longer .
sir , it is three days since i saw the prince .
do , an if you will .
more ates , more ates !
all hail , my lords !
regan , daughter to lear .
nor now i had not , but that i am bound to persia , and want guilders for my voyage
he says they can do nothing in this kind .
when done thee wrong , or thee , or thee , or any of your faction ?
mistress , look on me ; behold the window of my heart , mine eye , what humble suit attends
would eat thee ; if thou wert the fox , the lion would suspect thee , when , peradventure ,
here , set it down .
the kernels .
i ' ll unclasp my heart and take her hearing prisoner with the force and strong encounter of my amorous
not i , my lord , sith true nobility warrants these words in princely courtesy .
thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein .
i will seek some way to leave him .
o , he was gentle , mild , and virtuous !
five hours hastings liv ' d , untainted , unexamin ' d , free , at liberty .
if thou didst know me , thou wouldst talk with me .
ay , marry , uncle ; for i always thought it was both impious and unnatural that such immanity and
she whom i love now doth grace for grace and love for love allow .
yonder ' s old coil at home .
methinks you are my glass , and not my brother ; i see by you i am a sweet-fac '
; her traces , of the smallest spider ' s web ; her collars , of the moonshine ' s
what think ' st thou then of stanley ?
you have made fair work !
and be beguiled by one .
stir with the lark to-morrow , gentle norfolk .
expound unto me , boy .
the moated grange at saint duke ' s enter mariana ; and boy singing song take , o , take
away , then ; i am lock ' d in one of them .
_num_ lord of my love , to whom in vassalage thy merit hath my duty strongly knit ; to thee
' twere all one that i should love a bright particular star and think to wed it , he is
he that outlives this day , and comes safe home , will stand a tip-toe when this day is nam
those healths will make thee and thy state look ill , timon .
iago !
by gar , me vill kill de priest ; for he speak for a jack- an-ape to anne page .
good my lord , take his offer ; go into th ' house .
behind this business .
now with the drops of this most balmy time , my love looks fresh , and death to me subscribes
is it a custom ?
exit enter coriolanus coriolanus .
have i not reason to prefer mine own ?
as for you , interpreter , you must seem very politic .
here comes one with a paper ; god give him grace to groan !
give up to diomedes ' hand the lady cressida .
what ' s this for ?
nay , task me to my word ; approve me , lord .
, like the haggard , check at every feather that comes before his eye .
come , brands , ho , firebrands .
brutus , my lord !
what news , sir thomas lovell ?
could not show itself modest enough without a badge of bitterness .
long since we were resolved of your truth , your faithful service , and your toil in war ; yet
, divide thy lips than we are confident , when rank thersites opes his mastic jaws , we shall hear
stars , stars , and all eyes else dead coals !
she is protectress of her honor too .
txt first gentleman .
tyranny is dead !
should by the cormorant belly be restrain ' d , who is the sink o ' th ' body- menenius
and this weak and idle theme , no more yielding but a dream , gentles , do not reprehend .
by notes of household harmony they quite forget their loss of liberty .
let be , let be .
am i the motive of these tears , my lord ?
this is he .
may do it still without accompt .
there ' s husbandry in heaven , their candles are all out .
slaver with lips as common as the stairs that mount the capitol ; join gripes with hands made hard with
' now should not the shoe speak a word for weeping ; now should i kiss my father ; well
inquire the jew ' s house out , give him this deed , and let him sign it ; we
let ' s have a dance ere we are married , that we may lighten our own hearts and our
to relent that were unworthy to behold the same ?
to it , hal !
pray god he may acquit him of suspicion !
virginity by being once lost may be ten times found ; by being ever kept , it is ever lost
call ' d you up , have held him to ; or else it would have gall ' d his
txt we and our wives and children all will fight and have our bodies slaught ' red by thy foes
heart as when thy lady and thy true love died , upon whose grave thou vow ' dst pure chastity
[seeing the body] these flow ' rs are like the pleasures of the world ; this bloody man , the
has sorrow made thee dote already ?
truly , thou art damn ' d , like an ill-roasted egg , all on one side .
as he hath spices of them all- not all , for i dare so far free him- made him fear
' tis , then , because thou dost not keep a dog , whom i would imitate .
diana capilet .
venice , confiscate unto the state of venice .
_num_ the sonnets by william shakespeare _num_ from fairest creatures we desire increase , that thereby beauty ' s rose
what ' s the quarrel ?
worth six on him .
against yourself .
unto vincentio of pisa- ' sigeia tellus ' disguised thus to get your love- ' hic steterat ' and that
txt justice .
upon a wooden coffin we attend ; and death ' s dishonourable victory we with our stately presence glorify ,
now , sir , to you , that were so hot at sea , disgracing of these colours that i
witch of brainford .
another hero !
our hostess keeps her state , but in best time we will require her welcome .
o love ' s best habit is in seeming trust , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
what , john , i say !
then take , my lord of westmoreland , this schedule , for this contains our general grievances .
amongst ' em , i think surely .
my dug , sitting in the sun under the dovehouse wall .
and mine , fair lady bona , joins with yours .
so said her woman ; and that her suff ' rance made almost each pang a death .
you have throats to answer .
when i wak ' d , i found this label on my bosom ; whose containing is so from sense
his highness yet doth speak , and holds belief that , being brought into the open air , it would
us as will revenge these bitter woes of ours .
what is it you will see ?
where was his son when they did take his eyes ?
i would be sorry , my lord , but it should be thus : i never knew yet but rebuke
my lord , upon the platform where we watch ' d .
again , no bed shall e ' er be guilty of my stay , nor rest be interposer ' twixt
volumnius .
at what hour to-morrow shall i attend your lordship ?
die , frantic wretch , for this accursed deed !
pray thee , get thee in .
he ' ll never come !
why look you so upon me ?
] fal .
himself a son of rome under these hard conditions as this time is like to lay upon us .
or i ' ll never cheapen her ; fair , or i ' ll never look on her ; mild
[the king kisses the child] with this kiss take my blessing : god protect thee !
s fashion , an eye more bright than theirs , less false in rolling : gilding the object whereupon it
go back again , thou slave , and fetch him home .
no , good madam ; i will not out of doors .
where it was forged , with my rapier ' s point .
rouen hangs her head for grief that such a valiant company are fled .
, as my father , being i hope an old man , shall frutify unto you- gobbo .
sir , i have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind ; but yet i will be content to
i pray , my lords , let me compound this strife .
and can he be angry ?
of her own clime , complexion , and degree , whereto we see in all things nature tends- foh ,
ay , sir , we are some of her trappings .
thou art too dear for my possessing , and like enough thou know ' st thy estimate , the charter
and when i have heard it , what blessings brings it ?
and proceeding .
you do remember all the circumstance ?
you in friendship , and i will one way or other make you amends .
txt by william shakespeare dramatis personae sir john falstaff fenton , a young gentleman shallow , a country justice slender
they call it agincourt .
therefore i ' ll watch him till he be dieted to my request , and then i ' ll set
there was a haberdasher ' s wife of small wit near him , that rail ' d upon me till
my guiltless life .
where is my lord the king ?
but this lies all within the will of god , to whom i do appeal ; and in whose name
be not too tame neither ; but let your own discretion be your tutor .
was there ever any man thus beaten out of season , when in the why and the wherefore is neither
sir alice ford !
- any hurt in the world , but keeps the bridge most valiantly , with excellent discipline .
' d stool , and paint your face , and use you like a fool .
sister , content you in my discontent .
scene _num_ a hall in the duke ' s palace enter the duke of ephesus , aegeon , the merchant
' twill make me think the world is full of rubs and that my fortune runs against the bias .
day .
ah ha , my mistresses !
and the detention of long-since-due debts , against my honour ?
no , my most wronged sister : cleopatra hath nodded him to her .
fang .
o that your highness knew my heart in this !
an apartment of the prince ' s .
let the great gods , that keep this dreadful pudder o ' er our heads , find out their enemies
dove : the duke is virtuous , mild , and too well given to dream on evil or to work
yes , in truth it is , sir .
my lord of kent .
good sir john , i sue for yours-not to charge you ; for i must let you understand i think
amiens .
methinks it sounds a parley to provocation .
in the base court ?
how accompanied ?
go make ready breakfast .
how came it cloven ?
the bastard faulconbridge is now in england ransacking the church , offending charity ; if but a dozen french were
[within] sir john !
hang him , baboon !
[awaking] when my cue comes , call me , and i will answer .
he turns away .
for thou hast been as one , in suff ' ring all , that suffers nothing ; a man that
therefore , i say , ' tis meet we all go forth to view the sick and feeble parts of
adieu trusty pompey .
a good sign , but i have seen small reflection of her wit .
timon ' s house enter poet , painter , jeweller , merchant , and mercer , at several doors poet
helm .
thou art my warrior ; i holp to frame thee .
spit , and throw stones , cast mire upon me , set the dogs o ' th ' street to
good sometimes queen , prepare thee hence for france .
how comes that ?
the which before his highness shall speak in , i do beseech you , gracious madam , to unthink your
is not your name , sir , call ' d antipholus ?
exit moth now will i look to his remuneration .
patient yourself , madam , and pardon me .
mass , and my elbow itch ' d !
i think the duke of burgundy will fast before he ' ll buy again at such a rate .
cry mercy , lords and watchful gentlemen , that you have ta ' en a tardy sluggard here .
see this be done , and sent according to command ; whiles i persuade this rude wretch willingly to die
txt enter montano , gratiano , iago , and others .
alas , poor maccabaeus , how hath he been baited !
only he hath not yet subscribed this : where your majesty demands that the king of france , having any
; and i do wish your honours may increase till you do live to see a son of mine offend
thou canst not come to me- i come to thee .
i had forgot myself ; am i not king ?
but , god be thank ' d , there is no need of me- and much i need to help
idle sight ?
most heavy day !
arm ' d as we are , let ' s stay within this house .
four , with two alone , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
take no repulse , whatever she doth say ; for ' get you gone ' she doth not mean '
but what to me , my love ?
wilt thou not stoop ?
i ' ll answer that .
your head ; and , like the watchful minutes to the hour , still and anon cheer ' d up
he is drunk ; and he enters with a drum before him and his staff with a sand-bag fastened to
the ground that gave them first has them again .
but to win time to lose so bad employment , in the which i have consider ' d of a
give me your hand first .
next occasion that we meet with visages display ' d to talk and greet .
come , come , what need you blush ?
break up their drowsy grave and newly move with casted slough and fresh legerity .
' touchstone .
that can rhyme themselves into ladies ' favours , they do always reason themselves out again .
you are pardon ' d , isabel .
, the which to leave a thousand-fold more bitter than ' tis sweet at first t ' acquire-after this process
do you love me ?
a will , a wicked will ; a woman ' s will ; a cank ' red grandam ' s
if we are like you in the rest , we will resemble you in that .
i thank you ; god be with you !
clod and module of confounded royalty .
the noble scot , lord douglas , when he saw the fortune of the day quite turn ' d from
i will make fast the doors , and gild myself with some moe ducats , and be with you straight
under pardon , sir , what are the contents ?
i will come after you with what good speed our means will make us means .
by this time our sexton hath reformed signior leonato of the matter .
we had the tune on ' t a month ago .
i think foundations fly the wretched ; such , i mean , where they should be reliev ' d .
now i come to ' t , my lord : she that accuses him of fornication , page _num_ complete
get ye all three into the box-tree .
' sblood , ' twas time to counterfeit , or that hot termagant scot had paid me scot and lot
look upon his face ; his eyes do drop no tears , his prayers are in jest ; his words
greatness and this noble state to call upon him ; he hopes it is no other but for your health
go with me to my chamber and advise me .
before me , she ' s a good wench .
but that the guilt of murder bucklers thee , and i should rob the deathsman of his fee , quitting
and you , fair sister .
it seems you are in haste .
of winchester bedford .
i have seen two such sights , by sea and by land !
you stand within his danger , do you not ?
an if he hear thee , thou wilt anger him .
my father ' s death- queen elizabeth .
still thus , and thus ; still worse !
now shall he- i know not what he shall .
angelo , there is a kind of character in thy life that to th ' observer doth thy history fully
nay , rather , good my lords , be second to me .
exit stephano how sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank !
what , are men mad ?
when she shall hear this of thee , with her nails she ' ll flay thy wolvish visage .
after your dire-lamenting elegies , visit by night your lady ' s chamber window with some sweet consort ; to
and latin books .
why , now thou hast unwish ' d five thousand men ; which likes me better than to wish us
txt i will appear , and fight .
my proud earth-why hath thy queen summon ' d me hither to this short-grass ' d green ?
farewell , young lords ; whether i live or die , be you the sons of worthy frenchmen ; let
we sent our schoolmaster ; is ' a come back ?
of their blood- if they but hear perchance a trumpet sound , or any air of music touch their ears
year to year , the battles , sieges , fortunes , that i have pass ' d .
peevish brat ?
who will believe thee , isabel ?
so far be mine , my most redoubted lord , as my true service shall deserve your love .
go ; adieu .
question your royal thoughts , make the case yours ; be now the father , and propose a son ;
there ' s neither faith , truth , nor womanhood in me else .
o , he is mad , laertes .
must he needs trouble me in ' t ?
these letters give , iago , to the pilot , and by him do my duties to the senate .
now do i see thee , ha !
[trips up his heels .
come , come , our empress , with her sacred wit to villainy and vengeance consecrate , will we acquaint
' ears , will vouch the truth of it .
how dost thou , guildenstern ?
why should you sigh , my lord ?
perfected by the swift course of time .
tell us what sinon hath bewitch ' d our ears , or who hath brought the fatal engine in that
which to confirm , i ' ll bring you to a captain in this town , where lie my maiden
and in the imitation of these twain- who , as ulysses says , opinion crowns with an imperial voice-many are
forsooth , a great arithmetician , one michael cassio , a florentine (a fellow almost damn ' d in a
another room in angelo ' s house enter provost and a servant servant .
(they play .
good morrow , ned .
you should not have believ ' d me ; for virtue cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall
do you your office , or give up your place , and you shall well be spar ' d .
and such other gambol faculties ' a has , that show a weak mind and an able body , for
fie , de la pole !
go-a short knife and a throng !
the contents of this is the return of the duke ; you shall anon over-read it at your pleasure ,
masters , it is proved already that you are little better than false knaves , and it will go near
belike he means , back ' d by the power of warwick , that false peer , to aspire unto
this is the hour that madam silvia entreated me to call and know her mind ; there ' s some
deaths put on by cunning and forc ' d cause ; and , in this upshot , purposes mistook fall
upon your shape as it hath much prevail ' d on your condition , i should not know you ,
ay , by my troth , the case may be amended .
of her friends .
way which promises assurance ; and give up yourself merely to chance and hazard from firm security .
no , no ; let carman whip his jade ; the valiant heart ' s not whipt out of his
yea , for obtaining of suits , whereof the hangman hath no lean wardrobe .
even so doth valour ' s show and valour ' s worth divide in storms of fortune ; for in
them find me here .
reflect i not on thy baseness court-contempt ?
i am robb ' d , sir , and beaten ; my money and apparel ta ' en from me
to tell you where he lodges , is to tell you where i lie .
but were i not the better part made mercy , i should not seek an absent argument of my revenge
the hail of his all-hurting aim , showing fair nature is both kind and tame ; page _num_ complete works
, you , and i , for standing by when richard stabb ' d her son .
bear witness , all that have not hearts of iron , with what a sorrow cromwell leaves his lord .
i was going , sir , to give him welcome .
in the world ; and where thou art not , desolation .
what , what !
teeth my bonds in sunder , i gain ' d my freedom , and immediately ran hither to your grace
this is most certain that i shall deliver : mark antony is every hour in rome expected .
pardon me , good father ; it is against my oath .
i hid me under the dead moon-calf ' s gaberdine for fear of the storm .
what , will you walk with me about the town , and then go to my inn and dine with
his kingdom too faint a number ; and for our disgrace , his own person kneeling at our feet but
thou hast most kindly hit it .
you lead a band of men , collected choicely , from each county some , and try your hap against
oblivion , and thou return unexperienc ' d to thy grave .
a grave ?
appointment , go in your place .
thus long .
peace , peace ; this piece of toasted cheese will do ' t .
name of mercy , when was this , boy ?
religiously demand why thou against the church , our holy mother , so wilfully dost spurn ; and force perforce
now , fair befall you !
you how you shall go by him .
thou shouldst have made him as little as a crow , or less , ere left to after-eye him .
third neighbour .
leave me ; and think upon my bidding .
; i do as truly suffer as e ' er i did commit .
band ; on that thinks a man always going to bed , and says ' god give you good rest
enter divers spirits , in shape of dogs and hounds , bunting them about ; prospero and ariel setting them
my niece is horribly in love with a thing you have , sweet queen .
enter the king , prince of wales , and others .
come hither , come hither .
, in the dust i write my heart ' s deep languor and my soul ' s sad tears .
good for evil .
ensigns humbled at thy feet .
, as was actaeon ' s ; and the hounds should drive upon thy new-transformed limbs , unmannerly intruder as
' thou , leonatus , art the lion ' s whelp ; the fit and apt construction of thy name
enter the prince of morocco , a tawny moor all in white , and three or four followers accordingly ,
was he not here ?
else !
yield , cur !
and therefore as a stranger give it welcome .
; which who knows how that may turn back to my advancement ?
very nobly have you deserv ' d .
leonardo .
such another proof will make me cry ' baa .
sixpence all too dear , with that he call ' d the tailor lown .
i ' ll follow this good man , and go with you ; and , having sworn truth , ever
away ; so shall my name with slander ' s tongue be wounded , and princes ' courts be fill
did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool ?
pandarus ' house enter pandarus and cressida pandarus .
txt but see his exequies fulfill ' d in rouen .
the rest walk , up above .
my penance is to call lucetta back and ask remission for my folly past .
remaineth nought but to inter our brethren , and with loud ' larums welcome them to rome .
' for further i could say this man ' s untrue , and knew the patterns of his foul beguiling
his heels .
in this marriage he should be dishonour ' d because he married me before to romeo ?
nothing else holds fashion .
this caesar was a tyrant .
bid the ostler bring my gelding out of the stable .
most reverend signior , do you know my voice ?
one meal on every day beside , the which i hope is not enrolled there ; and then to sleep
lies , your light grows dark by losing of your eyes .
and to give satiety a fresh appetite , loveliness in favor , sympathy in years , manners , and beauties-
three days pass , which hath as long lov ' d me as i have lov ' d this proud
i say , remember , go to , thou art made , if thou desir ' st to be so
come back to me .
what a blow was there given !
besides , the knave is handsome , young , and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green
hence , get thee gone , and follow me no more .
slackly braided in loose negligence .
[eats and drinks] much good dich thy good heart , apemantus !
' s fault , though he perform to th ' utmost of a man , and giddy censure will then
my hopes in heaven do dwell .
no , truly ; for the truest poetry is the most feigning , and lovers are given to poetry ;
here comes sir oliver .
by a letter , i should say .
has not the boy profited ?
o that i were a god , to shoot forth thunder upon these paltry , servile , abject drudges !
i know thy constellation is right apt for this affair .
the service that i truly did his life hath left me open to all injuries .
therefore your oaths are words and poor conditions , but unseal ' d- at least in my opinion .
it is in gioucestershire- ' twas where the madcap duke his uncle kept- his uncle york- where i first bow
speak to me what thou art .
call !
' tis past .
how weary , stale , flat , and unprofitable seem to me all the uses of this world !
a piece of ice .
i will be faithful .
your best command , at your employment , at your service , sir !
exit andromache troilus .
eye than your consent gives strength to make it fly .
my mistress with a monster is in love .
we are in god ' s hand , brother , not in theirs .
and he hath promis ' d to dismiss the powers led by the dauphin .
tennis-balls , my liege .
here pitch our tent , even here in bosworth field .
mill-wheels strike .
i charge thee use her well , even for my charge ; for , by the dreadful pluto , if
the earl of douglas is discomfited ; ten thousand bold scots , two-and-twenty knights , balk ' d in their
i can , at any unseasonable instant of the night , appoint her to look out at her lady '
turn thee back , and tell thy king i do not seek him now , but could be willing to
was this ambition ?
his left cheek is a cheek of two pile and a half , but his right cheek is worn bare
and i ' ll sleep .
' flute .
means , travelling some journey , to repose him here .
by running fast .
they are as gentle as zephyrs blowing below the violet , not wagging his sweet head ; and yet as
so that , from point to point , now have you hear the fundamental reasons of this war ; whose
i would friar peter- enter friar peter isabella .
, but seeming so , for my peculiar end .
pound of prunes , and as many of raisins o ' th ' sun .
it is thine host , thine ephesian , calls .
from both , my lord .
why do your dogs bark so ?
thus , what with the war , what with the sweat , what with the gallows , and what with
i have been troubled in my sleep this night , but dawning day new comfort hath inspir ' d .
, although not there page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i pray now , call her .
if ' t be so , hamlet is of the faction that is wrong ' d ; his madness is
affection , out of the shot and danger of desire .
nay , stay and hear me speak .
i had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in his grace , and it better fits
ourselves , our wives , and children , on our knees are bound to pray for you both .
do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day , lest he knock that about yours .
shapes man better ; and they follow him against us brats with no less confidence than boys pursuing summer butterflies
by our remembrances of days foregone , such were our faults , or then we thought them none .
i would to heaven i had your potency , and you were isabel !
this is unlikely .
i will henceforth eat no fish of fortune ' s butt ' ring .
[aside to mrs .
the greeks are strong , and skilful to their strength , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
grim death , how foul and loathsome is thine image !
heaven to garnish , is wasteful and ridiculous excess .
no mind that ' s honest but in it shares some woe , though the main part pertains to you
i ' ll stay above the hill , so both may shoot .
o charmian , i will never go from hence !
discourse which so-long-sund ' red friends should dwell upon .
your train , come then to me .
a brittle glory shineth in this face ; as brittle as the glory is the face ; [dashes the glass
here comes two of the house of montagues .
weep not , sweet queen , for trickling tears are vain .
, and the impediment most profitably removed , without the which there were no expectation of our prosperity .
[stabs himself] thus die i , thus , thus , thus .
[kisses her] margaret .
o mighty caesar !
green ; for me , i ' ll not be gone till i please myself .
my wayward husband hath a hundred times woo ' d me to steal it ; but she so loves the
and what other oath than honesty to honesty engaged that this shall be or we will fall for it ?
that face of seeming sorrow- it is sure your own .
thou speak ' st it falsely , as i love mine honour ; and mak ' st conjectural fears to
what grows of it , no matter .
o , let me speak !
unarm , eros ; the long day ' s task is done , and we must sleep .
tybalt , the reason that i have to love thee doth much excuse the appertaining rage to such a greeting
for the fail of any point in ' t shall not only be death to thyself , but to thy
make assay .
in belmont is a lady richly left , and she is fair and , fairer than that word , of
at your choice , sir .
i love not many words .
welcome , brave duke !
' quoth she ' i ' ll fume with them .
bedford .
apoth .
i would have had you heard the traitor speak , and timorously confess the manner and the purpose of his
exeunt all but othello and emilia .
general of the venetian forces desdemona , his wife iago , ensign to othello emilia , his wife , lady-in-waiting
i mean the lord protector .
snug .
thank you .
do you not follow the young lord paris ?
thoughts of people .
[to richmond] thou offspring of the house of lancaster , the wronged heirs of york do pray for thee .
' " how mighty then you are , o hear me tell !
sons ' heads ; beheld his tears , and laugh ' d so heartily that both mine eyes were rainy
hath romeo slain himself ?
_num_ love is too young to know what conscience is , yet who knows not conscience is born of love
[with them enter antonio , also masked .
seeing his reputation touch ' d to death , he did oppose his foe ; and with such sober and
enter gadshill , [bardolph and peto with him] .
villain am i none .
sir , fare you well .
no , i say .
exit posthumus .
o , sir , i did not look so low .
is like the sun ' s , but not like his recoverable .
but this denoted a foregone conclusion .
prithee , keep up thy quillets .
love is a babe , then might i not say so to give full growth to that which still doth
marry , sir , to bid my old master , the jew , to sup to-night with my new master
princes have but their titles for their glories , an outward honour for an inward toil ; and for unfelt
' twere good you do so much for charity .
red , master ; red as blood .
your hand- a covenant !
o , yes , my lord !
o , if it should , how would thy guts fall about thy knees !
within the guilty closure of thy walls richard the second here was hack ' d to death ; and for
the army of the queen hath got the field .
will she hold out water in foul way ?
undaunted spirit in a dying breast !
look not upon me , for thine eyes are wounding ; yet do not go away ; come , basilisk
think you a little din can daunt mine ears ?
touch not the boy , he is of royal blood .
why , how now , my bawcock !
manifest in that thou laid ' st a trap to take my life , as well at london bridge as
his lands .
art thou so pointed at ?
he ' s bound unto octavia .
serve the fairy queen , to dew her orbs upon the green .
your grace does me as great honours as can be desir ' d in the hearts of his subjects .
i came hither to tell you , and , circumstances short ' ned (for she has been too long a-talking
tale , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
for this from stiller seats we came , our parents and us twain , that , striking in our country
father ' s sorrow die !
[to the princess] sweet royalty , bestow on me the sense of hearing .
the combatants being kin half stints their strife before their strokes begin .
thy lustre thickens when he shines by .
kill a king- poor trespasses , more monstrous standing by ; whereof i reckon the casting forth to crows thy
lash the rascals naked through the world even from the east to the west !
have to my widow ; and if she be froward , then hast thou taught hortensio to be untoward .
she never could away with me .
i would not see ' t .
here ' s the midwife ' s name to ' t , one mistress taleporter , and five or six
if all this will not do , i ' ll drown you in the malmsey-butt within .
begin an impudent nation .
i will be flesh and blood ; for there was never yet philosopher that could endure the toothache patiently ,
ay me , for pity !
' s sake , most of our city did .
that is , he will make thee amends .
of your audience been most free and bounteous .
away with these disgraceful wailing robes !
yes , thou spok ' st well of me .
limbs in blood of princes ; and their wounded steeds fret fetlock deep in gore , and with wild rage
he saw my best alarum ' d spirits , bold in the quarrel ' s right , rous ' d
you stand upon your honour !
poor fellow never joyed since the price of oats rose .
o , what a beast was i to chide at him !
i have been bold , for that i knew it the most general way , to them to use your
a camp in wales enter earl of salisbury and a welsh captain captain .
i am wrapp ' d in dismal thinkings .
our posts shall be swift and intelligent betwixt us .
saw the chain , so help me heaven !
is it not past two o ' clock ?
well is not enrolled there .
i am glad your grace is grown so pleasant .
sirs , let ' t alone ; i will not go to-day ; and ere i do , page _num_
the morn and liquid dew of youth contagious blastments are most imminent .
the bloody parliament shall this be call ' d , unless plantagenet , duke of york , be king ,
why stands he so perplex ' d ?
night , whilst we were wand ' ring with the antipodes , shall see us rising in our throne ,
was never scythia half so barbarous !
you , sir !
writ on is the fair hand that writ .
what says ulysses ?
in that dim monument where tybalt lies .
aumerle .
in this i do not call your faith in question so mainly as my merit .
i see you what you are : you are too proud ; but , if you were the devil ,
tears .
, but you must be tittle-tattling before all our guests ?
for the boy- there is a good angel about him ; but the devil outbids him too .
ill news , by ' r lady ; seldom comes the better .
o gentle aged men !
why , how know you that i am in love ?
he ' s a sworn rioter ; he has a sin that often drowns him and takes his valour prisoner
what the vengeance , could he not speak ' em fair ?
alas , i then have chid away my friend !
bianca , so beloved of me .
' a did in some sort , indeed , handle women ; but then he was rheumatic , and talk
how many children hast thou , widow , tell me .
new lost ; became his guide , led him , begg ' d for him , sav ' d him
upon a book- i shall have good fortune .
so it must be , for now all length is torture .
the palace enter the duke of norfolk at one door ; at the other , the duke of buckingham and
your bedded hairs , like life in excrements , start up and stand an end .
, to death page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my past endeavours ; for then we wound our modesty , and make foul the clearness of our deservings ,
winter when icicles hang by the wall , and dick the shepherd blows his nail , and tom bears logs
let me comply with you in this garb , lest my extent to the players (which i tell you must
and supply the place for your labour .
: it is something of my negligence , nothing of my purpose .
fly , noble english , you are bought and sold ; unthread the rude eye of rebellion , and welcome
and did not she herself revile me there ?
he ' ll not swagger with a barbary hen , if her feathers turn back in any show of resistance
the push of every beardless vain comparative ; grew a companion to the common streets , enfeoff ' d himself
no , they are free that gave these tokens to us .
of the state for thus deluding you .
true , they are so ; but few now give so great ones .
yet ' banished ' ?
the paper hath cut her throat already .
by her high forehead and her scarlet lip , by her fine foot , straight leg , and quivering thigh
a hateful truth .
well , let us to the king .
now to the bottom dost thou search my wound ; poor bassianus here lies murdered .
chevalier .
[looking on the queen] heaven bless thee !
of the christian cross against black pagans , turks , and saracens ; and , toil ' d with works
did discharge a horrible oath , whose tenour was , were he evil us ' d , he would outgo
dost thou know her by my gazing on her , and yet know ' st her not ?
said you so ?
her life .
it is great morning ; and the hour prefix ' d for her delivery to this valiant greek comes fast
my lord , i ' ll hit him now .
cleopatra ' s palace enter antony and cleopatra , charmian , iras , with others antony .
i ' ll give thee scope to beat , since foes have scope to beat both thee and me .
you pay a great deal too dear for what ' s given freely .
here comes newer comfort .
the heavens themselves , the planets , and this centre , observe degree , priority , and place , insisture
that the old carlot once was master of .
i have lost the immortal part of myself , and what remains is bestial .
and yet take this again- and yet i thank you- meaning henceforth to trouble you no more .
' item : she is too liberal .
' s fought .
are you more stubborn-hard than hammer ' d iron ?
are his wits safe ?
wreck ' d the same instant of their master ' s death , and in the view of the shepherd
you come most carefully upon your hour .
so is he now in execution of any bold or noble enterprise , however he puts on this tardy form
who else but i , and such as to my claim are liable , sweat in this business and maintain
then all alone at the prefixed hour of her waking came i to take her from her kindred ' s
who is so gros that cannot see this palpable device ?
woo ' t drink up esill ?
speak to them , noble timon .
your wives dishonour ' d to your noses- menenius .
i never knew man hold vile stuff so dear .
varlet , laquais !
stir not until the signal not until the signal .
ll haunt thee like a wicked conscience still , that mouldeth goblins swift as frenzy ' s thoughts .
battle ?
have you an army ready , say you ?
exeunt re-enter sir toby with sir andrew sir toby .
let neptune hear we bid a loud farewell to these great fellows .
gloucester & clarence .
to tell you true , i counterfeit him .
i remember a mass of things , but nothing distinctly ; a quarrel , but nothing wherefore .
, a french lord chatillon , ambassador from france to king john queen elinor , widow of king henry ii
them through and through the most fann ' d and winnowed opinions ; and do but blow them to their
if the enemy is an ass , and a fool , and a prating coxcomb , is it meet ,
o , full of danger is the duke of gloucester !
yes , truly ; for , look you , the sins of the father are to be laid upon the
is there more toil ?
put out the light , and then put out the light .
may thee .
speak the truth , seleucus .
o , what a time have you chose out , brave caius , to wear a kerchief !
my dukedom to a beggarly denier , i do mistake my person all this while .
his eye begets occasion for his wit , for every object that the one doth catch the other turns to
, a little witness my obedience .
good night , my lord .
the first was menelaus ' kiss ; this , mine- [kisses her again] patroclus kisses you .
i say again there is no english soul more stronger to direct you than yourself , if with the sap
of her foul proceedings .
pray you , lock hand in hand ; yourselves in order set ; and twenty glow-worms shall our lanterns be
home revolted mortimer .
hypocrisy , vilely compil ' d , profound simplicity .
a contract of true love to celebrate , and some donation freely to estate on the blest lovers .
how many be there of them ?
he is very often like a knight ; and , generally , in all shapes that man goes up and
brought us smooth and welcome news .
either send the chain or send by me some token .
if you meet a thief , you may suspect him , by virtue of your page _num_ complete works of
dost thou mock me ?
not merry , which seem ' d to tell them his remembrance lay in egypt with his joy ; but
i am an honest man ' s wife , and , setting thy knight-hood aside , thou art a knave
why speak ' st not ?
though thou canst swim like a duck , thou art made like a goose .
' d bit , and a head-stall of sheep ' s leather which , being restrained to keep him from
motion with his prepared sword he charges home my unprovided body , lanch ' d mine arm ; but when
what shall i say ?
i am not true athenian .
lady , were you her bedfellow last night ?
this sir john , cousin , that comes hither anon about soldiers ?
this but done even as she speaks , why , their hearts were yours ; for they have pardons ,
good even , varro .
when i had at my pleasure taunted her , and she in mild terms begg ' d my patience ,
we will discharge our duty .
[striking sebastian] there ' s for you .
each thing well .
on my soul , i ' ll speak but truth .
see here these movers that do prize their hours at a crack ' d drachma !
talents .
[to the ladies] ay , by and by ; but we will drink together ; and you shall bear a
i do not think so fair an outward and such stuff within endows a man but he .
a herald , ho , a herald !
caesar , i bring thee word menecrates and menas , famous pirates , make the sea serve them , which
scribe .
meet .
be not angry , most mighty princess , that i have adventur ' d to try your taking of a
which is the high and mighty agamemnon ?
so be gone ; you are sped .
in the golden world .
o limed soul , that , struggling to be free , art more engag ' d !
i will see it nourish ' d .
your father was ever virtuous , and holy men at their death have good inspirations ; therefore the lott '
base men by his endowments are made great .
conclusion .
cargo , cargo , cargo , villianda par corbo , cargo .
my suit to her is that she will to virtuous desdemona procure me some access .
this is the tenour of the emperor ' s writ : that since the common men are now in action
be thou rul ' d by me .
yet this my comfort : when your words are done , my woes end likewise with the evening sun .
a plague upon him !
i am bound to you .
txt to say extremities was the trier of spirits ; that common chances common men could bear ; that when
lucio , a word with you .
; albeit i could tell to thee- as to one it pleases me , for fault of a better ,
that he is forsworn .
of the duke of buckingham .
not women ?
beggar that i am , i am even poor in thanks ; but i thank you ; and sure ,
shall scorn him further trial than the severity of the public power , which he so sets at nought .
txt so horridly to shake our disposition with thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls ?
or , if not , an earthly paragon !
n , otherwise he had been executed ; i have stood on the pillory for geese he hath kill '
dreamt of .
you are ; neither do i labour for a greater esteem than may in some little measure draw a belief
all her mother ' s pains and benefits to laughter and contempt , that she may feel how sharper than
then enter jack cade , with his company cade .
thou hast fac ' d many things .
committed .
as to-day , and to be boy eternal .
fairly offer ' d .
o , fellow , come , the song we had last night .
then enter again , in skirmish , iachimo and posthumus .
fear not , man , but yield me up the keys ; [takes his keys] for edward will defend the
redoubled strokes upon the foe .
the time has been , that , when the brains were out , the man would die , and there
bloody strife should reign among professors of one faith .
strike her young bones , you taking airs , with lameness !
mine eyes are weak ; fold down the leaf where i have left .
imposthume , sciaticas , limekilns i ' th ' palm , incurable bone-ache , and the rivelled fee- simple of
] " sing all a green willow must be my garland .
, with mine own hands i give away my crown , with mine own tongue deny my sacred state ,
is not l ' envoy a salve ?
he !
i heard him swear , were he to stand for consul , never would he appear i ' th '
flourish king henry .
romans , countrymen , and lovers !
[trumpets within] so- this is to horse .
princess wrought it me- and i did never ask it you again ; and with my hand at midnight held
, to bandy word for word and frown for frown ; but now i see our lances are but straws
- let their beds be made as soft as yours , and let their palates be season ' d with
what is your will ?
enter derby derby .
hear him but reason in divinity , and , all-admiring , with an inward wish you would desire the king
as a long-parted mother with her child plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting , so weeping-smiling greet
he ' s but a mad lord , and nought but humours sways him .
opinion that fire cannot melt out of me .
dear my brother , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
madam , you wrong the king ' s love with these fears ; your hopes and friends are infinite .
i ' ll tell thee ere thou ask it me again .
txt if you can carry her your desires towards her .
fie , wrangling queen !
for the which , as i told you , antonio shall be bound .
let me report to him your sweet dependency , and you shall find a conqueror that will pray in aid
flows and ebbs , and deal in her command without her power .
' tis pride that pulls the country down ; then take thine auld cloak about thee .
you are never without your tricks ; you may , you may .
my lord , in truth , thus far i witness with him , that he din ' d not at
and so great a figure be stamp ' d upon it .
d of me .
wherein the acorn cradled .
how may the duke be therewith satisfied , whose messengers are here about my side , upon some present business
nothing but papers , my lord .
took ' t up .
i am a rogue if i were not at half-sword with a dozen of them two hours together .
your cares set up do not pluck my cares down .
the name of henry the fifth hales them to an hundred mischiefs , and makes them leave me desolate .
i hope now thou are not drown ' d .
exit westmoreland and , good my lord , so please you let our trains march by us , that we
saw you my lord ?
swallows have built in cleopatra ' s sails their nests .
nor sleep nor sanctuary , being naked , sick , nor fane nor capitol , the prayers of priests nor
fellow , what miracle dost thou proclaim ?
health .
deed of saying is quite out of use .
bar ' st me my way in rome ?
but i will not stir from this place , do what they can ; i will walk up and down
some comfort , nurse .
rise resty muse , my love ' s sweet face survey , if time have any wrinkle graven there ,
' leon .
but i with blowing the fire shall warm myself ; for , considering the weather , a taller man than
therefore put you in your best array , bid your friends ; for if you will be married to-morrow ,
you laying these slight sullies on my son as ' twere a thing a little soil ' d i '
here ' s my coxcomb .
dercetas .
ariel , thy charge exactly is perform ' d ; but there ' s more work .
millions of false eyes are stuck upon thee .
rafe mouldy !
sir , i love you more than words can wield the matter ; dearer than eyesight , space , and
he is our subject , mowbray ; so art thou : free speech and fearless i to thee allow .
may worthy troilus be half-attach ' d with that which here his passion doth express ?
here ' s a stay that shakes the rotten carcass of old death out of his rags !
and were the king on ' t , what would i do ?
enter king edward , queen elizabeth , clarence , gloucester , hastings , nurse , with the young prince ,
prithee no more !
it will not speak .
trow you who hath done this ?
wish that warmer days would come .
the motion ' s good indeed , and be it so .
welcome , brave hector ; welcome , princes all .
proteus , the good conceit i hold of thee- for thou hast shown some sign of good desert- makes me
will you encounter the house ?
txt and say he lies here or he lies there , were to lie in mine own throat .
give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood , that we the horrider may seem to those which chance
have cited , you must buy that peace with full accord to all our just demands ; whose tenours and
exeunt bertram , parolles , and army widow .
you heard what this knave told me , did you not ?
the camp of the volsces a flourish .
holla !
the sun begins to gild the western sky , and now it is about the very hour that silvia at
within this half hour will he be asleep .
stand you awhile apart , confine yourself but in a patient list .
and i was the first that lost thee .
txt it stands as an edict in destiny .
highness .
marcius , son to coriolanus a roman herald nicanor , a roman tullus aufidius , general of the volscians lieutenant
smallest ale .
; and therefore hence amain .
enter petruchio and grumio petruchio .
i found them on a tree .
menas .
>> prologue enter chorus .
to bed , to bed , to bed .
weather continuing , this mystery remained undiscover ' d .
roses fearfully on thorns did stand , one blushing shame , another white despair : a third nor red ,
there , where the torch doth burn .
and of all christian souls , i pray god .
cheer your neighbours .
the players cannot keep counsel ; they ' ll tell all .
mistress , that you know .
unsheathe your sword , good father ; cry ' saint george !
no , no ; no man saw ' em .
' tis done by me , and ends in-margaret .
' there , take the crown , and with the crown my curse ; and in thy need such comfort
who , i ?
his pocket .
[aside to quickly] ' tis a great charge to come under one body ' s hand .
thou tak ' st him for .
i say ' silver sound ' because musicians sound for silver .
o , look upon me , sir , and hold your hands in benediction o ' er me .
and blessing page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
decius , well urged .
; and liberty plucks justice by the nose ; the baby beats the nurse , and quite athwart goes all
beauteous as ink- a good conclusion .
to whom should i complain ?
o good but most unwise patricians !
by your power legatine within this kingdom , fall into th ' compass of a praemunire- that therefore such a
ay , and old york , and yet not satisfied .
i have ventur ' d , like little wanton boys that swim on bladders , this many summers in a
see not your bride in these unreverent robes ; go to my chamber , put on clothes of mine .
' then haply will she weep ; therefore present to her-as sometimes margaret did to thy father , steep '
be you in the park about midnight , at herne ' s oak , and you shall see wonders .
i ' ll set a bourn how far to be belov ' d .
seyton .
canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath ?
come , will you hence ?
confer at large of all that may concern thy love affairs .
but what said she ?
hillo , ho , ho , boy !
enter bianca .
enter , fighting , soldiers of both armies ; then brutus , young cato , lucilius , and others .
is it new and old too ?
run up , sir john .
fear not that , my lord .
exeunt coriolanus and cominius , with others patricians .
yet forgive me , god , that i do brag thus ; this your air of france hath blown that
to katherina suitors to bianca gremio hortensio servants to lucentio tranio biondello servants to petruchio page _num_ complete works of
do thou amend thy face , and i ' ll amend my life .
moreover , urge his hateful luxury and bestial appetite in change of lust , which stretch ' d unto their
, methought i heard the shepherd say he found the child .
you logger-headed and unpolish ' d grooms !
within these three hours , tullus , alone i fought in your corioli walls , and made what work i
retire thee ; go where thou art billeted .
themselves into voluntary exile with him , whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke ; therefore he gives them
over hill , over dale , thorough bush , thorough brier , over park , over pale , thorough flood
well ; tell me now what lady is the same to whom you swore a secret pilgrimage , that you
henry , prince of wales , son to the king .
let ' s ha ' t , good grumio .
and thou must stand by too , and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure !
there , take it , prince , and if my form lie there , then i am yours .
' tis dangerous when the baser nature comes between the pass and fell incensed points of mighty opposites .
' tis a wonder , by your leave , she will be tam ' d so .
why , what would you ?
then must my earth with her continual tears become a deluge , overflow ' d and drown ' d ;
and change you favours too ; so shall your loves woo contrary , deceiv ' d by these removes .
it beaten away .
richard !
peace , thou fiend !
out of the way , that your converse and business may be more free .
witch .
[to regan and goneril] and your large speeches may your deeds approve , that good effects may spring from words
and welcome , general .
good , very , good , it is so then .
drive these men away , and i will sit as quiet as a lamb ; i will not stir ,
appears too grossly .
there diomed doth feast with him to-night , who neither looks upon the heaven nor earth , but gives all
this thou shalt answer ; i know thee , roderigo .
that ' s as much as to say , such a case as yours constrains a man to bow in
what would you with her , sir ?
but myself , who had the world as my confectionary ; the mouths , the tongues , the eyes ,
i have seen the day , with my good biting falchion i would have made them skip .
of one sore i an hundred make by adding but one more l .
i am glad of it , for now i shall have reason to show the love and duty that i
for what offence have i this fortnight been a banish ' d woman from my harry ' s bed ,
must be done .
at him while my father lived give twenty , forty , fifty , a hundred ducats apiece for his picture
is she worth keeping ?
they never meet but there ' s a skirmish of wit between them .
out , treacherous villain !
marcius coming home !
pursue faults proper to himself .
the younger rises when the old doth fall .
i ' ll have the cudgel hallow ' d and hung o ' er the altar ; it hath done
which they will make an obedient father .
i would this music would come .
but long i will not be jack out of office .
o lord , methought what pain it was to drown , what dreadful noise of waters in my ears ,
a bridegroom , say you ?
come , come , disclose the state of your affection ; for your passions have to the full appeach '
lack .
let us send her to call him in to dinner .
well , the king hath sever ' d you .
but on !
discovery , as is the bud bit with an envious worm ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the
nay , gave notice he was from thence discharg ' d ?
enter [two players as] king and queen .
since i had my office i have kept you next my heart ; have not alone employ ' d you
enter a doctor of physic and a waiting gentlewoman .
the offer likes not ; and the nimble gunner with linstock now the devilish cannon touches , [alarum , and
did he not moralize this spectacle ?
peace have they made with him indeed , my lord .
we are come to you to do a good office , master parson .
he will make you a hundred and fifty pounds jointure .
and therefore is the glorious planet sol in noble eminence enthron ' d and spher ' d amidst the other
o , sir , i do ; and will repute you ever the patron of my life and liberty .
so then , it seems , your most offenceful act was mutually committed .
light , gentlemen ; i ' ll bind it with my shirt .
such boil ' d stuff as well might poison poison !
by god ' s liggens , i thank thee .
you are- a senator .
serving-man .
what , a coward , sir john paunch ?
; and not all love to see you- though so much as might have drawn one to a longer voyage-
she shall have it , my lord , if it be not my lord paris .
ariel , fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell ; exit ariel i will discase me , and
go bid the priests do present sacrifice , and bring me their opinions of success .
' rah , tah , tah !
txt _num_ o never say that i was false of heart , though absence seemed my flame to qualify ,
canst guess them .
he does well in ' t .
he ' s of the colour of the nutmeg .
it pleas ' d the king his master very late to strike at me , upon his misconstruction ; when
let me see now- to get his place , and to plume up my will in double knavery- how ,
, sweet , and virtuous wife .
unto the dignity and height of fortune , the high imperial type of this earth ' s glory .
master launcelot ?
, windows , are smother ' d up , leads fill ' d and ridges hors ' d with variable
not i , till i have sheath ' d my rapier in his bosom , and withal thrust those reproachful
issue ; there is no lady living so meet for this great errand .
get you gone , and at the pit of acheron meet me i ' the morning .
no , i know anne ' s mind for that ; never a woman in windsor knows more of anne
they call ' d us , for our fierceness , english dogs ; now like to whelps we crying run
[aside] for all this same , i ' ll hide me hereabout .
sonneting .
sempronius .
some of the guard unbar and open the gates guard her till caesar come .
[pushes him away from him] third servant .
[trumpets sound] demetrius .
abuses in common houses , i know no law ; bring them away .
moy shall not serve ; i will have forty moys ; or i will fetch thy rim out at thy
for the best ward of mine honour is rewarding my dependents .
your honours shall perceive how i will work to bring this matter to the wished end .
why then , you left me- o , the gods forbid !
[aside] yes , like enough high-battled caesar will unstate his happiness , and be stag ' d to th '
exeunt lady and nurse .
[within : ' a way there , a way for caesar !
my lord , i do confess the ring was hers .
nurse , commend me to thy lady and mistress .
away from me , and let me hear no more !
be infused with so foul a spirit !
skipper , stand back ; ' tis age that nourisheth .
with apricocks and dewberries , with purple grapes , green figs , and mulberries ; the honey bags steal from
say no more : here come the lords .
but that our feasts in every mess have folly , and the feeders digest it with a custom , i
i do not think the knight would offer it ; but these that accuse him in his intent towards our
quickly go ; i shall remember more .
how you do talk !
and yours too , isidore ?
, as i shall be , and sleep in dull cold marble , where no mention of me more must
name not religion , for thou lov ' st the flesh ; and ne ' er throughout the year to
i have a warranty to unburden all my plots and purposes how to get clear of all the debts i
[exeunt his followers .
pound i borrowed of you .
shall we go see the reliques of this town ?
and charles the great subdu ' d the saxons , and did seat the french beyond the river sala ,
entrails of this pit ; so pale did shine the moon on pyramus when he by night lay bath '
good antonio , the honest antonio- o that i had a title good enough to keep his name company !
titinius ' face is upward .
now , if you love me , stay .
look how they gaze !
have noted in you to your kindred and egally indeed to all estates- yet know , whe ' er you
the survivor heir of all .
is it not fair writ ?
txt (as this i would ; ay , though thou didst produce my very character) , i ' ld turn
i cannot say ' tis pity she lacks instructions , for she seems a mistress to most that teach .
these fellows will do well .
the greatest miracle that e ' er ye wrought : is all your strict preciseness come to this ?
your bed-chamber .
come , let ' s march towards london .
i am no traitor .
' d with epithets of war , and , in conclusion , nonsuits my mediators ; for , " certes
i thank ye all .
you are afraid , if you see the bear loose , are you not ?
and with such maimed rites ?
be a member of his love whom i with all the office of my heart entirely honor .
truly , i thought there had been one number more , because they say ' od ' s nouns .
can it be that so degenerate a strain as this should once set footing in your generous bosoms ?
[aside to malcolm .
the word itself against the word , as thus : ' come , little ones ' ; and then again
all true lovers are , unstaid and skittish in all motions else save in the constant image of the creature
i know you by the waggling of your head .
renowned titus , more than half my soul- lucius .
an old lord of the council rated me the other day in the street about you , sir , page
most humble thanks ; but that i will have a rechate winded in my forehead , or hang my bugle
doubled with thanks and service , from whose help i deriv ' d liberty .
mistress page !
at saint mary ' s chapel presently the rites of marriage shall be solemniz ' d .
it is my study to seem despiteful and ungentle to you .
snug , a joiner bottom , a weaver flute , a bellows-mender snout , a tinker starveling , a tailor
heaven grant us its peace , but not the king of hungary ' s !
sir , he answered me in the roundest manner , he would not .
god pless you , aunchient pistol !
pray you , then , conduct me to the queen .
an hour , paid money that i borrowed- three or four times , lived well , and in good compass
o my son !
plague !
and all together .
lady lingare , daughter to charlemain , who was the son to lewis the emperor , and lewis the son
do defy him , and i spit at him , call him a slanderous coward and a villain ; which
befall .
the game is up .
moth .
now are they but one lamp , one light , one sun .
a sail .
, and bear the faults of titus ' age , th ' effects of sorrow for his valiant sons whose
and for three months .
the obligation of our ever-preserved love , and by what more dear a better proposer could charge you withal ,
but what mean i to speak so true at first ?
sir , a word with you .
how comes this trick upon him ?
by-and-by i come .
now , good angels fly o ' er thy royal head , and shade thy person under their blessed wings
cassio , my lord !
txt for i will be thy headsman , valentine .
prevail in man ' s commendation with woman than report of valour .
no , sweet octavia , you shall hear from me still ; the time shall not out-go my thinking on
' s half my coffer .
your mother chides , and leave you so .
when he was here he did incline to sadness , and oft-times not knowing why .
had squar ' d me to thy counsel !
she says it is a fair one .
ensuing marriage--surely suit ill spent and labour ill bestowed !
a cornish name ; art thou of cornish crew ?
txt that you have slander ' d so ?
is caesar with antonius priz ' d so slight ?
and for whose death we in the world ' s wide mouth live scandaliz ' d and foully spoken of
solemn and strange music ; and prospero on the top , invisible .
i do beseech your royal majesty , let him have all the rigour of the law .
good morrow , all .
hark , villains !
txt i thank him , i bare home upon my shoulders ; for , in conclusion , he did beat
enter katherina good morrow , kate- for that ' s your name , i hear .
i hear him near .
wherefore was that cry ?
sovereign ' s heart ; where fame , late ent ' ring at his heedful ears , hath plac '
if by strong hand you offer to break in now in the stirring passage of the day , a vulgar
not what .
what news from her ?
cursed the blood that let this blood from hence !
o , my lord , the times and titles now are alter ' d strangely with me since first you
he ' s gone .
a stone is soft as wax : tribunes more hard than stones .
my tent ; and to procure safe conduct for his person of the magnanimous and most illustrious six-or-seven-times-honour ' d
let me put in your minds , if you forget , what you have been ere this , and what
hail , king of scotland !
exeunt severally priam and hector .
here ' s no man .
fie , fie , master ford , are you not asham ' d ?
i prithee give no limits to my tongue : i am a king , and privileg ' d to speak
away with her !
keep some state in thy exit , and vanish .
and the spirit of humours intimate reading aloud to him !
but be not tempted .
txt which contract , bear her this jewel , pledge of my affection .
uneven is the course ; i like it not .
i know not the contents ; but , as i guess by the stern brow and waspish action which she
from all such devils , good lord deliver us !
that do mislead the morn ; but my kisses bring again , bring again ; seals of love , but
virtuous , yet i am well ; but till all graces be in one woman , one woman shall not
myself in person will straight follow you .
all ; and he shall think that thou , which knowest the way to plant unrightful kings , wilt know
d to have) as to refuse so rare a gentleman as signior benedick .
for being a bawd , for being a bawd .
and patient fools , whose children he hath slain , their base throats tear with giving him glory .
sake make all whole .
your ring may be stol ' n too .
were it good to set the exact wealth of all our states all at one cast ?
their blood , and making many fish-meals , that they fall into a kind of male green-sickness ; and then
the ward to thee .
lean .
since no man knows aught of what he leaves , what is ' t to leave betimes ?
good mistress accost , i desire better acquaintance .
lunatic , a mad-cap ruffian and a swearing jack , that thinks with oaths to face the matter out .
by ' r lady , i think it be so .
did you perceive he did solicit you in free contempt when he did need your loves ; and do you
aufidius ' house music plays .
lineal of the lady ermengare , daughter to charles the foresaid duke of lorraine ; by the which marriage the
cornelius .
the name of cassius honors this corruption , and chastisement doth therefore hide his head .
another king ?
let some of my page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
bravest at the last , she levell ' d at our purposes , and being royal , took her own
the air , strange screams of death , and prophesying with accents terrible of dire combustion and confused events new
chaplain to no creature living but to me should utter , with demure confidence this pausingly ensu ' d :
, by th ' very truth of it , i care not for you , and am so near the
by world library , inc .
please it our general pass strangely by him , as if he were forgot ; and , princes all ,
but come , my lord , let ' s away .
though i swore i leap ' d from the window of the citadel- second lord .
i ' m sorry for ' t ; not seeming so worthy as thy birth .
, a court- and now has he land and beeves .
unhappy that i am , i cannot heave my heart into my mouth .
monsieur parolles , my lord calls for you .
i ' ll have no father , if you be not he ; i ' ll have no husband ,
better dog .
tell me her father ' s name , and ' tis enough ; for i will board her though she
i do not care .
i pray , my lord , pardon me ; i took ye for my lord protector .
what say ' st thou to her ?
well , let his father be what ' a will , we talk of young master launcelot .
asses , fools , dolts !
marry , this claudio is condemned for untrussing .
[trumpet sounds] what lusty trumpet thus doth summon us ?
common for the younger sort to lack discretion .
centre .
cank ' red country with the spleen page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
they will not stick to say you envied him and , fearing he would rise , he was so virtuous
king ; and if you crown him , let me prophesy- the blood of english shall manure the ground ,
the devil take one party and his dam the other !
no , i warrant you , the fool ' s will shame it .
what paper were you reading ?
dromio , nor thou ?
thou wert best set thy lower part where thy nose page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
wither ' d hands hold up toward heaven , to pardon blood ; and i have built two chantries ,
for your own gifts make yourselves prais ' d ; but reserve still to give , lest your deities be
fights , with honour and with fortune is return ' d from where he circumscribed with his sword and brought
ten of yours , and therefore the gift the greater .
i ' ll go , my lord , and tell him what you say .
strange one , to break the heart of generosity and make bold power look pale- they threw their caps as
you hunt counter .
a grievous fault .
yea , every man shall be my friend again , and i ' ll be his .
grosser issues nor to larger reach than to suspicion .
can any of your neighbours tell , kate ?
who sees the heavenly rosaline that , like a rude and savage man of inde at the first op '
the duke .
a great sign , sir , that he will look sad .
took their discharge .
near .
as low as to thy foot doth cassius fall to beg enfranchisement for publius cimber .
' tis but fortune ; all is fortune .
a good direction , warlike sovereign .
sir , by your patience , i hold you but a subject of this war , not as a brother
these cheeks are pale for watching for your good .
i hope , sir , you are ; and i am yours .
ten thousand harms , more than the ills i know , my idleness doth hatch .
not you , it comes near nobody .
what , robin , i say !
therefore , for goodness sake , and as you are known the first and happiest hearers of the town ,
faction !
i serve the king ; on whose employment i was sent to you .
monsieur , fare you well .
a wife ?
way to hide us from pursuit that will be made after my flight .
if thou beest not damn ' d for this , the devil himself will have no shepherds ; i cannot
re-enter servant , with wine servant .
and your courtesy , for a ring-carrier !
told ; for he that brought them , in the very heat and pride of their contention did take horse
arch and messenger am i , bids thee leave these ; and with her sovereign grace , here on this
he was not sad , for he would shine on those that make their looks by his ; he was
heard he the good news yet ?
show me a mistress that is passing fair , what doth her beauty serve but as a note where i
doth set my pugging tooth on edge , for a quart of ale is a dish for a king .
to your talk , who , every word by all my wit being scann ' d , wants wit in
in ireland have i seen this stubborn cade oppose himself against a troop of kerns , and fought so long
why , what is tybalt ?
he is within , with two right reverend fathers , divinely bent to meditation ; and in no worldly suits
to intercept this inconvenience , a piece of ordnance ' gainst it i have plac ' d ; and even
she durst not lie near this lack-love , this kill-courtesy .
i myself reprehend his own person , for i am his grace ' s farborough ; but i would see
you ' ll cry for this , minion , if beat the door down .
from whom we thought it meet to hide our love till time had made them for us .
never hamlet .
ay , a tailor , sir .
thy place in council thou hast rudely lost , which by thy younger brother is supplied , and art almost
if they did kill thy husband , then be joyful , because the law hath ta ' en revenge on
romeo slew him ; he slew mercutio .
o , beat away the busy meddling fiend that lays strong siege unto this wretch ' s soul , and
day , yield me not thy light ; nor , night , thy rest !
and why you answer this present summons ?
thou didst prevent me ; i had peopl ' d else this isle with calibans .
i knew of your purpose ; turn ' d my daughter into green ; and , indeed , she is
o what a mansion have those vices got , which for their habitation chose out thee , where beauty '
methinks y ' are better spoken .
i see thy age and dangers make thee dote .
follow him , friends .
for when would you , my lord , or you , or you , have found the ground of study
_num_ when forty winters shall besiege thy brow , and dig deep trenches in thy beauty ' s field ,
will he conduct you through the heart of france , and make the meanest of you earls and dukes ?
o , excellent !
the spring of day .
wept ; for i must speak in passion , and i will do it in king cambyses ' vein .
faith , but you do , in my mind .
bear with me , cousin , for i was amaz ' d under the tide ; but now i breathe
but theirs is sweet ' ned with the hope to have the present benefit which i possess ; and hope
their dwarfish pages were as cherubins , an gilt ; the madams too , not us ' d to toil
sir , i will serve him ; for i do find your hangman is a more penitent trade than your
o god , she comes !
] gent .
always a villain ' s office or a fool ' s .
the head of a bodkin .
indeed , my lord , if i had thought the sight of my poor image would thus have wrought you-
the cathedral church of westminster , and in that chair where kings and queens were crown ' d ; where
; there my white stole of chastity i daffed , shook off my sober guards and civil fears ; appear
nay , you must forget that rarest treasure of your cheek , exposing it- but , o , the harder
draw near , queen margaret , and be a witness that bona shall be wife to the english king .
that ' s likewise part of my intelligence ; but , i fear , the angle that plucks our son
[throws the dishes at them , and drives them out] what , all in motion ?
d with rumours , full of idle dreams .
exit fluellen .
d rosaline .
o ' er and o ' er .
i speak not to disprove what brutus spoke , but here i am to speak what i do know .
what custom wills , in all things should we do ' t , the dust on antique time would lie
whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing , feed yourselves with questioning , that reason wonder may diminish , how thus we
heart i would keep from thee .
dukedoms for a duke ' s fair daughter .
the rest is labor , which is not used for you .
then did we two set on you four and , with a word , outfac ' d you from your
then , i say , well may we fight for her whom we know well the world ' s large
has the old man e ' er a son , sir , do you hear , an ' t like
, so it be eloquent and full of invention .
thy son is banish ' d upon good advice , whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave .
you may , sir .
most true , the will !
there let his head and lifeless body lie , until the queen his mistress bury it .
then do but say to me what i should do that in your knowledge may by me be done ,
re-enter patroclus here comes patroclus .
god send you , sir , a speedy infirmity , for the better increasing your folly !
then was i as a tree whose boughs did bend with fruit ; but in one night a storm ,
now , now ; i have not wink ' d since i saw these sights ; the men are not
your worship as of any man in the city ; and though i be but a poor man , i
before rouen enter la pucelle disguis ' d , with four soldiers dressed like countrymen , with sacks upon their
rough brake that virtue must go through .
these clothes are good enough to drink in , and so be these boots too ; an they be not
thou canst not say i did it ; never shake thy gory locks at me .
against self-slaughter page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
than thou hast .
a noble shalt thou have , and present pay ; and liquor likewise will i give to thee , and
o , here he is !
and thou hast kill ' d him .
patience , good lady !
it may do good .
indeed , sir , a mender of bad soles .
you have not heard of the proclamation , have you ?
come , let ' s away ; the strangers all are gone .
the bottom of the sea ; some lay in dead men ' s skulls , and in the holes where
the gods assist you !
, and loved him .
what is he at the gate , cousin ?
why , this is the very same ; the very hand , the very words .
virtue is chok ' d with foul ambition , and charity chas ' d hence by rancour ' s hand
this gentle and unforc ' d accord of hamlet sits smiling to my heart ; in grace whereof , no
plantagenet shall speak first .
you to give you over at this first encounter , unless you will accompany me thither .
respect to your great place !
or is he on his horse ?
speak , then , thou whinid ' st leaven , speak .
precisely , were not for the court ; but for me , i have an answer will serve all men
a sacrifice .
thou art a castalion-king-urinal .
known- discover .
nor time nor place did then adhere , and yet you would make both .
sing me now asleep ; then to your offices , and let me rest .
good husband , come home presently .
orlando doth commend him to you both ; and to that youth he calls his rosalind he sends this bloody
st hourly afflict .
hie you to horse ; adieu , till you return at night .
first pay me for the nursing of thy sons , and let it be confiscate all , so soon as
how does your patient , doctor ?
a boy .
uneath may she endure the flinty streets to tread them with her tender-feeling feet .
speak , queen of goths , dost thou applaud my choice ?
thy reason , dear venom , give thy reason .
[she strikes him] petruchio .
take that , to end thy agony .
re-enter caesar and his train .
where is that ring , boy ?
and leave it crying ; and , for the babe is counted lost for ever , perdita i prithee call
a certain number , though thanks to all , must i select from all ; the rest shall bear the
be duke of lancaster ; let him be king .
enter othello .
' yea , ' quoth he , ' dost thou fall upon thy face ?
what he would do , he sent in writing after me ; what he would not , bound with an
i saw thee late at the count orsino ' s .
better ' twere i met the ravin lion when he roar ' d with sharp constraint of hunger ; better
, lest too light winning make the prize light .
the man ' s undone for ever ; for if hector break not his neck i ' th ' combat
being i ' th ' war , their mutinies and revolts , wherein they show ' d most valour ,
bagot .
ah , juliet , i already know thy grief ; it strains me past the compass of my wits .
now , sister , what ' s the comfort ?
will you to scone ?
exeunt launcelot and old gobbo bassanio .
war is no strife to the dark house and the detested wife .
what part is that , my lord ?
i will be mild and gentle in my words .
my wits begin to turn .
o , ominous !
one , her hairs were gold ; crystal the other ' s eyes .
god shield you mean it not !
if we obey them not , this will ensue : they ' ll suck our breath , or pinch us
if they scape from your encounter , then they light on us .
unexperient gave the tempter place , which , like a cherubin , above them hovered .
thou art a lady : if only to go warm were gorgeous , why , nature needs not what thou
, threat ' ning most sea-like .
who stirs ?
here is the indictment of the good lord hastings ; which in a set hand fairly is engross ' d
come at my heels , jack rugby .
money , or i shall break that merry sconce of yours , that stands on tricks when i am undispos
the ruddock would , with charitable bill- o bill , sore shaming those rich-left heirs that let their fathers lie
with all my heart , and it doth much content me to hear him so inclin ' d .
yet do i fear thy nature .
that blood which ow ' d the breadth of all this isle three foot of it doth hold-bad world the
be vigitant , i beseech you .
nose ?
we may call it herb of grace o ' sundays .
aboard , being destin ' d to a drier death on shore .
i that am cruel am yet merciful ; i would not have thee linger in thy pain .
is ' t near dinner time ?
no eye hath seen such scarecrows .
something rank on foot , her father hath commanded her to slip away with slender , and with him at
no , to my cabin .
exeunt portia and nerissa antonio .
douglas kills blunt .
then move not while my prayer ' s effect i take .
wont , through a secret grate of iron bars in yonder tower , to overpeer the city , and thence
a venetian and traduced the state , i took by the throat the circumcised dog and smote him , thus
our livers with the bitterness of your galls ; and we that are in the vaward of our youth ,
henry the fourth , grandfather to this king , depos ' d his nephew richard , edward ' s son
speaks his griefs .
love ?
i ' ll wink and couch ; no man their works must eye .
why do you cross me in this exigent ?
re-enter westmoreland now , cousin , wherefore stands our army still ?
i ' ll free thee within two days for this .
it came even from the heart of- o !
an upright judge , a learned judge !
' s right .
o seigneur dieu !
all instance , all discourse , that i am ready to distrust mine eyes and wrangle with my reason ,
here i promis ' d you i would be , and here i commit my body to your mercies .
your hands than mine are quicker for a fray ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
very name of meat .
kneel not to me .
part some cause to you unknown ; and doubt not , sir , but she will well excuse why at
god-a-mercy , old heart !
pray you , lead on .
your affairs there , what , with whom , the condition of that fardel , the place of your dwelling
even just the sum that i do owe to you is growing to me by antipholus ; and in the
falls on the bed , and dies .
whither go you , george ?
enter the king and all his train before the gates king henry .
no , in truth , sir , he should not .
you are as fond of grief as of your child .
what a pied ninny ' s this !
what say ye , countrymen ?
sweet , leave me here awhile .
exeunt antony and trebonius .
titus .
enter mistress quickly quickly .
close at the heels of her virtues .
txt world , thou cacodemon ; there thy kingdom is .
they swore that you were almost sick for me .
people .
txt helena .
ratcliff , my lord ; ' tis i .
grief , that ' s beauty ' s canker , thou mightst call him a goodly person .
how dost thou , charles ?
o cressida !
a cuckold ' s horn .
live .
rescue of the noble talbot , who now is girdled with a waist of iron and hemm ' d about
and that succession be determin ' d .
look for thy reward among the nettles at the elder-tree which overshades the mouth of that same pit where we
god safely quit her of her burden , and with gentle travail , to the gladding of page _num_ complete
i , then in london , keeper of the king , muster ' d my soldiers , gathered flocks of
approach , my ariel .
a twelvemonth ?
good morrow , neighbour .
' tis even so ; for let our finger ache , and it indues our other healthful members even to
either i mistake your shape and making quite , or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite call '
what is the matter , uncle ?
not any ; but abide the change of time , quake in the present winter ' s state , and
>> scene vii .
how the young whelp of talbot ' s , raging wood , did flesh his puny sword in frenchmen '
would they else be content to die ?
o , such a deed as from the body of contraction plucks the very soul , and sweet religion makes
all the occurrence of my fortune since hath been between this lady and this lord .
my noble lord , from eastcheap .
were all the wealth i have shut up in thee , i ' d give thee leave to hang it
and that set together is ' noddy .
i pray you , sir , take patience .
- stay illusion !
shall satisfy your father .
' tis not unknown to you , madam , i am a poor fellow .
but entertain it , and though you think me poor , i am the man will give thee all the
i will have the heart of him , if he forfeit ; for , were he out of venice ,
txt a cup of wine , sir ?
many english kings .
o , let me live , and all the secrets of our camp i ' ll show , their force
your answer , sir .
an earl i am , and suffolk am i call ' d .
pardon , my gracious lord ; for i submit my fancy to your eyes .
natural " : for i believe they are portentous things unto the climate that they point upon .
i beseech you .
as indeed i do not ; yet , for i know thou art religious and hast a thing within thee
duchess .
as venerable nestor , hatch ' d in silver , should with a bond of air , strong as the
iden .
y ' are deceiv ' d , my lord ; this is monsieur parolles , the gallant militarist-that was his
but if you go- hot .
to bring to pass , but sway ' d and fashion ' d by the hand of heaven .
hark , tamora , the empress of my soul , which never hopes more heaven than rests in thee- this
toad !
or sow lettuce , set hyssop and weed up thyme , supply it with one gender of herbs or distract
how do you , cassio ?
clock strikes .
alligator stuff ' d , and other skins of ill-shaped fishes ; and about his shelves a beggarly account of
as he shall smile , othello shall go mad ; and his unbookish jealousy must construe poor cassio ' s
you must be so good , sir , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i am too childish-foolish for this world .
gentle eyes of peace ; now powers from home and discontents at home meet in one line ; and vast
o , make them joyful , grant their lawful suit !
txt jeweller .
know how we proceed .
i know that virtue to be in you , brutus , as well as i do know your outward favor
beside , i fear me , if thy thoughts were sifted , the king , thy sovereign , is not
_num_ in loving thee thou know ' st i am forsworn , but thou art twice forsworn to me love
what ish my nation ?
grace me no grace , nor uncle me no uncle .
ask me if i am a courtier : it shall do you no harm to learn .
what shall i swear by ?
re-enter gremio signior gremio , came you from the church ?
his faults lie open to the laws ; let them , not you , correct him .
sight , not pay thee .
fore god , his grace is bold , to trust these traitors .
and did he search for you , and could not find you ?
most meet that first we come to words ; and therefore have we our written purposes before us sent ;
though it be a shame to be on any side but one , it is worse shame to beg than
as welcome as to one that would be rid of such an enemy .
monsieur parolles , you were born under a charitable star .
look where he comes .
he hath confess ' d .
as ' twere to banish their affects with him .
here have we found him dead .
soldiers .
then plainly know my heart ' s dear love is set on the fair daughter of rich capulet ; as
, fasten ' d and fix ' d the shame on ' t in himself , threw off his spirit
tis most dangerous .
they grow like hydra ' s heads .
of him no more .
shall we have a play extempore ?
is it the king ?
o sweet pistol !
peremptory , and unlike himself ?
o my follies !
enter ross and angus .
you either fear his humour or my negligence , that you call in question the continuance of his love .
yes , that you did , sir , and forswore it too .
' satisfy me once more ; once more search with me .
were i the ghost that walk ' d , i ' d bid you mark her eye , and tell
a good swift simile , but something currish .
minime , honest master ; or rather , master , no .
tell him in death i bless ' d him , for so i will .
and bound them .
why , i have often wish ' d myself poorer , that i might come nearer to you .
here can i sit alone , unseen of any , and to the nightingale ' s complaining notes tune my
what , what , what ?
[aside to clarence] god forbid that , for he ' ll take vantages .
[coming forward] if ancient sorrow be most reverend , give mine the benefit of seniory , and let my griefs
and i do not doubt but to hear them say it is a sweet comedy .
why , shall we turn to men ?
nay , call us ten times frail ; for we are soft as our complexions are , and credulous to
, as i said , ' twixt elbe and sala , is at this day in germany call ' d
in the secret parts of fortune ?
what ' s he that follows there , that would not dance ?
that we look ' d for no less spoil than glory- aufidius .
first lord .
will not harbour in this town to-night .
of all mad matches , never was the like .
my fate cries out and makes each petty artire in this body as hardy as the nemean lion ' s
she so good a lady that no tongue could ever pronounce dishonour of her-by my life , she never knew
god knows , my son , by what by-paths and indirect crook ' d ways i met this crown ;
after midnight is to go to bed betimes .
he is so plaguy proud that the death tokens of it cry ' no recovery .
er the infected house , boding to all- he had my handkerchief .
how look i that i should seem to lack humanity so much as this fact comes to ?
and , gallant warwick , do but answer this : what is the body when the head is off ?
a kind good night to all !
there is much music , excellent voice , in this little organ , yet cannot you make it speak .
what , for being a puritan ?
to him , father .
to find us .
needful that the most immodest word be look ' d upon and learnt ; which once attain ' d ,
o grace !
may read who pass ' d that passing fair ?
there is betwixt that smile we would aspire to , that sweet aspect of princes , and their ruin page
' d prison , then abound in tears as i come out : this action i now go on is
in thee there is not half an hour of life .
tell me whereon the likelihood depends .
so ; murder , i warrant now .
are my discourses dull ?
fie , my lord , fie !
shall find that heaven hath infused them with these spirits to make them instruments of fear and warning unto some
enter mardian the eunuch cleopatra .
wilt thou be daunted at a woman ' s sight ?
txt only we want a little personal strength ; and pause us till these rebels , now afoot , come
speak it from your souls : were ' t not all one an empty eagle were set to guard the
' s flaw !
for which we lose our heads to gild his horns .
finds a pang as great as when a giant dies .
say what thou art ; why i should yield to thee .
enter hamlet and three of the players .
i never gave it him .
ah , rosencrantz !
warrant ' s come .
that bear this head be round impaled with a glorious crown .
you thief of love !
a modern quill doth come too short , speaking of worth , what worth in you doth grow .
and yet i fear you , for you are fatal then when your eyes roll so .
, laughing at thy shame , that erst did follow thy proud chariot wheels when thou didst ride in triumph
, to eat , they depart alonso .
paid too much , and sorry that you are paid too much ; purse and brain both empty ; the
, being full of supper and distempering draughts , upon malicious bravery , dost thou come to start my quiet
but for all this , my honest-natur ' d friends , i must needs say you have a little fault
_num_ not from the stars do i my judgement pluck , and yet methinks i have astronomy , but not
dst me up at midnight to fetch dew from the still-vex ' d bermoothes , there she ' s hid
look how thou diest .
mistress , it is ; sweet lady , entertain him to be my fellow-servant to your ladyship .
to this i witness call the fools of time , which die for goodness , who have lived for crime
[coriolanus sits] first senator .
this noble gentleman , lord titus here , is in opinion and in honour wrong ' d , that ,
so is the bargain .
o , my old master !
, sings this to thee , ' thou single wilt prove none ' .
firm and irrevocable is my doom which i have pass ' d upon her ; she is banish ' d
but neither bended knees , pure hands held up , sad sighs , deep groans , nor silver-shedding tears ,
give me your hand ; i ' ll lead you to some biding .
fled .
, in twelve thousand , none .
drunkenly carous ' d .
he ' s much distract .
hast stol ' n it from her ?
what think you , captain fluellen , is it fit this soldier keep his oath ?
you shall not in your funeral speech blame us , but speak all good you can devise of caesar ,
let ' s briefly put on manly readiness and meet i ' the hall together .
banish plump jack , and banish all the world !
and true romeo dead .
then shall our names , familiar in his mouth as household words- harry the king , bedford and exeter ,
ass , i doubt not .
that you will take your instant leave o ' th ' king , and make this haste as your own
tremble , thou wretch , that hast within thee undivulged crimes unwhipp ' d of justice .
of other , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you are old enough now , and yet methinks you lose .
turn , hell hound , turn !
the queen his mother lives almost by his looks ; and for myself , - my virtue or my plague
guns heard .
there ' s another .
nor i from troy come not to whisper with him ; i bring a trumpet to awake his ear ,
alack , my child is dead , and with my child my joys are buried !
my lords ambassadors , your several suits have been consider ' d and debated on .
must he submit ?
[knocks] watch .
where is the beauteous majesty of denmark ?
we see the very wreck that we must suffer ; and unavoided is the danger now for suffering so the
besides , i will be sworn these ears of mine heard you confess you had the chain of him ,
there the men are as mad as he .
how came the noble timon to this change ?
never go home ; here starve we out the night .
scene vii macbeth ' s castle .
what , think you much to pay two thousand crowns , and bear the name and port of gentlemen ?
ah , thou honey-seed rogue !
came you from padua , from bellario ?
i have seen better faces in my time than stands on any shoulder that i see before me at this
on that advantage , bought with such a shame , to save a paltry life and slay bright fame ,
speak , or die .
marry , do i , sir ; and i came to acquaint you with a matter .
txt my noble queen , let former grudges pass , and henceforth i am thy true servitor .
i thank you , gracious lords , for all your fair endeavours , and entreat , out of a new-sad
what means my niece lavinia by these signs ?
how fell you out ?
, ' this is my glove , ' by this hand i will take thee a box on the ear
nor iron on his heel !
enter a king and a queen very lovingly ; the queen embracing him and he her .
; and when mistress bridget lost the handle of her fan , i took ' t upon mine honour thou
' swounds , show me what thou ' t do .
shall love , in building , grow so ruinous ?
the french might have a good prey of us , if he knew of it ; for there is none
and who doth lead them but a paltry fellow , long kept in britaine at our mother ' s cost
how dearly would it touch thee to the quick , should ' st thou but hear i were licentious ,
so he does indeed .
lucius .
wheel , and bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven , as low as to the fiends !
ford , and sir hugh evans page .
you whoreson malt-horse drudge !
what time o ' day is ' t , apemantus ?
when i came back- for this was brief- i found them close together , at blow and thrust , even
time , what should not then be spar ' d .
gives him a letter .
not possible ; for who shall bear your part and be in padua here vincentio ' s son ; keep
i had your heart before ; this follows it .
the game ' s afoot : follow your spirit ; and upon this charge cry ' god for harry ,
lysander , if you live , good sir , awake .
cruel men and give it to a most noble judge , the king my master .
why , worthy thane , you do unbend your noble strength , to think so brainsickly of things .
old norway , giving to you no further personal power to business with the king , more than the scope
all is not well .
be so cruel to me as you , o the dearest of creatures , would even renew me with your
frailty , thy name is woman !
o , she did so course o ' er my exteriors with such a greedy intention that the appetite of
willing you to demand your hostages , and they shall be immediately deliver ' d .
dieu vous garde , monsieur .
o thou wicked hannibal !
well , i shall be wiser .
' d revenge on him , his sons , his favourites , and his friends .
exeunt scene iii .
you rub the sore , when you should bring the plaster .
hum !
in him .
to all that fortune , death , and danger dare , even for an eggshell .
stand forth , demetrius .
, doth one pluck down another , and together die in the fall .
his pupil age man-ent ' red thus , he waxed like a sea , and in the brunt of seventeen
i doubt it is no other but the main , his father ' s death and our o ' erhasty
on , not erebus itself were dim enough to hide thee from prevention .
my sovereign lord , i do beseech your highness to take our brother clarence to your grace .
colville shall still be your name , a traitor your degree , and the dungeon your place- a place deep
come , come , you ' ll do him wrong ere you are ware ; you ' ll be so
' tis dry enough-will with great speed of judgment , ay , with celerity , find hector ' s purpose
ba , pueritia , with a horn added .
, and no more .
against his will .
i drink the air before me , and return or ere your pulse twice beat .
' i pray , sir ' - plague upon ' t !
health and glad tidings to your majesty !
kerely-bonto , sir , betake thee to thy faith , for seventeen poniards are at thy bosom .
re-enter page page .
my songs and praises be to one , of one , still such , and ever so .
cut my lace , charmian , come !
thy mother ' s poison ' d .
following ; but i will not eat with you , drink with you , nor pray with you .
i have much to say in the behalf of that falstaff .
go , sickness as thou art !
you may take my word , my lord : i know no man can justly praise but what he does
that hand which had the strength , even at your door .
his behaviours to love , will , after he hath laugh ' d at such shallow follies in others ,
txt may justly diet me .
their faults are open .
gallants , i am not as i have been .
away toward bury , to the dauphin there !
so , sir , heartily well met , and most glad of your company .
what colour is it of ?
i will give thee for it a thousand pound .
in the sight of thy former lady ' s eye ; and the country proverb known , that every man
but stay thee- ' tis the fruits of love i mean .
thou hast described a hot friend cooling .
the sweetest sleep and fairest-boding dreams that ever ent ' red in a drowsy head have i since your departure
if sleep charge nature , to break it with a fearful dream of him , and cry myself awake ?
where are my switzers ?
shall the proud lord that bastes his arrogance with his own seam and never suffers matter of the world enter
if aught within that little seeming substance , or all of it , with our displeasure piec ' d ,
how shall we beguile the lazy time , if not with some delight ?
yonder comes paris , yonder comes paris .
the matter is to me , sir , as concerning jaquenetta .
, god warrant us : she for a woman , god bless us !
i will not trouble thee , my child ; farewell .
kneel ' d , how he refell ' d me , and how i replied , for this was of
with his eyes full of anger .
therefore so please thee to return with us , and of our athens , thine and ours , to take
how now !
with thy blood : ' wind-changing warwick now can change no more .
like an old tale still , which will have matter to rehearse , though credit be asleep and not an
shall i do such a deed ?
to it with your feet , humour it with turning up your eyelids , sigh a note and sing a
in my stead .
and thither hied a sad distempered guest .
day ?
at ephesus adriana , wife to antipholus of ephesus luciana , her sister luce , servant to adriana a courtezan
if my observation , which very seldom lies , by the heart ' s still rhetoric disclosed with eyes ,
--good cousin , have a care this busy time .
how goes her business ?
lady northumberland .
thief too , sir , for we have found upon him , sir , a strange picklock , which we
he duncan ' s sons under his key- as , an ' t please heaven , he shall not -they
all this- uttered with gentle breath , calm look , knees humbly bow ' d- could not take truce with
view ; and let me speak to the yet unknowing world how these things came about .
gardon , o sweet gardon !
and the moon may shine in at the casement .
a stranger , and i not known on ' t ?
margaret your queen and my son edward be sent for to return from france with speed ; for till i
' tis true , i gave a noble to the priest the morn that i was wedded to her mother
adieu till then ; then fail not .
who join ' st thou with but with a lordly nation that will not trust thee but for profit '
i will knog his urinals about his knave ' s costard when i have goot opportunities for the ork .
o that brave caesar !
marcius fights till they be driven in breathless officious , and not valiant , you have sham ' d me
in the great chamber .
nay , do not wonder at it ; you are made rather to wonder at the things you hear than
have you done there ?
you may .
be borne to that same ancient vault where all the kindred of the capulets lie .
say nothing !
' you say so- you that did void your rheum upon my beard and foot me as you spurn a
come , your reason , jack , your reason .
no , nor mine now .
on thee to heaven , as it on earth hath been thy servant still .
here ' s another ballad , of a fish that appeared upon the coast on wednesday the fourscore of april
the devil is come from hell .
what ' s the business , that such a hideous trumpet calls to parley the sleepers of the house ?
sinful macduff , they were all struck for thee !
th ' ear , taste , touch , smell , pleas ' d from thy table rise ; they only
dismiss ' d my father from the court ; broke an oath on oath , committed wrong on wrong ;
nay , i ' ll to him again , in name of brook ; he ' ll tell me all
do not then walk too open .
herself wittingly .
good den , brother .
, to be plain , i think there is not half a kiss to choose who loves another best .
but by circumstance , the name of valour .
when shall i hear all through ?
] why do we hold our tongues , that most may claim this argument for ours ?
ay , and burn too .
i will weary you , then , no longer with idle talking .
he hath won , that hath he fortified ; so hot a speed with such advice dispos ' d ,
this , and saint george to boot !
i have done the deed .
great ' st does least .
your royal father ' s murther ' d .
two of most sage saws .
i never in my life did hear a challenge urg ' d more modestly , unless a brother should a
i warrant there ' s vinegar and pepper in ' t .
two curs shall tame each other : pride alone must tarre the mastiffs on , as ' twere their bone
all the regions do smilingly revolt , and who resists are mock ' d for valiant ignorance , and perish
how now , my lady the hostess ?
my brother shall know of it ; and so i thank you for your good counsel .
thy looks are full of speed .
bring forth these men .
can it be that modesty may more betray our sense than woman ' s lightness ?
[aside] a little more than kin , and less than kind !
good lord .
i ' ll tell thee more of this another time .
as oak- he thought ' twas witchcraft- but i am much to blame ; i humbly do beseech you of
there is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young plants with carving ' rosalind ' on their barks
through every guilty hole , then murders , treasons , and detested sins , the cloak of night being pluck
besides this nothing that he so plentifully gives me , the something that nature gave me his countenance seems to
_num_ if the dull substance of my flesh were thought , injurious distance should not stop my way , for
] rom .
come to what is important in ' t .
did i ever call for thee to pay thy part ?
my boon is that this gentleman may render of whom he had this ring .
she , having the truth of honour in her , hath made him that gracious denial which he is most
this news , which is call ' d true , is so like an old tale that the verity of
douglas is living , and your brother , yet ; but for my lord your son- northumberland .
here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty , which dreads not yet their lives ' destruction .
harry le roy .
i like not fair terms and a villain ' s mind .
i know not , lady .
noble aufidius , take your commission ; hie you to your bands ; let us alone to guard corioli .
you bring me out .
not that i am afraid to die , but that , my offences being many , i would repent out
come , casca , you and i will yet ere day see brutus at his house .
exit worcester [with vernon] prince .
done ' t ; nor is ' t directly laid to thee , the death of the young prince ,
sun , do as the carrion does , not as the flow ' r , corrupt with virtuous season .
what country , friends , is this ?
re-enter thisby theseus .
this man , lady , hath robb ' d many beasts of their particular additions : he is as valiant
[aside to clarence] yea , is it so ?
yet thanks i must you con that you are thieves profess ' d , that you work not in holier
thou hast amaz ' d me .
you did nothing , sir .
it is a purpos ' d thing , and grows by plot , to curb the will of the nobility
let it be thy first service ; go .
by my troth , this is the old fashion ; you two never meet but you fall to some discord
be this sweet helen ' s knell .
a woman that bears all down with her brain ; and this her son cannot take two from twenty ,
king hamlet overcame fortinbras .
but , audrey , there is a youth here in the forest lays claim to you .
' the end <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world
[aside] i wish not so ; unless it had been the fall of an ass , which is no great
am i a machiavel ?
that i can keep your counsel , and not mine own .
do , i prithee ; but yet have the grace to consider that tears do not become a man .
o heavenly god !
he was too good to be where ill men were , and was the best of all amongst the rar
i am a woodland fellow , sir , that always loved a great fire ; and the master i speak
and , as i am an honest puck , if we have unearned luck now to scape the serpent '
enter leonato and his brother [ antonio] .
ay , forsooth ; but he is as tall a man of his hands as any is between this and
i am given , sir , secretly to understand that your younger brother , orlando , hath a disposition to
in her heart did mercy come , chiding that tongue that ever sweet , was used in giving gentle doom
what , i say , my foot my tutor ?
, which bow the head and nod at every man .
ay , sir ; he , sir , ' s a good workman , a very good tailor .
be you and i behind an arras then .
as those that feed grow full , as blossoming time that from the seedness the bare fallow brings to teeming
juliet , the county stays .
[lies down upon his face] evans .
nay , an you get it , you shall get it by running .
thine eyes , sweet lady , have infected mine .
say this becomes him- as his composure must be rare indeed whom these things cannot blemish- yet must antony no
txt mine eyes did sicken at the sight and could not endure a further view .
words against me ?
near your sight for fear of swallowing ; but with nimble wing we were enforc ' d for safety sake
o , that must be i ' th ' virtue of your daughter .
all ' s hush ' d as midnight yet .
d severn have i sent him bootless home and weather-beaten back .
' a will make the man mad , to make a woman of him .
all the world ' s a stage , and all the men and women merely players ; they have their
he shall see none to fear .
i will look on it .
i cannot , by the progress of the stars , give guess how near to day .
exit enter a messenger messenger .
enter a gentlewoman gentlewoman .
comes not that blood as modest evidence to witness simple virtue , would you not swear , all you that
rome , thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods !
a street enter antonio , salerio , and solanio antonio .
here ' s no knavery !
if the great gods be just , they shall assist the deeds of justest men .
break off the parley ; for scarce i can refrain the execution of my big-swol ' n heart upon that
soft , by and by .
he is knight , dubb ' d with unhatch ' d rapier and on carpet consideration ; but he is
not sad , my lord .
lust , and my desire all continent impediments would o ' erbear that did oppose my will .
why bastard ?
, and thou shalt have her .
judas i am- dumain .
come , seeling night , scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day , and with thy bloody and invisible
txt sir toby the whilst .
what an arm he has !
, giglot fortune !
i found it not .
a charge we bear i ' th ' war , and , as the president of my kingdom , will
' s mind .
me , the knave constable had set me i ' th ' stocks , i ' th ' common stocks
exeunt pembroke and stafford but ere i go , hastings and montague , resolve my doubt .
i will be cheaters to them both , and they shall be exchequers to me ; they shall be my
well , fare you well , my lord .
[within] who ' s there that knocks so imperiously ?
town , beheaded publicly for his offence .
when ' a was naked , he was for all the world like a fork ' d radish , with
, the trial just and noble .
no die , but an ace , for him ; for he is but one .
let us haste to hear it , and call the noblest to the audience .
will have blood ; they say blood will have blood .
what you will have it nam ' d , even that it is , and so it shall be so
this day , in argument upon a case , some words there grew ' twixt somerset and me ; among
' s as fartuous a civil modest wife , and one , i tell you , that will not miss
and i had mine !
the tiger now hath seiz ' d the gentle hind ; insulting tyranny begins to jet upon the innocent and
let ' s see , let ' s see !
slave , i have set my life upon a cast page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and in that quarrel use it to the death .
what stays had i but they ?
this is above all strangeness .
it were impossible i should speed amiss .
unkindness shall his death draw out to ling ' ring sufferance .
will this description satisfy him ?
more than savages could suffer .
my lord , i do beseech you , pardon me ; ' twas not my purpose thus to beg a
her hedges ruin ' d , her knots disordered , and her wholesome herbs swarming with caterpillars ?
nay , he will do it .
out , and what love can do , that dares love attempt .
a death ' s face in a ring .
if his occulted guilt do not itself unkennel in one speech , it is a damned ghost that we have
enter king , queen , and others queen .
thy tyranny page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
sauf votre honneur , le francais que vous parlez , il est meilleur que l ' anglais lequel je parle
they throng who should buy first , as if my trinkets had been hallowed and brought a benediction to the
if she confess that she was half the wooer , destruction on my head , if my bad blame light
i would we could do so ; for her benefits are mightily misplaced ; and the bountiful blind woman doth
exit salisbury bedford .
light nut ; the soul of this man is his clothes ; trust him not in matter of heavy consequence
mine own fortune , and inform ' d her fully i could not answer in that course of honour page
if i could find example of thousands that had struck anointed kings and flourish ' d after , i '
after seven years ' siege yet troy walls stand ; sith every action that hath gone before , whereof we
five and thirty leagues , off and on .
to speak it profanely) , that , neither having the accent of christians , nor the gait of christian ,
half english , that shall go to constantinople and take the turk by the beard ?
i could be merry now .
why did you throw your wedded lady from you ?
what light through yonder window breaks ?
sweetheart !
there was a time when all the body ' s members rebell ' d against the belly ; thus accus
surpris ' d !
, no noise , but silence and eternal sleep .
let that suffice , most forcible feeble .
txt andromache .
my fear hath catch ' d your fondness .
offer ' d mercy is .
the hobby-horse is forgot .
' d thus .
spoke like a sprightful noble gentleman .
why , i will .
th ' impression of keen whips i ' d wear as rubies , and strip myself to death as to
nor friends nor foes , to me welcome you are .
o , who shall believe but you misuse the reverence of your place , employ the countenance and grace of
open your chaps again .
' tis much to blame .
, must i behold thy timeless cruel death ?
cousin of hereford , what dost thou object against the duke of norfolk , thomas mowbray ?
[aside] a material fool !
i stay too long by thee , i weary thee .
compliment is like th ' encounter of two dog-apes ; and when a man thanks me heartily , methinks have
he whom my father nam ' d ?
' tis the god hercules , whom antony lov ' d , now leaves him .
is this talbot , so much fear ' d abroad that with his name the mothers still their babes ?
whether there be a scar under ' t or no , the velvet knows ; but ' tis a goodly
well , see to live ; i will not touch thine eye for all the treasure that thine uncle owes
_num_ for shame deny that thou bear ' st love to any who for thy self art so unprovident .
as for your spiteful false objections , prove them , and i lie open to the law ; but god
thou hast made me giddy with these in tidings .
come , and lead me to these sorrows .
sir , my name is lucio , well known to the duke .
then beauteous niggard why dost thou abuse , the bounteous largess given thee to give ?
sebastian are you ?
this union shall do more than battery can to our fast-closed gates ; for at this match with swifter spleen
thou or any man knows where to have me , thou knave , thou !
grown bold , think true love acted simple modesty .
and here , neighbour , here ' s a cup of charneco .
thrice and once the hedge-pig whined .
come , and ' twere not for thy humours , there ' s not a better wench in england .
[he whispers in his ear] priest .
ah , humphrey , can i bear this shameful yoke ?
' so , proceed you .
well-rememb ' red father ' s ?
you ' ll come to dinner , george ?
aufidius and his antiates ; and that you not delay the present , but , filling the air with swords
txt on all that need .
o happy dagger !
ay , so he says .
like him ; and if my legs were two such riding-rods , my arms such eel-skins stuff ' d ,
no further , sir .
, even till we make the main and the aerial blue an indistinct regard .
well , cousin , i told you a thing yesterday ; think on ' t .
against the mind , the which he pricks and wounds with many legions of strange fantasies , which , in
away , i say ; commend me to thy master .
peace then , no words .
at this same ancient feast of capulet ' s sups the fair rosaline whom thou so lov ' st ;
no more , no more .
way excuse his foils when we do bear so great weight in his lightness .
if , duke of burgundy , you would the peace whose want gives growth to th ' imperfections which you
come , madam , let ' s away , exeunt [montague and wife] .
and now at last , laden with honour ' s spoils , returns the good andronicus to rome , renowned
this design .
txt sweet sink , sweet sewer !
patience and sorrow strove who should express her goodliest .
haply some poison yet doth hang on them to make me die with a restorative .
here on my knee i vow to god above i ' ll never pause again , never stand still ,
my gracious sovereign , howe ' er it pleases you to take it so , the ring was never hers
enter gloucester , lear , kent , fool , and edgar .
and i : if wishes would prevail with me , my purpose should not fail with me , but thither
had thy heavenly company ; for where thou art , there is the world itself , with every several pleasure
good morrow , master gadshill .
so , nobles , shall you all , that knit your sinews to the strength of mine .
my nature ' s plague to spy into abuses , and oft my jealousy shapes faults that are not- that
i ' ll say th ' hast gold .
i will , captain .
exeunt apemantus and fool flavius .
suffer love !
or whether riding on the balls of mine seem they in motion ?
he hath eaten me out of house and home ; he hath put all my substance into that fat belly
i know my physic will work with him .
good mistress page , for that i love your daughter in such a righteous fashion as i do , perforce
muck of the world .
i am in this your wife , your son , these senators , the nobles ; and you will rather
so did i too , and he swore he would marry her tonight .
a great perturbation in nature , to receive at once the benefit of sleep and do the effects of watching
our vaults have wept with drunken spilth of wine , when every room hath blaz ' d with lights and
thy cruelty in execution upon offenders hath exceeded law , and left thee to the mercy of the law .
be as thy presence is gracious and kind , or to thy self at least kind-hearted prove , make thee
seize one half his goods ; the other half comes to the privy coffer of the state ; and the
that shows thou art unconfirm ' d .
what thou hast , forget ' st .
i to love begin .
neighbours , god speed !
give me the iron , i say , and bind him here .
so fare you well till we shall meet again .
pitch .
i warr ' nt it will .
phrynia and timandra .
without stop , didst let thy heart consent , and consequently thy rude hand to act the deed which both
quickly send (be brief in ' t) to the castle ; for my writ is on the life of lear
actions in their hearts that for their tongues to be silent and not confess so much were a kind of
marry , i would not do such a thing for a joint-ring , nor for measures of lawn , nor
i thank you for that ; if my lord get a boy of you , you ' ll give him
dare ye come forth and meet us in the field ?
lords appellants , your differences shall all rest under gage till we assign you to your days of trial enter
like a lecher , out of whorish loins are pleas ' d to breed out your inheritors .
is whispering nothing ?
turns them to shapes , and gives to airy nothing a local habitation and a name .
break the smallest parcel of this vow .
when there is nothing living but thee , thou shalt be welcome .
i ' d play incessantly upon these jades , even till unfenced desolation leave them as naked as the vulgar
cried , ' o false blood , thou register of lies , what unapproved witness dost thou bear !
[aside] is ' t possible ?
master will be here ere morning .
in latin , praeclarissimus filius noster henricus , rex angliae et haeres franciae .
txt fal .
so i do ; but , i ' faith , i should have been a woman by right .
i was about to protest i loved you .
perchance of the duke ' s death , perchance entering into some monastery ; but , by chance , nothing
you , gentlewoman- doll .
enter tranio , bravely apparelled as lucentio , and biondello tranio .
quis , quis , thou consonant ?
then both , or one , or anything thou wilt .
for all the rest , they ' ll take suggestion as a cat laps milk ; they ' ll tell
nay , sure , i think she holds them prisoners still .
wedded in a day .
because i would be sure to have all well to entertain your highness and your empress .
not th ' imperious show of the full-fortun ' d caesar ever shall be brooch ' d with me .
i know not , marcus , but i know it is- whether by device or no , the heavens can
he her dieter .
agamemnon commands achilles ; achilles is my lord ; i am patroclus ' knower ; and patroclus is a fool
wanting your company , which , i protest , hath very much beguil ' d the tediousness and process of
throw me in the channel !
o , say !
[he gives his hand to warwick] lewis .
now let us on , my lords , and join our powers , and seek how we may prejudice the
what england says , say briefly , gentle lord ; we coldly pause for thee .
enter kent and [oswald the] steward , severally .
in my house i am sure he is ; my intelligence is true ; my jealousy is reasonable .
what two reverend bishops were those that went on each side of the queen ?
says very wisely , ' it is ten o ' clock ; thus we may see , ' quoth he
i repent .
i will entreat you , when you see my son , to tell him that his sword can never win
is ' a not ?
' what ' s here ?
we will not fall .
txt antipholus of syracuse .
but , by your favour , how near ' s the other army ?
king are vanishing , or vanished out of sight , stealing away the treasure of his spring : for such
drew a good bow ; and dead !
once a too long withered flower .
there is a lady , in verona here , whom i affect ; but she is nice , and coy
old brutus ' statue .
your guests tonight .
art thou alive , or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight ?
their shoulders .
speak briefly , can you like of paris ' love ?
[gloucester ' s men rush at the tower gates , and woodville the lieutenant speaks within] page _num_ complete works
art thou so hasty ?
dreadful will not be as was his sight .
with viola fabian .
an you smile not , he ' s gagg ' d ' ?
stand the putting on , i ' ll have our michael cassio on the hip , abuse him to the
go tread the path that thou shalt ne ' er return .
what means he now ?
] within that space you may have drawn together your tenants , friends , and neighbouring gentlemen .
he goes forth gallantly .
o , let us yet be merciful !
; the pale-fac ' d moon looks bloody on the earth , and lean-look ' d prophets whisper fearful change
what is the sum he owes ?
le roy !
when he needs what you have glean ' d , it is but squeezing you and , sponge , you
when pistol lies , do this ; and fig me , like the bragging spaniard .
sir , what are you that offer to beat my servant ?
the very best at a beast , my lord , that e ' er i saw .
france , whose armour conscience buckled on , whom zeal and charity brought to the field as god ' s
will either of you bear me a challenge to him ?
ay , some mad message from his mad grandfather .
, or wolf , or bull , on meddling monkey , or on busy ape , she shall pursue it
read this schedule .
i know this ; and thus i challenge it .
; and which she after , except she bend her humour , shall be assur ' d to taste of
the more shame for ye ; holy men i thought ye , upon my soul , two reverend cardinal virtues
old enemy , who is of rome worse hated than of you , and titus lartius , a most valiant
nor is there living- i speak it with a single heart , my lords- a man that more detests ,
the mayor is here at hand .
' d and debauch ' d , whose nature sickens but to speak a truth .
this is a lord !
by being seldom seen , i could not stir but , like a comet , i was wond ' red
aemilius .
music plays , and they dance .
strike up our drums to find this danger out .
how , my lord !
go see this rumourer whipp ' d .
town , and leave your children , wives , and you , in peace .
you all did see that on the lupercal i thrice presented him a kingly crown , which he did thrice
i pray you , sir , walk in .
but angry , wrathful , and inclin ' d to blood , if you go forward ; therefore yield or
come , come , you she knight-errant , come .
fare thee well , kind maid ; thy pains , not us ' d , must by thyself be paid
i thank you , richard : god knows how long it is i have to live , and it hath
and revels sometimes altogether .
we ' ll answer .
o courteous tybalt !
before his lord .
go thy ways ; let my horses be well look ' d to , without any tricks .
txt and where thou now exacts the penalty , which is a pound of this poor merchant ' s flesh
but love hate on for now i know thy mind , those that can see thou lov ' st ,
why , but there ' s many a man hath more hair than wit .
wouldst thou have thyself fall in the confusion of men , and remain a beast with the beasts ?
how canst thou cross this marriage ?
for shame , put up .
and this is more , masters , than you can deny .
if when you make your pray ' rs , god should be so obdurate as yourselves , how would it
is he so hasty that he doth suppose my sleep my death ?
o my dread lord , i should be guiltier than my guiltiness , to think i can be undiscernible ,
hector , in view of troyans and of greeks , shall make it good or do his best to do
enter romeo and juliet aloft , at the window .
then yield , my lords ; and here conclude with me that margaret shall be queen , and none but
there , give it your hobbyhorse .
[to caesar] thus do they , sir : they take the flow o ' th ' nile by certain scales
so lost .
being held a foe , he may not have access to breathe such vows as lovers use to swear ,
where ' s the master ?
my lord and husband !
back .
it shall not neither .
my father stays my coming ; answer not ; the tide is now- nay , not thy tide of tears
two lips indifferent red ; item , two grey eyes with lids to them ; item , one neck ,
yet is this no charm for the toothache .
wounds of slaughtered englishmen ; the which how far off from the mind of bolingbroke it is such crimson tempest
see you these , husband ?
d , he will every way be mock ' d .
to the will of heaven ; who , when they see the hours ripe on earth , will rain hot
more swelling port than my faint means would grant continuance ; nor do i now make moan to be abridg
o filthy traitor !
i deserve it .
i will never trust a man again for keeping his sword clean ; nor believe he can have everything in
pisanio takes it up] thou tak ' st up thou know ' st not what ; but take it for
, when he dies thou shalt be his heir ; for what he hath taken away from thy father perforce
my dear lord- timon .
now , by my faith and honour , if seriously i may convey my thoughts in this my light deliverance
is not this stephano , my drunken butler ?
mistress , upon my life , i tell you true ; i have not breath ' d almost since i
ay , worthy menenius , and with most prosperous approbation .
car and beseech list ' ning .
strength into one giant arm , it shall not force this lineal honour from me .
what , rome ?
brother of gloucester , you mistake the matter .
marry , thou ought ' st not to let thy horse wear a cloak , when honester men than thou
the one i have almost forgot- your pardon ; the other , when she has obtain ' d your eye
the gods give him joy , and make him good friend to the people !
lay hold on him .
the trumpet sounds ; be mask ' d ; the maskers come .
not fair .
if it be so , you have wound a goodly clew ; if it be not , forswear ' t
rest ; for there is nothing in the between but getting wenches with child , wronging the ancientry , stealing
pil ' d , for a french velvet .
it ' s no matter for that , so she sleep not in her talk .
this life is most jolly .
by my troth , and in good earnest , and so god mend me , and by all pretty oaths
he smil ' d , and said ' the better for our purpose .
' ll go or come .
hail , rome , victorious in thy mourning weeds !
clouds and mock us .
paper , as it were ; he hath not drunk ink ; his intellect is not replenished ; he is
never anger made good guard for itself .
those errors that in thee are seen , to truths translated , and for true things deemed .
them : if you omit the offer of this time , i cannot promise but that you shall sustain moe
madam , be still- with reverence may i say ; for every word you speak in his behalf is slander
my lords , you speak your pleasures .
and i can teach thee , coz , to shame the devil- by telling truth .
pardon me , sir , the boldness is mine own that , being a stranger in this city here ,
op ' d their arms to embrace me as a friend .
under your patience , gentle emperess , ' tis thought you have a goodly gift in horning , and to
a rat ?
with rape .
there is not only disgrace and dishonour in that , monster , but an infinite loss .
thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of beauty .
rich ; and being rich , my virtue then shall be to say there is no vice but beggary .
from enemies heaven keep your majesty ; and , when they stand against you , may they fall as those
disprove this villain , if thou be ' st a man .
my master hath appointed me to go to saint luke ' s to bid the priest be ready to come
what , a prisoner ?
and servants , as i should ; i will some other be- some florentine , some neapolitan , or meaner
' tis certain there ' s not a boy left alive ; and the cowardly rascals that ran from the
who will go with me ?
deal double with her , truly it were an ill thing to be off ' red to any gentlewoman ,
re-enter achilles ulysses .
what , is it a time to jest and dally now ?
eleven o ' clock the hour .
' twere best he did .
i did not think to be so sad to-night as this hath made me .
our absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge .
farewell , my hearts ; i will to my honest knight falstaff , and drink canary with him .
_num_ why didst thou promise such a beauteous day , and make me travel forth without my cloak , to
alike your cause ?
in sooth , good friend , your father might have kept this calf , bred from his cow , from
thou injurious thief , hear but my name , and tremble .
and figo for thy friendship !
land , and many a christian soul , death , desolation , ruin , and decay .
mine eyes smell onions ; i shall weep anon .
auger ' s bore .
[they depart] see !
then ' twas my turn to fly , and now ' tis thine .
our fortunes from us till our oldness cannot relish them .
which they themselves not feel ; but , tasting it , their counsel turns to passion , which before would
girl at home .
soft , let us see- write ' lord have mercy on us ' on those three ; they are infected
good madam , patience .
faith , e ' en with losing his wits .
trouble us no more ; but join in friendship , as your lords have done .
defy him by the lord of westmoreland .
whose house ?
exit menenius .
and , in some sort , these wants of mine are crown ' d that i account them blessings ;
ye shall meet about this weighty business- my wolsey , see it furnish ' d .
o , good sir , softly , good sir ; i fear , sir , my shoulder blade is out
wish the crown , being so far off ; and so i chide the means that keeps me from it
her husband is this morning gone a-birding ; i have received from her another embassy of meeting ; ' twixt
' s eye .
faith , he does .
well fare you , gentleman .
that spirit ' s possess ' d with haste that wounds th ' unsisting postern with these strokes .
descents since the first father wore it .
txt we must extend our notice .
is my name talbot , and am i your son ?
go , give your master this .
old i do wax ; and from my weary limbs honour is cudgell ' d .
; i could never better stead thee than now .
dead by this .
this : caesar through syria intends his journey , and within three days you with your children will he send
; bade me enjoy it , with the place and honours , during my life ; and , to confirm
cannot passionate our tenfold grief with folded arms .
fear me not .
o most happy hour !
' tis deeds must win the prize , and he of both that can assure my daughter greatest dower shall
know you me yet ?
his will i seal ' d my hard consent .
the rod , and fawn on rage with base humility , which art a lion and the king of beasts
impudent strumpet !
that will be excellent .
that by degrees we mean to look into and watch our vantage in this business ; we ' ll over-reach
me with forgotten dust ; give that which gave thee life unto the worms .
and what of him , tranio ?
why are you breathless , and why stare you so ?
it is too general a vice , and severity must cure it .
nay , let ' s seek him ; then do we sin against our own estate when we may profit
to weep twixt clock and clock ?
go closely in with me .
is this our foeman ' s face ?
i do not know you so good a man as myself ; so chrish save me , i will cut
and on swifter than he that gibbets on the brewer ' s bucket .
that is where we din ' d , where dowsabel did claim me for her husband .
you may be gone ; it is not good you tarry here .
for i must hence ; and farewell to you all .
not well the gift of tongue , can lift your blood up with persuasion .
so , get thee gone , that i may know my grief ; ' tis but surmis ' d whiles
piteous predicament !
why , he has three thousand ducats a year .
well , on to th ' market-place .
[aside] i would i knew not why it should be slow ' d .
gremio .
and mine with hers , and thine , and margaret ' s .
la , else !
with this i depart- that , as i slew my best lover for the good of rome , i have
ere i learn love , i ' ll practise to obey .
hath sentenc ' d him .
take the boy to you ; he so troubles me , ' tis past enduring .
counsel ?
men ; the fineness of which metal is not found in fortune ' s love ?
are you not asham ' d ?
, nay , one quiet breath of rest .
whisper her ear and tell her , i and ursley walk in the orchard , and our whole discourse is
i press me none but good householders , yeomen ' s sons ; inquire me out contracted bachelors , such
these sentences , to sugar or to gall , being strong on both sides , are equivocal .
you say that edward is your brother ' s son .
txt and mark ' d you both , and for you both did blush .
what cause of suspicion ?
exeunt messenger and certain lords you see this chase is hotly followed , friends .
thou whoreson mad compound of majesty , by this light flesh and corrupt blood , thou art welcome .
from henceforth i will , coz , and devise sports .
sad hours seem long .
well have you heard , but something hard of hearing : they call me katherine that do talk of me
and , like a forester , the groves may tread even till the eastern gate , all fiery red ,
and sir philotus too !
wrought it with the king , and who perform ' d the bloody office of his timeless end .
cinna , where haste you so ?
conceive , and fare thee well .
prove , against strange maladies a sovereign cure : but at my mistress ' eye love ' s brand new-fired
what wife ?
in hector ; the one almost as infinite as all , the other blank as nothing .
i was never mann ' d with an agate till now ; but i will inset you neither in gold
why , there then !
modern lamentation might have mov ' d ?
good faith , i tremble still with fear ; but if there be yet left in heaven as small a
i ' ll see thee damn ' d ere i call thee coward , but i would give a thousand
then if he thrive and i be cast away , the worst was this , my love was my decay
when we grow stronger , then we ' ll make our claim ; till then ' tis wisdom to conceal
they must either , for so run the conditions , leave those remnants of fool and feather that they got
wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own ?
and if you love me , as you say you do , let me persuade you to forbear awhile .
ha , no , no , faith !
lady .
' d and vex ' d by the imprisoning of unruly wind within her womb , which , for enlargement
now make our atonement well , our peace will , like a broken limb united , grow stronger for the
my robe , and my integrity to heaven , is all i dare now call mine own .
; and i cannot think but , in the end , the villainies of man will set him clear .
to sparks of fire .
and sped you , sir ?
i have told him what and how true thou art .
too well , too well thou tell ' st a tale so in .
your grace must wait till you be call ' d for .
pardon me !
[berowne steps forth , and speaks to costard] princess of france .
that cause , fair nephew , that imprison ' d me and hath detain ' d me all my flow
your beauty was the cause of that effect- your beauty that did haunt me in my sleep to undertake the
youthful april shall with all his show ' rs .
the rock .
i am not a slut , though i thank the gods i am foul .
with him i sent the queen , my reason all the same ; and they are ready to-morrow , or
what , are they children ?
exit with his train .
gold ; for this they have been thoughtful to invest their sons with arts and martial exercises ; when ,
i set him there , sir ; but his own disorders deserv ' d much less advancement .
sins , lay on the king !
your castle is surprised ; your wife and babes savagely slaughter ' d .
gone she is to death or to dishonour , and my end can make good use of either .
eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast , and but twelve persons there .
, and less than this , i am sure , you cannot give .
txt if your pure maidens fall into the hand of hot and forcing violation ?
he loves no plays , as thou dost , antony ; he hears no music ; seldom he smiles ,
i come from the worthy achilles- thersites .
is this a dream ?
what ; ' tis trash .
i ' ll tear her all to pieces .
therein do men from children nothing differ .
, i could not give you three pence again- froth .
that ' s as much as to say ' can she so ?
[sings] o ' the twelfth day of december- maria .
and may be so we shall .
and you shall pay well for ' em .
he may command me as my sovereign ; but you have power in me as in a kinsman .
didst thou not say he comes ?
come , dromio , come , these jests are out of season ; reserve them till a merrier hour than
how now , my lords !
himself unto ?
the numbers alter ' d !
drinking to him first neighbour .
my gracious sovereign ?
juliet rises .
it signs well , does it not ?
help , charmian ; help , iras , help ; help , friends below !
yea , my gravity , wherein- let no man hear me- i take pride , could i with boot change
thy life is a miracle .
i will trot to-morrow a mile , and my way shall be paved with english faces .
else would soar above the view of men and keep us all in servile fearfulness .
my inward soul with nothing trembles .
away , i say ; time wears ; hold up your head , and mince .
do i speak feelingly now ?
re-enter othello and attendants .
hence i took a thought this was a judgment on me , that my kingdom , well worthy the best
words , words , mere words , no matter from the heart ; th ' effect doth operate another way
if so , i have derision med ' cinable to use between your strangeness and his pride , which his
ll be sworn ' tis true ; travellers ne ' er did lie , though fools at home condemn '
o vile , intolerable , not to be endur ' d !
at menelaus ' tent , most princely troilus .
with life he never more sprung up .
o , while you live , tell truth and shame the devil !
same eye whose bend doth awe the world did lose his luster .
set me the stoups of wine upon that table .
the queen is comfortless , and we forgetful in our long absence .
take good heed you charge not in your spleen a noble person and spoil your nobler soul .
you that way : we this way .
] bene .
call divine , be resident in men like one another , and not in me !
d to be a preparation ' gainst the polack , but better look ' d into , he truly found
cousin of hereford , as thy cause is right , so be thy fortune in this royal fight !
fair princess , welcome to the court of navarre .
' tis nothing but conceit , my gracious lady .
when first i woo ' d her !
are you my wife , and will not call me husband ?
and now , my honey love , will we return unto thy father ' s house page _num_ complete works
bring him away .
pray can i not , though inclination be as sharp as will .
nothing but sit and sit , and eat and eat !
this way to disport himself .
look , here ' s a letter from him ; the state hath another , his wife another ; and
the monstrousness of man when he looks out in an ungrateful shape !
exit , weeping , followed by bianca and others baptista .
be brief , i pray you .
get horses for your mistress .
[knocking within] more knocking at the door !
othello retires .
set armed discord ' twixt these perjur ' d kings !
say with princes if it shall go well by oft predict that i in heaven find .
, lays most lawful claim to this fair island and the territories , to ireland , poictiers , anjou ,
excellent good , i ' faith !
as henry ' s late presaging prophecy page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' you that choose not by the view , chance as fair and choose as true !
am i the master here , or you ?
mistress ?
' d , she sent you word she was dead ; but fearing since how it might work , hath
thy thisby dear , and lady dear !
] how shall i murther him , iago ?
hath he ask ' d for me ?
semblance and sweet majesty ; that every wretch , pining and pale before , beholding him , plucks comfort from
nay , but regard him well .
so are the prince and claudio , who accus ' d her upon the error that you heard debated .
if it might please ye- cleopatra .
peril .
very strangely , they say .
one that was a woman , sir ; but , rest her soul , she ' s dead .
sur mes genoux je vous donne mille remercimens ; et je m ' estime heureux que je suis tombe entre
brave death by speaking , whether he will or no ; imagine him a frenchman and thy foe .
i would , therefore , my sister had had name , sir .
thou didst speak but well when most the truth ; which i receive much better than to be pitied of
mouth of deep defiance up and shake the peace and safety of our throne .
rome , afterwards emperor bassianus , brother to saturninus titus andronicus , a noble roman marcus andronicus , tribune of
together .
i warrant , to your content .
sentence then : ' among nine bad if one be good , among nine bad if one be good ,
tongue , i must put you into a butterwoman ' s mouth , and buy myself another of bajazet '
precious villain !
come , go with me ; under our tents i ' ll play the eaves-dropper , to see if any
they do not love that do not show their love .
two thousand , fair woman ; and i ' ll vouchsafe thee the hearing .
so , to our tent ; where , ere we do repose us , we will write to rome of
the marshal of france , monsieur la far .
the lamentable change is from the best ; the worst returns to laughter .
three , they say ; but ' tis thought of every one coriolanus will carry it .
be champion of our church , or let the church , our mother , breathe her curse- a mother '
i have seen the cannon , when it hath blown his ranks into the air and , like the devil
o let me suffer (being at your beck) th ' imprisoned absence of your liberty , and patience tame to
devour incertain lookers-on .
treachery of the two fled hence be left her to perform .
a norman .
i ' faith , coz , ' tis he .
you have ta ' en up , under the counterfeited zeal of god , the subjects of his substitute ,
i post from love ; good lover , let me go .
injurious hermia !
meaning , to cursy .
i like it never the better for that .
fruit unripe , sticks on the tree , but fill unshaken when they mellow be .
sirrah , what tidings ?
what ' s your pleasure , sir ?
ay , marry was it , mussel-shell .
is not ' veal ' a calf ?
' still more fool i shall appear by the time i linger here .
i have tried .
so could i , faith , boy , to have the next wish after , that lucentio indeed had baptista
your brother kings and monarchs of the earth do all expect that you should rouse yourself , as did the
in good troth , it begins so .
tranio , at once uncase thee ; take my colour ' d hat and cloak .
caesar and antony have ever won more in their officer , than person .
what revels are in hand ?
enlargement doth dismiss me hence .
there is , there is .
now , for my life , the knave doth court my love .
my lord , these faults are easy , quickly answer ' d ; but mightier crimes are laid unto your
exeunt all but pandarus pandarus .
nay , that ' s right ; but why wear you your leek to-day ?
to thine own peace .
so , if i prove a good repast to the spectators , the dish pays the shot .
from women ' s eyes this doctrine i derive : they are the ground , the books , the academes
unfit to live or die .
i pray you , what is ' t o ' clock ?
re-enter charles , alencon , and reignier charles .
his absence , sir , lays blame upon his promise .
from every one the best she hath , and she , of all compounded , outsells them all .
then be your eyes the witness of their evil .
is so , let him not die .
though grey do something mingle with our younger brown , yet ha ' we a brain that nourishes our nerves
txt here ' s no sound jest !
then thus i turn me from my countrv ' s light , to dwell in solemn shades of endless night
has he any unbraided wares ?
all pride is willing pride , and yours is so .
word of denial in thy labras here !
with who ?
you have all mov ' d mine .
wide o ' the bow-hand !
do you know this captain dumain ?
it true to say this boy were like me .
what work ' s , my countrymen , in hand ?
this is a brave night to cool a courtesan .
that ' s well spoke .
or to report of you what i shall think is good ?
not- o sweet oliver , o brave oliver , leave me not behind thee .
we are .
their guilt .
but is this true ; or is it else your pleasure , like pleasant travellers , to break a jest
vows of faith , and ne ' er a true one .
the letter that i have sent her , by her own command shall give thee opportunity .
if thou canst love a fellow of this temper , kate , whose face is not worth sunburning , that
my master !
you all for this great favour done in entertainment to my princely queen .
fair princess , you have lost much good sport .
beldam , i think we watch ' d you at an inch .
your dishonour mangles true judgment , and bereaves the state of that integrity which should become ' t , not
truly , the hearts of men are fun of fear .
fairies and gods prosper it with thee !
what ho , i say !
why looks your grace so heavily to-day ?
a street enter lepidus , maecenas , and agrippa lepidus .
are you of good or evil ?
come , is the bride ready to go to church ?
hector bade ask .
ease a stubborn will to please , ducdame , ducdame , ducdame ; here shall he see gross fools as
at first and last the hearty welcome .
that ' s all the fault .
' yea , ' quoth my husband , ' fall ' st upon thy face ?
let me see , then .
now , whether he kill cassio , or cassio him , or each do kill the other , every way
thisby !
lays down a dagger .
if word nor oath prevail not , go and see .
txt tamora .
will try the last .
i remember you , sir , by the sound of your voice .
were brought moping hither .
a father .
o , wert thou for myself !
stars , but in ourselves that we are underlings .
are fond , lascivious metres , to whose venom sound the open ear of youth doth always listen ; report
' what ho !
the siege .
ay , just- a verse in horace .
who shall begin ?
there is no news , my lord ; but that he writes how happily he lives , how well-belov '
but what says jupiter , i ask thee ?
i ' ll serve you , sir , five hundred at the rate .
ah , exeter !
why , then will i tell thee- that thy master stays for thee at the northgate .
nor will not ; come , bring me unto my chance .
it would become me as well as it does you ; and i should do it page _num_ complete works
[aside] i am angling now , though you perceive me not how i give line .
though far more cause , yet much less spirit to curse abides in me ; i say amen to her
egypt , thou knew ' st too well my heart was to thy rudder tied by th ' strings ,
o sure i am the wits of former days , to subjects worse have given admiring praise .
o , my lord , my lord !
no , sir ; god forbid ; but asham ' d to kiss .
howsoever you have been his liar , as you say you have , i am one that , telling true
our spoils we have brought home doth more than counterpoise a full third part the charges of the action .
first , if all obstacles were cut away , and that my path were even to the crown , as
violation of sacred chastity and of promise-breach , thereon dependent , for your brother ' s life- the very mercy
re-enter gloucester and buckingham gloucester .
for by this knot thou shalt so surely tie thy now unsur ' d assurance to the crown that yon
the wise , the tent that searches to th ' bottom of the worst .
sends you to the tower ; my lady grey his wife , clarence , ' tis she that tempers him
knew vows were ever brokers to defiling ; thought characters and words merely but art , and bastards of his
no , my good lord ; i met him back again .
prayer ; he is something peevish that way ; but nobody but has his fault ; but let that pass
the people , and brother to titus sons to titus andronicus : lucius quintus martius mutius young lucius , a
there comes an old man and his three sons- celia .
willingly ; and pawn mine honour for their safety .
nay , an i tell you that , i ' ll ne ' er look you i ' the face
a word with one of you .
look you there .
that likewise have we thought upon , and thus : nan page my daughter , and my little son ,
stay a little while .
my lord of buckingham , if my weak oratory can from his mother win the duke of york , anon
some pitch richmond ' s tent richmond .
, a fine musician to instruct our mistress ; so shall i no whit be behind in duty to fair
her with promise of his sister , and what else , to strengthen and support king edward ' s place
and , to conclude , we have ' greed so well together that upon sunday is the wedding-day .
with true-love tears .
i would have sworn it had , my lord--especially against benedick .
to verify our title with their lives .
you were wont , when you laughed , to crow like a cock ; when you walk ' d ,
let me hear a staff , a stanze , a verse ; lege , domine .
' d ; and , there residing , the tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her grief
away with scrupulous wit !
an old man , of the capulet family .
sail are turned to one thread , one little hair ; my heart hath one poor string to stay it
have said and show yourselves true romans .
here had the conquest fully been seal ' d up if sir john fastolfe had not play ' d the
father to me now ; give me bianca for my patrimony .
exit flaminius .
doth not the king lack subjects ?
your aery buildeth in our aery ' s nest .
and let the stinking elder , grief , untwine his perishing root with the increasing vine !
[within] lead , boy .
executioner .
against rain , more new-fangled than an ape , more giddy in my desires than a monkey .
in quarrelling , ' tis thought among the prudent he would quickly have the gift of a grave .
would , polydore , thou hadst not done ' t !
shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of the brain awe a man from the career of his humour
of false-fac ' d soothing .
come to me , friend or foe , and tell me who is victor , york or warwick ?
certain ones , then .
[to othello .
pray you , come in .
we must to the king and show our strange sights .
meantime receive such welcome at my hand as honour , without breach of honour , may make tender of to
all disconsolate , with pindarus his bondman , on this hill .
if he be sad , he wants money .
pick ' d leisure , which shall be shortly , single i ' ll resolve you , which to you
i can no more : live thou to joy thy life ; myself no joy in nought but that thou
, and apprehensive ; yet in the number i do know but one that unassailable holds on his rank ,
prince john , your son , doth kiss your grace ' s hand .
no quiet find .
it is not honesty in me to speak what i have seen and known .
' tis most convenient .
do , thou hemp-seed !
here is the man , this moor , whom now , it seems , your special mandate for the state
; where every horse bears his commanding rein and may direct his course as please himself , as well the
our very priests must become mockers , if they shall encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are .
my lords of england , let me tell you this : i have had feeling of my cousin ' s
thy tooth is not so keen , because thou art not seen , although thy breath be rude .
txt and gives thy pen both skill and argument .
come , take-a your rapier , and come after my heel to the court .
or doth this churlish superscription pretend some alteration in good-will ?
if she be a traitor , why so am i : we still have slept together , rose at an
his good remembrance , sir , lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb ; so in approof lives
april perfumes in three hot junes burned , since first i saw you fresh which yet are green .
what will i do , thinkest thou ?
three times did richard make a lane to me , and thrice cried ' courage , father !
could you on this fair mountain leave to feed , and batten on this moor ?
my unblown flowers , new-appearing sweets !
i do fear the people choose caesar for their king .
why didst thou stoop then ?
to seek out you ?
spread the compost on the weeds to make them ranker .
round and top of sovereignty ?
god made him , and therefore let him pass for a man .
' a brushes his hat o ' mornings .
by this light , i ' ll ha ' more !
the residue of your fortune , go to my cave and tell me .
and in submission will attend on her .
txt your stay with him may not be long ; that the time may have all shadow and silence in
i prithee let me hear it .
what man is this ?
how wilt thou do for father ?
one another when they meet .
' twas a contention in public , which may , without contradiction , suffer the report .
i would make him eat a piece of my sword .
footsteps of my rising .
i do remember an apothecary , and hereabouts ' a dwells , which late i noted in tatt ' red
; and now i live out of all order , out of all compass .
who knows not that the gentle duke is dead ?
away , burn all the records of the realm .
let no face be kept in mind but the fair of rosalinde .
truly , a peck of provender ; i could munch your good dry oats .
but soon that war had end , and the time ' s state made friends of them , jointing their
since thou wert king- as who is king but thou ?
stand again .
what soldiers , patch ?
thee and thy company i bid a hearty welcome .
then let my father ' s blood open it again : he is a man , and , clifford ,
be so perfidious .
whether he was combined with those of norway , or did line the rebel with hidden help and vantage ,
come hither , proculeius .
keep them off , bardolph .
i sometimes do believe and sometimes do not : as those that fear they hope , and know they fear
it is ; and all the rest are countesses .
most necessary ' tis that we forget to pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt .
heart , with sounding ' troilus .
keep tune there still , so you will sing it out .
down , ladies ; let us shame him with our knees .
renew ' d fire to our extincted spirits , and bring all cyprus comfort .
thou must be my ambassador to him , thersites .
we ' ll fight with him to-night .
let us but blow on them , the vapour of our valour will o ' erturn them .
juliet ' s chamber .
, yet to beat down these rebels here at home .
is he won yet ?
of launcelot , an ' t please your mastership .
th ' accusation which they have often made against the senate , all cause unborn , could never be the
lay the fault on us .
not unlike each way to better yours .
[aside to hamlet] i knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done .
call up the right master constable .
i ' ll believe as soon this whole earth may be bor ' d , and that the moon may
first hang the child , that he may see it sprawl- a sight to vex the father ' s soul
d to hear a night-shriek , and my fell of hair would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir as
how now , fluellen !
o , but remember this another day , when he shall split thy very heart with sorrow , and say
, and men by th ' legs .
, grounded upon no other argument but that the people praise her for her virtues and pity her for her
no , my lord ; rather with choler .
true ; when the day serves , before black-corner ' d night , find what thou want ' st by
dictynna , goodman dull ; dictynna , goodman dull .
] a fair assembly .
at ely house .
i would i were , to be reveng ' d on thee .
gallants , lads , boys , hearts of gold , all the titles of good fellowship come to you !
and he shall pardon thee these outrages .
what , that my leg is too long ?
, mutually , hath answer ' d my affection , so far forth as herself might be her chooser ,
' s honest .
' ll be as full of quarrel and offense as my young mistress ' dog .
though mine enemy , restor ' d again to all his lands and signories .
hark , boy , what noise is that ?
i hear them coming .
with diseas ' d ventures that play with all infirmities for gold which rottenness can lend nature !
first , in this forest let us do those ends that here were well begun and well begot ; page
fly , and make your peace with caesar .
take this same letter , and use thou all th ' endeavour of a man in speed to padua ;
upon his mere request- being come to knowledge that there was complaint intended ' gainst lord angelo- came i hither
i ' ll hunt with him ; and let them be receiv ' d , not without fair reward .
and what should i do in illyria ?
determine how to cut off some charge in legacies .
no ; i say nay to that .
dead for a ducat , dead !
well , i ' ll go with thee .
you promis ' d knighthood to our forward son : unsheathe your sword and dub him presently .
look you , sir , enquire me first what danskers are in paris ; and how , and who ,
puck .
this is his uncle ' s teaching , this worcester , malevolent to you in all aspects , which makes
therefore , timon- timon .
now , deck ' d in thy rights , as thou art stall ' d in mine !
do not tempt my misery , lest that it make me so unsound a man as to upbraid you with
i think it is my lord of westmoreland .
farewell , sweet playfellow ; pray thou for us , and good luck grant thee thy demetrius !
pause , or be more temperate .
worm .
i would my husband would meet him in this shape ; he cannot abide the old woman of brainford ;
come , sir andrew , there ' s no remedy ; the gentleman will , for his honour ' s
from hence your memory death cannot take , although in me each part will be forgotten .
how melancholies i am !
so did it mine ; and a most instant tetter bark ' d about , most lazar-like , with vile
see , who comes here ?
in the strength and height of injury .
neck ' ; even then the princely blood flows in his cheek , he sweats , strains his young nerves
txt infects the sound pine , and diverts his grain tortive and errant from his course of growth .
my lord , my lord !
my life !
reproof .
exit gloucester .
knows , i had no such intent but that necessity so bow ' d the state that i and greatness
' thus saith the duke , thus hath the duke inferr ' d ' - but nothing spoke in warrant
tell me , thou fellow , is not france forsworn ?
let ten thousand devils come against me , and give me but the ten meals i have lost , and
when my old wife liv ' d , upon this day she was both pantler , butler , cook ;
and when thou hast given it to the emperor , knock at my door , and tell me what he
get thee gone , but do it .
so please you , this friar hath been with him , and advis ' d him for th ' entertainment
a public place enter two roman senators and tribunes first senator .
content to be at your command command , i mean , of virtuous intents , to love and honour henry
hence , be gone , away !
think on the tower and me .
i hope , in no place so unsanctified where such as thou mayst find him .
' tis only title thou disdain ' st in her , the which i can build up .
why not , my lord ?
what answer , sir ?
his better tune , remembers what we are come about , and by no means will yield to see his
thy biddings have been done ; and every hour , most noble caesar , shalt thou have report how '
did deceive them , but chiefly by my villany , which did confirm any slander that don john had made
if you are arm ' d to do as sworn to do , subscribe to your deep oaths , and
to confess and be hanged for his laborpage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
cold friends to me .
we must give folks leave to prate .
justice with favour have i always done ; pray ' rs and tears have mov ' d me , gifts
o , glendower .
since then you have not dar ' d to break the holy seal nor read the secrets in ' t
; but with nobility , and tranquillity , burgomasters and great oneyers , such as can hold in , such
what ' s o ' clock ?
the weariest and most loathed worldly life that age , ache , penury , and imprisonment , can lay on
thank the heavens , lord , thou art of sweet composure praise him that gat thee , she that gave
my good lord archbishop , i am very sorry to sit here at this present , and behold that chair
[to the fool] why , how now , captain ?
triumphant death , smear ' d with captivity , young talbot ' s valour makes me smile at thee .
rage !
blame , if this foul deed were by to equal it .
it is vain that you would speak with timon ; for he is set so only to himself that nothing
; be gone .
but on the sight of us your lawful king , who painfully with much expedient march have brought a countercheck
and didst thou not kiss me , and bid me fetch the thirty shillings ?
well , get you gone .
first know thou , i begot him on the empress .
have you a ruffian that will swear , drink , dance , revel the night , rob , murder ,
i did say so , when first i rais ' d the tempest .
[they meet other soldiers] second soldier .
this is the most despiteful ' st gentle greeting the noblest hateful love , that e ' er i heard
i here take my oath before this honourable assembly , she kicked the poor king her father .
o rude unthankfulness !
mine art ; it is my promise , and they expect it from me .
i will stare him out of his wits ; i will awe him with my cudgel ; it shall hang
then leave this chat ; and , good berowne , now prove our loving lawful , and our faith not
gloucestershire enter bolingbroke and northumberland , forces bolingbroke .
your most generous thoughts that i have shot my arrow o ' er the house and hurt my brother .
tom will throw his head at them .
and they have been grand-jurymen since before noah was a sailor .
this sorrow that i have by right is yours ; and all the pleasures you usurp are mine .
how far into the morning is it , lords ?
i ' th ' name of me !
why , ' tis most meet .
' with other lords first senator .
what may this mean that thou , dead corse , again in complete steel , revisits thus the glimpses of
' tis a greek invocation , to call fools into a circle .
[writes .
ladies unmask maria .
the moon , making night hideous , and we fools of nature page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
let rome in tiber melt , and the wide arch of the rang ' d empire fall !
not the thing .
a married man !
there ' s two or three of us have seen strange sights .
good morrow , noble sir .
[aside] how say you by that ?
exeunt trumpets sound , and the king and his train pass over the stage .
times do brawl , are in three heads : one power against the french , page _num_ complete works of
now , bagot , freely speak thy mind- what thou dost know of noble gloucester ' s death ; who
sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours , makes the night morning and the noontide night .
no , foolish tribune , no ; no son of mine- nor thou , nor these , confederates in the
exit isabella .
in everything but in loving benedick .
unpaid a hundred thousand more , in surety of the which , one part of aquitaine is bound to us
within the castle .
o margaret , margaret , now thy heavy curse is lighted on poor hastings ' wretched head !
; prepare her ears to hear a wooer ' s tale ; put in her tender heart th ' aspiring
ay me , most credulous fool , egregious murderer , thief , anything that ' s due to all the
o heavenly mingle !
who cover faults , at last shame them derides .
fa , sol , la , mi .
how do you , madam ?
yes , sir ; as well as you dare patronage the envious barking of your saucy tongue against my lord
my spirit can no longer bear these harms .
pray entertain them ; give them guide to us .
forbod the sweets that seems so good for fear of harms that preach in our behoof .
to the which place a poor sequest ' red stag , that from the hunter ' s aim had ta
but we are soldiers ; and may that soldier a mere recreant prove page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
what is your quarrel ?
he is ; and , see , he brings the mayor along .
but hark you , kate : whither i go , thither shall you go too ; to-day will i set
well , i know not what counts harsh fortune casts upon my face ; but in my bosom shall she
what means that trump ?
how worthy he is i will leave to appear hereafter , rather than story him in his own hearing .
one pain , save for a night of groans endur ' d of her , for whom you bid like
yet had he framed to himself , by the instruction of his frailty , many deceiving promises of life ;
for rosaline .
with a kind of smile , which ne ' er came from the lungs , but even thus- for look
your betters , sir .
no , do not .
now , for your answer : as there is no firm reason to be rend ' red why he cannot
a month before this bond expires- i do expect return page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
runs not this speech like iron through your blood ?
that ' s he , indeed .
moth , mustardseed , and other fairies attending ; oberon behind , unseen titania .
not so sick , my lord , as she is troubled with thick-coming fancies , that keep her from her
setting aside his high blood ' s royalty , and let him be no kinsman to my liege , i
if it be so , sir , that you are the man must stead us all , and me amongst
am i a queen in title and in style , and must be made a subject to a duke ?
you , ladies , you , whose gentle hearts do fear the smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor ,
this night .
you , sir , charge him too coldly .
away , my thetis !
and neither party loser .
the greater poll , and in true fear they gave us our demands .
his brinish bowels swallow him .
marry , the gods forfend !
i ' ll pay that doctrine , or else die in debt .
nay , he can make obligations and write court-hand .
the wisest aunt , telling the saddest tale , sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me ; then slip i from
was that the king that spurr ' d his horse so hard against the steep uprising of the hill ?
belike this show imports the argument of the play .
enclosed were they with their enemies .
then , if you know that you are well acquainted with yourself , confess ' twas hers , and by
yet ' not proud ' ?
saw ' st thou not , boy , how silver made it good at the hedge corner , in the
we took him for a coward , but he ' s the very devil incardinate .
txt my inch of taper will be burnt and done , and blindfold death not let me see my son
beatrice-- beat .
perchance till after theseus ' wedding-day .
thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture to be so taken at thy peril , jew .
treason , felony , sword , pike , knife , gun , or need of any engine , would i
your virtue is my privilege for that : it is not night when i do see your face , therefore
, thrust in between the paction of these kingdoms , to make divorce of their incorporate league ; that english
if there were reason for these miseries , then into limits could i bind my woes .
your worship !
yet they do wink and yield , as love is blind and enforces .
from thy behaviour , beauty doth he give and found it in thy cheek : he can afford no praise
cette heure de couper votre gorge .
_num_ two loves i have of comfort and despair , which like two spirits do suggest me still , the
noble duke page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter the banditti first bandit .
if much you note him , you shall offend him and extend his passion .
lennox .
what is your pleasure ?
let him thank me that holp to send him thither , for he was fitter for that place than earth
i am again for cydnus , to meet mark antony .
hear , nature , hear !
lucentio and tranio stand by but stay awhile ; what company is this ?
of albany ' s and cornwall ' s powers you heard not ?
how know you he loves her ?
my lord bassanio , let him have the ring .
a heavy descension !
enter horatio , marcellus , and bernardo .
art thou his friend ?
is the man grown mad ?
sure , as many as have good beards , or good faces , or sweet breaths , will , for
you have put me out of countenance .
stand bald before him .
[beats the keeper] keeper .
scotland ; which , for divers reasons which i shall send you written , be assur ' d will easily
i am ready .
txt let ' s teach ourselves that honorable stop , not to outsport discretion .
his soldiers fell to spoil , whilst we by antony are all enclosed .
; but that i love thee best , o most best , believe it .
unto a quiet grave .
so i would you did ; then ' twere past all doubt you ' d call your children yours .
yet look how far the substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow in underprizing it , so far this
the soft myrtle .
age more than it is , ere foul sin gathering head shall break into corruption .
you wrong ' d yourself to write in such a case .
my high-repented blames , dear sovereign , pardon to me .
, no stay .
when i perceive that men as plants increase , cheered and checked even by the self-same sky : vaunt in
honest iago , that look ' st dead with grieving , speak : who began this ?
so is the time that keeps you as my chest or as the wardrobe which the robe doth hide ,
txt is this the prince , is this the prince ' s brother ?
where were you born , friend ?
' tis better playing with a lion ' s whelp than with an old one dying .
enter three witches .
tell me , panthino , what sad talk was that wherewith my brother held you in the cloister ?
that is the way to lay the city flat , to bring the roof to the foundation , and bury
his royal bird prunes the immortal wing , and cloys his beak , as when his god is pleas '
they say he is already in the forest of arden , and a many merry men with him ; and
loved her , i should but teach him how to tell my story , and that would woo her .
txt to guard the lawful reasons on thy part , to leave poor me , thou hast the strength of
he is in love .
there ' s beggary in the love that can be reckon ' d .
if here you hous ' d him , here he would have been ; if he were mad , he
it nothing steads us page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
shall i redeliver you e ' en so ?
>> page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he shriek ' d out aloud ' clarence is come-false , fleeting , perjur ' d clarence , that stabb
stand fast , titinius ; we must out and talk .
and appal the free , confound the ignorant , and amaze indeed the very faculties of eyes and ears .
there ' s in all two worthy voices begg ' d .
rather think this not cressid .
indeed , indeed , sirs .
this is a practice as full of labour as a wise man ' s art ; for folly that he
will you go see the order of the course ?
in faith , i ' ll know your business , harry ; that i will !
glimmering sphere .
stay , yet look back with me unto the tower .
the ship is in her trim ; the merry wind blows fair from land ; they stay for nought at
stoop then , and wash .
exit gratiano come , you and i will thither presently ; and in the morning early will we both fly
he presents no mark to the enemy ; the foeman may with as great aim level at the edge of
you confess then , you pick ' d my pocket ?
faith , i must ; she ' ll rail i ' the street else .
more authority , dear boy , name more ; and , sweet my child , let them be men of
to beguile the time , look like the time ; bear welcome in your eye , your hand , your
' rin pear !
the ugly form of base and bloody insurrection with your fair honours .
tears virginal shall be to me even as the dew to fire ; and beauty , that the tyrant oft
thou hast a better place in his affection than all thy brothers ; cherish it , my boy , and
[to isabella] ay , touch him ; there ' s the vein .
away , i say .
alas , he hath no home , no place to fly to ; nor knows he how to live but
the world will say he is not talbot ' s blood that basely fled when noble talbot stood .
for both , my lord .
[takes off his false beard] how now , rustics !
get him to say his prayers , good sir toby , get him to pray .
' cried out amain , and rush ' d into the bowels of the battle .
i ' ll never tell you .
will his majesty give richard leave to live till richard die ?
hers .
has banish ' d me his bed already , his love too long ago !
enter proteus how now , sir proteus !
if you be king , why should not i succeed ?
o , then , what graces in my love do dwell , that he hath turn ' d a heaven
rouse up revenge from ebon den with fell alecto ' s snake , for doll is in .
thou never hadst renown , nor canst not lose it .
[gives the letter] antony .
are you so choleric with eleanor for telling but her dream ?
who most humbly desires you to invite hector to his tent- thersites .
thy garden-house in her imagin ' d person .
if this austere insociable life change not your offer made in heat of blood , if frosts and fasts ,
wanton eye , seduc ' d the pitch and height of his degree to base declension and loath ' d
' so , with shrieks , she melted into air .
do not betray me , sir ; i fear you love mistress page .
i deserved at your highness ' hands .
there ' s an italian come , and , ' tis thought , one of leonatus ' friends .
art thou not sorry for these heinous deeds ?
come hither , hostess .
txt horse-tail till they kiss their hands .
now , out of this- laer .
s womb , if it conceiv ' d a male child by me , should do no more offices of
i thank your honour .
he receives comfort like cold porridge .
by heaven , i will acquaint his majesty of those gross taunts that oft i have endur ' d .
enter brutus , dardanius , clitus , strato , and volumnius .
nothing , but this is so .
one varro ' s servant , my good lord- isidore ' s servant .
' i wear out my suit .
and contemplation , only attended by nerissa here , until her husband and my lord ' s return .
come you from the bridge ?
incapable of more , replete with you , my most true mind thus maketh mine untrue .
now am i seated as my soul delights , having my country ' s peace and brothers ' loves .
coming .
do you choose for me .
cousin , go draw our puissance together .
john .
make your own purpose , how in my strength you please .
mark the high noises , and thyself bewray when false opinion , whose wrong thought defiles thee , in thy
proface !
well , ' tis no matter ; honour pricks me on .
enter albany .
thine eye ?
this fool ' s speed be cross ' d with slowness !
and the duchess of gloucester king henry .
i hope to see romans as cheap as volscians .
so shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means i shall then have to prefer them
he ' s ta ' en [shout .
, and with you chiefly i ' the world ; more laugh ' d at that i should once name
good repose the while .
to ornament , accomplished in himself , not in his case , all aids , themselves made fairer by their
canker vice the sweetest buds doth love , and thou present ' st a pure unstained prime .
his fame lives in the world , his shame in you .
is it bitter ?
a french song and a fiddle has no fellow .
, that peradventures shall tell you another tale , if matters grow to your likings .
lepidus .
vile earth , to earth resign ; end motion here , and thou and romeo press one heavy bier !
' d as if you slept .
enter an armed soldier good-morrow to thee .
mine and your mistress !
i could do more to do antonius good , but ' twould offend him ; and in his offence should
[aside] i knew her well ; she was a midwife .
law to make thee rich ; then be not poor , but break it and take this .
tomorrow we ' ll hear ourselves again .
afternoon .
i jest to oberon , and make him smile when i a fat and bean-fed horse beguile , neighing in
but what need i thus my well-known body to anatomize among my household ?
i ' ll be with thee betimes .
' tis foul !
witches vanish .
perpetual durance ?
must with all our majesty and skill page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
_num_ against my love shall be as i am now with time ' s injurious hand crushed and o '
this forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance of her first affection ; his unjust unkindness , that in
which the rather we shall be bless ' d to do , if he remember a kinder value of the
it is not madness that i have utt ' red .
of france lewis , the dauphin lymoges , duke of austria cardinal pandulph , the pope ' s legate melun
even for our kitchens we kill the fowl of season ; shall we serve heaven with less respect than we
pluto and hell !
the heaviest and the worst is your displeasure with the king .
wherein villanous , but in all things ?
enter english herald , with trumpet english herald .
next his throat unto the butcher ' s knife .
what sayest thou to a hare , or the melancholy of moor ditch ?
but silence ; here comes thisby .
from this time be something scanter of your maiden presence .
that ' s not an office for a friend , my lord .
what , loss of some pitch ' d battle against warwick ?
, before these bastard signs of fair were born , or durst inhabit on a living brow : before the
thou art essentially mad without seeming so .
old , cashier ' d .
re-enter officers , with cleomenes and dion officer .
' s long and ' t may be said it reaches far , and where ' twill not extend ,
let ' s see .
ophelia , daughter to polonius .
romans , let us go .
the child i now go with do miscarry , thou wert better thou hadst struck thy mother , thou paper-fac
txt to many lords and ladies ; there will be the beauty of this kingdom , i ' ll assure
hear me but speak , and bear me where you will .
fear ' st thou that , antonio ?
she told me , not thinking i had been myself , that i was the prince ' s jester ,
thou hast stol ' n that which , after some few hours , were thine without offense ; and at
the salt in them is hot .
consistory , yea , the whole consistory of rome .
close by the battle , ditch ' d , and wall ' d with turf , page _num_ complete works
malcolm .
i ' ll have it so .
what buys your company ?
to the unseen grief that swells with silence in the tortur ' d soul .
, and then receive my money for the chain .
night ; at sardis once , and this last night here in philippi fields .
such fiery numbers as the prompting eyes of beauty ' s tutors have enrich ' d you with ?
good night , good doctor .
nature and sickness debate it at their leisure .
you were us ' d to load me with precepts that would make invincible the heart that conn ' d
s lust ; and by how much she strives to do him good , she shall undo her credit with
what have you done , my lord , with the dead body ?
tut , i have work enough for you to do .
worthy man !
and this may help to thicken other proofs that do demonstrate thinly .
, as they had deliver ' d , both in time , form of the thing , each word made
i could play ercles rarely , or a part to tear a cat in , to make all split .
against the hospitable canon , would i wash my fierce hand in ' s heart .
flourish for the players .
thou her maid art far more fair than she .
an excellent and unmatch ' d wit and judgment ; ferdinand , my father , king of spain , was
, admirable discourse , of great admittance , authentic in your place and person , generally allow ' d for
methinks a father is at the nuptial of his son a guest that best becomes the table .
how now , my eyas-musket , what news with you ?
the which he will not every hour survey , for blunting the fine point of seldom pleasure .
discharge my followers ; let them hence away , from richard ' s night to bolingbroke ' s fair day
' beware the rope ' s-end .
exit lepidus .
thou wast told thus ; thou gav ' st thine ears , like tapsters that bade welcome , to knaves
good my liege , the day that she was missing he was here .
they shall be apprehended by and by .
eyes , look your last !
my master stays in the street .
roll to every varied object in his glance ; which parti-coated presence of loose love put on by us ,
beg a greater matter ; thou now requests but moonshine in the water .
eat , i pray you ; will you have some more sauce to your leek ?
with grievous siege castles and towns ; that england , being empty of defence , hath shook and trembled at
if thou wilt not , befall what may befall , i ' ll speak no more but ' vengeance rot
second keeper .
world , world , o world !
who !
may now , perchance , both quake and tremble here , when lion rough in wildest rage doth roar .
my lord , i had forgot to tell your lordship , to-day , as i came by , i called
and rich .
and to be partly proud , which he is , even to the altitude of his virtue .
to the king duke of york , cousin to the king earl of salisbury earl of westmoreland earl of warwick
love all , trust a few , do wrong to none ; be able for thine enemy rather in power
do we jest now , think you ?
have , where is my judgment fled , that censures falsely what they see aright ?
my lord , there are certain nobles of the senate newly alighted and come to visit you .
do , good friend .
the shadow of his wings he can at pleasure stint their melody ; even so mayest thou the giddy men
then what is that to him ?
got ' s will and his passion of my heart !
is not birth , beauty , good shape , discourse , manhood , learning , gentleness , virtue , youth
thou shalt be lord of it , and i ' ll serve thee .
exit enter dercetas with the sword of antony caesar .
her heart is but o ' ercharg ' d ; she will recover .
why , there ' tis ; so say i too .
now , by the burning tapers of the sky page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
your uncle must not know but you are dead : i ' ll fill these dogged spies with false reports
he ' s friends with caesar ; in state of health , thou say ' st ; and , thou
no , leonato , i never tempted her with word too large , but , as a brother to his
shrew my heart !
he consul !
you are a fool .
ay , on my life ; and hopes to find you forward upon his party for the gain thereof ;
txt there is a purse of ducats ; let her send it .
txt with quiet hours ; for i do protest i have not sought the day of this dislike .
and bring him up to liking .
i would they were barbarians , as they are , though in rome litter ' d ; not romans ,
but these mine eyes saw him in bloody state , rend ' ring faint quittance , wearied and out-breath '
time , force , and death , do to this body what extremes you can , but the strong base
breath ' d out that e ' er devotion tender ' d !
to wanton with this queen , this goddess , this semiramis , this nymph , this siren that will charm
i was adopted heir by his consent : since when , his oath is broke ; for , as i
who calls so loud ?
minutes how they run- how many makes the hour full complete , how many hours brings about the day ,
bring me a constant woman to her husband , one that ne ' er dream ' d a joy beyond
to brag unto them ' thus i did , and thus !
servant to the duke provost thomas , friar peter , friar a justice elbow , a simple constable froth ,
say , by this token , i desire his company at mariana ' s house to-night .
we ' ll be reveng ' d on him .
to make an act of tragic violence .
txt that i have hoisted sail to all the winds which should transport me farthest from your sight .
up with the tent !
up to yond hill , your legs are young ; i ' ll tread these flats .
here ' s the manner of ' t : i ' th ' market-place , on a tribunal silver '
shed thou no blood , nor cut thou less nor more but just a pound of flesh ; if thou
i have consider ' d well his loss of time , and how he cannot be a perfect man ,
, sound thou lord hastings how he doth stand affected to our purpose ; and summon him to-morrow to the
heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell .
out on you , owls !
unreverent gloucester !
all-seeing heaven , what a world is this !
no more perchance does mine , or his , or hers .
think what thou wilt , i am thy lover ' s grace ; and like limander am i trusty still
rare- i know not what to say .
for kate ; for she had a tongue with a tang , would cry to a sailor ' go hang
o , well begg ' d !
to say ay and no to these particulars is more than to answer in a catechism .
[they shoot] o , well said , lucius !
now these her princes are come home again , come the three corners of the world in arms , and
hath often still ' d my brawling discontent .
another of these students at that time was there with him , if i have heard a truth .
out of these convertites there is much matter to be heard and learn ' d .
i do not desire you to please me ; i do desire you to sing .
here ' s no place for you maids .
i pray thee , let me feel thy cloak upon me .
my liege , here is a villain and a traitor , that , look your grace , has struck the
txt if you do love me , you will find me out .
[they salute] apemantus .
and therefore , lords , since he affects her most , it most of all these reasons bindeth us in
what , are you answer ' d yet ?
the law protects not us ; then why should we be tender to let an arrogant piece of flesh threat
my lord , is this the daughter of a king ?
i ' ll not be far from you .
fall .
farewell , old gaunt .
long live so , and so die !
master ford , you must pray , and not follow the imaginations of your own heart ; this is jealousies
' d , did bear it ; which cannot choose but bring him quickly on .
there is further compliment of leave-taking between france and him .
enter a servant .
i ' ll mark the play .
holla , holla !
; for i should melt at an offender ' s tears , and lowly words were ransom for their fault
a rascal-yea-forsooth knave , to bear a gentleman in hand , and then stand upon security !
it is silliness to live when to live is torment , and then have we a prescription to die when
go carry them , and smear the sleepy grooms with blood .
together in the whole world .
; and the foolish chroniclers of that age found it was- hero of sestos .
[flourish] exeunt all but enobarbus , agrippa , maecenas maecenas .
when he was made a shriver , ' twas for shrift .
you are not pinch ' s patient , are you , sir ?
enter holofernes , for judas ; and moth , for hercules holofernes .
if her liquor be good , she shall ; if she will not , i will ; for good things
who worse than a physician would this report become ?
for , harry , now i do not speak to thee in drink , but in tears ; not in
purge , each drop of us .
exeunt othello , lodovico , and attendants .
art thou learned ?
this is some minx ' s token , and i must take out the work ?
, an officer in ventidius ' s army euphronius , an ambassador from antony to caesar alexas , attendant on
why ' music with her silver sound ' ?
alas that love , so gentle in his view , should be so tyrannous and rough in proof !
- i can but thank you .
what is thine ?
why , this is the world ' s soul ; and just of the same piece is every flatterer '
good monsieur lavache , give my lord lafeu this letter .
is this the government of britain ' s isle , and this the royalty of albion ' s king ?
for what hath broach ' d this tumult but thy pride ?
thou must know ' tis not my profit that does lead mine honour : mine honour , it .
urge it no more , my lord northumberland .
whose tongue soe ' er speaks false , not truly speaks ; who speaks not truly , lies .
give me my sword .
lord derby ' s house enter stanley and sir christopher urswick stanley .
awhile to work , and after holiday .
sprites and fires !
o ' ertop old pelion or the skyish head of blue olympus .
croak not , black angel ; i have no food for thee .
and , for an entrance to my entertainment , i do present you with a man of mine , [presenting
impose some service on me for thy love .
enter petruchio , and hortensio with meat petruchio .
hair than may be seen , above the sense of sense ; so sensible page _num_ complete works of william
what is ' t , my lord ?
fair sir , and you my merry mistress , that with your strange encounter much amaz ' d me ,
i have no exquisite reason for ' t , but i have reason good enough .
, and breath ' d our sufferance vainly .
help to cover your master , boy .
o ill-dispersing wind of misery !
pardon me , madam , i may not go without you to the kings .
if i am traduc ' d by ignorant tongues , which neither know my faculties nor person , yet will
i ' ll attend your lordship .
i love thee .
wilt dine with me , apemantus ?
hind , or stepdame to her son ' - yea , let them say , to stick the heart of
here he comes with your niece ; give them way till he take leave , and presently after him .
this , decius brutus .
render the deeds of mercy .
madam , good night .
_num_ if there be nothing new , but that which is , hath been before , how are our brains
so oft as that shall be , so often shall the knot of us be call ' d the men
i am thy father ' s spirit , doom ' d for a certain term to walk the night ,
' d villains , bloody dogs , melted with tenderness and mild compassion , wept like two children in their
hands ?
wilt thou tell a monstrous lie , being but half fish and half a monster ?
wife , if it would please him come and marry her !
speak , speak .
did he not straight , in pious rage , the two delinquents tear that were the slaves of drink and
upon my life , it will do well .
that seeks not to find that her search implies , but , riddle-like , lives sweetly where she dies !
why , sir , who bade you call her ?
when i was with him , i have heard him swear to tubal and to chus , his countrymen ,
my heresy , of all be hated , but the most of me !
then , by my self- queen elizabeth .
, the boy for trial needs would touch my breast , i sick withal the help of bath desired ,
as i descended ?
both , thou great , and wise , to hear ulysses speak .
txt when sorrows come , they come not single spies .
nothing but well to thee , thomas of clarence .
if you be pleas ' d , retire into my cell and there repose ; a turn or two i
have you importun ' d him by any means ?
my fault , but not my body , pardon , sovereign .
he needs not our mistrust , since he delivers our offices and what we have to do to the direction
leave , and leave you to the hearing of the cause , hoping you ' ll find good cause to
tell me , tell me , how show ' d his tasking ?
are they married , think you ?
whoever gave that counsel to give forth the corn o ' th ' storehouse gratis , as ' twas us
how look ' d he ?
ag ' d sir , hands off .
where am i ?
night , full often hath she gossip ' d by my side ; and sat with me on neptune '
a park near the palace .
o , if a virgin , and your affection not gone forth , i ' ll make you the queen
enter gloucester , with france and burgundy ; attendants .
to forget my place , the majesty and power of law and justice , the image of the king whom
o , would her name were grace !
to be made than alone the recov ' ry of the king , as to be- lafeu .
you that love me and warwick , follow me .
loving , o but with mine , compare thou thine own state , and thou shalt find it merits not
how shall i thank him , think ' st thou ?
stay , you imperfect speakers , tell me more .
within this hour at most i will advise you where to plant yourselves , acquaint you with the perfect spy
when holy harry died , and my sweet son .
mad myself .
my lord of somerset , at my request , see that forthwith duke edward be convey ' d unto my
had i so good occasion to lie long as you , prince paris , nothing but heavenly business should rob
inclination , and the start of spleen , to fight against me under percy ' s pay , to dog
i pray thee lend me thine .
a council-chamber enter exeter , bedford , and westmoreland bedford .
remember him hereafter as my honourable friend .
honour of my dear father ' s gift stands chief in power , i come to tender it , and
what , you look merrily !
my lord of york , was not one doctor pace in this man ' s place before him ?
never bestrid a horse , save one that had a rider like myself , who ne ' er wore rowel
heat , to conquer france , his true inheritance ?
to know how you find claudio prepar ' d .
thou sun that comforts , burn .
ah , word ill urg ' d to one that is so ill !
buy ; who , tend ' ring their own worth from where they were glass ' d , did point
fly , masters !
' s homager .
no ; ' twas the vane on the house .
harms that my two sisters have in thy reverence made !
gloucester he is none .
fly , good fleance , fly , fly , fly !
take you this weapon , which i have here recover ' d from the moor .
intended or committed was this fault ?
simple .
beauty ' s best , of hand , of foot , of lip , of eye , of brow ,
foot under thy table .
will you tell me that ?
certainly , aunchient , it is not a thing to rejoice at ; for if , look you , he
this is nothing , fool .
so near the emperor ' s palace dare ye draw and maintain such a quarrel openly ?
i will entertain bardolph ; he shall draw , he shall tap ; said i well , bully hector ?
, count of rousillon lafeu , an old lord parolles , a follower of bertram two french lords , serving
for the stone is mine- i ' d not have show ' d it .
when he was poor , imprison ' d , and in scarcity of friends , i clear ' d him
o , that ' s you care not for me .
where then ?
god pardon sin !
you pardon me ' !
well have we done , thrice-valiant countrymen ; but all ' s not done- yet keep the french the field
a cunning instrument cas ' d up or , being open , put into his hands that knows no touch
- the guard , ho !
sir , you shall understand what hath befall ' n , which , as i think , you know not
yet be seen to bear a woman ' s face ?
longing and liking , proud , fantastical , apish , shallow , inconstant , full of tears , full of
can make seem pleasing to her tender years ?
exit excursions .
and , to deal plainly , i fear i am not in my perfect mind .
did he confess it ?
i take no heed of thee .
txt thy fortunes .
but more of this hereafter .
by my troth , thou ' t set me a-weeping , an thou say ' st so .
it was two ere i left him , and now the clock strikes one .
saw ye none enter since i slept ?
enter stephano singing ; a bottle in his hand stephano .
each man to his stool with that spur as he would to the lip of his mistress ; your diet
she shall not be so young as was your former ; but she shall be such as , walk '
enter pandarus and a servant pandarus .
hie to your chamber .
the king , the king !
come on , gentle my lord , sleek o ' er your rugged looks ; be bright and jovial among
but that thy strange mutations make us hate thee , life would not yield to age .
second conspirator .
a noble prisoner !
rout , have practis ' d dangerously against your state , dealing with witches and with conjurers , whom we
so i told him , my lord , and i said i heard your grace say so ; and ,
speak to me ; i shall answer for her .
for a hawk , a horse , or a husband ?
nay , then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee , having bought love with such a bloody spoil .
re-enter brutus and sicinius , the rabble again sicinius .
[reads] ' my thoughts do harbour with my silvia nightly , and slaves they are to me , that send
why , what should you fear ?
squar ' st thy life according .
s waxen coat and furbish new the name of john o ' gaunt , even in the lusty haviour of
it would please you to take leave of her , she is very willing to bid you farewell .
master brook , the matter will be known tonight or never .
how now , how now !
but breathe his faults so quaintly that they may seem the taints of liberty , the flash and outbreak of
, meek bears , you fools of fortune , trencher friends , time ' s flies , cap and knee
go off ; i discard you .
about him , fairies ; sing a scornful rhyme ; and , as you trip , still pinch him to
all the peace you make in their cause is calling both the parties knaves .
peace be to england , if that war return from france to england , there to live in peace !
faith , i know not what to say .
triple-turn ' d whore !
i am out of all other tune , methinks .
peace , peace , forbear ; your oath once broke , you force not to forswear .
it is for you we speak , not for ourselves .
the french camp .
how dost thou like this jewel , apemantus ?
, i could have well diverted her intents , which thus she hath prevented .
what know i how the world may deem of me ?
our general will no more hear from thence .
i ' ll show thee some attires , and have thy counsel which is the best to furnish me to-morrow
come on , then ; he may recover yet .
there , jumping o ' er times , turning th ' accomplishment of many years into an hour-glass ; for
you sooth ' d not , therefore hurt not .
how tartly that gentleman looks !
wrongs gives edge unto the swords that makes such waste in brief mortality .
txt mopsa .
run to my lord of suffolk ; let him know we have dispatch ' d the duke , as he
my dear dear lord , the purest treasure mortal times afford is spotless reputation ; that away , men are
york set him on to fight and die in shame .
pardon thee .
' what say you to this , sir ?
her ; but , saying thus , instead of oil and balm , thou lay ' st in every gash
the earl northumberland and the lord bardolph , with a great power of english and of scots , are by
thanks , dear isabel .
the single and peculiar life is bound with all the strength and armour of the mind to keep itself from
such pains as if they labour ' d to bring manslaughter into form and set quarrelling upon the head of
having work more plentiful than tools to do ' t , struck down some mortally , some slightly touch '
why , ' tis good ; it is the right of it ; it must be so ; ever your
i see the play so lies that i must bear a part .
hadst thou , like us from our first swath , proceeded the sweet degrees that this brief world affords to
my wind , cooling my broth , would blow me to an ague when i thought what harm a wind
but thou art neither like thy sire nor dam ; but like a foul misshapen stigmatic , mark ' d
creature , the mountain , or the sea , the day , or night : the crow , or dove
love , lend me wings to make my purpose swift , as thou hast lent me wit to plot this
so great a happiness as half thy love ?
o , she is lame !
give me leave , caesar .
to madness .
priam ' s palace enter priam , hector , troilus , paris , and helenus priam .
why then you are in love .
welkin- i might say ' element ' but the word is overworn .
i will follow you .
our doubts are traitors , and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt .
than i myself , poor man .
hers it was not .
why should they mock poor fellows thus ?
look you for any other issue ?
we will hold it as a dream till it appear itself ; but i will acquaint my daughter withal ,
you have made good work , you and your apron men ; you that stood so much upon the voice
concerns me to look into the bottom of my place : a pow ' r i have , but of
no , this thrice-worthy and right valiant lord shall not so stale his palm , nobly acquir ' d ,
publius , come hither , caius , and valentine .
come , i ' ll be friends with thee , jack .
fear no more the lightning flash , arviragus .
what didst not like ?
good father cardinal , cry thou ' amen ' to my keen curses ; for without my wrong there is
she never yet was foolish that was fair , for even her folly help ' d her to an heir
no messenger but thine , and all alone to-night we ' ll wander through the streets and note the qualities
and retired flood , leaving our rankness and irregular course , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i have not deserv ' d it .
what shall we do else ?
and stern ; and now you should be as your mother was when your sweet self was got .
go not home .
we were lodgers at the pegasus .
exeunt scene iv .
i have had a dream , past the wit of man to say what dream it was .
, needs must i under my transgression bow , unless my nerves were brass or hammered steel .
i am sure the duke will never grant this forfeiture to hold .
so glad of this as they i cannot be , who are surpris ' d withal ; but my rejoicing
i mock my name , great king , to flatter thee .
the sixth of july .
what wouldst thou have with me ?
what , dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel , and soothe the devil that i warn thee from
in you is a virtue of a good wing , and i like the wear well .
for me are windows to my breast , where-through the sun delights to peep , to gaze therein on thee
would not have it grow on my chin .
great reason why- lest i revenge .
strain ' d t ' appear thus ; if one jot beyond the bound of honour , or in act
we must have bloody noses and crack ' d crowns , and pass them current too .
come on , sit down ; come on , and do your best to fright me with your sprites ;
contagion to this world .
' divorce ; for if it did take place , ' i do ' quoth he ' perceive my king
i cannot tell ; long is it since i saw him , but time hath nothing blurr ' d those
nay , you must call me rosalind .
amen , so you be none .
that we have been familiar , ingrate forgetfulness shall poison rather than pity note how much .
either , heav ' n , with lightning strike the murd ' rer dead ; or , earth , gape
, whose fruit thou art , and never of the nevils ' noble race .
come , come , you wasp ; i ' faith , you are too angry .
and now you are metamorphis ' d with a mistress , that , when i look on you , i
and he is a motion generative ; that ' s infallible .
support him by the arm .
gentlemen , enough of this .
left pap , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he found it then ; i never gave it him .
my husband lost his life to get the crown ; and often up and down my sons were toss '
and can you by no drift of circumstance get from him why he puts on this confusion , grating so
[sings] melodious birds sing madrigals- whenas i sat in pabylon- and a thousand vagram posies .
look , here he comes , and brings the dire occasion in his arms page _num_ complete works of william
to my grief , i am the heir of his reward ; [to belarius , guiderius , and arviragus] page
i am your spaniel ; and , demetrius , the more you beat me , i will fawn on you
thou ' dst thank me but a little for my counsel , and yet i ' ll promise thee she
the friends of france our shrouds and tacklings ?
and did he not , in his protectorship , levy great sums of money through the realm for soldiers '
bless you , sir !
come , come , ' tis only i that must disgrace thee .
txt to him that victory commands ?
if ?
d .
of you , my noble cousin buckingham , if ever any grudge were lodg ' d between us ; of
tribute of his supple knee , with ' thanks , my countrymen , my loving friends ' ; as were
we understand it , and thank heaven for you .
when i perceive your grace , like pow ' r divine , hath look ' d upon my passes .
-and , lords , bow low to him .
you all !
if she cannot entreat , i can compel .
to-morrow , and it please your majesty to hunt the panther and the hart with me , with horn and
, and take her hence in horror .
say , my mother .
no , ' tis cowardly and womanish .
and all the greekish girls shall tripping sing ' great hector ' s sister did achilles win ; but our
what hath she done , prince , that can soil our mothers ?
cousin , a word : where is your husband ?
relieve him .
help me away , dear charmian ; i shall fall .
get thee gone ; i see thou art not for my company .
' twere better not assay ' d .
or to be naked with her friend in bed an hour or more , not meaning any harm ?
hath at least five frenchmen died to-night .
enter another citizen third citizen .
thou hast said enough .
how silent is this town !
there it goes , silver !
traverse- thus , thus , thus .
cannot my lord stanley sleep these tedious nights ?
now death shall stop his dismal threat ' ning sound , and his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak .
i speak from certainties .
governor ' s .
if e ' er thou wast thyself , and these woes thine , thou and these woes were all for
begin your suits anew , and sue to him .
[reads] ' till i have no wife , i have nothing in france .
what say ' st thou , henry ?
dost thou love pictures ?
welcome from mantua .
no , not take interest ; not , as you would say , directly int ' rest ; mark what
enter king , queen , laertes , osric , and lords , with other attendants with foils and gauntlets .
, that , as i am a christian faithful man , i would not spend another such a night though
then leave me not , my lords ; be resolute : i mean to take possession of my right .
i know them , yea , and what they weigh , even to the utmost scruple , scambling , outfacing
[whispers with blanch] bastard .
txt pedro .
to safeguard thine own life the best way is to venge my gloucester ' s death .
jack cade !
' what a herod of jewry is this !
if heaven be pleas ' d that you must use me ill , why , then you must .
when i walk away .
that gallant spirit hath aspir ' d the clouds , which too untimely here did scorn the earth .
which ' longs to women of all fashion ; lastly , hurried here to this place , i ' th
and live you yet ?
antony , octavius , and lepidus , seated at a table .
fain would i go to chafe his paly lips with twenty thousand kisses and to drain upon his face an
or image of that horror ?
by how much of me their reproach contains .
why , this is like the mending of highways in summer , where the ways are fair enough .
this is the man , this is antonio , to whom i am so infinitely bound .
then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste ?
the eagle suffers little birds to sing , and is not careful what they mean thereby , knowing that with
- yet now ' s a time : the greatest of your having lacks a half to pay your present
exeunt lovell and denny cranmer .
the exile of her minion is too new ; she hath not yet forgot him ; some more time must
be gone to-morrow ; and be sure of this , what i can help thee to thou shalt not miss
s love to thee .
is it e ' en so ?
of yours , so season ' d with your faithful love to me , then , on the other side
leave wringing of your hinds .
this staff of honour raught , there let it stand where it best fits to be , in henry '
fronts encount ' ring , may give you thankful sacrifice !
this may prove worse than hanging .
believe it , sir , i have seen him in britain .
and who shines now but henry ' s enemies ?
they are weary ?
come , what says romeo ?
vessel scape the dreadful touch of merchant-marring rocks ?
you shall be king .
my lord the emperor , resolve me this : was it well done of rash virginius to slay his daughter
truth is so ; and this the cranny is , right and sinister , through which the fearful lovers are
why , brother rivers , are you yet to learn what late misfortune is befall ' n king edward ?
o , sit my husband ' s wrongs on hereford ' s spear , that it may enter butcher mowbray
is banquo gone from court ?
popilius .
[knocking] hastings .
such valiant heat ?
we are , my lord , and come to have the warrant , that we may be admitted where he
[turning from him] eros .
[aside] i am glad thou hast set thy mercy and thy honour at difference in thee .
throw this slave page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' a pour ' d a flagon of rhenish on my head once .
voice him consul .
it is my arm .
i like it well ; good grumio , fetch it me .
modesty of fearful duty i read as much as from the rattling tongue of saucy and audacious eloquence .
[awaking] o helen , goddess , nymph , perfect , divine !
stand , ho !
where is my mother ' s care , that such an army could be drawn in france , and she
" indeed !
why , that ' s the lady !
was the best deserving a fair lady .
in her , bid her answer truly .
i ' ll go sleep , if i can ; if i cannot , i ' ll rail against all
bring down the devil , for he must not die so sweet a death as hanging presently .
o , pardon me !
made thine enemies ?
to ripeness .
now tell me , brother clarence , what think you of this new marriage with the lady grey ?
not where i did lodge last night .
and the third , sir thomas grey , knight , of northumberland , have , for the gilt of france-
michael cassio , lieutenant to the warlike moor , othello , is come on shore ; the moor himself at
i ' ll silence me even here .
shall not ; as with the meat , some undeserved fault i ' ll find about the making of the
so doth the cony struggle in the net .
hold , tybalt !
' we that are true lovers run into strange capers ; but as all is mortal in nature , so
hangeth like a jewel in the ear of caelo , the sky , the welkin , the heaven ; and
nay , then , thus : we came into the world like brother and brother , and now let '
then he falls , as i do .
, to aufidius conspirators , with aufidius adrian , a volscian a citizen of antium two volscian guards volumnia ,
about her husband ' s neck , hardly to be shook off .
now come but to feast thine eyes .
beware of them , diana : their promises , enticements , oaths , tokens , and all these engines of
are you so formal , sir ?
and me and troy .
each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart a root of ancient envy .
his burial ; and when i have my meed , i will away ; for this will out , and
[horns and shout within .
o , help !
you ever have wish ' d the sleeping of this business ; never desir ' d it to be stirr
let your study be to content your lord , who hath receiv ' d you at fortune ' s alms
this is the english , not the turkish court ; not amurath an amurath succeeds , but harry harry .
o gentle aaron !
i was always plain with you , and so now i speak my agitation of the matter ; therefore be
delicate ariel , i ' ll set thee free for this .
this is the man .
she ' s an excellent sweet lady , and (out of all suspicion) she is virtuous .
hast thou never an eye in thy head ?
come , our queen .
as young as i am , i have observ ' d these three swashers .
o , let their bodies follow , my dear liege , with blood and sword and fire to win your
rebellion with a seal divine , and consecrate commotion ' s bitter edge ?
nothing grieves me heartily indeed but that i cannot do ten thousand more .
they set me up , in policy , that mongrel cur , ajax , against that dog of as bad
you stand amaz ' d ; but be of comfort .
tell you who your fellow is that yet you do not know .
the thunder , that deep and dreadful organ-pipe , pronounc ' d the name of prosper ; it did bass
it is proved my lady hero hath been falsely accus ' d , the prince and claudio mightily abus '
we ' ll do thee homage , and be rul ' d by thee , love thee as our commander
my gracious lord , i may be negligent , foolish , and fearful : in every one of these no
he knows i am no maid , and he ' ll swear to ' t : i ' ll swear
could force his soul so to his own conceit that , from her working , all his visage wann '
i bless the time when my good falcon made her flight across thy father ' s ground .
from alexandria this is the news : he fishes , drinks , and wastes the lamps of night in revel
shall we part , sweet girl ?
horatio , thou art e ' en as just a man as e ' er my conversation cop ' d
make the meat be beloved more than the man that gives it .
in susan grindstone and nell .
in reverence- to save my boy , to nourish and bring him up ; or else i will discover nought
if you love the maid , bend thoughts and wits to achieve her .
where is the villain , edmund ?
men proud of destruction , defy us to our worst ; for , as i am a soldier , a
go not about ; my love hath in ' t a bond whereof the world takes note .
be cunning in the working this , and thy fee is a thousand ducats .
how fares my juliet ?
robert .
what , you notorious villain , didst thou never see thy master ' s father , vincentio ?
he ' d sow ' t with nettle-seed .
us contribution .
[to cleopatra] to caesar i will speak what you shall please , if you ' ll employ me to him
[to bardolph] let me see thee froth and lime .
not she ; nor doth she tempt ; but it is i that , lying by the violet in the
old women , the virginal palms of your daughters , or with the palsied intercession of such a decay '
cytherea , how bravely thou becom ' st thy bed !
relent , sweet hermia ; and , lysander , yield thy crazed title to my certain right .
i look down towards his feet ; but that ' s a fable .
' " leon .
your oath is pass ' d to pass away from these .
now this overdone , or come tardy off , though it make the unskilful laugh , cannot but make the
yes indeed do i , fellow .
unless for that he comes to be your liege , you cannot guess wherefore the welshman comes .
[sound trumpet] we have , great agamemnon , here in troy a prince called hector-priam is his father- who in
prithee dispatch .
- lieutenant- sir- montano- sir- help , masters !
sir , you have sav ' d my longing , and i feed most hungerly on your sight .
o , patience !
young clifford .
what is that curtsy worth ?
rise , titus , rise ; my empress hath prevail ' d .
ah , silvia !
honour down that violates the smallest branch herein .
lord ; there was not full a month between their births .
at one another ' s pate that many have their giddy brains knock ' d out .
patroclus .
i have a salt and sorry rheum offends me ; lend me thy handkerchief .
tell on thy mind ; i say thy child shall live .
let her die .
good hortensio , i bade the rascal knock upon your gate , and could not get him for my heart
those that macbeth hath slain .
' abysm of hell .
sweet , rouse yourself ; and the weak wanton cupid shall from your neck unloose his amorous fold , and
o you gods , i feel my master ' s passion !
beseech your highness , hold me your loyal servant .
for the ass to the jude ; give it him- jud-as , away .
which of the peers have uncontemn ' d gone by him , or at least strangely neglected ?
take that , and he that doth the ravens feed , yea , providently caters for the sparrow , be
in most profound earnest ; and , i ' ll warrant you , for the love of beatrice .
thou injurious tribune !
all-hallond eve .
but that it eats our victuals , i should think here were a fairy .
love there bred , where time and outward form would show it dead .
' d to his youth and haviour , that you vouchsafe your rest here in our court some little time
power to do most harm , least knowing ill , for he hath wit to make an ill shape good
tell me , who knows .
i saw her laid low in her kindred ' s vault and presently took post to tell it you .
' king .
true heart with treacherous revolt turn to another , this shall slay them both .
now this extremity hath brought me to thy hearth ; not out of hope , mistake me not , to
imagine ' twere the right vincentio .
nor tripp ' d neither , you base football player ?
to worship ; who mayst see , plainly as heaven sees earth and earth sees heaven , how i am
too old , by heaven !
suppose they take offence without a cause ; they are but lewis and warwick : i am edward , your
good name live with authority .
if the deed were ill , be you contented , wearing now the garland , to have a son set
exit charmian .
lord suffolk , you and i must talk of that event .
behold , i pray you .
enter imogen cloten .
let it suffice thee , mistress page at the least , if the love of soldier can suffice-that i love
thy son i kill ' d for his presumption .
could , an if we would , ' or ' if we list to speak , ' or ' there
are not you a coward ?
but ere they came-o , let me say no more !
this house is turn ' d bawdy house ; they pick pockets .
if i do sweat , they are the drops of thy lovers , and they weep for thy death ;
ay , so true love should do : it cannot speak ; for truth hath better deeds than words to
mice by lions- hath pick ' d out an act under whose heavy sense your brother ' s life falls
o wife , look how our daughter bleeds !
we will yet do well .
thou art not vanquish ' d , but cozen ' d and beguil ' d .
huntsman , what say ' st thou ?
not now to hear thee sing ; i take no pleasure in aught an eunuch has .
still be ' t yours , bestow it at your pleasure ; and believe caesar ' s no merchant ,
' the triplex , sir , is a good tripping measure ; or the bells of saint bennet , sir
her two branches- those sweet ornaments whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in , and might not gain
they will not answer to that epithet ; you were best call it ' daughter-beamed eyes .
do not , dear father .
rugby , baillez me some paper .
stuff .
i pray you jest , sir , as you sit at dinner .
what rough enforcement you got it from her .
enter the city , clip your wives , your friends , tell them your feats ; whilst they with joyful
deceit ; nor more can you distinguish of a man than of his outward show ; which , god he
enter a man from antonio man .
i shall know , sir , when i have done it .
congreeing in a full and natural close , like music .
for the nursing a thousand .
and how stand you affected to his wish ?
what was his reason ?
hence , avaunt !
in respect of the love i bear your house .
ho , the wind and the rain , a foolish thing was but a toy , for the rain it
evermore be true to it .
praise may be , yet hold i off .
yes , nightingales answer daws !
us , play judge and executioner all himself , for we do fear the law ?
, and to no other pretence of danger .
the greek camp flourish .
more science than i have in this ring .
was hector arm ' d and gone ere you came to ilium ?
camillo there ?
heaven will one day open the king ' s eyes , that so long have slept upon this bold bad
alack , you are transported by calamity thither where more attends you ; and you slander the helms o '
and so the lion vanish ' d .
your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex .
exit hastings he cannot live , i hope , and must not die till george be pack ' d with
bushy .
then go with me to make the matter good .
your purpose is both good and reasonable , and therefore are we certainly resolv ' d to draw conditions of
i have not seen him this two days .
he did , my gracious lord , begin that place , which , since , succeeding ages have re-edified .
we make ourselves fools to disport ourselves , and spend our flatteries to drink those men upon whose age we
but thus- if pow ' rs divine behold our human actions , as they do , i doubt not then
with her i liv ' d in joy ; our wealth increas ' d by prosperous voyages i often made
i heard a bustling rumor like a fray , and the wind brings it from the capitol .
despising for you the city , thus i turn my back ; there is a world elsewhere .
and perish .
could not love me , were man as rare as phoenix .
speak truly , little better than one of the wicked .
and gives to every power a double power , above their functions and their offices .
i have done my work ill , friends .
i ' ll let his humours blood .
gold !
stranger blood , to foreign royalty .
spectators , that i now may be in fair bohemia ; and remember well i mention ' d a son
fear not , man ; here ' s no harm intended to thee .
what boots it thee to can thyself a sun ?
it were not for your quiet nor your good , nor for my manhood , honesty , or wisdom ,
seems , madam , nay , it is .
now do thou watch , for i can stay no longer .
fasting pain .
we shall thrive , i trust .
dost think i am so muddy , so unsettled , to appoint myself in this vexation ; sully the purity
yonder comes news ; a wager- they have met .
he had , my lord , and when he ran in here , these people saw the chain about his
i am return ' d your soldier ; no more infected with my country ' s love than when i
the king has cur ' d me , i humbly thank his grace ; and from these shoulders , these
give me some ink and paper in my tent .
o masters !
ye are not sound .
i shall be much bound to you for ' t .
the prologue .
the hams .
for the love of god , a surgeon !
[giving another coin] clown .
or honest bardolph , whose zeal burns in his nose , of the wicked ?
o that i knew he were but in by th ' week !
nor i , my lord .
her life ' s rate .
it likes us well ; young princes , close your hands .
well , lords , to-day we shall have our dispatch ; on saturday we will return to france .
and all my children ?
wive ' s brother , then his cheek look ' d pale , and on my face he turn '
one of these is true : i think affliction may subdue the cheek , but not take in the mind
thou liest : his father is come from padua , and here looking out at the window .
d his treasons , implored your highness ' pardon , and set forth a deep repentance .
we know thy charge , brakenbury , and will obey .
fore god , you have here a goodly dwelling and rich .
here ' s another , more potent than the first .
but ' tis a common proof that lowliness is young ambition ' s ladder , whereto the climber-upward turns his
there is a brief how many sports are ripe ; make choice of which your highness will see first .
' odours , ' ' pregnant , ' and ' vouchsafed ' - i ' ll get ' em all
half won is match well made ; match , and well make it ; he ne ' er pays after-debts
o master , that you could !
which better than the first , o dear heaven , bless !
stuck with cloves .
edward battle : and , as occasion serves , this noble queen and prince shall follow with a fresh supply
not shake the snow from off their cassocks lest they shake themselves to pieces .
my hands are of your color , but i shame to wear a heart so white .
and i will do his bidding .
' o tamora !
uncle , my brother mocks both you and me ; because that i am little , like an ape ,
yea or no ?
why , alas , what ' s the matter ?
will you walk , sir ?
well thought upon ; i have it here about me .
thy overflow of good converts to bad ; and thy abundant goodness shall excuse this deadly blot in thy digressing
rearward of a conquered woe , give not a windy night a rainy morrow , to linger out a purposed
scene viii .
slaughter to the sword of traitors .
look on me well : i have eat no meat these five days , yet come thou and thy five
i begin to find an idle and fond bondage in the oppression of aged tyranny , who sways , not
attend me , lords .
' tis the more honour , because more dangerous .
hold , take my ring .
why then , your brown bastard is your only drink ; for look you , francis , your white canvas
thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave , but not rememb ' red in thy epitaph !
our isle be made a nourish of salt tears , and none but women left to wail the dead .
you two are old men ; tell me one thing that i shall ask you .
' th ' strand , where she was quartered .
ma foi , j ' oublie les doigts ; mais je me souviendrai .
rancour will out : proud prelate , in thy face i see thy fury ; if i longer stay we
you see how ' tis- a little o ' erparted .
let ' s to the capitol , and carry with us ears and eyes for th ' time , but
then , buckingham , i do dismiss my pow ' rs .
my gracious silence , hail !
it is great morning .
proud can i never be of what i hate , but thankful even for hate that is meant love .
heaven bless the isle of cyprus and our noble general othello !
by me a precious thing !
lives here in the city ; his word might bear my wealth at any time .
i cannot conceive you .
what dost thou mean by shaking of thy head ?
there is no measure in the occasion that breeds ; therefore the sadness is without limit .
since , lords of england , it is thus agreed that peaceful truce shall be proclaim ' d in france
nor none that live , i hope .
well , would i were gently put out of office before i were forc ' d out !
txt and power , unto itself most commendable , hath not a tomb so evident as a chair t '
in iron walls they deem ' d me not secure ; so great fear of my name ' mongst them
i play ' d the cheater for thy father ' s hand , and , when i had it ,
but now i know thy mind : thou dost suspect that i have been disloyal to thy bed and that
let copulation thrive ; for gloucester ' s bastard son was kinder to his father than my daughters got '
hark how hard he fetches breath .
i replied men fear ' d the french would prove perfidious , to the king ' s danger .
nor , gentle daughter , fear you not at all .
<exit luciana .
why , you grave but reckless senators , have you thus given hydra here to choose an officer that with
my sovereign liege , no letters , and few words , but such as i , without your special pardon
in the prince ' s name .
txt cast none away .
yet be sad , good brothers , for , by my faith , it very well becomes you .
poor and content is rich , and rich enough ; but riches fineless is as poor as winter to him
there is a thing , harry , which thou hast often heard of , and it is known to many
know you where you are , sir ?
some , how brief the life of man runs his erring pilgrimage , that the streching of a span buckles
txt but kindness , nobler ever than revenge , and nature , stronger than his just occasion , made him
yet , ere thou go , but answer me one doubt : what pledge have we of thy firm loyalty
power to shame him hence .
you on all estates will execute that lie within the mercy of your wit .
born .
show men dutiful ?
such friends are thine enemies , knave .
two kingdoms must with fearful bloody issue arbitrate .
now romeo is belov ' d , and loves again , alike bewitched by the charm of looks ; but
please you dismiss me , either with ay or no .
fair daughter .
txt it shall be what o ' clock i say it is .
ah , keeper , keeper , i have done these things that now give evidence against my soul for edward
>> _num_ the tragedy of antony and cleopatra by william shakespeare dramatis personae mark antony , triumvirs octavius caesar ,
cries out upon abuses , seems to weep over his country ' s wrongs ; and by this face ,
brother of england , you blaspheme in this .
therefore , give out you are of epidamnum , lest that your goods too soon be confiscate .
why , i pray you , is not ' pig ' great ?
the more fair and crystal is the sky , the uglier seem the clouds that in it fly .
you shall know them when back again this ring shall be deliver ' d .
stephano .
shall i come upon thee with an old saying , that was a man when king pepin of france was
here ' s goodly gear !
tugging to be victors , breast to breast , yet neither conqueror nor conquered .
it shall be so my care to have you royally appointed as if the scene you play were mine .
if your messenger find him not there , seek him i ' th ' other place yourself .
think upon these gone ; let them affright thee .
these are portents ; but yet i hope , i hope , they do not point on me .
happy in that we are not over-happy .
emperor himself , and all thy foes ; and at thy mercy shall they stoop and kneel , and on
i pray you , sir , deliver with more openness your answers to my demands .
my lord , i hold my life as dear as yours , and never in my days , i do
ventidius .
[andronicus lieth down , and the judges pass by him with the prisoners , and exeunt] for these , tribunes
growing , plants with goodly burden bowing ; spring come to you at the farthest , in the very end
down horrible traitors .
, is ' t not the tenour of his oracle , that king leontes shall not have an heir till
i would fain have arm ' d to-day , but my nell would not have it so .
here , lord bassanio , swear to keep this ring .
i spoke with her but once , and found her wondrous cold ; but i sent to her , by
tempest of commotion , like the south , borne with black vapour , doth begin to melt and drop upon
follow not ; i ' ll have no speaking ; i will have my bond .
txt how they affect the house and claim of york .
who , in my wrath , kneel ' d at my feet , and bid me be advis ' d
a fire , good curtis .
the ladies call him sweet ; the stairs , as he treads on them , kiss his feet .
txt and venture maidenhead for ' t ; and so would you , for all this spice of your hypocrisy
nay , speak .
relish of the saltness of time ; and i most humbly beseech your lordship to have a reverend care of
better to that weighty charge .
our griefs , and not our manners , reason now .
i have seen you gleeking and galling at this gentleman twice or thrice .
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene iii .
first prentice .
sweet misprision !
when it is paid according to the tenour .
[exit fenton] truly , an honest gentleman ; but anne loves him not ; for i know anne ' s
to court , stand my good lord , pray , in your good report .
, and to thy state of darkness hie thee straight .
as for my sons , say i account of them as jewels purchas ' d at an easy price ;
very pleasant thing indeed and sung lamentably .
another , yea , reciprocally- only to show his pomp as well in france as here at home , suggests
happily meet , to bear our fortunes in our own strong arms , which now we hold at much uncertainty
i beseech you remember .
not romeo , prince ; he was mercutio ' s friend ; his fault concludes but what the law should
lethe ' d dullness- enter varrius how now , varrius !
tell me , gentle friend , how went he under him ?
the primitive statue and oblique memorial of cuckolds , a thrifty shoeing-horn in a chain , hanging at his brother
exit re-enter gloucester gloucester .
enter othello and iago , at a distance .
farewell , good strato .
[alarum afar off , as at a sea-fight] re-enter antony antony .
i would not spare my brother in this case , if he should scorn me so apparently .
he that shall live this day , and see old age , will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours
txt your noble emperor and his lovely bride , sent by the heavens for prince saturnine , whose wisdom hath
and pat !
well !
therefore from my face she turns my foes , that they elsewhere might dart their injuries : yet do not
now , lords , take leave until we meet again , where ' er it be , in heaven or
i not purpose it .
he hath assembled bocchus , the king of libya ; archelaus of cappadocia ; philadelphos , king of paphlagonia ;
i for him defy you .
i hear him coming .
my wish receive , which great love grant ; and so i take my leave .
he is enamour ' d on hero .
sirrah , thou art said to have a stubborn soul , that apprehends no further than this world , and
a commodity in question , i warrant you .
signior hortensio , ' twixt such friends as we few words suffice ; and therefore , if thou know one
did call me ass .
death of twenty thousand men that for a fantasy and trick of fame go to their graves like beds ,
o , none of both but are of high desert !
if that this simple syllogism will serve , so ; if it will not , what remedy ?
by mine honesty , if she be mad , as i believe no other , her madness hath the oddest
he is my father , sir ; and , sooth to say , in count ' nance somewhat doth resemble
good or bad ?
how say you , my lord , are you not content ?
no , not he .
roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain ; but that , belike , iago in the interim came in
are up , neither supreme , how soon confusion may enter ' twixt the gap of both and take the
exeunt scene _num_ .
beat thou the drum , that it speak mournfully ; trail your steel pikes .
you must wear it one way , for the prince hath got your hero .
and you , sir ; you are welcome .
he of winchester is held no great good lover of the archbishop ' s , the virtuous cranmer .
did reign .
well thou knowest , is cross and full of sin .
hath the prince john a full commission , in very ample virtue of his father , to hear and absolutely
' d thy bloody deed .
in fruitful peace , you shall become true liegemen to his crown ; and , charles , upon condition thou
o my lord , if my duty be too bold , my love is too unmannerly .
she and the dauphin have been juggling .
of a jew .
this avouches the shepherd ' s son , who has not only his innocence , which seems much , to
lay a fault on us , your tribunes , that we labour ' d , no impediment between , but
' twixt guynes and arde- i was then present , saw them salute on horseback ; beheld them , when
good morrow to thee , gentle apemantus !
near his cell .
' and they shook hands , and swore brothers .
till all were lost .
at every house i ' ll call ; i may command at most .
which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young .
have chalk ' d forth the way which brought us hither .
before you please !
vanities forespent were but the outside of the roman brutus , covering discretion with a coat of folly ; as
from lowest place when virtuous things proceed , the place is dignified by the doer ' s deed ; where
who is it in the press that calls on me ?
a notable passion of wonder appeared in them ; but the wisest beholder that knew no more but seeing could
as who would say in rome no justice were .
this matter of marrying his king ' s daughter , wherein he must be weighed rather by her value than
though i am satisfied , and need no more than what i know , yet shall the oracle give rest
should find what ' twere to kill a father ; so should fleance .
at noon , and stand the buffet with knaves that smell of sweat .
y ' are goodly things , you voices !
' st not gladly , or else receiv ' st with pleasure thine annoy ?
so was i when your highness took his dukedom ; so was i when your highness banish ' d him
therefore in my presence still smile , dear my sweet , i prithee .
they sought their shame that so their shame did find ; and so much less of shame in me remains
canterbury ?
come on then , and give ' t me in mine ear .
there ' s a good grandam !
to-morrow , in my judgment , is too sudden ; for i myself am not so well provided as else
this is good news .
it is some meteor that the sun exhales to be to thee this night a torchbearer and light thee on
not- to dispraise me , and call me pander , and bread-chipper , and i know not what !
[he reads the sonnet] ' did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye , ' gainst whom the world cannot
why , sir , i know her not .
[steps aside] enter proteus , silvia , and julia as sebastian proteus .
well , give her that ring , and therewithal this letter .
my father ' s loss , the weakness which i feel , the wreck of all my friends , nor
txt puck .
ay , i think my cousin meant well .
i am for thee straight ; take thou the bill , give me thy meteyard , and spare not me
a witchcraft over the king in ' s tongue .
what is a whoremaster , fool ?
one eye vieweth all the world .
or not remember what i must be now !
exeunt all but puck puck .
this proves me still a sheep .
i did , my lord .
txt tear , nor speaks a word ; but see how i lay the dust with my tears .
i see no more in you than in the ordinary of nature ' s sale-work .
conclude their plotted tragedy .
a noise did scare me from the tomb , and she , too desperate , would not go with me
my fear , is your displeasure ; my curtsy , my duty ; and my speech , to beg your
master barnardine !
firmament and it you cannot thrust a bodkin ' s point .
they are at hand and ready to effect it .
ay , with a heart as willing as bondage e ' er of freedom .
you jack ' nape ; give-a this letter to sir hugh ; by gar , it is a shallenge ;
but , look !
tush , that was but his fancy ; blame him not ; i dare presume , sweet prince , he
my suit is at an end .
i say it is the moon that shines so bright .
i ' d give bay curtal and his furniture my mouth no more were broken than these boys ' ,
i have an interest in your hate ' s proceeding , my blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding
what men have you lost , fluellen !
be it so , i do desire no more .
i am a diseased man .
way it lies .
and such fellows are perfect in the great commanders ' names ; and they will learn you by rote where
a fellow of infinite jest , of most excellent fancy .
they have scar ' d away two of my best sheep , which i fear the wolf will sooner find
mine ache to think on ' t .
thou rascal beadle , hold thy bloody hand !
marry , ' tis not monstrous in you ; neither wish i you take much pains to mend .
' my lady ' s father ' ?
friend , you-pray you , a word .
pleaseth your majesty to give me leave , i ' ll muster up my friends and meet your grace where
wilt thou do this ?
fear ' d .
why the devil , upon this french going out , took he upon him- without the privity o ' th
' tis a fault to heaven , a fault against the dead , a fault to nature , to reason
>> scene : a city in illyria ; and the sea-coast near it act i .
' tis a world to see , how tame , when men and women are alone , a meacock wretch
i ' th ' common show-place , where they exercise .
if one of mean affairs may plod it in a week , why may not i glide thither in a
a cup , clos ' d in my true love ' s hand ?
her clothes spread wide and , mermaid-like , awhile they bore her up ; which time she chaunted snatches of
enter sicinius and brutus behold , these are the tribunes of the people , the tongues o ' th '
while we reason here a royal battle might be won and lost .
well , that is the dowry of his wife ; ' tis none of his own getting .
to stubborn harshness .
i have so : and , hearing your high majesty is touch ' d with that malignant cause wherein the
tongues into those wounds and speak for them ; so , if he tell us his noble deeds , we
and the creature run from the cur ?
her mood will needs be pitied .
soil , is a sharp wit match ' d with too blunt a will , whose edge hath power to
come , arm him .
, peruse the traders , gaze upon the buildings , and then return and sleep within mine inn ; for
they are beaten hack by the english , with great loss .
give up your staff , sir , and the king his realm .
ay , that petruchio came .
in transporting her !
' tis poor mad tom .
why , i ' faith , methinks she ' s too low for a high praise , too brown for
all their loyalties ; wherein , although , my good lord cardinal , they vent reproaches most bitterly on you
priest .
o , would the king , berowne and longaville , were lovers too !
may i be bold to acquaint his grace you are gone about it ?
let him command , and to obey shall be in me remorse , what bloody business ever .
no , sir ; he stays for you to conduct him thither .
was he mad , sir ?
too much .
so old as that .
[to abergavenny] the king is pleas ' d you shall to th ' tower , till you know how he
pardon me , royal sir .
but he assails ; and our virginity , though valiant in the defence , yet is weak .
, speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed , cry ' courage !
dead !
what more ?
o polish ' d perturbation !
i think i am not in the night ; nor doth this wood lack worlds of company , for you
his false hopes , the trust of england ' s honour , keep off aloof with worthless emulation .
if thus thou and nature can so gently part , the stroke of death is as a lover ' s
yare , lower , lower !
i am no child , no babe .
why will my lord do so ?
i was ador ' d once too .
, so feat , so nurse-like ; let his virtue join with my request , which i ' ll make
pisa lucentio , son to vincentio , in love with bianca petruchio , a gentleman of verona , a suitor
' better accommodated !
o world , thou wast the forest to this hart , and this , indeed , o world , the
uncle marcus , since ' tis my father ' s mind that i repair to rome , i am content
; and , to be short , what not that ' s sweet and happy .
warkworth .
txt had been her husband , rather than a christian !
exit jaques rosalind .
now the gods crown thee !
false to his bed ?
heavens , that i were a lord !
us , or say they strike us , or scant our former having in despite , why , we have
i think it was to see my mother ' s wedding .
a captain !
and you shall speak in the same pulpit whereto i am going , after my speech is ended .
, for i will henceforth be no more unconstant .
as good a man as york !
txt pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage , and purchase friends , and give to courtezans , still
break a lance , and run a tilt at death within a chair ?
txt enter lennox and another lord .
where the place ?
five hundred prisoners of esteem , lets fall his sword before your highness ' feet , and with submissive loyalty
why , what a peevish fool was that of crete that taught his son the office of a fowl !
_num_ sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye , and all my soul , and all my every part ;
and how doth thy master , bardolph ?
, supposed sons to belarius philario , italian , friend to posthumus iachimo , italian , friend to philario a
' that ' banished , ' that one word ' banished , ' hath slain ten thousand tybalts .
my lord , he ' s going to his mother ' s closet .
i would i knew his mind .
enter marcus with lavinia marcus .
, shall have her , though twenty thousand worthier come to crave her .
god send the companion a better prince !
bring in the banquet quickly ; wine enough cleopatra ' s health to drink .
that ' s helenus .
] if thou attempt it , it will cost thee dear .
yes , if you will , my lord .
marriage , uncle !
and so did i .
' ll give my voice , which , i presume , he ' ll take in gentle part .
or an old lion , or a lover ' s lute .
unnoted passion he did behove his anger ere ' twas spent , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hear further from his highness .
yours gave land .
he will stay till you come .
' that goes without a burden .
and does he think so backwardly of me now that i ' ll requite it last ?
o that this too too solid flesh would melt , thaw , and resolve itself into a dew !
when that ' s gone he shall drink nought but brine ; for i ' ll not show him where
sweet lady lie not guiltless here under some biting error .
for brutus only overcame himself , and no man else hath honor by his death .
cog , duck with french nods and apish courtesy , i must be held a rancorous enemy .
how might we disguise him ?
' d , your highness will take again your queen as yours at first , even for your son '
' xanthippe or a worse- she moves me not , or not removes , at least , affection ' s
fearful to do a thing where i the issue doubted , whereof the execution did cry out against the non-performance
there is three umpires in this matter , as i understand : that is , master page , fidelicet master
guilty !
o , will you eat no grapes , my royal fox ?
i pray thee get us some excellent music ; for to-morrow night we would have it at the lady hero
it is written that the shoemaker should meddle with his yard and the tailor with his last , the fisher
the time invites you .
for thy word is but the vain breath of a common man : believe me i do not believe thee
, serv ' d without or grudge or grumblings .
what , at the wheels of caesar ?
my company my brother gloucester , who from my cabin tempted me to walk upon the hatches .
exeunt lucius , quintus , and martius titus .
your silence most offends me , and to be merry best becomes you , for out o ' question you
lips , let sour words go by and language end : what is amiss , plague and infection mend !
well said , noble woman !
why , ' twas a commandment to command the captain and all the rest from their functions : they put
when you take occasions to see leeks hereafter , i pray you mock at ' em ; that is all
, and a woman ' s crupper of velure , which hath two letters for her name fairly set down
first merchant .
i knew him .
i am fear ' d in field and town .
exeunt all but boy boy .
d me silks that he had bought for me , and therewithal took measure of my body .
[aside] o prudent discipline !
thou whoreson zed !
, if it had not been for a hot midsummer night ; for , good youth , he went but
most honour ' d madam , my lord of york , out of his noble nature , zeal and obedience
dost thou like the plot , trinculo ?
means ?
, and made to tremble the region of my breast , which forc ' d such way that many maz
ending of mortality .
what hast thou done ?
why , here it is ; welcome these pleasant days !
what was he that you followed with your sword ?
upon his bloody finger he doth wear a precious ring that lightens all this hole , which , like a
charity .
you are most bound to th ' king , who lets go by no vantages that may prefer you to
think , we had mothers ; do not give advantage to stubborn critics , apt , without a theme ,
i dare not fight ; but i will wink and hold out mine iron .
more , proceed accordingly .
will not king richard let me speak with him ?
pardon me , noble lord ; i thought it was a fault , but knew it not ; yet did
and so it is .
no , not so , villain !
whom means your grace ?
fellow ; and his mistress is a respected woman .
this shall i undertake ; and ' tis a burden which i am proud to bear .
away , away , mad ass !
sweet lord , you play me false .
a beast .
, and see him seated in the regal throne .
as woman ' s love .
i pray you- proteus .
pray , sir , your pardon .
, or both yourself and me cry lost , and so goodnight .
he wail ' d , believe ' t- till i weep too .
, but then begins a journey in my head to work my mind , when body ' s work '
they would not have you to stir forth today .
prove the prettier fellow of the two , and wear my dagger with the braver grace , and speak between
my brother and thy uncle , call ' d antonio- i pray thee , mark me that a brother should
nay , let me praise you while i have a stomach .
king , and whor ' d my mother ; popp ' d in between th ' election and my hopes
what said he when he came unto himself ?
good sir , say whe ' r you ' ll answer me or no ; if not , i '
which his noble ancestors achiev ' d with blows .
election makes not up on such conditions .
this drives me to entreat you that presently you take your way for home , and rather muse than ask
txt wife .
he fumbles up into a loose adieu , and scants us with a single famish ' d kiss , distasted
his new shoes with an old riband ?
was kindly lent ; much more to be thus opposite with heaven , for it requires the royal debt it
come , good sir , will you show me to this house ?
done trespass .
we ' ll hear a play to-morrow .
what piles of wealth hath he accumulated to his own portion !
i ' ll give my reasons , more worthier than their voices .
txt and straight disclaim their tongues ?
o scotland , scotland !
txt the several chairs of order look you scour with juice of balm and every precious flower ; each fair
mourner , attended by tressel and berkeley anne .
hoodman comes .
txt enter rosalind and celia rosalind .
kindly warmth they are not kind ; and nature , as it grows again toward earth , is fashion '
the tongue of isabel .
[to bassanio] and , for your love , i ' ll take this ring from you .
' st quick conveyance with her good aunt anne .
trouble him no further ; thus you still shall find him .
a grave .
morton .
hath prov ' d herself ; and therefore , like herself , wise , fair , and true , shall
so , now go tell , an if thy tongue can speak , who ' twas that cut thy tongue
ay , sir , from one monsieur berowne , one of the strange queen ' s lords .
but rest unquestion ' d welcome and undoubted blest .
the ditty does remember my drown ' d father .
i , that now refus ' d most princely gifts , am bound to beg page _num_ complete works of
god save you , sir .
and topping all others in boasting .
ay , ay , farewell ; thy office is discharg ' d .
all th ' unsettled humours of the land- rash , inconsiderate , fiery voluntaries , with ladies ' faces and
a most acute juvenal ; volable and free of grace !
ay , if you come not in the blood of others , but mantled in your own .
we prescribe , though no physician ; deep malice makes too deep incision .
over and above that you have suffer ' d , i think to repay that money will be a biting
but do not use it oft , let me entreat you .
lords and attendants leontes .
enter york bolingbroke .
so far out of his knowledge !
should but rive an oak .
not only , sir , this your all-licens ' d fool , but other of your insolent retinue do hourly
, even at that news he dies ; and then the hearts of all his people shall revolt from him
these dire events .
third trumpet .
he ' s banish ' d , and it shall be so .
o my good lord , you were the first that found me .
along with them they brought one pinch , a hungry lean-fac ' d villain , a mere anatomy , a
come , grin on me , and i will think thou smil ' st , and buss thee as thy
i pray you , rise ; rise , egypt .
hand and send it to the king : he for the same will send thee hither both thy sons alive
i have us ' d thee , filth as thou art , with human care , and lodg ' d
why , what else ?
poor gentleman !
peace , grumio !
o , a thousand , a thousand times .
of place ' tween high and low .
was cressid here ?
txt proved , wit .
gone .
yes , yes , yes : the senate has letters from the general , wherein he gives my son the
words cannot carry authority so weighty .
bosom of our adversaries .
for my part , noble lords , i care not which : or somerset or york , all ' s
enter don pedro .
[aside] i have perus ' d her well : beauty and honour in her are so mingled that they have
kill ' d his heart .
well , i have done ; but yet- sebastian .
and i must leave her .
yet bend not all the harm upon yourself .
lay hold on him , i charge you , in the duke ' s name .
i were but little happy if i could say how much .
shall no man else be touch ' d but only caesar ?
that it will please you to give this poor petition to the king ; and aid me with that store
great , great , great pompey !
i will something affect the letter , for it argues facility .
not sick , my lord , unless it be in mind ; nor well , unless in mind ; his
tell gentle jessica i will not fail her ; speak it privately .
nay , i will consent to act any villainy against him that may not sully the chariness of our honesty
i shall have glory by this losing day , more than octavius and mark antony by this vile conquest shall
my aim .
who may you else oppose that can from hector bring those honours off , if not achilles ?
an untimely ague stay ' d me a prisoner in my chamber when those suns of glory , those two
lucius , save the child , and bear it from me to the emperess .
i am asham ' d to look upon the holy sun , to have the benefit of his blest beams
enter the french king , the dauphin , the dukes of berri and britaine , the constable , and others
i do not like thy look , i promise thee .
my cousin scroop ; and all the rest to whom they are directed .
talbot , farewell ; thy hour is not yet come .
it should not be , by the persuasion of his new feasting .
here , boy , ' to pallas ' ; here ' to mercury .
i shall have it .
i pray you , master , tell me .
re-enter guardsman and clown , with a basket page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he heareth not , he stirreth not , be moveth not ; the ape is dead , and i must
, the noble sinews of our power , france being ours , we ' ll bend it to our awe
chatillon , speak .
them , till they have snar ' d the shepherd of the flock , that virtuous prince , the good
so will i ; if he come under my hatches , i ' ll never to sea again .
, thou wouldst vouchsafe to visit her poor castle where she lies , that she may boast she hath beheld
we ' ll draw cuts for the senior ; till then , lead thou first .
lafeu .
how doth your grace affect their motion ?
i do not misdoubt my wife ; but i would be loath to turn them together .
address yourself to entertain them sprightly , and let ' s be red with mirth .
hume , if you take not heed , you shall go near to call them both a pair of crafty
let it do something , my good lord , that may do me good , and call it what you
- so farewell .
a mock for his truth ; and what truth can speak truest not truer than troilus .
thy shape invisible retain thou still .
display to the night .
txt have gloz ' d , but superficially ; not much unlike young men , whom aristode thought unfit to
o , that a man might know the end of this day ' s business ere it come !
if you deny it , let the danger light upon your charter and your city ' s freedom .
see this one is one too much , and that we have a curse in having her .
no , i ' ll no anne bullens for him ; there ' s more in ' t than fair
" ' queen katharine .
a craftier tereus , cousin , hast thou met , and he hath cut those pretty fingers off that could
you have a son , aumerle , my noble cousin ; had you first died , and he been thus
own lives in their young ' s defence for shame , my liege , make them your precedent !
but tell me , hal , art not thou horrible afeard ?
a little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in him ; something too crabbed that way , friar
go !
all descended to the labouring heart , who , in the conflict that it holds with death , attracts the
and so far blameless proves my enterprise that i have ' nointed an athenian ' s eyes ; and so
we shall entreat you to abide here till he come and enforce them against him .
arm !
brave warriors , clifford and northumberland , come , make him stand upon this molehill here that raught at mountains
[bertram gives a ring] by my old beard , and ev ' ry hair that ' s on ' t
he is already named , and gone to scone to be invested .
bassanio .
txt i know i love in vain , strive against hope ; yet in this captious and intenible sieve i
banquo and macbeth , all hail !
and cassius wrong , who , you all know , are honorable men .
o night , which ever art when day is not !
say , where , when , and how , cam ' st thou by this ill tidings ?
[to arthur] cousin , look not sad ; thy grandam loves thee , and thy uncle will as dear be
talk not of dying .
ha , do i perceive dat ?
i would have been much more a fresher man , had i expected thee .
discern ' st thou aught in that ?
write to him- i will subscribe- gentle adieus and greetings ; say that i wish he never find more cause
but is this hector ?
here ' s to your ladyship ; and pledge it , madam , for ' tis to such a thing-
norfolk , throw down ; we bid .
but i ' ll be hang ' d , sir , if he wear your livery .
well , sir , be it as the style shall give us cause to climb in the merriness .
lend thy hand , and pluck my magic garment from me .
himself , and all their lives that by indictment and by dint of sword have since miscarried under bolingbroke .
, hath miscarried .
speak thy deeds .
[aside] he will be the physician that should be the patient .
what earthly name to interrogatories can task the free breath of a sacred king ?
, the waiting gentlewoman to hero .
brother , my lord the duke , stand to , and do as we .
would thou hadst less deserved , that the proportion both of thanks and payment might have been mine !
now , if these men have defeated the law and outrun native punishment , though they can outstrip men they
; cuckoo , cuckoo ' - o word of fear , unpleasing to a married ear !
- mother , good night .
i see a man ' s life is a tedious one .
, cousin to shallow gentlemen of windsor ford page william page , a boy , son to page sir hugh
so looks the strand whereon the imperious flood hath left a witness ' d usurpation .
no more of this , it does offend my heart .
your children were vexation to your youth ; but mine shall be a comfort to your age .
thou canst not paint a man so bad as is thyself .
but first go and set london bridge on fire ; and , if you can , burn down the tower
went on crutches ere he was born desire yet their life to see him a man .
enter helena helena .
field : charles delabreth , high constable of france ; you dukes of orleans , bourbon , and of berri
enter antipholus ofephesus and dromio ofephesus antipholus ofephesus .
tell me what thou notest about the field .
it seems he hath great care to please his wife .
i am glad he ' s come , howsoe ' er he comes .
even in condition of the worst degree- in gross rebellion and detested treason .
o ceremony , show me but thy worth !
glory base , and sovereignty a slave , proud majesty a subject , state a peasant .
enter westmoreland who ' s here ?
was burnt ; but priam found the fire ere he his tongue , and i my percy ' s death
with contemplation and devout desires .
at large .
like hardiment posthumus hath to cymbeline perform ' d .
gates of rome .
and so good morrow , servant .
looking on the lines of my boy ' s face , methoughts i did recoil twenty-three years ; and saw
why , anything- but to th ' purpose .
the very conveyances of his lands will scarcely lie in this box ; and must th ' inheritor himself have
this gentleman told somewhat of my tale .
kind tyrrel , am i happy in thy news ?
montague earl of warwick earl of pembroke page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
how much the quantity , the weight as much as i do love my father .
mars ' s hot minion is return ' d again ; her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows , swears
thou has spoken no word all this while .
master surecard , as i think ?
then , world , thou hast a pair of chaps- no more ; and throw between them all the food
the common executioner , whose heart th ' accustom ' d sight of death makes hard , falls not the
be he the fire , i ' ll be the yielding water ; the rage be his , whilst on
gates on us , and will not suffer us to fetch him out , nor send him forth that we
tell me where it is .
give ?
as thine is now , held with a brace of harlots .
take it , god , for it is none but thine .
o , save me , hubert , save me !
whose age has charms in it , whose title more , to pluck the common bosom on his side and
without thee can sufficiently manage , must either stay to execute them thyself , or take away with thee the
lords , give us leave .
men must endure their going hence , even as their coming hither ; ripeness is all .
i have but little more to say , sir , of his honesty .
let ' s have a song .
you are too young , too happy , and too good , to make yourself a son out of my
do you hear how we are shent for keeping your greatness back ?
cesario , you do not keep promise with me .
towards chertsey , noble lord ?
northumberland .
god comfort thee !
who does do you wrong ?
well , ' tis done .
who ' s best in favour .
she ' s very near her hour .
no marvel , you have so bestirr ' d your valour .
] what says my general ?
madam , by chance , but not by truth ; what though ?
but , demetrius , come ; and come , egeus ; you shall go with me ; i have some
discuss .
ah , woe is me for gloucester , wretched man !
for from broad words , and ' cause he fail ' d his presence at the tyrant ' s feast
stands obdurate , and that no lawful means can carry me out of his envy ' s reach , i
be rul ' d by him .
one of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey .
god save you , pilgrim !
thou art arm ' d , gloucester .
none wed the second but who killed the first .
this your sheep-shearing is as a meeting of the petty gods , and you the queen on ' t .
where is my lord ?
me- which god ' s dew quench !
and now there rests no other shift but this to gather our soldiers , scatter ' d and dispers '
adoptedly , as school-maids change their names by vain though apt affection .
accursed fatal hand that hath contriv ' d this woeful tragedy !
welcome to rome , renowned coriolanus !
- o isabel !
what think you ?
why , ay .
make no more ado , but give your pigeons to the emperor ; by me thou shalt have justice at
would you have me- if you have any justice , any pity , if ye be any thing but churchmen
exeunt fairies so doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle gently entwist ; the female ivy so enrings the barky fingers
it shall to the barber ' s , with your beard .
our fair order written down , both they and we , perusing o ' er these notes , may know
seek out where thy father is , that he may be ready for our apprehension .
muse not that i thus suddenly proceed ; for what i will , i will , and there an end
no , sure , i cannot think it , that he would steal away so guilty-like , seeing you coming
i ' ll not meddle with it-it makes a man coward : a man cannot steal , but it accuseth
moment is thy death .
exit clown your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice .
antigonus , i charg ' d thee that she should not come about me ; i knew she would .
ll disdain me .
thou kill ' st me in his life ; giving him breath , the traitor lives , the true man
nay , sure , he ' s not in hell : he ' s in arthur ' s bosom ,
cam ' st thou from where they made the stand ?
what , canst not rule her ?
enter macbeth as king , lady macbeth as queen , lennox , ross , lords , ladies , and attendants
sir walter herbert , a renowned soldier ; sir gilbert talbot , sir william stanley , page _num_ complete works
i will in cassio ' s lodging lose this napkin , and let him find it .
that same diomed ' s a false-hearted rogue , a most unjust knave ; i will no more trust him
each takes his fellow for an officer .
which you shall eat .
it is turn ' d out of towns and cities for a dangerous thing ; and every man that means
doubtless he would have made a noble knight .
guards !
enter king henry , clifford , northumberland , westmoreland , exeter , and others , with red roses in their
o you kind gods , cure this great breach in his abused nature !
away , get thee away !
that were to enlard his fat-already pride , and add more coals to cancer when he burns with entertaining great
strike at thy life .
if to have done the thing you gave in charge beget your happiness , be happy then , for it
txt the swiftest hours observed as they flew , towards this afflicted fancy fastly drew ; and , privileged by
this is mere madness ; and thus a while the fit will work on him .
- you say right , sir ; a monday morning ; twas so indeed .
often welcomest when they are gone .
issue .
what should such a fool do with so good a wife ?
' a must , then , to the inns o ' court shortly .
sell every man his life as dear as mine , and they shall find dear deer of us , my
will my lord say so ?
my friend , thy husband , honest , honest iago .
signior bassanio !
hence , be gone .
sir , you speak nobly .
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene vii .
a very honest-hearted fellow , and as poor as the king .
the kingdom of perpetual night .
i said so , dear katherine , and i must not blush to affirm it .
sirrah , hast thou a knife ?
by gar , then i have as much mockvater as de englishman .
i am content you shall entreat me stay ; but yet not stay , entreat me how you can .
[to guiderius and arviragus] though you did love this youth , i blame ye not ; you had a motive
txt she , on his left side , craving aid for henry : he , on his right , asking
fight at sea .
have you pray ' d tonight , desdemona ?
us and to our purposes confin ' d- we come within our awful banks again , and knit our powers
peace , villain !
it is admirable pleasures , and fery honest knaveries .
he makes up the file of all the gentry ; for the most part such to whom as great a
slights him , with ' whoop , do me no harm , good man .
noble she is ; but if she have forgot honour and virtue , and convers ' d with such as
, we shall appear before him .
and next morn , ere the ninth hour , i drunk him to his bed , then put my tires
loves " ; and then , sir , would he gripe and wring my hand , cry , " o
knows .
our horses !
enter benedick .
, black , and tragical .
your caesar ' s father oft , when he hath mus ' d of taking kingdoms in , bestow '
we all kneel .
he received in the repulse of tarquin seven hurts i ' th ' body .
my revenge by heaven and hell , must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words and fall a-cursing like
and from his coffers receiv ' d the golden earnest of our death ; wherein you would have sold your
but is he often thus ?
madness .
[horns within .
alas , poor heart !
and what make you from wittenberg , horatio ?
is that the naked fellow ?
nay , good troth .
you will take little delight in it , i can tell you , there is such odds in the man
[aside to suffolk] this priest has no pride in him !
re-enter davy davy .
nay , an there were two such , we should have none shortly , for one would kill the other
thou art the first knave that e ' er mad ' st a duke .
' ll call you at your house ; give notice to such men of sort and suit as are to
o yes .
and weeds make haste .
i know not what pride is .
queen elizabeth .
said his beard was not cut well , he was in the mind it was .
what , hath the firmament more suns than one ?
a rarer spirit never did steer humanity .
] scene ii .
close walk to satisfy myself in craving your opinion of my tide , which is infallible , to england '
god in thy good cause make thee prosperous !
mine honour which i would free- if i shall be condemn ' d upon surmises , all proofs sleeping else
>> act iii scene _num_ .
not if the small come first .
he thinks it were not possible , with well-weighing sums of gold , to corrupt him to a revolt .
i ' ll tell thee , aliena , i cannot be out of the sight of orlando .
rode he on barbary ?
them ; the fault ' s your own .
he lies to the heart .
and it is marvel he out-dwells his hour , for lovers ever run before the clock .
than all i have ; if you like me , she shall have me and mine .
after long absence , such is yours .
txt ' let them be free , marry them to your heirs- why sweat they under burdens ?
alas , sir , we did it for pure need !
this get i by his death .
murder is thy alms-deed ; petitioners for blood thou ne ' er put ' st back .
that ' s a deep story of a deeper love ; for he was more than over shoes in love
hostess , clap to page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter publius , caius , and valentine publius .
but for the handkerchief- othello .
and will he not come again ?
i know this man well ; he hath been since an ape-bearer ; then a process-server , a bailiff ;
hang ' em , slaves !
line of charles the great was re-united to the crown of france .
but now return , and with their faint reply this answer join : who bates mine honour shall not know
fought ; but whether ' twas the coldness of the king , who look ' d full gently on his
too grossly dyed .
virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes .
i am more an antique roman than a dane .
still the fine ' s the crown .
these things are beyond all use , and i do fear them .
is it they ?
i must not seem proud .
leonatus .
then all too late i bring this fatal writ , the complot of this timeless tragedy ; and wonder greatly
on thee made good , may they not be my oracles as well and set me up in hope ?
good morrow , cousin warwick , good morrow .
by heaven , i rather would have been his hangman .
speak them fair .
to steal a shive , we know .
this is old ninny ' s tomb .
dost thou prate , rogue ?
charge me !
what , weeping-ripe , my lord northumberland ?
indeed , good lady , the fellow has a deal of that too much which holds him much to have
i am betroth ' d ; and art thou not asham ' d to wrong him with thy importunacy ?
' tis agamemnon just .
hath made a vow , till painful study shall outwear three years , no woman may approach his silent court
o good sir toby , hold !
i think it cites us , brother , to the field , that we , the sons of brave plantagenet
tyrant to him .
, for a name , now puts the drowsy and neglected act freshly on me .
a precious jewel in his head ; and this our life , exempt from public haunt , finds tongues in
arise , and take place by us .
what if it be a poison which the friar subtilly hath minist ' red to have me dead , lest
genitive : horum , harum , horum .
where is the duke my father with his power ?
heir must have your father ' s land .
let me be satisfied , is ' t good or bad ?
why then , lead on .
if i lose thee , my loss is my love ' s gain , and losing her , my friend
a worthy pioner !
pray , set it down and rest you ; when this burns , ' twill weep for having wearied you
welcome !
most noble antony , let not the piece of virtue which is set betwixt us as the cement of our
kill , kill , kill , kill , kill him !
blames i laid upon myself , for strangers to my nature .
did you beg any , god forbid !
it is too late .
i know i am too mean to be your queen , and yet too good to be your concubine .
me , but most himself , if he could see his shame .
txt health .
an i had but a belly of any indifferency , i were simply the most active fellow in europe .
these lords , my noble fellows , if they please , can clear me in ' t .
nay , good lysander ; for my sake , my dear , lie further off yet ; do not lie
what doth she say , my lord of buckingham ?
enter a messenger archbishop .
i have sent for these strawberries .
of my dining-chambers .
no ; lepidus , let him speak .
excusez-moi , alice ; ecoutez : d ' hand , de fingre , de nails , d ' arma ,
is there no military policy how virgins might blow up men ?
my kingdom for a horse !
one , that she ' s not in heaven , whither god send her quickly !
what though he love your hermia ?
and gaze your fill .
it was the owl that shriek ' d , the fatal bellman , which gives the stern ' st good
] the prince of cumberland !
tush , tush , ' twill not appear .
txt and it shall be as all the ocean , enough to stifle such a villain up i do suspect
the mailed mars shall on his altar sit up to the ears in blood .
you of my household , leave this peevish broil , and set this unaccustom ' d fight aside .
, and live the beloved of your brother , ' edgar .
the gallows does well .
and right must my possession be ; which i with more than with a common pain ' gainst all the
their power , i think , is thirty thousand strong .
most struck home , being gentle wounded craves a noble cunning .
' tis too bad , too bad !
kiss me , doll .
ciitzens steal away .
but it is your carbonado ' d face .
the rogues slighted me into the river with as little remorse as they would have drown ' d a blind
full of matter .
in sweet music is such art , killing care and grief of heart fall asleep or hearing die .
exit keeper .
up , sword , and know thou a more horrid hent .
i ' faith , or i either ?
" cassio .
white .
electronic and machine readable copies may be distributed so long as such copies ( _num_ ) are for your or
i ' ll scratch your heads .
wits ; and fear to kill a woodcock , lest thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam .
love never did run smooth ; but either it was different in blood- hermia .
' budge not , ' says my conscience .
enter king .
d it .
come , how wouldst thou praise me ?
who is ' t that goes with me ?
nay , if they lead to any ill , i will leave them at the next turning .
this is the end of the charge : you , constable , are to present the prince ' s own
my son !
such safety finds the trembling lamb environed with wolves .
two such opposed kings encamp them still in man as well as herbs- grace and rude will ; and where
to ill end , yea , faith itself to hollow falsehood change !
those that hobgoblin call you , and sweet puck , you do their work , and they shall have good
would go and kiss dead caesar ' s wounds and dip their napkins in his sacred blood , yea ,
may not one speak ?
i will go before and show him their examination .
i have not known when his affections sway ' d more than his reason .
but come , your bergomask ; let your epilogue alone .
drown ' d , drown ' d .
brother , begin .
say to the king i would attend his leisure for a few words .
farewell ; yet , for the love i bear my sweet bianca , if i can by any means light
what have you to do here , fellow ?
men report thou dost affect my manners and dost use them .
then , clarence , do it thou .
they , for their truth , might better wear their heads than some that have accus ' d them wear
[reads] ' john falstaff , knight ' - every man must know that as oft as he has occasion to
embassage to the pygmies--rather than hold three words ' conference with this harpy .
i have some marks of yours upon my pate , some of my mistress ' marks upon my shoulders ,
fairies , away .
trinculo , run into no further danger ; interrupt the monster one word further and , by this hand ,
why should i think you can be mine and true , though you in swearing shake the throned gods ,
but fish not with this melancholy bait for this fool gudgeon , this opinion .
by true computation of the time , found that the issue was not his begot ; which well appeared in
strato , where is thy master ?
[exeunt attendants .
you are very welcome , sir .
all their parts of me to thee did give , that due of many , now is thine alone .
is gone .
[aside] well begun , tranio .
] come on then , let ' s to bed .
edm .
a lawful form , in peace , to his utmost peril .
the empire at thy hands .
he was the ivy which had hid my princely trunk and suck ' d my verdure out on ' t
all hail , great master !
to th ' pot , i warrant him .
[reads] ' i am saint jaques ' pilgrim , thither gone .
good god !
look down , you gods , and on this couple drop a blessed crown ; for it is you that
met , and these things finish .
he shall have every day a several greeting , or i ' ll unpeople egypt .
but a trifle neither , in good faith , if the learned should speak truth of it .
unfold to us some warlike resistance .
where feed ' st thou a days , apemantus ?
do you behold these exhalations ?
your huge store wise things seem foolish and rich things but poor .
now , if these men do not die well , it will be a black matter for the king that
he will advance thee ; some little memory of me will stir him- i know his noble nature-not to let
be aidant and remediate in the good man ' s distress !
noble banquo , that hast no less deserved , nor must be known page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
by my troth , my lord , i cannot tell what to think of it , but that she loves
such as she says my lord did say i was .
royal lear , give but that portion which yourself propos ' d , and here i take cordelia by the
ay , and said nothing but what i protest intendment of doing .
now heavens forfend such scarcity of youth !
vanish ' d from our sight .
what will you say without ' em ?
txt fierce to their skill , and to their fierceness valiant ; but i am weaker than a woman '
my lord northumberland , we license your departure with your son .
long sitting to determine poor men ' s causes hath made me full of sickness and diseases .
we will not name desert before his birth ; and , being born , his addition shall be humble .
to nutriment when he is turn ' d to poison ?
now he thanks the old shepherd , which stands by like a weather-bitten conduit of many kings ' reigns .
did all their thunders bend ; spoke with how manifold and strong a bond the child was bound to th
is ' t so ?
i am sorry that the duke of buckingham is run in your displeasure .
linger your patience on , and we ' ll digest th ' abuse of distance , force a play .
brisky juvenal , and eke most lovely jew , as true as truest horse , that would never tire ,
i ' ll in to counsel them ; haply my presence may well abate the over-merry spleen , which otherwise
, as thriftless sons their scraping fathers ' gold .
txt into this place , ' twere pity on my life .
prove this , thou wicked hannibal , or i ' ll have mine action of batt ' ry on thee
if there be any impediment , i pray you discover it .
first , marcus brutus , will i shake with you ; next , caius cassius , do i take your
well .
overcome with moss and baleful mistletoe ; here never shines the sun ; here nothing breeds , unless the nightly
here comes my father .
these devourers to be banished !
madam !
talbot , my life , my joy , again return ' d !
an unmannerly slave that will thrust himself into secrets !
is it true , think you ?
if that man should be lewdly , given , he deceiveth me ; for , harry , i see virtue
patience , be near me still , and set me lower : i have not long to trouble thee .
every thing that heard him play , even the billows of the sea , hung their heads and then lay
through tatter ' d clothes small vices do appear ; robes and furr ' d gowns hide all .
, ' tis most just .
the king himself , who , douglas , grieves at heart so many of his shadows thou hast met ,
they have said their prayers and they stay for death .
; and there be some of them too that die against their wills ; so should i , if i
who is it like should lead his forces hither ?
fit i meet them .
' presently , and then do execution on the watch .
take the fool with thee .
enter goneril .
fit you know , i not acquaint my father of this business .
o grim-look ' d night !
why live we idly here ?
choice , immediately to leave you and be gone .
the elephant hath joints , but none for courtesy ; his legs are legs for necessity , not for flexure
long have i been forlorn , and all for thee .
the duke of york , and in the towns , as they do march along , proclaims him king ,
enter horatio and marcellus .
, and the forms of it , and the sobriety of it , and the modesty of it , to
but say , sir , is it dinnertime ?
things base and vile , holding no quantity , love can transpose to form and dignity .
be wild- i have dispatch ' d in post to sacred delphos , to apollo ' s temple , cleomenes
deny to speak with me ?
that vile rascal .
' tis not her glass , but you , that flatters her ; and out of you she sees herself
publius , good cheer , there is no harm intended to your person , nor to no roman else .
even that , i hope , which pleaseth god above , and all good men of this ungovern ' d
more than merited .
a court of justice enter leontes , lords , and officers leontes .
excellence the incense of a vow , a holy vow , never to taste the pleasures of the world ,
, and knowing i had no such purpose ?
guess it stood in her chin , by the salt rheum that ran between france and it .
besiege us one hour in a month .
lights , lights , lights !
yes , he is worthy of thee , and to pay thee for thy labour .
go , sirrah , take them to the buttery , and give them friendly welcome every one ; let them
shows of love to other men .
_num_ my tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still , while comments of your praise richly compiled , reserve their
read the indictment .
come , stanley , shall we go ?
er did lift up eye .
gentlemen , as prisoners lieutenant .
not absolute madness could so far have rav ' d , to bring him here alone .
whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground ; many a widow ' s husband grovelling lies , coldly embracing
as they pinch one another by the disposition , he cries out ' no more !
i ken the wight ; he is of substance good .
courage and comfort !
- or i do forget myself .
law .
down all unkindness .
what shall we do ?
and i would give his wife my bauble , sir , to do her service .
past and to come seems best ; things present , worst .
i ' ll be myself the harbinger , and make joyful the hearing of my wife with your approach ;
surrey .
this is not brutus , friend , but , i assure you , a prize no less in worth .
exeunt governor and his train enter sir john fastolfe fastolfe .
[holofernes retires] princess of france .
not to be help ' d- parolles .
and there receive her approbation ; acquaint her with the danger of my state ; implore her , in my
this , the fool had borne my head as i do his .
even so being full of your ne ' er-cloying sweetness , to bitter sauces did i frame my feeding ;
' quoth the king ' an angel shalt thou see ; yet fear not thou , but speak audaciously .
safely stow ' d .
i ' ll send her to you presently ; and i ' ll devise a mean to draw the moor
if we suffer , out of our easiness and childish pity to one man ' s honour , this contagious
it would give eternal food to his jealousy .
in your behalf still will i wear the same .
have napkins enow about you ; here you ' ll sweat fort .
this my mean task would be as heavy to me as odious , but the mistress which i serve quickens
do think is mine , and love as mine- without ripe moving to ' t ?
thersites .
for brutus !
thou art , alone- if thy rare qualities , sweet gentleness , thy meekness saint-like , wife-like government , obeying
look how my ring encompasseth thy finger , even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart ; wear both of
abel ' s , cries , even from the tongueless caverns of the earth , to me for justice and
in cunning i must draw my sword upon you .
do i entice you ?
txt smallest .
if he mislike my speech and what is done , tell him he has hipparchus , my enfranched bondman ,
ay , on mine honour .
well ; and well am like to do , for i perceive four feasts are toward .
that others do , i was about to say , enjoy your- but it is an office of the gods
i died whilst in the womb he stay ' d attending nature ' s law ; whose father then ,
; and not to wear , handle , or use , any sword , weapon , or dagger , henceforward
at that hour last night talk with a ruffian at her chamber window , who hath indeed , most like
let ' s withdraw .
enter edgar , edg .
txt [seizing lavinia] titus .
look to your babe , my lord ; ' tis yours .
owen glendower .
let it alone ; i ' ll make other shift .
where is the duke of norfolk , gentle warwick ?
never to speak of this that you have heard : swear by my sword .
no , my good lord ; i have sworn to stay with you ; and though i have for barbarism
thus do i pine and surfeit day by day , or gluttoning on all , or all away .
what , dost thou roar before thou art prick ' d ?
must my sweet nan present the fairy queen- the purpose why is here-in which disguise , while other jests are
' to a true man .
and ewer , and other appurtenances ; and lord sly .
perhaps you mark ' d not what ' s the pith of all .
as leaves do on the oak , have with one winter ' s brush fell from their boughs , and
[aside to horatio] dost know this waterfly ?
enter certain nymphs you sun-burnt sicklemen , of august weary , come hither from the furrow , and be merry
pardon me , i pray you ; i thought that all things had been savage here , and therefore put
complaint o ' th ' tenants .
may spy them .
d nought but beggary and poor looks .
meantime , have patience .
txt and an adopted name of privilege- a hare-brained hotspur govern ' d by a spleen .
' commend me to my valiant brother .
duties back as are right fit , obey you , love you , and most honour you .
[snatching it .
when ' s god ' s asleep he ' ll rob his bottle .
come , let ' s away to prison .
but doth not the appetite alters ?
i have got in exchange of a hundred and fifty soldiers , three hundred and odd pounds .
the king-and is not this course pious ?
with juice of cursed hebona in a vial , and in the porches of my ears did pour the leperous
o lord , sir , i ' ll be sworn upon all the books in england i could find in
i grant him bloody , luxurious , avaricious , false , deceitful , sudden , malicious , smacking of every
i dare make his answer--none .
thy antony making his peace , shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes , most noble !
retreat is made , and execution stay ' d .
i see the lady hath a thing to grant , before the king will grant her humble suit .
but not every man patient after the noble temper of your lordship .
i will speak lower .
out upon ' t , what have i forgot ?
o joyful day !
use us and it .
art thou a man ?
o sinful thought !
, the victory fell on us .
shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money .
and well such losers may have leave to speak .
we are simple men ; we do not know what ' s brought to pass page _num_ complete works of
enter lucio pompey .
when by no means he could- glou .
hang him , truant !
shortly shall all my labours end , and thou shalt have the air at freedom ; for a little follow
good signior angelo , you must excuse us all ; my wife is shrewish when i keep not hours .
s pen ; examine every married lineament , and see how one another lends content ; and what obscur '
have you seen my cousin ?
i ' ll not call you tyrant but this most cruel usage of your queen- not able to produce more
ah , luciana , did he tempt thee so ?
he only lived but till he was a man , the which no sooner had his prowess confirm ' d
course of all the question .
_num_ from you have i been absent in the spring , when proud-pied april (dressed in all his trim) hath
thou art as opposite to every good page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
she is beholding to thee , gentle youth .
look where thy love comes ; yonder is thy dear .
marry , god forbid !
she did confess she had for you a mortal mineral , which , being took , should by the minute
call hither barnardine and claudio .
french bet against the danish .
the queen and her two sons ; and what not done , that thou hast cause to rue , wherein
farewell ; you ' re angry .
here is the cap your worship did bespeak .
enter edmund .
hear of clarence ' death ?
[embracing him] pandarus .
humbly complaining to her deity got my lord chamberlain his liberty .
heaven shield my mother play ' d my father fair !
how , sir ?
falls .
like an unseasonable stormy day which makes the silver rivers drown their shores , as if the world were all
yea , marry .
you had more beard when i last saw you , but your favour is well appear ' d by your
mortal stroke she do defeat us ; for her life in rome would be eternal in our triumph .
, man ; i have a king ' s oath to the contrary .
but now nor lucius nor lavinia lives but in oblivion and hateful griefs .
-have your mouth fill ' d up before you open it .
where is nan now , and her troop of fairies , and the welsh devil , hugh ?
i have heard more since .
sooth , when i was young and handed love as you do , i was wont to load my she
i take her hand .
he turn ' d me about with his finger and his thumb , as one would set up a top
i say no ; i have been broad awake two hours and more .
windsor castle enter sir pierce of exton and a servant exton .
peter , stay at the gate .
to this effect , achilles , have i mov ' d you .
then curs ' d she richard , then curs ' d she buckingham , then curs ' d she hastings
have done with words , my lords , and hear me speak .
he and his physicians are of a mind : he , that they cannot help him ; they , that
' thus merely with the garment of a grace the naked and concealed fiend he covered , that th '
i could have given less matter a better ear .
<exeunt antipholus of syracuse and dromio of syracuse to the priory enter the lady abbess abbess .
[aside] if that go forward , henry ' s hope is done .
i ' ll stay with patience ; but the time is long .
dear sir , to my endeavours give consent ; of heaven , not me , make an experiment .
txt but mine , and mine i lov ' d , and mine i prais ' d , and mine
i am sorry that your leisure serves you not .
what merit do i in my self respect , that is so proud thy service to despise , when all
the drum your honour hears marcheth from warwick .
o , my good lord , yonder ' s foul murthers done !
my lord , break we off ; we know your mind at full .
if our sport had gone forward , we had all been made men .
his drum in any hand .
txt hundred of them .
please it your grace to be advertised the duke of york is newly come from ireland and with a puissant
[she is going] suffolk .
my cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart .
, as lively painted as the deed was done .
i ' ll draw the form and model of our battle , limit each leader to his several charge ,
ah , would she break from hence , that this my body might in the ground be closed up in
what have you done ?
as love is , my lord , before it loves .
how many lambs might the stern wolf betray , if like a lamb he could his looks translate !
i will bestow a breakfast to make you friends ; and we ' ll be all three sworn brothers to
i could not personally deliver to her what you commanded me , but by her woman i sent your message
i took an oath that he should quietly reign .
though my estate be fall ' n , i was well born , nothing acquainted with these businesses ; and
your graces are right welcome .
we are glad the dauphin is so pleasant with us ; his present and your pains we thank you for
, in kindness and unfeigned love , first to do greetings to thy royal person , and then to crave
now , could i come to her with any detection in my hand , my desires had instance and argument
[giving it to perdita] page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
no , iago , i ' ll see before i doubt ; when i doubt , prove ; and on
there is a frenchman his companion , one an eminent monsieur that , it seems , much loves a gallian
i pawn ' d thee none : i promis ' d you redress of these same grievances whereof you did
o noble weakness !
o cymbeline , heaven and my conscience knows thou didst unjustly banish me !
here live , against this coming end you should prepare , and your sweet semblance to some other give .
the east side of the grove ?
it must needs be of subtle , tender , and delicate temperance .
i will pay thy graces home both in word and deed .
well , well , i see the issue of these arms .
exit tranio .
th ' art quick , but yet i ' ll bury thee .
i must to bed ; call in more women .
to show an unfelt sorrow is an office which the false man does easy .
i ' ll be thy second .
before i enter ' d here i call ' d , and thought to have begg ' d or bought
what ' s next ?
that which my friend hates .
for you my staff of office did i break in richard ' s time , and posted day and night
honour , cardinal wolsey , was dead ?
do seldom win .
comfort , dear mother .
farewell , good pompey .
what would you say ?
obey , and be attentive .
i would they had not come between us .
here on her breast there is a vent of blood , and something blown ; the like is on her
an enterprise of honorable-dangerous consequence ; and i do know by this , they stay for me in pompey '
without , my lord ; guarded , to know your pleasure .
but will you hear ?
here stood he in the dark , his sharp sword out , mumbling of wicked charms , conjuring the moon
o jesu , he doth it as like one of these harlotry players as ever i see !
nay , ' tis in a manner done already ; for many carriages he hath dispatch ' d to the
death , and we have done but greenly in hugger-mugger to inter him ; poor ophelia divided from herself and
the wings of night whiter than new snow upon a raven ' s back .
i can fashion fit .
hey-day !
bangor .
i knew thy grandsire , and once fought with him .
christening gifts ; then four noblemen bearing a canopy , under which the duchess of norfolk , godmother , bearing
give him a statue with his ancestors .
ay , and a subtle ; as he most learnedly deliver ' d .
the younger brother , cadwal , once arviragus , in as like a figure strikes life into my speech ,
' cade .
even as men wreck ' d upon a sand , that look to be wash ' d off the next
nor nothing monstrous neither ?
i have been closely shrouded in this bush , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, to be endeared to a king , made it no conscience to destroy a prince .
she sees not hermia .
my lords , before it pleas ' d his majesty to raise my state to title of a queen ,
in the middle , a boiling cauldron .
exit page the deep-revolving witty buckingham no more shall be the neighbour to my counsels .
it grieves his highness .
cophetua lov ' d the beggar maid !
hark , petruchio ; she says she ' ll see thee hang ' d first .
and you , my lords- methinks you do not well to bear with their perverse objections , much less to
o , ' tis the cunning livery of hell the damned ' st body to invest and cover in precise
get posts and letters , and make friends with speed- never so few , and never yet more need .
o my master !
d me , out of thy honest truth , to play the woman .
see , by good hap , yonder ' s my lord ; i have sweat to see his honour .
the words of mercury are harsh after the songs of apollo .
time shall not go dully by us .
thirty fathom .
, lady attending on the princess maria , " " " " " katharine , lady attending on the princess
_num_ what potions have i drunk of siren tears distilled from limbecks foul as hell within , applying fears to
you must give way .
god be with you , sir ; i will .
my maid nerissa and myself meantime will live as maids and widows .
now , mother , what ' s the matter ?
fourth gentleman .
there hath been in rome strange insurrections : the people against the senators , patricians , and nobles .
when wasteful war shall statues overturn , and broils root out the work of masonry , nor mars his sword
forth my rightful hand in a well-hallow ' d cause .
come hither , gracious sovereign , view this body .
mount , mount , my soul !
where is this sight ?
behold , it is the privilege of mine honours , my oath , and my profession .
it to yourself in bed- where you have never come- or sent it us upon her great disaster .
mine own was free , and reigned commanding in his monarchy .
bid the players make haste , [exit polonius .
txt what stir is this ?
where got ' st thou that goose look ?
what is the reason that you use me thus ?
cease , as you shall give th ' advice .
let me speak like yourself , and lay a sentence which , as a grise or step , may help
poor lady , she ' ll run mad when she shall lack it .
defile !
a villain kills my father ; and for that , i , his sole son , do this same villain
sweet prince , let me go no farther to mine answer .
get you gone ; put on a most importunate aspect , a visage of demand ; for i do fear
how goes it now ?
please it your lordship , he hath put me off to the succession of new days this month .
what answers clarence to his sovereign ' s will ?
ten days ago i drown ' d these news in tears ; and now , to add more measure to
grace and good disposition attend your ladyship !
i pray you leave me .
of dildos and fadings , ' jump her and thump her ' ; and where some stretch-mouth ' d rascal
my lord ' s almost so far transported that he ' ll think anon it lives .
i am most glad you think of other place .
when thou art forth in the incursions , thou strikest as slow as another .
good my mouse of virtue , answer me .
go to , we pardon thee ; therefore , in brief , tell me their words as near as thou
one sev ' night longer .
take the bonds along with you , and have the dates in compt .
patricians !
not a whit , we defy augury ; there ' s a special providence in the fall of a sparrow
enter aaron the moor aaron .
let me see her .
this small inheritance my father left me contenteth me , and worth a monarchy .
let ' s take the instant by the forward top ; for we are old , and on our quick
away , you cut-purse rascal !
fore god , a likely fellow !
how ill white hairs become a fool and jester !
london , to be crown ' d our king .
' with a child of our grandmother eve , a female ; or , for thy more sweet understanding ,
do you know me , father ?
ignominy in ransom and free pardon are of two houses : lawful mercy is nothing kin to foul redemption .
why , he that cuts off twenty years of life page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and dying men did groan , and ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets .
if you could find out a country where but women were that had received so much shame , you might
my amen to ' t !
in a town of war , yet wild , the people ' s hearts brimful of fear , to manage
re-enter the king bertram .
exit timon .
my heart to her but as guest-wise sojourn ' d , and now to helen is it home return '
ford ' s house enter mistress ford and mistress page mrs .
why , what an ass am i !
it is his policy to haste thus fast , to find us unprovided .
a thing more slavish did i ne ' er than answering ' a slave ' without a knock .
some few bands of chosen soldiers , i ' ll undertake to land them on our coast and force the
all westward , wales beyond the severn shore , and all the fertile land within that bound , to owen
[to hero] well , niece , i trust you will be rul ' d by your father .
he has the stamp of marcius , and i have before-time seen him thus .
, his wonted sleep under a fresh tree ' s shade , all which secure and sweetly he enjoys ,
- open them , boy .
; accept it and wear it , kind my lord .
i do not cross you , but i will do so .
txt scene vi .
is it not meant damnable in us to be trumpeters of our unlawful intents ?
be capable of a courtier ' s counsel , and understand what advice shall thrust upon thee ; else thou
her husband , knave !
this were to be new made when thou art old , and see thy blood warm when thou feel '
why , no , i say ; distrustful recreants !
does not our lives consist of the four elements ?
osric , courtier .
o barbarous and bloody spectacle !
fare you well , gentlemen .
fair gems enriched , and deep-brained sonnets that did amplify each stone ' s dear nature , worth , and
your state .
read o ' er the volume of young paris ' face , and find delight writ there with beauty '
nay , pray you throw none away ; the skin is good for your broken coxcomb .
what title hast thou , traitor , to the crown ?
misuse the tenour of thy kinsman ' s trust ?
fall the usurping helmets of our adversaries !
please you , sir , do not omit the heavy offer of it : it seldom visits sorrow ; when
st part black .
of use .
yea and the no is , the french doctor , my master-i may call him my master , look you
will you subscribe his thought and say he is ?
o blessed that i might not !
who hath not heard it spoken how deep you were within the books of god ?
rest , the sudden hand of death close up mine eye !
if i cut my finger , i shall make bold with you .
' tis monstrous .
i am wak ' d with it when i sleep ; rais ' d with it when i sit ;
i care not .
runs on his sword .
no matter , since they have left their viands behind ; for we have stomachs .
the enemy comes on in gallant show ; their bloody sign of battle is hung out , and something to
i do commit his youth to your direction .
uncover , dogs , and lap .
exit escalus this deed unshapes me quite , makes me unpregnant and dull to all proceedings .
well praised !
by my troth , i was not there .
' tongue , consuming it with speaking !
what might be toward , that this sweaty haste doth make the night joint-labourer with the day ?
the lamp entreats the butcher .
descended of blithild , which was daughter to king clothair , make claim and title to the crown of france
the office to choose you a queen .
why , fool ?
here , boys , here , here !
well , or ill , i am bound to you .
thou art a widow , yet thou art a mother and hast the comfort of thy children left ; but
look on ' t .
who , were ' t so , would have inform ' d for preparation .
she gave it him , and he hath given it his whore .
go to , mum you are he .
o !
ye alehouse painted signs !
you witch me in it ; surprise me to the very brink of tears .
farewell , thou pure impiety and impious purity !
fie , what an indirect and peevish course is this of hers ?
the peal begins .
how do you , desdemona ?
be quiet , or- more light , more light !
ten , my lord .
god dig-you-den all !
the accident which brought me to her eye upon the moment did her force subdue , page _num_ complete works
go fetch my best attires .
the hart .
re-enter titinius with messala .
we have receiv ' d your letters , full of love ; your favours , the ambassadors of love ;
remove his fit .
if he think it fit to shore them again , and that the complaint they have to the king concerns
indeed i should have ask ' d you that before .
and there empty it in the muddy ditch close by the thames side .
[the music plays] music do i hear ?
i am not sorry neither .
thy self is self-misus ' d .
exeunt theseus , hippolyta , egeus , and train demetrius .
if she be made of white and red , her faults will ne ' er be known ; for blushing
for , boy , however we do praise ourselves , our fancies are more giddy and unfirm , more longing
what , will you have them weep our horses ' blood ?
set them down for sluttish spoils of opportunity , and daughters of the game .
retire to calais .
the date is out of such prolixity .
is rosaline , that thou didst love so dear , so soon forsaken ?
' twas a good sensible fellow .
[shouts , within , and the trumpets sound] pistol .
you would have been contracted to a maid ; nor are you therein , by my life , deceiv '
enter dromio of syracuse .
i dare abide no longer .
o lord , he will hang upon him like a disease !
but shall she marry him ?
would you were half so honest !
' feel , masters , how i shake ; look you , i warrant you .
rise , and lend thine ear .
awake the snorting citizens with the bell , or else the devil will make a grandsire of you .
hag-seed , hence !
wither .
well , say there is no kingdom then for richard ; what other pleasure can the world afford ?
i cannot find those runagates ; that villain hath mock ' d me .
o wicked wall , through whom i see no bliss , curs ' d he thy stones for thus deceiving
why , the honest men .
enter the archbishop of york and sir michael .
well , i am sorry for your niece .
now shame upon you , whe ' er she does or no !
why , sir , how do you bear with me ?
that you might know it would much better please me than to demand what ' tis .
first senator .
o theft most base , that we have stol ' n what we do fear to keep !
yes , faith , will i , fridays and saturdays , and all .
pity not honour ' d age for his white beard : he is an usurer .
lucius , i will .
doth the inconsiderate take salve for l ' envoy , and the word ' l ' envoy ' for a
i ' ll tell thee , suffolk , why i am unmeet : first , for i cannot flatter thee
] still am i call ' d .
loss , so in our trifles i still win of you .
how now , good blunt ?
lewis sits , and riseth up again lewis .
and i prithee , sweet wag , when thou art king , as , god save thy grace-majesty i should
you do me wrong to take me out o ' th ' grave .
rub him about the temples .
i have sent to seek him and to find the body .
warm , o ' my troth !
let there be the same net spread for her , and that must your daughter and her gentlewomen carry .
trust me not .
for me , that i may surely keep mine oath , i will be married to a wealtlly widow ere
what beard were i best to play it in ?
ghost of hamlet ' s father .
lord chamberlain norfolk .
in their working do you that offence which else were shame , that then necessity must call discreet proceeding .
here ' s the lord say , which sold the towns in france ; he that made us pay one
like to a duchess and duke humphrey ' s lady ; according to that state you shall be us '
men ' s prayers then would seek you , not their fears .
a new state in thy unrivall ' d merit , to which i thus subscribe : sir valentine , thou
lord , lord !
please it your grace , on to the state affairs ; i had rather to adopt a child than get
the third part , then , is drunk .
the king ' s grown bankrupt like a broken man .
no , not a whit .
fainting , upon rosalind .
and will they so ?
the duke and all that know me in the city can witness with me that it is not so :
he ' ll fright you up , i ' faith .
let me have thy hand .
then is doomsday near !
; fly , therefore , noble cassius , fly far off .
mate , as iron to adamant , as earth to th ' centre- yet , after all comparisons of truth
here in her hairs the painter plays the spider , and hath woven a golden mesh t ' entrap the
go shake your ears .
he asked me of what parentage i was ; i told him , of as good as he ; so
honour of thy lordliness to one so meek , that mine own servant should parcel the sum of my disgraces
some six miles off the duke is with the soldiers ; and for your brother , he was lately sent
with his satchel and shining morning face , creeping like snail unwillingly to school .
come thou near .
forget not in your speed , antonio , to touch calpurnia , for our elders say the barren , touched
why should i not , had i the heart to do it , like to the egyptian thief at point
, he might return to vasty tartar back , and tell the legions ' i can never win a soul
thy hours ; but when he frown ' d , it was against the french and not against his friends
look , here comes good sir john .
a twelvemonth .
for she his hairy temples then had rounded with coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers ; and that same dew
men to execute the noble duke at calais .
although i hate her , i ' ll not harm her so .
do you know me , my lord ?
sparkling for very wrath , and bloody steel grasp ' d in their ireful hands , are at our backs
politic grave counsel ; then the king had virtuous uncles to protect his grace .
what , one good in ten ?
heir .
' tis all one .
why , so .
send for money , knight ; if thou hast her not i ' th ' end , call me cut
i ' ll devise thee brave punishments for him .
no , i ' ll no swagg ' rers .
sure , he does not ; he never was so womanish ; the cause he may a little grieve at
txt all curses madded hecuba gave the greeks , and mine to boot , be darted on thee !
you were best to tell antonio what you hear ; yet do not suddenly , for it may grieve him
enter to the lord chamberlain the dukes of norfolk and suffolk norfolk .
be sure of that-two other husbands .
shall they see us ?
i ' ll mountebank their loves , cog their hearts from them , and come home belov ' d of
if he distaste it , let him to our sister , whose mind and mine i know in that are
much unequal .
certain dukedoms , and generally to the crown and seat of france , deriv ' d from edward , his
we know each other well .
i thank it .
i dare not confess that , lest i should compare with him in excellence ; but to know a man
by whom shall i send this ?
god grant that some , less noble and less loyal , nearer in bloody thoughts , an not in blood
he is but a knight , is ' a ?
i have been consul , and can show for rome her enemies ' marks upon me .
too late page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, as in a model , our firm estate , when our sea-walled garden , the whole land , is
' d my daughter ' s heart ; turn ' d her obedience , which is due to me ,
who is that there ?
speak not you to him till we call upon you .
my gracious prince , and honourable peers , hearing of your arrival in this realm , i have awhile given
then , noble partners , the rather for i earnestly beseech , touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms
camillo has betray ' d me ; whose honour and whose honesty till now page _num_ complete works of william
hark , he is arrived .
[enter prince , and john of lancaster .
run in here , good young man ; go into this closet .
myself unbreech ' d , in my green velvet coat ; my dagger muzzl ' d , lest it should
their herald is a pretty knavish page , that well by heart hath conn ' d his embassage .
marry , heaven forbid !
yet more quarrelling with occasion !
i am sorry to hear this .
for suffolk ' s duke , may he be suffocate , that dims the honour of this warlike isle !
, to give great charlemain a pen in ' s hand and write to her a love-line .
good my liege- lear .
he that calls on thee , let him bring forth eternal numbers to outlive long date .
let the music knock it .
and fall upon the ground , as i do now , taking the measure of an unmade grave .
but it would warm his spirits to hear from me you had left antony , and put yourself under his
inclination , after his undressed , unpolished , uneducated , unpruned , untrained , or rather unlettered , or ratherest
pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune .
nay , if you be an undertaker , i am for you .
for what ' s to come upon thee .
waking ?
protest , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he that no more must say is listen ' d more than they whom youth and ease have taught to
how far that little candle throws his beams !
i will go seek him .
new committed to the bishop of york , fell warwick ' s brother , and by that our foe .
what say you then to falconbridge , the young baron of england ?
this unseason ' d intrusion ; for they say , if money go before , all ways do lie open
first , all you peers of greece , go to my tent ; there in the full convive we ;
nay , good my lord , go off ; you flow to great distraction ; come , my lord .
here is the talbot ; who would speak with him ?
widens them , not for the fliers .
if they miscarry , theirs shall second them ; and so success of mischief shall be born , and heir
sound drums and trumpets , and then enter martius and mutius , two of titus ' sons ; and then
not so big as the end of his club .
idle scorn .
a fee ; i could not for my heart deny it him .
as her lord .
his antique sword , rebellious to his arm , lies where it falls , repugnant to command .
as many as be here of pander ' s hall , your eyes , half out , weep out at
it is not seen enough .
afore thee like a flock of wild geese , i ' ll never wear hair on my face more .
there ' s nothing here that is too good for him but only she ; and she deserves a lord
bring the villain forth .
nay , then ' tis time to stir him from his trance .
or is it some abuse , and no such thing ?
owe .
fain would i dwell on form- fain , fain deny what i have spoke ; but farewell compliment !
yet do not fear ; scotland hath foisons to fill up your will of your mere own .
unclaim ' d of any man .
judgment , carries poor souls to hell .
, hiding the grossness with fair ornament ?
whip him .
eleanor , the law , thou seest , hath judged thee .
to them a messenger marcius .
the musty chaff , and you are smelt above the moon .
is all in all .
westmoreland ?
the coast of wales .
makest his ear a stranger to thy thoughts .
aufidius , though i cannot make true wars , i ' ll frame convenient peace .
a noise with hounds and horns ; and marcus titus .
hear you aught of her in yours ?
monument , smiling at grief .
[they sleep] enter puck oberon .
near the cave of belarius enter cloten alone cloten .
why , as all comforts are ; most good , most good , indeed .
<exeunt all but antipholus of syracuse and dromio of syracuse as fast as may be , frighted antipholus of syracuse
if thou couldst please me with speaking to me , thou mightst have hit upon it here .
hang him instantly .
it shall not die .
to say within thine own deep sunken eyes , were an all-eating shame , and thriftless praise .
till , at the last , i seem ' d his follower , not partner ; and he wag '
the dauphin charles is crowned king in rheims ; the bastard of orleans with him is join ' d ;
txt upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse , such beastly shameless transformation , by those welshwomen done as
your oaths are pass ' d ; and now subscribe your names , that his own hand may strike his
- [kent is put in the stocks .
why did you suffer iachimo , slight thing of italy , to taint his nobler heart and brain with needless
ay , to devour him , as the hungry plebeians would the noble marcius .
exeunt [all but hamlet] .
is there not employment ?
i am sorry to hear this of him , and could wish he were something mistaken in ' t .
i , sir , am dromio ; pray let me stay .
i had good argument for kissing once .
if this fellow be wise , he ' ll never call ye jack cade more ; i think he hath
anon , sir .
had she affections and warm youthful blood , she would be as swift in motion as a ball ; my
third apparition : a child crowned , with a tree in his hand .
now the number is even .
this must not be thus borne : this will break out to all our sorrows , and ere long i
i would fain be doing .
neglected , rather ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' with ' god preserve the good duke humphrey !
y ' are sad , signior balthazar ; pray god our cheer may answer my good will and your good
vat is de clock , jack ?
and be these juggling fiends no more believed that patter with us in a double sense , that keep the
therein the patient must minister to himself .
come , let us hence and put on other weeds , and then to leonato ' s we will go
well , he ' s not here i seek for .
why , how now , daughter katherine , in your dumps ?
ah , where ' s my man ?
but they are most of them means and bases ; but one puritan amongst them , and he sings psalms
thee sent back- thy grief their sports , thy resolution mock ' d , that woe is me to think
far be the thought of this from henry ' s heart , to make a shambles of the parliament house
did you ?
a reason mighty , strong , and effectual ; a pattern , precedent , and lively warrant for me ,
who keeps her company ?
this is call ' d the quip modest .
no , none , but only a repair i ' th ' dark ; and that i have possess '
what ' s the matter , husband ?
this is my servant : hear him , noble prince .
a fortnight and odd days .
so do you .
be not dismay ' d .
the time goes by ; away .
her pink ' d porringer fell off her head , for kindling such a combustion in the state .
go we to him .
slanders , sir ; for the satirical rogue says here that old men have grey beards ; that their faces
; whom she did send to france , to fill king edward ' s fame with prisoner kings , and
a tent in the french camp .
o cressid , how often have i wish ' d me thus !
and i , my lord , will bear him company .
for never shall you lie by portia ' s side with an unquiet soul .
must she not then be answer ' d ?
son of him i was about to call his father- hath heard your praises ; and this night he means
why , a horse .
by this , i hope , she hath a son for me .
i am glad they are going , for sure there ' s no converting ' em .
would he aught with us ?
txt mine enemy has more power .
that thou shalt see the difference of our spirit , i pardon thee thy life before thou ask it .
my money is almost spent ; i have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled ; and i think the issue will
i never gave him any .
therefore , if thou art moved , thou runn ' st away .
i will not do ' t , lest i surcease to honour mine own truth , and by my body
yonder is silvia ; and silvia ' s mine .
o , then , dear saint , let lips do what hands do !
come let us go .
kind of behaviour , as they say ; for the gentlewoman is young ; and therefore , if you should
what , neither ?
her length of sickness , with what else more serious importeth thee to know , this bears .
' d , out-rode me .
here , love , thou seest how diligent i am , to dress thy meat myself , and bring it
odds he weighs king richard down .
which is the bell .
greater than great !
' tis all men ' s office to speak patience to those that wring under the load of sorrow ,
i do now .
then thou art as great as that thou fear ' st .
yonder man is carried to prison .
faces !
read it , mark antony .
a lie : you are rough and hairy .
it is a merry knight .
and that he will and shall , if lucius live .
he is as like thee as a man may be not like to me , or any of my kin
lord stafford ' s death .
of respect , but followed the sug ' red game before thee .
than powder can enforce , the mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope and give you entrance ; but
i thank thee , meg ; these words content me much .
you might have come before .
pass no further .
in florence , where she yet never was .
go but apart , make choice of whom your wisest friends you will , and they shall hear and judge
a messenger from caesar .
i have a reasonable good ear in music .
myself , as far as i could well discern for smoke and dusky vapours of the night , am sure
yet they say we are almost as like as eggs .
king o ' er her .
faith , and so it did .
i will lay myself in hazard .
the direful spectacle of the wreck , which touch ' d the very virtue of compassion in thee , i
wherein talbot overcame ?
of his conquer ' d kingdoms , demand the like .
, for a witch .
item , sack two gallons .
your daughter spent in genoa , as i heard , one night , fourscore ducats .
he ' s walk ' d the way of nature ; and to our purposes he lives no more .
welcome , high prince , the mighty duke of york !
with ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
but jealousy what might befall your travel , being skilless in these parts ; which to a stranger , unguided
death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day , though many dearer , in this bloody fray .
behind the ditches of the abbey here .
bourbon .
i fear thee !
naught , naught , all naught !
ancestors .
to be my kinsman , live unbruis ' d , and love my cousin .
to his holiness for clothing me in these grave ornaments .
good grandam , tell us , is our father dead ?
to an ass , were nothing : he is both ass and ox .
it ; but that i hope some good conceit of thine in thy soul ' s thought (all naked) will
i do not know what ' poetical ' is .
our captain hath in every figure skill , an ag ' d interpreter , though young in days ; before
in few , ophelia , do not believe his vows ; for they are brokers , not of that dye
come , you ' ll play with me , sir ?
enter a post post .
txt shall bring from him .
youth was never yet attaint with any passion of inflaming love , i cannot tell ; but this i am
sometimes you would call out for cicely hacket .
to-day the french , all clinquant , all in gold , like heathen gods , shone down the english ;
so please your grace , the prologue is address ' d .
come , tell a pin ; you are a forsworn- cressida .
cut my heart in sums .
no , my heart is turned to stone ; i strike it , and it hurts my hand .
gadshill peto .
e ' en that .
metellus cimber ?
achilles shall have word of this intent ; so shall each lord of greece , from tent to tent .
take heed (dear heart) of this large privilege , the hardest knife ill-used doth lose his edge .
i live with bread like you , feel want , taste grief , need friends : subjected thus , how
my tongue ' s use is to me no more than an unstringed viol or a harp ; or like
alack , ' tis he !
what think you of this page , my lord ?
either you must confess yourselves wondrous malicious , or be accus ' d of folly .
i do profess that for your highness ' good i ever labour ' d more than mine own ; that
no slander : they steal hearts .
of recorded time ; and all our yesterdays have lighted fools the way to dusty death .
no evil lost is wail ' d when it is gone .
i am all these three .
that ' s enough .
i pray you , hear her speak .
was never subject long ' d to be a king as i do long and wish to be a subject
when truth kills truth , o devilish-holy fray !
let me have such a bowl may hold my thanks and save me so much talking .
tell him so .
prisoner isabella , sister to claudio mariana , betrothed to angelo juliet , beloved of claudio francisca , a nun
txt being of those virtues vacant .
where is my lord the duke of gloucester ?
bring him down again ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
well , well , thou hast a careful father , child ; one who , to put thee from thy
i am sorry to find you thus ; i have been to seek you .
make that demand of the creator .
no , sir ; i think the meat wants that i have .
my friend is dead , ' tis done at your request ; but let her live .
father , tear the crown from the usurper ' s head .
friends am i with you all and love you all , upon this hope that you shall give me reasons
did commend to your remembrances ; but you have found , scaling his present bearing with his past , that
jests , and gipes , and knaveries , and mocks ; i have forgot his name .
do not smile at me that i boast her off , for thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise
bor .
a plague upon your epileptic visage !
nothing at all .
what says my brother ?
time forbids to dwell upon ; yet remember this : god and our good cause fight upon our side ;
calling to be adopted heir to frederick .
no place indeed should murther sanctuarize ; revenge should have no bounds .
[speaking as sir topas] malvolio , thy wits the heavens restore !
own bastardy , as being got , your father then in france , and his resemblance , being not like
ever came into my note .
, of divers witnesses ; which the duke desir ' d to have brought , viva voce , to his
sirrah , falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at the door .
, as they say , pluck ' d down in the suburbs ; and now she professes a hot-house ,
i swear ' tis better to be much abused than but to know ' t a little .
i warrant him , petruchio is kated .
by mine honour , i ' ll geld ' em all ; fourteen they shall not see to bring false
but , i beseech you , if ' t be your pleasure and most wise consent , as partly i
i ' ll write to him a very taunting letter , and thou shalt bear it ; wilt thou ,
o , the difference of man and man !
a passage in the castle .
what , are you mad ?
so play the foolish throngs with one that swoons ; come all to help him , and so stop the
since frenchmen are so braid , marry that will , i live and die a maid .
[he cuts off titus ' hand] re-enter lucius and marcus titus .
his son-in-law ' s house , sir james cromer , and strike off his head , and bring them both
i lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard , [to suffolk] and therefore , to revenge it , shalt
where are my slippers ?
keep according to my birth .
an ' t please your grace , sir thomas bullen ' s daughter- the viscount rochford-one of her highness '
' if this letter move him not , his legs cannot .
come , hector , come , go back .
come on , then , wear the favours most in sight .
how comes it now , my husband , o , how comes it , that thou art then estranged from
i do beseech you , sir , have patience .
enter hastings , young york , and the cardinal buckingham .
i cannot say " whore .
lead me , my lord , i do not need your help ; and god forbid a shallow scratch should
thank me for this more than for all the favours which , all too much , i have bestow '
you sulph ' rous and thought-executing fires , vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts , singe my white head !
most high , most mighty , and most puissant caesar , metellus cimber throws before thy seat an humble heart
deformed slave trinculo , a jester stephano , a drunken butler master of a ship boatswain mariners miranda , daughter
what say ' st thou , noble heart ?
o cunning love , with tears thou keep ' st me blind , lest eyes well-seeing thy foul faults should
who knows himself a braggart , let him fear this ; for it will come to pass that every braggart
let wantons light of heart tickle the senseless rushes with their heels ; for i am proverb ' d with
how do you , sir ?
whence cometh this alarum and the noise ?
madam , come .
if your lass interpretation should abuse and call this your lack of love or bounty , you were straited for
came you from the king , my lord ?
so-ho , so-ho !
sweet lord , if your lordship were at leisure , i should impart a thing to you from his majesty
loud alarum .
had curs ' d myself .
to tell thee thou shalt see me at philippi .
iron of naples hid with english gilt , whose father bears the title of a king- as if a channel
a beastly ambition , which the gods grant thee t ' attain to !
ll teach them to prevent wild alcibiades ' wrath .
most certain , if you are she , you do usurp yourself ; for what is yours to bestow is
_num_ full many a glorious morning have i seen , flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye , kissing with
god and our right !
you grow exceeding strange ; must it be so ?
for thy relief nor my voice for thy preferment .
i know his heart .
wash they his wounds with tears ?
he should have worn the horns on his head .
look what is done cannot be now amended .
, now see that noble and most sovereign reason , like sweet bells jangled , out of tune and harsh
a famous rebel art thou , colville .
not six-and-twenty strong , sick in the world ' s regard , wretched and low , a poor unminded outlaw
what ' s the matter , woman ?
re-enter philostrate philostrate .
exeunt shallow and evans anne .
but what occasion hath cadwal now to give it motion ?
before lord hasting ' s house enter a messenger to the door of hastings messenger .
[to belarius] so please you , sir .
she will sing any man at first sight .
thou art more lovely and more temperate : rough winds do shake the darling buds of may , and summer
souse annoyance that comes near his nest .
you may think i love you not .
there ' s strange news come , sir .
caesars .
even thou , that hast a heart so tender o ' er it , take it hence , and see
would i were young for your sake , mistress anne !
do you know he promis ' d me marriage ?
my mother told me just how he would woo , as if she sat in ' s heart ; she
why , ' tis good to be sad and say nothing .
i tell thee i am mad in cressid ' s love .
what is his strength by land ?
found in any part of illyria .
not care for you .
i am so sorry for my trespass made that , to deserve well at my brother ' s hands ,
be advis ' d .
saint valentine is past ; begin these wood-birds but to couple now ?
but i fear him not , yet if my name were liable to fear , i do not know the
be avis ' d , sir , and pass good humours ; i will say page _num_ complete works of
than ' eight shillings and sixpence , ' and ' you are welcome , ' with this shrill addition ,
this lanthorn doth the horned moon present- demetrius .
if thou canst nod , speak too .
good uncle , take you in this barbarous moor , this ravenous tiger , this accursed devil ; let him
there was excellent command : to charge in with our horse upon our own wings , and to rend our
was it not yesterday we spoke together ?
come , madam wife , sit by my side and let the world slip ; -we shall ne ' er
the armipotent mars , of lances the almighty , gave hector a gift , the heir of ilion ; a
enter don pedro and claudio and two or three other .
why , they are vipers .
name to propagate with any branch or image of thy state ; but such a one , thy vassal ,
tune to sing at a man ' s funeral ; well , here ' s my comfort .
this night i hold an old accustom ' d feast , whereto i have invited many a guest , such
first let her show her face , and after speak .
with every nod to tumble down into the fatal bowels of the deep .
the reason is your spirits are attentive ; for do but note a wild and wanton herd , or race
suspect me with the moor .
that you can be in love .
' i pray you tell me what you meant by that .
sisters !
i ' th ' presence page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
thus did he answer me ; yet said hereafter i might know more .
the midwife and the nurse well made away , then let the ladies tattle what they please .
of speaking honourably ?
gloucester .
' whiles the eye of man did woo me , that could do no vengeance to me .
but from thine eyes my knowledge i derive , and constant stars in them i read such art as truth
tranio , be so because lucentio loves ; and let me be a slave t ' achieve that maid whose
of it , since i have found myself in my incertain grounds to fail as often as i guess '
lysander , look how i do quake with fear .
i am sorry for my cousin .
night hangs upon mine eyes , my bones would rest that have but labor ' d to attain this hour
perform , i do beseech your majesty may salve the long-grown wounds of my intemperance .
so shall you stay till you have done your business in the city .
this shoe with the hole in it is my mother , and this my father .
thy hand thy faith irrevocable that only warwick ' s daughter shall be thine .
not swear it , now i am a gentleman ?
will the king hear this piece of work ?
bassanio told him he would make some speed of his return .
messala , this is my birthday , as this very day was cassius born .
when we for recompense have prais ' d the vile , it stains the glory in that happy verse which
s point made issue from the bosom of the boy ; and if thine eyes can water for his death
' tis yours , and we , your scutcheons and your signs of conquest , shall hang in what place
of many desperate studies by his uncle , whom he reports to be a great magician , obscured in the
what say you to a neat ' s foot ?
the happy cause of hamlet ' s wildness .
i must tell thee , sirrah , i write man ; to which title age cannot bring thee .
pour on ; i will endure .
o , farewell , dear hector !
it was not brought me , my lord : there ' s the cunning of it .
all ?
we are undone , lady , we are undone !
courtier , cousin , and our son .
sodden business !
what valour were it , when a cur doth grin , for one to thrust his hand between his teeth
of folded schedules had she many a one , which she perused , sighed , tore , and gave the
confirm ' d , confirm ' d !
would it apply well to the vehemency of your affection , that i should win what you would enjoy ?
then shall we find to-morrow they have only stomachs to eat , and none to fight .
wilt .
it were a delicate stratagem to shoe a troop of horse with felt .
sorrow concealed , like an oven stopp ' d , doth burn the heart to cinders where it is .
dexteriously , good madonna .
this way , or not at all , stand you in hope .
in this forest ?
then with a passion would i shake the world , and rouse from sleep that fell anatomy which cannot hear
the wound it makes nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark to cry , " hold , hold
but i can give the loser leave to chide .
truly , sir , in respect of a fine workman , i am but , as you would say ,
[drum within] hark you , the king is coming ; and i must speak with him from the pridge .
after that which flies from thee , whilst i thy babe chase thee afar behind , but if thou catch
i could shake them off my coat : these burs are in my heart .
whether had you rather lead mine eyes , or eye your master ' s heels ?
fair katherine , and most fair , will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms such as will enter at
know thou first , i lov ' d the maid i married ; never man sigh ' d truer breath
tells him so ?
bone ere thou relieve the beggar .
here ' s another letter to her .
before the duke ' s palace flourish .
madam , if you could find out but a man to bear a poison , i would temper it ;
' s frame , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
in their proper habits king .
good madam , what ' s the matter with my lord ?
thou shalt be free .
my army but a weak and sickly guard ; yet , god before , tell him we will come on
you are welcome , masters ; welcome , all .
i will not be there ; and when they have the booty , if you and i do not rob
my lord , before i freely speak my mind herein , you shall not only take the sacrament to bury
hast thou not a word of joy ?
i go , i go ; look how i go , swifter than arrow from the tartar ' s bow
put me a caliver into wart ' s hand , bardolph .
what says that fool of hagar ' s offspring , ha ?
farewell and stand fast .
tyrrel , i mean those bastards in the tower .
with meditations lawful ?
repent what you have spoke .
txt _num_ the two gentlemen of verona by william shakespeare dramatis personae duke of milan , father to silvia valentine
will you , orlando , have to wife this rosalind ?
he gave me a jewel th ' other day , and now he has beat it out of my hat
the voice of any true decision .
both have i spill ' d .
good my lord , vouchsafe me a word with you .
take thou that .
bonos dies , sir toby ; for as the old hermit of prague , that never saw pen and ink
i am not very sick , since i can reason of it .
hear me speak .
that ' s no matter ; the feet might bear the verses .
let me see him .
trinculo , keep a good tongue in your head ; if you prove a mutineer-the next tree !
with all my heart , and think me honoured to feast so great a warrior in my house .
no , no ; he cannot long hold out these pangs .
hector !
dunsinane .
' bene .
o nation miserable !
marry , sir , nose-painting , sleep , and urine .
re-enter catesby catesby .
give me your hand .
he plies the duke at morning and at night , and doth impeach the freedom of the state , if
if by direct or by collateral hand they find us touch ' d , we will our kingdom give ,
he ' s not confirm ' d : we may deny him yet .
an i were so apt to quarrel as thou art , any man should buy the fee simple of my
heaven guard my mother ' s honour and my land !
the town .
to touch our northern shore .
in my conscience , the heavens with that we have in hand are angry and frown upon ' s .
the scripture says adam digg ' d .
no , no , i am as ugly as a bear , for beasts that meet me run away for
y ' are a dog .
go thy ways to a nunnery .
to answer from our home .
i have heard her reported to be a woman of an invincible spirit ; but it shall be convenient ,
i have made bold , iago , to send in to your wife .
i do , i will .
no , not much moved .
as well as i can , madam .
it is to be all made of fantasy , all made of passion , and all made of wishes ;
rapt in secret studies .
txt for in a minute there are many days .
speak , speak , speak .
yes , my good lord : a pure unspotted heart , never yet taint with love , i send the
the round world should have shook lions into civil streets , and citizens to their dens .
so , here comes a brace .
shall part to heaven , since i have made my friends at peace on earth .
hostages for rome .
christopher .
a capulet .
well of his wealth ; but of himself , so so .
exeunt northumberland , and others , with the prisoners uncle , you say the queen is at your house ;
why fled you from the court ?
a breakfast to the wolf .
bring him on to some confession of his true state .
if i be false , or swerve a hair from truth , when time is old and hath forgot itself
, alengon , brabant , bar , and burgundy ; jaques chatillon , rambures , vaudemont , beaumont , grandpre
exeunt achilles and patroclus thersites .
[reads] ' i will waylay thee going home ; where if it be thy chance to kill me ' -
then are our beggars bodies , and our monarchs and outstretch ' d heroes the beggars ' shadows .
what do ye talk ?
without leave .
if thou dost find him tractable to us , encourage him , and tell him all our reasons ; if
speak thus ?
doth not the object cheer your heart , my lord ?
will you go on ?
glory and admir ' d success , so gain ' d the sur-addition leonatus ; and had , besides this
in conclusion , i stand affected to her .
or do you almost think , although you see , that you do see ?
of great credit .
you will lose your reputation .
taper in some monument , doth shine upon the dead man ' s earthy cheeks , and shows the ragged
black , forsooth ; coal-black as jet .
better to leave undone than by our deed acquire too high a fame when him we serve ' s away
with as little a web as this will i ensnare as great a fly as cassio .
madness is , he cheers them up too .
is this the generation of love : hot blood , hot thoughts , and hot deeds ?
my lord fitzwater , i do remember well the very time aumerle and you did talk .
a public place enter menenius and sicinius menenius .
the unhappy sons of old andronicus , brought hither in a most unlucky hour , to find thy brother bassianus
you ' ll not hear me .
od ' s plessed will !
for they are thrifty honest men and such as would- but that they dare not- take our parts .
i was hardly moved to come to thee ; but being assured none but myself could move thee , i
i fear ' twill be reveng ' d .
welcome , dear madam .
jesters do oft prove prophets .
the duke ' s palace flourish .
prick of noon .
that flattering tongue of yours won me .
defy them then , or else hold close thy lips .
[to the bishops] come , let us to our holy work again .
' and swifter than his tongue , his agile arm beats down their fatal points , and ' twixt them
a plague upon such backing !
gentle my lord , you scarce can right me throughly then to say you did mistake .
lead , monster ; we ' ll follow .
my heart of elder ?
de nick , madame .
' tis not the many oaths that makes the truth , but the plain single vow that is vow '
let it flow this way , my good lord .
go , mistress ford .
hint ; and not dispraising whom we prais ' d- therein he was as calm as virtue- he began his
you know i say nothing to him , for he understands not me , nor i him : he hath
[aside] as many inches as you have oceans .
see what breeds about her heart .
you ; if she do chide , ' tis not to have you gone , for why , the fools
the worthiest of them tell me name by name ; but for achilles , my own searching eyes shall find
by their witchcraft thus have marked me .
nay , but his jesting spirit , which is new-crept into a lutestring , and now govern ' d by
most true it is , that i have looked on truth askance and strangely : but by all above ,
back shadows over low ' ring hills .
i find here that don pedro hath bestowed much honour on a young florentine called claudio .
here in the prison , father , there died this morning of a cruel fever one ragozine , a most
husband .
making a sermon of continency to her , and rails , and swears , and rates , that she ,
howe ' er it be , i cannot but be sad ; so heavy sad as-though , on thinking ,
letter here ; .
we must find an evident calamity , though we had our wish , which side should win ; for either
thou art violently carried away from grace .
but do you use me thus , ned ?
are these thy bears ?
bridges , to course his own shadow for a traitor .
; they are for you : i would have had them writ more movingly .
well said , good woman ' s tailor !
before orleans enter , on the walls , the master-gunner of orleans and his boy master-gunner .
he is sooner caught than the pestilence , and the taker runs presently mad .
s grace , play a set shall strike his father ' s crown into the hazard .
what says polonius ?
by , which holds but till thy news be uttered ; and then all this thou seest is but a
where is your servant caius ?
ay , but to lose our bottles in the pool !
by chrish , la , tish ill done !
dead in his bed , my lord ; gloucester is dead .
i am sure care ' s an enemy to life .
kingdom , man , to arm ; and then the vital commoners and inland petty spirits muster me all to
well hath your highness seen into this duke ; and had i first been put to speak my mind ,
here ' s one comes in his shirt , with light and weapons .
good uncle , let this end where it begun ; we ' ll calm the duke of norfolk , you
if she lives till doomsday , she ' ll burn week longer than the whole world .
thee to prove him false that says i love thee not .
well met , mistress page .
and all those sayings will i overswear ; and all those swearings keep as true in soul as doth that
shall we be gone ?
i speak too long , but ' tis to peize the time , to eke it , and to draw
to the crutch .
look , moe !
he longs not for the dawning as we do .
experience grows .
god mark thee to his grace !
board , when i have feasted with queen margaret ?
holy virgins to the stain of contumelious , beastly , mad-brain ' d war , then let him know- and
now no discourse , except it be of love ; now can i break my fast , dine , sup
i do not like their coming .
re-enter westmoreland prince john .
d like rotten apples !
all the fool mine ?
the town sounds a parley .
i have perceived a most faint neglect of late , which i have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity
do not for ever with thy vailed lids seek for thy noble father in the dust .
and ours .
; a love that makes breath poor , and speech unable .
be as ourself in denmark .
i tell thee , churlish priest , a minist ' ring angel shall my sister be when thou liest howling
ambitious love hath so in me offended that barefoot plod i the cold ground upon , with sainted vow my
first , the gods bless you for your tidings ; next , accept my thankfulness .
for if but once thou show me thy grey light , i ' ll find demetrius , and revenge this
all ' s well that ends well .
and , norfolk , throw down his .
but whate ' er i be , nor i , nor any man that but man is , with nothing
thy pocket were enrich ' d with any other injuries but these , i am a villain .
[aside] all of her that is out of door most rich !
you cannot witness for me , being slain .
nay , stare not , masters ; it is true indeed .
to stand ' s auspicious mistress .
comes armed in his fortune , and prevents the slander of his wife .
consents bewitched , ere he desire , have granted , and dialogued for him what he would say , asked
no words !
trust me , sweet , out of this silence yet i pick ' d a welcome ; and in the
by his authority i will proclaim it that he which find , him shall deserve our thanks , bringing the
why , how now , kate , i hope thou art not mad !
, and our fair france .
give thee leave to die ; but if thou diest before i come , thou art a mocker of my
txt of marching to philippi presently ?
' tis pretty , sure , and very probable , that eyes , that are the frail ' st and
thousand in his troop , by three and twenty thousand of the french was round encompassed and set upon .
gentlemen , can any of you tell me where i may find the young romeo ?
have i not told thee how i was cozen ' d by the way , and lost all my money
and when you are ask ' d this question next , say ' a grave-maker .
' it does allay the good precedence ; fie upon ' but yet ' !
tell you largely of fair hero ' s death .
you should be rul ' d , and led by some discretion that discerns your state better than you yourself
to-morrow , good sir michael , is a day wherein the fortune of ten thousand men must bide the touch
in his dispraise , she shall not long continue love to him .
her worth , being mounted on the wind , through all the world bears rosalinde .
thy grandsire lov ' d thee well ; many a time he danc ' d thee on his knee ,
' tis not so much , ' tis not so much !
sebastian , i have entertained thee page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
ah , barbarous villains !
i doubt it not , sir ; but you will curse your wooing .
how green !
nay , you must name his name , and half his face must be seen through the lion ' s
thy mother ' s of my generation ; what ' s she , if i be a dog ?
kill men i ' the dark !
and she brings news ; and every tongue that speaks but romeo ' s name speaks heavenly eloquence .
i will dispatch it straight .
no matter , then , who see it .
fare thee well , pisanio ; think on my words .
it is best , certain .
last night the very gods show ' d me a vision- i fast and pray ' d for their intelligence-
enter , to the gates of the monument , proculeius , gallus , and soldiers proculeius .
go , nurse , go with her .
shall i call you father ?
in thy condign praise .
enter soldiers , bearing the body of john talbot servant .
and your friends .
' to her let us garlands bring .
no , my most worthy master , in whose breast doubt and suspect , alas , are plac ' d
alas , the way is wearisome and long !
well page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
absent duke , if peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of this business .
he should be about the king ; and that engenders thunder in his breast and makes him roar these accusations
for aye thy foot-licker .
but once before i spoke to th ' purpose- when ?
thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst been wise .
the shape of nature a gracious person ; but yet i cannot love him .
so thou through windows of thine age shalt see , despite of wrinkles this thy golden time .
forcepage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
txt which somerset hath offer ' d to my house , i doubt not but with honour to redress ;
thine ' s too thick to shine .
i cannot move .
there is a tide in the affairs of men which taken at the flood leads on to fortune ; omitted
all this is true .
the best part of my pow ' r , as i upon advantage did remove , were in the washes
the palace enter the lord chamberlain reading this letter chamberlain .
know i these men that come along with you ?
i do love and will do till my death .
this is a fellow of the selfsame colour our sister speaks of .
direct me , if it be your will , where great aufidius lies .
eager droppings into milk , the thin and wholesome blood .
your eldest daughters have fordone themselves , and desperately are dead .
' there she shook the holy water from her heavenly eyes , and clamour moisten ' d .
very well took , i ' faith !
thy doll , and helen of thy noble thoughts , is in base durance and contagious prison ; hal '
' twere to consider too curiously , to consider so .
i thought your honour had already been at shrewsbury .
the more i hate , the more he follows me .
these conflicts , what may befall him to his harm and ours .
we will keep ourself till supper time alone .
in all which time you and your husband grey were factious for the house of lancaster ; and , rivers
monsieur parolles .
he , swift of foot , outran my purpose ; and i return ' d the rather for that i
both ?
then did the sun on dunghill shine .
how does my good lord hamlet ?
never , my lord ; therefore prepare to die .
_num_ so am i as the rich whose blessed key , can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure ,
ah , montague , if thou be there , sweet brother , take my hand , and with thy lips
to murder me ?
thus he his special nothing ever prologues .
legg ' d like a man , and his fins like arms !
he is not- god be praised and blessed !
why , this is very midsummer madness .
glass .
friends ' door even when their sorrows almost was forgot , and on their skins , as on the bark
come , stand not amazed at it , but go along with me ; i will show you such a
but yet , poor claudio !
the tent of coriolanus enter coriolanus , aufidius , and others coriolanus .
methinks the realms of england , france , and ireland , bear that proportion to my flesh and blood as
send us to rome the best , with whom we may articulate for their own good and ours .
enter polonius and reynaldo .
forbear this outrage !
me seemeth good that , with some little train , forthwith from ludlow the young prince be fet hither to
cut him off .
this is our doom .
i ' ll ever serve his mind with my best will ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter percy welcome , harry .
) were of an age .
swell , bosom , with thy fraught , for ' tis of aspics ' tongues !
know thou this , that men are as the time is .
a street enter one citizen at one door , and another at the other first citizen .
now , sir , her mother , even strong against that match and firm for doctor caius , hath appointed
he cannot temp ' rately transport his honours from where he should begin and end , but will lose those
for never henceforth shall i joy again ; never , o never , shall i see more joy .
- leave me , friends .
i pray thee , loving wife , and gentle daughter , give even way unto my rough affairs ; put
this pelleted storm , lie graveless , till the flies and gnats of nile have buried them for prey .
txt and sack great rome with romans .
d on thee .
i think her old familiar is asleep .
he had fought so long .
of dun adramadio , dun adramadio .
amen , with all my heart !
with objects manifold ; each several stone , with wit well blazoned , smiled , or made some moan .
spare him , spare him .
i ' ll have you talk ' d with anon .
stifled with this smell of sin .
let marcus , lucius , or thyself , old titus , or any one of you , chop off your
true and just as i am subtle , false , and treacherous , this day should clarence closely be mew
o , ' twas a din to fright a monster ' s ear , to make an earthquake !
did i put henry from his native right ?
a mockery should it be to swear !
my strange and self-abuse is the initiate fear that wants hard use .
with such poor people , saying that ere long they should call me madam ?
go tell him this , and ad that if he overhold his price so much we ' ll none of
the solemn feast shall more attend upon the coming space , expecting absent friends .
an thou make minstrels of us , look to hear nothing but discords .
come , mistress , now perforce we will enjoy that nice-preserved honesty of yours .
to heaven , leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime , the smell whereof shall breed a plague in
a thing for me ?
tween the lawful sheets .
what is your pleasure , madam ?
fame and honour on him .
that will never be .
pooh !
he gives your hollander a vomit ere the next pottle can be filled .
you heavy people , circle me about , that i may turn me to each one of you and swear
thrice hath this hotspur , mars in swathling clothes , this infant warrior , in his enterprises discomfited great douglas
by the discovery we shall be short ' ned in our aim , which was to take in many towns
yet , ere we put ourselves in arms , dispatch we the business we have talk ' d of .
all one .
giv ' st me cause to wail , but teachest me the way how to lament the cause .
of his obedience .
take thou the fee , and tell him what i say ; for i repent me that the duke is
but what , a god ' s name , doth become of this ?
what a devil hast thou to do with the time of the day , unless hours were cups of sack
here prospero discovers ferdinand and miranda , playing at chess miranda .
boy .
in both my eyes he doubly sees himself , in each eye one ; swear by your double self ,
methinks he seems no bigger than his head .
; who , being suffer ' d , with the bear ' s fell paw , hath clapp ' d
i see what thou wert , if fortune thy foe were , not nature , thy friend .
we ' ll leave you , brutus , and , friends , disperse yourselves , but all remember what you
soldier .
for there can live no hatred in thine eye , therefore in that i cannot know thy change , in
his book uncross ' d .
how angerly i taught my brow to frown , when inward joy enforc ' d my heart to smile !
by mine honesty , welcome to padua .
yonder he is , coming this way , sir hugh .
daughter say she hath often dreamt of unhappiness and wak ' d herself with laughing .
his is certain , ours ' s doubtful .
this way , my lord ; the castle ' s gently render ' d .
txt with speedy help doth lend redress .
and so we measur ' d swords and parted .
my lord , your nobles , jealous of your absence , seek through your camp to find you .
in means , and choice of friends , to quit me of them throughly .
to be thought so shortly .
stay , my lord talbot ; for my lady craves to know the cause of your abrupt departure .
if thou proceed as high as word , my deed shall match thy deed .
and all approachers .
how long hath she been thus ?
by heaven , i ' ll throw at all !
breath smells wooingly here .
not very well ; but i have met him oft ; and he hath bought the cottage and the bounds
we may outrun by violent swiftness that which we run at , and lose by over-running .
beards deserve not so honourable a grave as to stuff a botcher ' s cushion or to be entomb '
[reads] ' high and mighty , -you shall know i am set naked on your kingdom .
whoe ' er he be that in this foul proceeding hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself and you of
now i hear them-ding-dong bell .
s in danger .
your brother from the angry law ; do no stain to your own gracious person ; and much please the
ay ; to see meat fill knaves and wine heat fools .
upon my faith and honour .
uncle of exeter , enlarge the man committed yesterday that rail ' d against our person .
thy behalf ; and to rebuke the usurpation of thy unnatural uncle , english john .
and what say ' st thou , then , to my love ?
no salve , sir , but a plantain !
my house .
a jealous hood , a jealous hood !
and through him drink the free air .
but if not , then know the peril of our curses fight on thee so heavy as thou shalt not
well , if ever thou dost fall from this faith , thou wilt prove a notable argument .
deliver up my lord of westmoreland .
by my life , my troth , i never swore this lady such an oath .
not by his breath that is more miserable .
familiar beast to man , and signifies love .
i shall be constrain ' d in ' t to call thee knave , knight .
his grace is ent ' ring .
what trade art thou , feeble ?
o ho , o ho !
- be it art or hap , he hath spoken true .
alas , then she is drown ' d ?
in your way which might induce you to the question on ' t , or ever have to you ,
that ' s a lascivious apprehension .
] come , my good lord , away .
my bed-mate of my company .
marry , sir , sometimes he is a kind of puritan .
when i am dead , good wench , let me be us ' d with honour ; strew me over
you say very true , scald knave- when god ' s will is .
as it were from the ends of opposed winds .
shall i not lose my suit ?
to ye shall show itself more openly hereafter .
go , look after .
charmian , hark !
enter claudio and beatrice , leonato , hero .
will ' t please you go , my lord ?
how couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child , to bid the father wipe his eyes withal , and
trouble yourselves no further .
suppose within the girdle of these walls are now confin ' d two mighty monarchies , whose high upreared and
not speak ?
i have drunk but one cup tonight , and that was craftily qualified too , and behold what innovation it
profaning this most honourable order , and should , if i were worthy to be judge , be quite degraded
o , apemantus , you are welcome .
widow dido !
he is not his craft ' s master , he doth not do it right .
but hark ye ; what cunning match have you made with this jest of the drawer ?
they are louder than the weather or our office .
had all your quarters been as safely kept as that whereof i had the government , we had not been
for bardolph , he is white-liver ' d and red-fac ' d ; by the means whereof ' a faces
for him if i can ; if not , i will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits
nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through the guts of a beggar .
look you now , he ' s out of his guard already ; unless you laugh and minister occasion to
nurse or end it .
he might not beteem the winds of heaven page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
business valued , some twelve days hence our general forces at bridgenorth shall meet .
those wits that think they have thee do very oft prove fools ; and i that am sure i lack
come , down into the boat .
with leave , bassanio : i am half yourself , and i must freely have the half of anything that
you speak , lord mowbray , now you know not what .
say thee nay , so thou wilt woo ; but else , not for the world .
sure , one of you does not serve heaven well , that you are so cross ' d .
but ' tis a spirit .
he ' s a traitor .
this day , no man think has business at his house ; for all shall stay .
earnest in the service of my god , deferr ' d the visitation of my friends .
but welcome , sweet clarence ; my daughter shall be thine .
them , for both of them are thine .
the sun ' s o ' ercast with blood .
exit silvia with attendants julia .
plagues incident to men , your potent and infectious fevers heap on athens , ripe for stroke .
it shall suffice me ; at which interview all liberal reason i will yield unto .
subtle as sphinx ; as sweet and musical as bright apollo ' s lute , strung with his hair .
where they feared the death they have borne life away ; and where they would be safe they perish .
kingdom .
your fortune stood upon the caskets there , and so did mine too , as the matter falls ; for
something browner than judas ' s .
, by a sea-coal fire , upon wednesday in wheeson week , when the prince broke thy head for liking
abutting fronts the perilous narrow ocean parts asunder .
o , look !
none ; better have none than plural faith , which is too much by one .
listening their fear , i could not say " amen , " when they did say , " god bless
say what you will , sir , but i know what i know .
did not i dance with you in brabant once ?
side , breaks his staff like a noble goose .
what news among the merchants ?
no , my lord .
he shall , sure on ' t .
but fear not yet to take upon you what is yours .
' that shallow vassal , ' costard .
i warrant .
wilt thou reach stars because they shine on thee ?
what ' s the matter , that this distempered messenger of wet , the many-colour ' d iris , rounds
huntsman , i charge thee , tender well my hounds ; brach merriman , the poor cur , is emboss
seneca cannot be too heavy , nor plautus too light .
enter northumberland northumberland .
with obedient breast ?
hold , clifford !
upon his royal face there is no note how dread an army hath enrounded him ; nor doth he dedicate
wilt thou whose will is large and spacious , not once vouchsafe to hide my will in thine ?
i will , when you are humble ; nay , before or god will punish me .
d me !
robbers and die in many irreconcil ' d iniquities , you may call the business of the master the author
what wouldst thou with us ?
are you so hot ?
my lord ?
' tis dangerous to take a cold , to sleep , to drink ; but i tell you , my
no , this was he , messala , but cassius is no more .
give me some music- music , moody food of us that trade in love .
did you not speak to it ?
sir robert could not do it : we know his handiwork .
you gave me none ; you wrong me much to say so .
where is launce ?
the truth is , she and i , long since contracted , are now so sure that nothing can dissolve
effect it with some care , that he may prove more fond on her than she upon her love .
why , worthy father , what have we to lose but that he swore to take , our lives ?
go back again , and be new beaten home ?
- the king .
custom not known , the ratifiers and props of every word , they cry ' choose we !
i long to hear how they spend to-day .
watch , from tent to tent , let him cry ' praise and glory on his head !
no , no , good night ; i ' ll be your fool no more .
camillo , florizel , and perdita come forward camillo .
what , will my daughter prove a good musician ?
see this dispatch ' d with all the haste thou canst ; anon i ' ll give thee more instructions
o thou caitiff !
of fire , and dews of blood , disasters in the sun ; and the moist star upon whose influence
the lady blanch of spain ; with them a bastard of the king ' s deceas ' d ; and
that argues but the shame of your offence : a rotten case abides no handling .
yet ere dinner time .
age , thou hast lost thy labour .
sirs , stop his mouth , and let him speak no more .
and roundly too .
in burning troy !
is it good morrow , lords ?
why so large cost having so short a lease , dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend ?
your commendations , madam , get from her tears .
txt when it shines seldom in admiring eyes ; but rather drows ' d and hung their eyelids down ,
i , madam .
all this to season a brother ' s dead love , which she would keep fresh and lasting in her
thou art dromio , thou art my man , thou art thyself .
she call ' d the saints to surety that she would never put it from her finger unless she gave
exeunt all but vernon and basset vernon .
hast thou forgot her ?
, we might guess they relieved us humanely ; but they think we are too dear .
- away with him !
to me , " darest thou , cassius , now leap in with me into this angry flood and swim
thy state is taken for a join ' d-stool , thy golden sceptre for a leaden dagger , and thy
clothes ; but i am now , sir , muddied in fortune ' s mood , and smell somewhat strong
dispers ' d , they all have met again , and are upon the mediterranean flote bound sadly home for
<exeunt scene _num_ before the house of antipholus of ephesus enter luciana with antipholus of syracuse luciana .
duke of suffolk , duke of norfolk , surrey , lord chamberlain , gardiner , seat themselves in order on
too modest are you ; more cruel to your good report than grateful to us that give you truly .
no , no !
isle .
with this shepherdess , my sister ; here in the skirts of the forest , like fringe upon a petticoat
you ha ' done me a charitable office .
enter portia , with the prince of morocco , and their trains portia .
' can you advise me ?
mistress , i beseech you confirm his welcome with some special favour .
the slave , a member of the country ' s peace , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
alarum within .
a barbarian slave .
[rises] my words fly up , my thoughts remain below .
i am glad on ' t ; i desire no more delight than to be under sail and gone to-night
think ' st thou , hortensio , though her father be very rich , any man is so very a
thou speak ' st with all thy wit , and yet , i ' faith , with wit enough for
i ' ll have no worse a name than jove ' s own page , and therefore look you call
doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly ?
txt one , kate , that you must kiss and be acquainted with .
here come i from our princely general to know your griefs ; to tell you from his grace that he
thou prick-ear ' d cur of iceland !
give my love fame faster than time wastes life , so thou prevent ' st his scythe , and crooked
the way to mantua .
to ha !
propose the oath , my lord .
away , thou rag , thou quantity , thou remnant ; or i shall so bemete thee with thy yard
i do assure you ' tis against my will .
i hope the king is not yet shipp ' d for ireland .
traitors , away !
turn ' d ; a pair of boots that have been candle-cases , one buckled , another lac ' d
another room in leonato ' s house .
the instant that your messenger came , in loving visitation was with me a young doctor of rome- his name
give him thy daughter : what you bestow , in him i ' ll counterpoise , and make him weigh
have patience , sir , and take your ring again ; ' tis not yet won .
come , sir , to draw toward an end with you .
revenge his foul and most unnatural murther .
have the soil of her fair rape wip ' d off in honourable keeping her .
that instant was i turn ' d into a hart , and my desires , like fell and cruel hounds
txt fellow trinculo , we ' ll fill him by and by again .
second roman .
in haste whereof , most heartily i pray your highness to assign our trial day .
i have no way , and therefore want no eyes ; i stumbled when i saw .
may now withdraw us .
but who can cease to weep , and look on this ?
' quoth he , as if he had been abroad , carousing to his mates after a storm ; quaff
prosper well in this , and thou shalt live as freely as thy lord to call his fortunes thine .
; and so grow to a point .
exeunt bassianus and marcus with lavinia mutius .
of france ?
i must leave you within these two hours .
i say thou liest , and will maintain what thou hast said is false in thy heart-blood , through being
hath he not pass ' d the noble and the common ?
my soul , and not my child !
whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick ?
before him , hang upon his gown ; you are too cold : if you should need a pin ,
o grandsire , grandsire !
i will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players .
[hermione swoons] how now , there !
no , in such a case the gods will not be good unto us .
' yet cam ' st thou to a morsel of this feast , having fully din ' d before .
or thought- for cogitation resides not in that man that does not think- my wife is slippery ?
enter duncan , malcolm , donalbain , banquo , lennox , macduff , ross , angus , and attendants .
i will show myself a tyrant .
[she is going] o , stay !
if thou art privy to thy country ' s fate , which happily foreknowing may avoid , o , speak
in storm perpetual , could not move the gods to look that way thou wert .
will , i will grant it .
exeunt act iii .
bear a school-boy ' s top .
gentry , title , wisdom , cannot conclude but by the yea and no of general ignorance- it must omit
assist me then , sweet warwick , and i will ; for hither we have broken in by force .
i know not where to turn .
the french king ' s palace enter the king of france , the dauphin , duke of britaine , the
all princely graces that mould up such a mighty piece as this is , with all the virtues that attend
txt king edward .
txt in such a business give me leave to use the help of mine own eyes .
i am an ass indeed ; you may prove it by my long ' ears .
though thou abhorr ' dst in us our human griefs , scorn ' dst our brain ' s flow ,
hazard mine whene ' er we come to our account .
er she framed .
hold , richard , hold ; for we have done to much .
and wilt thou have a reason for this coil ?
why , this is the best fooling , when all is done .
give me some help here , ho !
or are you like the painting of a sorrow , a face without a heart , ' laer .
over the boots !
i here do give thee that with all my heart which , but thou hast already , with all my
my meaning in ' t , i protest , was very honest in the behalf of the maid ; for
so that the art and practic part of life must be the mistress to this theoric ; which is a
i had been happy if the general camp , pioners and all , had tasted her sweet body , so
i thank his grace , i know he loves me well ; but for his purpose in the coronation i
[to angelo] get you home and fetch the chain ; by this i know ' tis made .
no , in despite of sense and secrecy , unpeg the basket on the house ' s top , let
now , good my lord , let there be some more test made of my metal , before so noble
is the single man therefore blessed ?
cleansing them from tears .
(reads) ' this policy and reverence of age makes the world bitter to the best of our times ; keeps
you adopt your policy , how is it less or worse that it shall hold companionship in peace with honour
by the white hand of my lady , he ' s a gallant prince .
to the oak , to the oak !
- a little month , or ere those shoes were old with which she followed my poor father ' s
the emperor in his rage will doom her death .
you seem ' d of late to make the law a tyrant ; and rather prov ' d the sliding
oui , vraiment .
i see him break scoggin ' s head at the court gate , when ' a was a crack not
it is in my scabbard .
loins , a blanket , in the alarm of fear caught up- who this had seen , with tongue in
jessica .
come , ladies , go to meet at london london ' s king in woe .
[aside] why , i were best to cut my left hand off , and swear i lost the ring defending
to qualify in others .
, sweet lady , does deserve our better wishes .
who should be trusted , when one ' s own right hand is perjured to the bosom ?
a lily and as small as a wand ; this hat is nan our maid ; i am the dog
a natural perspective , that is and is not .
exit scarus o sun , thy uprise shall i see no more !
they are worn , lord consul , so that we shall hardly in our ages see their banners wave again
ye tell me what ye wish for both-my ruin .
no , to their lives ill friends were contrary .
fery goot .
this is all , indeed , la !
exceedingly , my lord ; it is very sultry , as ' twere- i cannot tell how .
for no ill will i bear you .
leave not the worthy lucius , good my lords , till he have cross ' d the severn .
txt which ne ' er i did remember ; to my knowledge , i never in my life did look
lead on , a god ' s name .
exeunt all but cloten cloten .
i hope all ' s for the best .
i would he lov ' d his wife ; if he were honester he were much goodlier .
winter to foul weather .
some book there is that she desires to see .
i only speak right on ; i tell you that which you yourselves do know ; show you sweet caesar
the heart ; as i for praise alone now seek to spill the poor deer ' s blood that my
you ' ll pay me all together ?
now sit we close about this taper here , and call in question our necessities .
let this pernicious hour stand ay accursed in the calendar !
and now no more ado , brave burgundy , but gather we our forces out of hand and set upon
beams to you here lent shall point on me and gild my banishment .
three months from twelve ; then let me see , the rate- antonio .
there ' s no trust , no faith , no honesty in men ; all perjur ' d , all
you , worthy uncle , shall with my cousin , your right noble son , lead our first battle .
must he be depos ' d ?
how now , moon-calf !
what a vice were it in ajax now- ulysses .
and hell gnaw his bones !
enter king , countess , lafeu , the two french lords , with attendants king .
set me the crown upon my pillow here .
gloucester ' s eyes ?
thy hand upon that match .
shalt have a cap to-morrow .
a thousand times the worse , to want thy light !
like or find fault ; do as your pleasures are ; now good or bad , ' tis but the
a friend of this description shall lose a hair through bassanio ' s fault .
go bid my woman feign a sickness ; say she ' ll home to her father ; and provide me
exeunt york and queen bushy .
' tis present death i beg ; and one thing more , that womanhood denies my tongue to tell :
txt pisanio .
o lancaster , i fear thy overthrow more than my body ' s parting with my soul !
upon , nay if thou lour ' st on me do i not spend revenge upon my self with present
you are a saucy boy .
vincentio .
and i must be from thence !
by th ' elements , if e ' er again i meet him beard to beard , he ' s
this speed of caesar ' s carries beyond belief .
, nay , indeed , to be reveng ' d upon her .
dear than thine and my good marcius , i had rather had eleven die nobly for their country than one
and if thy poor devoted servant may but beg one favour at thy gracious hand , thou dost confirm his
scruple itself .
i am as fair now as i was erewhile .
you have no employment for me ?
rest , would purge by any desperate change .
he is not there to-day ; he dines in london .
you will , come home to me and i will wait for you .
txt which comes to me in name of fault , i must not at all acknowledge .
thou wrong ' st thyself , if thou shouldst strive to choose .
was guilty of .
' gloucester .
for what , lieutenant ?
my lord , i was born about three of the clock in the afternoon , with a white head and
let each man render me his bloody hand .
ay , and that tongue of his that bade the romans mark him and write his speeches in their books
make thick my blood , stop up the access and passage to remorse , that no compunctious visitings of nature
now my sick fool roderigo , whom love hath turn ' d almost the wrong side out , to desdemona
went with child of that insatiate edward , noble york my princely father then had wars in france and ,
life ?
will never be unkind .
let me enjoy my private ; go off .
[sings in gonzalo ' s ear] while you here do snoring lie , open-ey ' d conspiracy his time doth
exit first lord .
the marchioness of pembroke !
golden tresses of the dead , the right of sepulchres , were shorn away , to live a second life
duke ' s condition that he misconstrues all that you have done .
nature , who , with sebastian- whose inward pinches therefore are most strong- would here have kill ' d your
i have heard , but not believ ' d , the spirits o ' th ' dead may walk again
is that one of the four complexions ?
gregory , on my word , we ' ll not carry coals .
this is the foul fiend flibbertigibbet .
no , not for a king , upon whose property and most dear life a damn ' d defeat was
, and found the blessedness of being little .
thou old and true menenius , thy tears are salter than a younger man ' s and venomous to thine
my love and fear glu ' d many friends to thee ; and , now i fall , thy tough
do not .
he drove the bristled lips before him ; he bestrid an o ' erpress ' d roman and i '
which i have open ' d to his grace at large , as touching france- to give a greater sum
bark (inferior far to his) on your broad main doth wilfully appear .
with mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come ; and let my liver rather heat with wine than my heart
or thou or i , somerset , will be protector , despite duke humphrey or the cardinal .
o god , what mischiefs work the wicked ones , heaping confusion on their own heads thereby !
muster your wits ; stand in your own defence ; or hide your heads like cowards , and fly hence
as by strange fortune it came to us , i do in justice charge thee , on thy soul '
star , whose influence if now i court not , but omit , my fortunes will ever after droop .
be thou assur ' d , if words be made of breath , and breath of life , i have
noise within .
] o , good my lord , i would speak a word with you !
it likes us well ; and at our more consider ' d time we ' ll read , answer ,
txt wrestler ; which charles in a moment threw him , and broke three of his ribs , that there
alas the day , i never gave him cause !
i came yonder from a great supper .
room for the incensed worthies !
the good duke to keep .
does he not wear a great round beard , like a glover ' s paring-knife ?
this seen , orlando did approach the man , and found it was his brother , his elder brother .
not to kill him , having a warrant ; but to be damn ' d for killing him , from
if he took you a box o ' th ' ear , you might have your action of slander too
petticoat ; or what you will command me will i do , so well i know my duty to my
[aside to gloucester] he knows the game ; how true he keeps the wind !
content , all but in that .
roaring for troilus ; who hath done to-day mad and fantastic execution , engaging and redeeming of himself with such
enter sir humphrey stafford and william his brother , with drum and soldiers stafford .
about the sixth hour ; when beasts most graze , birds best peck , and men sit down to that
since kings break faith upon commodity , gain , be my lord , for i will worship thee .
makes a pass at cassio .
god for his mercy !
heaven ; and with a blessed and unvex ' d retire , with unhack ' d swords and helmets all
hadst a richard , till a richard kill ' d him .
thou hast passed by the ambush of young days , either not assailed , or victor being charged , yet
_num_ the other two , slight air , and purging fire , are both with thee , wherever i abide
bosoms of their counsel sweet , there my lysander and myself shall meet ; and thence from athens turn away
i am invisible ; and i will overhear their conference .
[exeunt maria and attendants] now , sir , what is your text ?
do you come near me now ?
shall not want , if he be put upon ' t , and that ' s as easy as to
' d troy , left my possession , incurr ' d a traitor ' s name , expos ' d
how go maidenheads ?
why then ' tis mine , if but by warwick ' s gift .
pray you , let cassio be received again .
' world i would have ' voided thee ; but in mere spite , to be full quit of those
o , would the deed were good !
go , and with your speediest bring us what she says , and how you find her .
prove it , henry , and thou shalt be king .
' s liking .
her attendants are all sworn and honourable- they induc ' d to steal it !
like oxen at a stall , the better cherish ' d , still the nearer death .
set dogs on sheep- will be his fire to kindle their dry stubble ; and their blaze shall darken him
cheated me of the island .
not for the world !
i must stay his time .
no-yes , i am .
lo !
a lover ' s ear will hear the lowest sound , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
come , come , no longer will i be a fool , to put the finger in the eye and
good sir , this ring was given me by my wife ; and , when she put it on ,
my life will be too short and every measure fail me .
a woman of quick sense .
enter the patricians and the tribunes of the people , lictors before them ; coriolanus , menenius , cominius the
sister , go you with me .
gentle knave , good night .
how still the evening is , as hush ' d on purpose to grace harmony !
father gave me for visiting your highness .
your serpent of egypt is bred now of your mud by the operation of your sun ; so is your
, and won her soul ; and she , sweet lady , dotes , devoutly dotes , dotes in idolatry
[aside] pray god defend me !
nay , i hear nothing ; his mother and his wife hear nothing from him .
shriving time allow ' d .
he says so .
i knew the young count to be a dangerous and lascivious boy , who is a whale to virginity ,
am i not i ' th ' right , old jephthah ?
thou best know ' st what torment i did find thee in ; thy groans did make wolves howl ,
pray god he be not angry .
lepidus is high-colour ' d .
allons !
zounds !
them to take my life .
are thine .
fall , so to prevent the time of life- arming myself with patience to stay the providence of some high
and finds no other page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
so it should be , that none but antony should conquer antony ; but woe ' tis so !
open page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
not a penny .
why , no ; i , that do speak a word , may call it back again .
what are they that do play it ?
and sweetens , in the suff ' ring pangs it bears , the aloes of all forces , shocks and
tis not the land i care for , wert thou thence ; a wilderness is populous enough , so suffolk
madam , i desire your holy wishes .
what says my sweet queen ?
gloucester , we have done deeds of charity , made peace of enmity , fair love of hate , between
lend me ten thousand eyes , and i will fill them with prophetic tears .
false justicer , why hast thou let her scape ?
what a happy title do i find , happy to have thy love , happy to die !
much more , and much more cause , did they this harry .
that cassio loves her , i do well believe it ; that she loves him , ' tis apt and
his grace looks cheerfully and smooth this morning ; there ' s some conceit or other likes him well when
yea , marry , let me have him to sit under .
i have studied eight or nine wise words to speak to you , which these hobby-horses must not hear .
you shall confess that you are both deceived .
to hear as will a chestnut in a fariner ' s fire ?
i shall tell you a pretty tale .
let grief convert to anger ; blunt not the heart , enrage it .
[hiccups] a plague o ' these pickle-herring !
take this , that you call love , to be a sect or scion .
that we did , we did for the best ; and though we willingly consented to his banishment , yet
faith , no , as you may season it in the charge .
windy attorneys to their client woes , airy succeeders of intestate joys , poor breathing orators of miseries , let
pray stay a little , my lord .
what a taking was he in when your husband ask ' d who was in the basket !
goes the king hence today ?
enter the king , and attendants king henry .
cheek so much as lank ' d not .
appetite you have .
- who comes here ?
enter boyet princess of france .
muddy .
giving my verdict on the white rose side .
as sure , my liege , as i do see your grace .
ah , weraday !
do you intend it ?
you see i have given her physic , [pointing to the nurse] and you must needs bestow her funeral ;
o , temperance , lady !
, and to the love and favour of my country commit myself , my person , and the cause .
now , by two-headed janus , nature hath fram ' d strange fellows in her time : some that will
madam , i swear i use no art at all .
since when , i pray you , sir ?
long time thy shadow hath been thrall to me , for in my gallery thy picture hangs ; but now
i whipt me behind the arras and there heard it agreed upon that the prince should woo hero for himself
the thickest and the tallest .
conceit .
and we with sober speed will follow you .
should a like language use to all degrees and mannerly distinguishment leave out betwixt the prince and beggar .
made by my young lord and thee !
txt now , thomas mowbray , do i turn to thee , and mark my greeting well ; for what
[to kent] o , are you free ?
o heinous , strong , and bold conspiracy !
' ' no , sir , ' says question ' i , sweet sir , at yours .
this attempt i am soldier to , and will abide it with a prince ' s courage .
txt for inequality ; but let your reason serve to make the truth appear where it seems hid , and
ways be foul , then nightly sings the staring owl : ' tu-who ; tu-whit , tu-who ' - a
[a chair brought in .
why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel , and
inferior to none but to his majesty ; and ere that we will suffer such a prince , so kind
gentlemen !
did your brother tell you how i counterfeited to swoon when he show ' d me your handkercher ?
the reposal of any trust , virtue , or worth in thee make thy words faith ' d ?
long after this , when henry the fifth , succeeding his father bolingbroke , did reign , thy father ,
slay in common sense , sense saves another way .
my first false speaking was this upon myself .
[pointing to the servant who carries off lepidus] menas .
i have a jest to execute that i cannot manage alone .
having thus far proceeded- unless thou think ' st me devilish- is ' t not meet that i did amplify
what bloody man is that ?
in vain thou speak ' st , poor boy ; my father ' s blood hath stopp ' d the
the ghost of banquo enters and sits in macbeth ' s place .
he be leaden , icy , cold , unwilling , be thou so too , and so break off the
and shall , or him we will accompany .
your majesty came not like yourself : you appear ' d to me but as a common man ; witness
you sheep and i pasture- shall that finish the jest ?
enter mistress overdone lucio .
shall i descend ?
] enter romeo , and balthasar with a torch , a mattock , and a crow of iron .
enter a messenger o !
since she is living , let the time run on page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
say , for grace thou wilt have none- prince .
thou , traitor , hast set on thy wife to this .
by my faith , he is very swift and sententious .
why then , say an old man can do somewhat .
behold , the heavens do ope , the gods look down , and this unnatural scene they laugh at .
killing swine .
he must and will .
fare you well , my lord .
supper is done , and we shall come too late .
own , and that was against a post when he was drunk .
she is unjust ?
the matter , the loss , the gain , the ord ' ring on ' t , is all properly
seek you to seize and gripe into your hands the royalties and rights of banish ' d hereford ?
mark of my shoulder , the mole in my neck , the great wart on my left arm , that
as you from crimes would pardon ' d be , let your indulgence set me free .
a plague upon him , dog !
harry of hereford , lancaster , and derby , stands here for god , his sovereign , and himself ,
rosalind is your love ' s name ?
' ' twas her brother that , in pure kindness to his horse , buttered his hay .
fairer than tongue can name thee , let me have some patient leisure to excuse myself .
trinculo , the king and all our company else being drown ' d , we will inherit here .
they call him troilus , and on him erect a second hope as fairly built as hector .
do not say ' stand up ' ; say ' pardon ' first , and afterwards ' stand up .
you make me strange even to the disposition that i owe when now i think you can behold such sights
mercy upon us !
no , good sir ; he has his health , and ampler strength indeed than most have of his age
their moons and bring their times about , my oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light shall be extinct with age and
i mean , an we be in choler , we ' ll draw .
spend her strength with over-matching waves .
what shall be our sport , then ?
the parts where he abides .
my liege , i ' ll knock once more to summon them .
how hast thou purchased this experience ?
come , bring away .
o hateful hands , to tear such loving words !
the tongues of mocking wenches are as keen as is the razor ' s edge invisible , cutting a smaller
snout .
my grave to dark dishonour ' s use thou shalt not have .
doth sway .
takes virtuous copies to be wicked , like those that under hot ardent zeal would set whole realms on fire
with whom ?
re-enter suffolk how now !
if any bark put forth , come to the mart , where i will walk till thou return to me
and if these four worthies in their first show thrive , these four will change habits and present the other
is a true girl ; and therefore welcome the sour cup of prosperity !
and by a stranger !
ay , madam , with the swiftest wing of speed .
by his cockle bat and ' staff and his sandal shoon .
the quick freshes are .
i am too blunt and saucy : here ' s my knee .
, page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
on each side her , the bishops of london and winchester .
extremest means , lie all unlock ' d to your occasions .
for that goes hard .
enter a sheriff essex .
a fever in your blood ?
dissuade succession , but that they are limed with the twigs that threatens them .
our prayers do out-pray his ; then let them have that mercy which true prayer ought to have .
exit re-enter aaron , with two of titus ' sons , quintus and martius aaron .
no , titus , no ; the emperor needs her not , nor her , nor thee , nor any
pray draw near .
bate me some , and i will pay you some , and , as most debtors do , promise you
well , is it , is it ?
down her babe and makes all swift dispatch in pursuit of the thing she would have stay : whilst her
thither he darts it .
he is coming hither .
and so , sir john , farewell .
for whiles this honest fool plies desdemona to repair his fortune , and she for him pleads strongly to the
as i guess , marcius , their bands i ' th ' vaward are the antiates , of their best
come , shepherd , let us make an honourable retreat ; though not with bag and baggage , yet with
you know me , apemantus ?
my gracious lord , you look beyond him quite .
come , brother , away !
he that is yours , sweet lady .
up the blood , disguise fair nature with hard-favour ' d rage ; then lend the eye a terrible aspect
for let the world take note you are the most immediate to our throne , and with no less nobility
will they wear their plackets where they should bear their faces ?
o , i have read it ; it is heresy .
no , warwick , no ; while life upholds this arm , this arm upholds the house of lancaster .
' tis well , ' tis well ; no more .
friends , and the better for my foes .
day , attended with the pleasures of the world , is all too wanton and too full of gawds to
upon what ground ?
renowned pompey !
be not offended ; i speak not as in absolute fear of you .
ay , proteus , but that life is alter ' d now ; i have done penance for contemning love
good now , play one scene of excellent dissembling , and let it look like perfect honour .
, by the simplicity of venus ' doves , by that which knitteth souls and prospers loves , and by
prithee tell my master what a strange guest he has here .
fare thee well ; we hold our time too precious to be spent with such a brabbler .
i call them forth to credit her .
ours is the fall , i fear ; our foes the snare .
evils she hatch ' d were not effected ; so , despairing , died .
they will ' d me say so , madam .
[kissing her] nym .
she is young , wise , fair ; in these to nature she ' s immediate heir ; and these
you were about to speak .
i willingly obey your command .
why , no ; for he hath made a solemn vow never to lie and take his natural rest till
but that , it seems , he little purposeth , for here he doth demand to have repaid a hundred
farewell , pretty lady ; you must hold the credit of your father .
none in the world ; nor do i know the man .
what news , then , in your paper ?
in a theme so bloody-fac ' d as this , conjecture , expectation , and surmise of aids incertain ,
' s monuments .
and will she love him still for prating ?
unless i add we are honest .
give me thy hand ; i am sorry i beat thee ; but while thou liv ' st , keep
florizel .
knavery cannot , sure , hide himself in such reverence .
lay down the treasures of your body to this supposed , or else to let him suffer- what would you
for a fish without a fin , there ' s a fowl without a feather ; if a crow help
he did love her , sir , as a gentleman loves a woman .
full content .
being unprepared , our will became the servant to defect , which else should free have wrought .
finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur ?
how a score of ewes now ?
marry , sir , by many a wind instrument that i know .
here ' s a young maid with travel much oppress ' d , and faints for succour .
enter apemantus merchant .
say this to him , he ' s beat from his best ward .
dost thou think i have no sense , thou strikest me thus ?
txt hang them or stab them , drown them in a draught , confound them by some course , and
i ' ll try whether my old wit be in request with those that have but little ; this must
come , come , i am a king ; my masters , know you that ?
my kind offer , when i make curtsy , bid me farewell .
streets , incense her kinsmen , and , though he in a fertile climate dwell , plague him with flies
quietness on every side .
this is the brief of money , plate , and jewels , i am possess ' d of .
done , i think had been in me both disobedience and ingratitude to you and toward your friend ; whose
now be you blest for it !
thy whore , and keep in-a-door , and thou shalt have more than two tens to a score .
i had rather be a country servant-maid than a great queen with this condition- to be so baited , scorn
and shall good news be baffled ?
what ' s thine own name ?
what means do you make to him ?
noble ventidius , whilst yet with parthian blood thy sword is warm the fugitive parthians follow ; spur through media
beast with two backs .
nor stony tower , nor walls of beaten brass , nor airless dungeon , nor strong links of iron can
why , horns ; which such as you are fain to be beholding to your wives for ; but he
dogs howl ' d , and hideous tempest shook down trees ; the raven rook ' d her on the
not present ?
read it again .
come hither , moor .
marry , he must have a long spoon that must eat with the devil .
not yet , i thee beseech .
he is prepar ' d , and reason too he should .
no more the thirsty entrance of this soil shall daub her lips with her own children ' s blood .
some enigma , some riddle ; come , thy l ' envoy ; begin .
i am aweary of this moon .
death ; and here he writes that he did buy a poison of a poor pothecary , and therewithal came
blest to do your pleasure , and continue friends .
where nothing , but who knows nothing , is once seen to smile ; where sighs and groans and shrieks
by our late dear brother ' s death our state to be disjoint and out of frame , colleagued with
if thou be ' st death i ' ll give thee england ' s treasure , enough to purchase such
what do i see on thee ?
i did kill king henry- but ' twas thy beauty that provoked me .
anything like ?
txt come , lady , come .
o , what am i ?
how infinite in faculties !
[aside] o noble strain !
something sure of state , either from venice or some unhatch ' d practice made demonstrable here in cyprus to
she ' s come to know if yet her brother ' s pardon be come hither ; but i will
not wind ?
let no unkind , no fair beseechers kill , think all but one , and me in that one '
teeth hadst thou in thy head when thou wast born , to signify thou cam ' st to bite the
his face thou hast , for even so look ' d he , accomplish ' d with the number of
and where ' s that valiant crook-back prodigy , dicky your boy , that with his grumbling voice was wont
i tell you , sir , she bears me fair in hand .
o ' th ' king ' s , which florizel i now name to you ; and with speed so
' regia ' presume not- ' celsa senis ' despair not .
o worthy satisfaction !
affliction may one day smile again ; and till then , sit thee down , sorrow .
hurt him !
thou hast beat me out twelve several times , and i have nightly since dreamt of encounters ' twixt thyself
; there will we dine .
o , treble woe fall ten times treble on that cursed head whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense depriv
of your royal house , to the corruption of a blemish ' d stock ; whiles in the mildness of
give but thorough lust and laughter .
i have read three hours then .
goes it against the main of poland , sir , or for some frontier ?
then kill , kill , kill , kill , kill , kill !
and seem ' d i ever otherwise to you ?
exit with dorcas and mopsa autolycus .
they shall be open ' d , black macbeth will seem as pure as snow , and the poor state
away with her to prison .
made you our delight ?
lurk , lurk .
nor now my scandal , richard , dost thou hear ; for thou shalt know this strong right hand of
first soldier .
ay , we may march in england or in france , not seeing what is likely to ensue .
or , clown , thou perishest ; or , to thy better understanding , diest ; or , to wit
lady , ' cucullus non facit monachum ' ; that ' s as much to say as i wear not
to the sea-side straight way .
why , all this business our reverend cardinal carried .
may send forth plenteous tears to drown the world !
a noble temper dost thou show in this ; and great affections wrestling in thy bosom doth make an earthquake
who could be out , being before his beloved mistress ?
now were i happy if his going i could frame to serve my turn , save him from danger ,
make much of him , my lords ; for this is he must help you more than you are hurt
such mean attempts , such barren pleasures , rude society , as thou art match ' d withal and grafted
peace , children , peace !
she should this angelo have married ; was affianced to her by oath , and the nuptial appointed ; between
alack , alack , edmund , i like not this unnatural dealing !
wanton with us , if we would have you .
like wrath in death and envy afterwards ; for antony is but a limb of caesar .
father , ' tis thus : yourself and all the world that talk ' d of her have talk '
the wounds become him .
half of what he was yesterday , for the other has half by the entreaty and grant of the whole
ay , he spoke greek .
therefore i say again , i utterly abhor , yea , from my soul page _num_ complete works of william
if your ladyship would say ' thanks , pompey , ' i had done .
txt while we were interchanging thrusts and blows , came more and more , and fought on part and part
nay , i have verses too , i thank berowne ; the numbers true , and , were the numb
' d villain .
sir , my good friend- i ' ll change that name with you .
what ' s to be done ?
and , sir , tonight , i do entreat that we may sup together .
peace is a very apoplexy , lethargy ; mull ' d , deaf , sleepy , insensible ; a getter
there wanteth now our brother gloucester here to make the blessed period of this peace .
in that hope i throw mine eyes to heaven , scorning whate ' er you can afflict me with .
my best doth worship thy defect , commanded by the motion of thine eyes ?
what , think ' st that the bleak air , thy boisterous chamberlain , will put thy shirt on warm
so long as breath did last .
well , well , ' tis done , ' tis past ; and yet it is not ; i will
thou shouldst be mad ; and i to make thee mad do mock thee thus .
will you hear this letter with attention ?
: ' good antigonus , since fate , against thy better disposition , hath made thy person for the thrower-out
o god , o god !
ere i could tell him how i would think on him at certain hours such thoughts and such ; or
wherefore did they not that hour destroy us ?
didst thou not hear somebody ?
i love her therefore ; but disdaining me and throwing favours on the low posthumus slanders so her judgment that
iago beckons me ; now he begins the story .
long may he live in fortunes !
[they go aside] shallow .
rebellion ' s head , rise never till the wood of birnam rise , and our high-placed macbeth shall live
war ; his soldiership is twice the other twain .
how canst thou urge god ' s dreadful law to us , when thou hast broke it in such dear
thou hast a perfect thought .
for i have heard too much .
well , more anon .
bolingbroke .
txt arms .
whiles i in ireland nourish a mighty band , i will stir up in england some black storm shall blow
txt flavius .
stay , you that bear the corse , and set it down .
the people , and they pity her .
that i may compass yours .
for ' s power to thunder .
txt but mine it will , that no exploit have done ; you fled for vantage , every one will
go to your rest ; at night we ' ll feast together .
from fellowship .
spite , put stuff to some she-beggar and compounded thee poor rogue hereditary .
truster of your own report against yourself .
tower ' d citadel , a pendent rock , a forked mountain , or blue promontory with trees upon '
he is indeed , sir , the most skilful , bloody , and fatal opposite that you could possibly have
metellus .
with knacks ; i would have ransack ' d the pedlar ' s silken treasury and have pour ' d
we can afford no more at such a price .
a simple countryman that brought her figs .
by every other appointment , to be ourselves .
you should in all sense be much bound to him , for , as i hear , he was much
madam , within , but never man so chang ' d .
will you know them then ?
' tis true , the raven doth not hatch a lark .
i have lim ' d her ; but it is jove ' s doing , and jove make me thankful
thou shalt not do ' t .
that is all one , my fair , sweet , honey monarch ; for , i protest , the schoolmaster
i must tell you you tender more your person ' s honour than your high profession spiritual ; that again
and look to have it yielded with all kindness .
i sell thee poison ; thou hast sold me none .
word of thy speech .
thee in mine own cell , till thou didst seek to violate the honour of my child .
have you a mind to sink ?
and but for ceremony , such a wretch , winding up days with toil and nights with sleep , had
friends , and very well appointed , as i thought , march ' d toward saint albans to intercept the
did heal it up .
orchard , and then to dinner .
shall we wag ?
a fistula , my lord .
but , howsoever thou pursuest this act , taint not thy mind , nor let thy soul contrive against thy
were it not good your grace could fly to heaven ?
o me , o me !
good morrow , gallants !
here shall he see no enemy but winter and rough weather .
lift an angry arm against his minister .
milan , where every third thought shall be my grave .
be truly follow ' d .
; and , if i fail not in my deep intent , clarence hath not another day to live ;
what heir of york is there alive but we ?
but is there any else longs to see this broken music in his sides ?
from th ' understanding of himself , i cannot dream of .
this is timon ' s last ; who , stuck and spangled with your flatteries , washes it off ,
upon the company you overtake ?
enter king henry the fifth , attended chief justice .
but mice and rats , and such small deer , have been tom ' s food for seven long year
voice nor the heart of flattery about me , i cannot so conjure up the spirit of love in her
and otherwise will henry ne ' er presume .
; if you do sweat to put a tyrant down , you sleep in peace , the tyrant being slain
your voice shall be as strong as any man ' s in the disposing of new dignities .
here they rob and bind them .
john , and with her golden hand hath pluck ' d on france to tread down fair respect of sovereignty
let life be short , else shame will be too long .
after all this fearful homage done , give thee thy hire and send thy soul to hell , pernicious blood-sucker
, to be the champion of our church .
then i would you were so honest a man .
let me go to him .
does it curd thy blood to say i am thy mother ?
nay , good lieutenant ; i pray you , sir , hold your hand .
txt have notice what we purpose .
if e ' er i lov ' d her , all that love is gone .
know you how much the people may be moved by that which he will utter ?
i look on you as one that takes his leave .
could be so abus ' d in sight as he .
you are welcome home , my lord .
i am courted now with a double occasion- gold , and a means to do the prince my master good
command the conquest , charles , it shall be thine , let henry fret and all the world repine .
do me your offices .
if to preserve this vessel for my lord from any other foul unlawful touch be not to be a strumpet
what woman-post is this ?
the story is extant , and written in very choice italian .
on their necks , expect your highness ' doom of life or death .
chide thee , who confounds in singleness the parts that thou shouldst bear : mark how one string sweet husband
no , for then we should be colliers .
txt slander myself as false to edward ' s bed , throw over her the veil of infamy ; so
enter costard , armed for pompey costard .
why doth the great duke humphrey knit his brows , as frowning at the favours of the world ?
o , whither hast thou led me , egypt ?
' tis true , my brother ' s daughter ' s queen of tunis ; page _num_ complete works of
by ' r lakin , i can go no further , sir ; my old bones ache .
what ' s the matter , lieutenant ?
would the nobility lay aside their ruth and let me use my sword , i ' d make a quarry
it yearns me not if men my garments wear ; such outward things dwell not in my desires .
go with me ; if you like upon report the soil , the profit , and this kind of life
curs ' d be i that did so !
why , no , you ruinous butt ; you whoreson indistinguishable cur , no .
' as i have bank ' d their towns ?
they are all perceiv ' d without ye .
he that kisses my wife is my friend .
feel , then .
yet i cannot choose but laugh to think it should leave crying and say ' ay .
of villany ?
alack the day !
go , some of you convey him to the tower .
what meanest thou ?
about a hoop of gold , a paltry ring that she did give me , whose posy was for all
an ' t be any way , it must be with valour , for policy i hate ; i had
bootless is flight : they follow us with wings ; and weak we are , and cannot shun pursuit .
but i do see you ' re moved ; i am to pray you not to strain my speech to
i will attend the queen .
shall i have the thought to think on this , and shall i lack the thought that such a thing
tybalt , my cousin !
but , masters , remember that i am an ass .
scornful lysander , true , he hath my love ; and what is mine my love shall render him ;
de nails .
my liege , it is young henry , earl of richmond .
what makes this pretty abruption ?
decreasing leg , an increasing belly ?
i am no villain .
exeunt all but the abbot of westminster , the bishop of carlisle , and aumerle abbot .
and fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns .
and good reason ; for thereby is england main ' d and fain to go with a staff , but
exit nym page .
the dumb show enters .
his fortunes i will weep , and ' twixt each groan say ' who ' s a traitor ?
for fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue .
your safety , wisdom , all things else , you mainly were stirr ' d up .
a word that loves all men ; or for men ' s sake , the authors of these women ;
royal wench !
, that loves his mistress more than in confession with truant vows to her own lips he loves , and
depress ' d he is already , and depos ' d ' tis doubt he will be .
[she kisses him] suffolk .
you did not so when your vile daggers hack ' d one another in the sides of caesar .
if you think so , then stay at home and go not .
; o ' er and o ' er divides him ' twixt his unkindness and his kindness- th ' one
where is thy lustre now ?
we will , my noble lord .
some mollification for your giant , sweet lady .
within me is a hell ; and there the poison is as a fiend confin ' d to tyrannize on
let ' t alone .
the fineness of the gold , and chargeful fashion , which doth amount to three odd ducats more than i
this shall forbid it .
insolent villain !
weigh him well , and that which looks like pride is courtesy .
my life for a thousand years , i could stay no longer .
the squand ' ring glances of the fool .
you stand to me in this cause .
all torment , trouble , wonder and amazement , inhabits here .
depose , your oath , my lord , is vain and frivolous .
but the rarity of it is , which is indeed almost beyond credit- sebastian .
well , for two of them , i know them to be as true-bred cowards as ever turn ' d
my lord , for aught i know .
never float upon the swelling tide to do offence and scathe in christendom .
when we our betters see bearing our woes , we scarcely think our miseries our foes .
ay , ay ; i must bear it .
send succours , lords , and stop the rage betime , before the wound do grow uncurable ; for ,
for worse than philomel you us ' d my daughter , and worse than progne i will be reveng '
i am most joyful , madam , such good dreams possess your fancy .
' d like a breach in nature for ruin ' s wasteful entrance ; there , the murtherers , steep
well , sir , get you in .
proceeding by these french confront your city ' s eyes , your winking gates ; and but for our approach
s allies ; but now , i tell thee-keep it to thyself- this day those enernies are put to death
go to , go to , thou art a foolish fellow ; let me be clear of thee .
txt but i ' ll endeavour deeds to match these words , or may i never- ajax .
; mercutio and his brother valentine ; mine uncle capulet , his wife , and daughters ; my fair niece
if ever i return to you again , i ' ll bring you comfort .
so , fare you well ; i have left you commands .
well , push him out of doors ; and let my officers of such a nature make an extent upon
then you ' ll buy ' em to sell again .
gloucester , hide thee from their hateful looks , and , in thy closet pent up , rue my shame
money .
my lord of york , i promise you , the king prettily , methought , did play the orator .
it fits us , then , to be as provident page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
therefore great france my mourning and important tears hath pitied .
txt nathaniel .
and cry .
txt the king shall drink to hamlet ' s better breath , and in the cup an union shall he
' s her thrumm ' d hat , and her muffler too .
i am too sure of it ; and it is for getting madam julietta with child .
your belly ' s answer- what ?
the time approaches that will with due decision make us know what we shall say we have and what we
my lord , they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband .
' this article , my liege , yourself must break ; for well you know here comes in embassy the
remuneration !
how ill-beseeming is it in thy sex to triumph like an amazonian trull upon their woes whom fortune captivates !
, north , south , and their consent of one direct way should be at once to all the points
i know not where he lodges , and for me to devise a lodging , page _num_ complete works of
[leaning his band upon doll] doll .
margaret , waiting gentlewoman attending on hero .
clarence , richard , duke of gloucester , afterwards king richard iii page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you hear , count claudio .
yet reason dares her no ; for my authority bears a so credent bulk that no particular scandal once can
i say he shall .
i will be patient ; outwardly i will .
these lovers cry , o ho , they die !
come , go along with me , good master gower .
i did hear him groan .
what heard you him say else ?
when i do name him , let it be thy part to praise him more than ever man did merit
so should i give consent to flatter sin .
road of casualty .
the prince but studies his companions like a strange tongue , wherein , to gain the language , ' tis
now we ' ll together , and the chance of goodness be like our warranted quarrel !
have false proteus rescue me .
- save me and hover o ' er me with your wings , you heavenly guards !
behold , behold , where madam mitigation comes !
boy , son to lucius publius , son to marcus andronicus kinsmen to titus : sempronius caius valentine page _num_
the worser welcome .
i cannot tell vat is dat .
you look pale and gaze and put on fear and cast yourself in wonder to see the strange impatience of
upon my tongues continual slanders ride , the which in every language i pronounce , stuffing the ears of men
and to be on foot at an hour ' s warning .
o , ho , are you there with me ?
the sudden breach on ' t .
a soothsayer you beware the ides of march .
nay , if our wits run the wild-goose chase , i am done ; for thou hast more of the
you great fellow , stand close up , or i ' ll make your head ache .
cutpurse of the empire and the rule , that from a shelf the precious diadem stole and put it in
men that make envy and crooked malice nourishment dare bite the best .
not steer ' d .
, in filling the whole realm by your teaching and your chaplains- for so we are inform ' d-with new
but , orderly to end where i begun , our wills and fates do so contrary run that our devices
you must sing ' a-down a-down , and you call him a-down-a .
peace , headstrong warwick !
he swore he would never marry ; and yet now in despite of his heart he eats his meat without
brain and to little blood they do , i ' ll be a curer of madmen .
i spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck .
' lucentio .
i will presently go learn their day of marriage .
stand , stand , and fight !
i am none of his flirt-gills ; i am none of his skains-mates .
signior arme- arme- commends you .
i am glad i have found this napkin ; this was her first remembrance from the moor .
to change a master .
wheat , and hurts the poor creature of earth .
where was this lane ?
me cause to curse .
another general shout !
to redeem and have install ' d me in the diadem ; but , as the rest , so fell
' ll find th ' have not prepar ' d for us .
as it shall follow in my correction ; and god defend the right !
enter a post king edward .
here at home .
or we appeal , and from thy justice fly .
shall i tell you a thing ?
no more such wives ; therefore , no wife .
jack cade , the duke of york hath taught you this .
senseless of the bob ; if not , the wise man ' s folly is anatomiz ' d even by
a hundred knights ?
, and say ' thrice welcome , drowned viola !
when you speak , sweet , i ' d have you do it ever .
save that , in love unto demetrius , i told him of your stealth unto this wood .
clown sings what is love ?
and you , enchantment , worthy enough a herdsman- yea , him too that makes himself , but for our
in every good thing .
prick him down , antony .
alas , she has no speech .
what , look ' d he frowningly .
but i go .
harp on it still shall i till heartstrings break .
sometimes a thousand twangling instruments will hum about mine ears ; and sometimes voices , that , if i then
, fairies , and hobgoblin ; all with tapers fairy queen .
txt all our proceedings .
take in your love , and then let me alone .
, or rather lions ; did ' t not wake you ?
a pair of tribunes that have wrack ' d for rome to make coals cheap- a noble memory !
nine months old .
i attend , i attend .
farewell , my lord .
about me with your airy wings and hear your mother ' s lamentation .
i have a daughter (have while she is mine) , who in her duty and obedience , mark , hath
coward .
what violent hands can she lay on her life ?
more than you doubt the change on ' t ; that prefer a noble life before a long , and
my name is thomas mowbray , duke of norfolk ; who hither come engaged by my oath- which god defend
but it appears she lives though yet she speak not .
as i stood here below , methought his eyes were two full moons ; he had a thousand noses ,
lewis .
' tis not his fault , the spark .
txt as this is false he burdens me withal !
dream often so , and never false .
i am doubtful that you have been conjunct and bosom ' d with her , as far as we call
my heart is with your liking .
; the like do you ; so shall we pass along , and never stir assailants .
why , so i did , but look ' d for no reply .
you are too great to be by me gainsaid ; your spirit is too true , your fears too certain
go , bind thou up yon dangling apricocks , which , like unruly children , make their sire stoop with
this is a trick to put me from my suit .
then tell me what makes he upon the seas .
upon the land .
there is no other way ; ' tis she must do ' t .
give me some wine , and let me speak a little .
one drunkard loves another of the name .
what will you give me now for that same handkerchief ?
imagin ' d worth holds in his blood such swol ' n and hot discourse that ' twixt his mental
i never saw her till this time .
but now to task the tasker : good boyet , you are not ignorant all-telling fame doth noise abroad navarre
we found him in the churchyard .
but where is he ?
and would you not do much to do them good ?
come , come , lord mortimer .
enter montjoy montjoy .
new care won .
then , worthy marcius , attend upon cominius to these wars .
hatch ; who dares not stir by day must walk by night ; and have is have , however men
i will knead him , i ' ll make him supple .
direct not him whose way himself will choose .
these are gracious drops .
now no more the juice of egypt ' s grape shall moist this lip .
my mother did but duty ; such , my lord , as you owe to your wife .
foolery , sir , does walk about the orb like the sun- it shines everywhere .
' lafeu .
the duchess ' wreck , and her attainture will be humphrey ' s fall sort how it will , i
content , in faith ; i ' ll seal to such a bond , and say there is much kindness
do ' t , knight .
a drum now of the enemy ' s !
to gather money for their corn .
therefore in him it lies to cure me , and the cure is to remove these thoughts from you ;
even like thy chastity .
mark it , nuncle .
these gates must not be shut but in the night or in the time of war .
ay , the grinding ; but you must tarry the bolting .
in that beastly fury he has been known to commit outrages and cherish factions .
get you away ; i ' ll send for you anon .
sirrah , get you hence , and bid my cousin ferdinand come hither : exit servingman page _num_ complete works
the worm of conscience still be-gnaw thy soul !
indeed , he should be a footman , by the garments he has left with thee ; if this be
many thousand warlike french that were embattailed and rank ' d in kent .
great jupiter be prais ' d !
at alteration .
done ; and there ish nothing done , so chrish sa ' me , la .
now this follows , which , as i take it , is a kind of puppy to th ' old
i thank you , good friend lucio .
what fit is this , good lady ?
txt together working with thy jealousies , fancies too weak for boys , too green and idle for girls of
if thou beest a man , show thyself in thy likeness ; if thou beest a devil , take '
exeunt executioners arthur .
so for this time , pompey , fare you well .
go prick thy face and over-red thy fear , thou lily-liver ' d boy .
a royal train , believe me .
filthy hags !
why sinks that cauldron , and what noise is this ?
to-morrow shall we visit you again .
, a league without the town , where i did meet thee once with helena to do observance to a
dread lord , the commons send you word by me unless lord suffolk straight be done to death , or
or did i dream it so ?
we cannot , sir ; we are undone already .
blood .
cried he ?
, and , as thou say ' st , charged my brother , on his blessing , to breed me
is the sword unsway ' d ?
but see , his face is black and full of blood ; his eye-balls further out than when he liv
does reason our petition with more strength than thou hast to deny ' t .
him i , as my ever-esteemed duty pricks me on , have sent to thee , to receive the meed
he was-why so go all which way it will !
hence borne out , may waste the memory of the former days .
first let me talk with this philosopher .
the army of france is landed .
take heed , have open eye , for thieves do foot by night ; take heed , ere summer comes
should a villain say so , the most replenish ' d villain in the world , he were as much
most true , forsooth ; and many time and oft myself have heard a voice to call him so .
go , fetch them hither to us presently .
will you give me money , captain ?
trial , and last love , then , at the expiration of the year , come , challenge me ,
the colic of puff aquilon ' d .
i would be loath to pay him before his day .
<exeunt all but antipholus of syracuse , antipholus of ephesus , dromio of syracuse , and dromio of ephesus dromio
ah , sancta majestas !
the nature of bad news infects the teller .
enter the king , reading of a schedule , and lovell surrey .
shall i strike now ?
before the days of change , still is it so ; by a divine instinct men ' s minds mistrust
if it be true that good wine needs no bush , ' tis true that a good play needs no
would it might please your grace , on our entreaties , to amend your fault !
call them forth .
alarum .
so every bondman in his own hand bears the power to cancel his captivity .
but for that- poet .
therefore make haste .
troth , and i have a bag of money here troubles me ; if you will help to bear it
we may boldly spend upon the hope of what is to come in .
instinct , but stand as if a man were author of himself and knew no other kin .
or the fann ' d snow that ' s bolted by th ' northern blasts twice o ' er .
" neither the king nor ' s heirs , tell you the duke , shall prosper ; bid him strive
but , sirrah , what say you to this ?
you , sirrah , provide your block and your axe to-morrow four o ' clock .
if this were true , then should i know this secret .
i ' ll keep them all .
on thine allegiance , hear me !
bernardo hath my place .
' s lackey .
as he vouches , misreport your grace .
here comes the queen , whose looks bewray her anger .
who is conductor of his people ?
here i have a pilot ' s thumb , wreck ' d as homeward he did come .
hector shall not have his wit this year .
and , soldiers , to the field !
cry , the rest stand all aloof and bark at him .
it , in reason he should never come to heaven .
suffolk , ambassador for henry king of england , that the said henry shall espouse the lady margaret , daughter
our love was new , and then but in the spring , when i was wont to greet it with
methinks ' tis prize enough to be his son .
presence might have been concluded .
he ' ll strike , and quickly too .
she cannot deny it .
ay me , how weak a thing the heart of woman is !
nay , stay ; thou shouldst be honest .
that is most certain .
ye white-lim ' d walls !
hark , how they knock !
nay , you need not to stop your nose , sir ; i spake but by a metaphor .
tell me , mine own , where hast thou been preserv ' d ?
] my good friends , i ' ll leave you till night .
barren my wit ?
no , ' tis not so deep as a well , nor so wide as a church door ; but
yet i suppose him virtuous , know him noble , of great estate , of fresh and stainless youth ;
scene _num_ a street before a priory enter second merchant and angelo angelo .
they say !
let them say ' tis grossly done ; so it be fairly done , no matter .
heavy , melancholy , and , for your friend ' s sake , will be glad of you- where you
, in a wall ' d prison , packs and sects of great ones that ebb and flow by th
and so is now , or was so very late ; for but a month ago i went from hence
his service done at lacedaemon and byzantium were a sufficient briber for his life .
for this last , before and in corioli , let me say i cannot speak him home .
if she live long , and in the end meet the old course of death , women will all turn
i am indeed not her fool , but her corrupter of words .
here the street is narrow , the throng that follows caesar at the heels , of senators , of praetors
the french camp near agincourt enter the constable of france , the lord rambures , the duke of orleans ,
exit gentlewoman virgilia .
in what case ?
i ' ll tell you , sir , in private , if you please to give me hearing .
to achieve her- how ?
urchins shall , for that vast of night that they may work , all exercise on thee ; thou shalt
here they fight , and certain volsces come in the aid of aufidius .
' ; this ' to the god of war ' - sweet scrolls to fly about the streets of rome
we will go together .
when we banish ' d him we respected not them ; and , he returning to break our necks ,
here comes more .
percy .
more things like men ?
thy clarence he is dead that stabb ' d my edward ; and the beholders of this frantic play ,
thou shalt get kings , though thou be none .
txt but in a sieve i ' ll thither sail , and , like a rat without a tail ,
come , i know thou lovest me ; and at night , when you come into your closet , you
well , sir , then ' twill be dry .
i ' faith , i am sorry that thou art not well .
testament of noble-ending love .
wilt thou , strato ?
how dare you thrust yourselves into my private meditations ?
hold , daughter .
when i cannot live any longer , i will do as i may .
come , grey ; come , vaughan ; let us here embrace .
till your ink be dry , and with your tears moist it again , and frame some feeling line that
so famous .
thou hast under-wrought his lawful king , cut off the sequence of posterity , outfaced infant state , and done
' tis passing good ; i prithee let me have it .
what , is the fellow mad ?
his name ' s gonzago .
come on , mistress ; here ' s a gentlewoman denies all that you have said .
your very goodness and your company o ' erpays all i can do .
his daughter .
why whisper you , my lords , and answer not ?
why , ' tis no matter , man : if they did hear , they would not mark me ;
so they are ; my spirits , as in a dream , are all bound up .
then he is dead ?
at ' closes in the consequence ' - ay , marry !
o , ' tis a gallant king !
it will be short ; the interim is mine , and a man ' s life is no more than
' tis not sleepy business , but must be look ' d to speedily and strongly .
you were call ' d ' lusty shallow ' then , cousin .
why , if two gods should play some heavenly match , and on the wager lay two earthly women ,
' tis not well , lords .
then , as i said , the duke , great bolingbroke , mounted upon a hot and fiery steed which
o , haste thee to the peers , throw this report on their incensed rage and make them tame to
in the isle of man .
look to the boy .
his arms spread wider than a dragon ' s wings ; his sparkling eyes , replete with wrathful fire ,
[exit portia .
and he wears jewels now of timon ' s gift , for which i wait for money .
tybalt is gone , and romeo banished ; romeo that kill ' d him , he is banished .
then here is a supplication for you .
no , sir , ' tis in grain ; noah ' s flood could not do it .
go , call him hither , boy .
landlord of england art thou now , not king .
grey locks , the pursuivants of death , nestor-like aged in an age of care , argue the end of
i never dealt better since i was a man .
i shall say so to him .
i know her spirits are as coy and wild as haggards of the rock .
zounds , i will speak of him , and let my soul want mercy if i do not join with
i to myself am dearer than a friend ; for love is still most precious in itself ; and silvia-
let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of silks betray thy poor heart to woman .
nothing confutes me but eyes , and nobody sees me .
it were superfluous ; for his apparel is built upon his back , and the whole frame stands upon pins
do you think , my lords , the king will suffer but the little finger of this man to be
lady in britain .
a very fine one .
unreasonable creatures feed their young ; and though man ' s face be fearful to their eyes , yet ,
my soul is full of discord and dismay .
his pike bent bravely , and to surgery bravely ; to venture upon the charg ' d chambers bravely- doll
doth your honour mark his face ?
is it possible ?
let me have a surgeon ; i am cut to th ' brains .
now , good camillo , i am so fraught with curious business that i leave out ceremony .
for his single one .
what rein can hold licentious wickednes when down the hill he holds his fierce career ?
wrench ' d with an unlineal hand , no son of mine succeeding .
how do you all at verona ?
good nuncle , in , and ask thy daughters blessing !
i have vizards for you all ; you have horses for yourselves .
come , captain , we must be neat- not neat , but cleanly , captain .
on , myrmidons , and cry you an amain ' achilles hath the mighty hector slain .
exit enter salisbury and talbot on the turrets , with sir william glansdale , sir thomas gargrave , and others
now , lord be thanked for my good amends !
i am not mad , i know thee well enough : witness this wretched stump , witness these crimson lines
apace ; and in that hour , my lord , they did not bless us with one happy word .
soul ; and never shall you see that i will beg a ragged and forestall ' d remission .
[drinks] sandys .
let ' s get us from the walls ; for talbot means no goodness by his looks .
and there is pansies , that ' s for thoughts .
a retire upon our grecian part .
exit clown .
if this be court ' sy , sir , accept of it .
octavius , then take him to follow thee that did the latest service to my master .
love and all love ' s loving parts , and all those friends which i thought buried .
exit snout re-enter quince quince .
the last is for my men-they are the poorest , but poverty could never draw ' em from me- that
we do not come , as minding to content you , our true intent is .
canst stand ?
who is here so rude that would not be a roman ?
fine wits till i were as crestfall ' n as a dried pear .
' tis just to each of them : he is himself .
when did you die ?
should i lie , madam ?
we have power in ourselves to do it , but it is a power that we have no power to
other plains of gascony enter somerset , with his forces ; an officer of talbot ' s with him somerset
faults to marcius shall be honours , though indeed in aught he merit not .
ghost of banquo and other apparitions lords , gentlemen , officers , soldiers , murtherers , attendants , page _num_
gelidus timor occupat artus : it is thee i fear .
why , this is excellent .
to take a paper up that i let fall .
come , let me pour in some sack to the thames water ; for my belly ' s as cold
enter cassio and some musicians .
more strong than traitors ' arms , quite vanquish ' d him .
yes , brother , you may live : there is a devilish mercy in the judge , if you '
[to olivia] so comes it , lady , you have been mistook ; but nature to her bias drew in
come , go with me apart ; i will withdraw , to furnish me with some swift means of death
i will chide no breather in the world but myself , against whom i know most faults .
our feast shall be much honoured in your marriage .
marcus octavius , marcus justeius , publicola , and caelius are for sea ; page _num_ complete works of william
say , gentlemen , what makes you thus exclaim , and wherefore crave you combat , or with whom ?
by the limbs .
s surfeit ?
but there ' s no heed to be taken of them ; if caesar had stabbed their mothers , they
gobbo .
weep , wretched man ; i ' ll aid thee tear for tear ; and let our hearts and eyes
how now , mine host !
there ' s not three of my hundred and fifty left alive ; and they are for the town '
it is my lady mother .
but you , that are polluted with your lusts , stain ' d with the guiltless blood of innocents ,
has he din ' d , canst thou tell ?
this trick may chance to scathe you .
txt that book in many ' s eyes doth share the glory , that in gold clasps locks in the
not a word of costard yet .
peace , fool !
' erthrow law , and in one self-born hour to plant and o ' erwhelm custom .
all despite ; give him deserv ' d vexation .
as willingly as e ' er i came from school .
withal i did infer your lineaments , being the right idea of your father , both in your form and
thou didst promise to bate me a full year .
fie , th ' art a churl ; ye have got a humour there does not become a man ;
more light , you knaves !
rider .
yet writers say , as in the sweetest bud the eating canker dwells , so eating love inhabits in the
love wrought these miracles .
no more but e ' en a woman , and commanded by such poor passion as the maid that milks
enter cardinal wolsey , the purse borne before him , certain of the guard , and two secretaries with papers
the bracelet of the truest princess that ever swore her faith .
by no means what ?
i will go there and do ' t , i ' th ' court , before her father .
i shall be rather prais ' d for this than mock ' d ; for it is as positive as
what , know you not , being mechanical , you ought not walk upon a laboring day without the sign
it is the greatest admiration in the universal world , when the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the
good lord !
philip of france , if thou be pleas ' d withal , command thy son and daughter to join hands
i have a kind soul that would give you thanks , and knows not how to do it but with
he is sir robert ' s son , and so art thou .
the garden of cymbeline ' s palace first gentleman .
what seest thou ?
is the buck-basket- mrs .
it were a goot motion if we leave our pribbles and prabbles , and desire a marriage between master abraham
troth , and your bum is the greatest thing about you ; so that , in the beastliest sense ,
pat , pat ; and here ' s a marvellous convenient place for our rehearsal .
i need not tell him that ; he knows you are to diligent .
i have seen the day of wrong through the little hole of discretion , and i will right myself like
a fair praise , and too little for a great praise .
i do know him a gentleman that well deserves a help , which he shall have .
' o jove !
there wants no junkets at the feast .
i made these wars for egypt ; and the queen- whose heart i thought i had , for she had
why had i not with charitable hand took up a beggar ' s issue at my gates , who smirched
why , thy face is valanc ' d since i saw thee last .
stay by me , my lords ; and , soldiers , stay and lodge by me this night .
promontory top .
but wilt thou bear me how i did proceed ?
mine and my father ' s death come not upon thee , nor thine on me !
txt county anselmo and his beauteous sisters ; the lady widow of vitruvio ; signior placentio and his lovely nieces
time had not scythed all that youth begun , nor youth all quit , but spite of heaven ' s
nobleness of mind ; laid open all your victories in scotland , your discipline in war , wisdom in peace
' bove all others ?
who would do so ?
nor dare i chide the world-without-end hour , whilst i (my sovereign) watch the clock for you , nor think
how can her contempt be answer ' d ?
fly , damned baseness , to him that worships thee .
of state) , which of you shall we say doth love us most ?
and strong enough to issue out and fight .
never talk on ' t ; she hath been colted by him .
enter cordelia , kent , doctor , and gentleman .
i see these witches are afraid of swords .
by love the young and tender wit is turn ' d to folly , blasting in the bud , losing
re-enter katherina with bianca and widow see where she comes , and brings your froward wives as prisoners to her
i wish the bastards dead .
addition me of thee defeated , by adding one thing to my purpose nothing .
and how doth my cousin , your bed-fellow ?
our letters , madam , show ' d much more than jest .
yet , i pray you : but with the word the time will bring on summer , when briers shall
what , madam , are you there ?
herald , save thou thy labour ; come thou no more for ransom , gentle herald ; they shall have
pity the dearth that i have pined in by longing for that food so long a time .
bind fast his corky arms .
have with such provision in mine art so safely ordered that there is no soul- no , not so much
if you head and hang all that offend that way but for ten year together , you ' ll be
now an honest country lord , as i am , beaten a long time out of play , may bring
, ' tis a wrong in your own world , and you might quickly make it right .
madam , in good health .
stones , star ' d each on other , and look ' d deadly pale .
hang him , jack !
lend me a looking glass .
you said the enemy would not come down , but keep the hills and upper regions .
make not impossible that which but seems unlike : ' tis not impossible but one , the wicked ' st
- with what ' s unreal thou coactive art , and fellow ' st nothing .
from the week .
[walks and whispers] campeius .
so destroys it : no love toward others in that bosom sits that on himself such murd ' rous shame
that shall you , and take your leave of all your friends .
so will ye , i am sure , that you love me .
boskos thromuldo boskos .
live each of you the subjects to his hate , and he to yours , and all of you to
got in his service .
go fetch me a quart of sack ; put a toast in ' t .
i confess , i confess .
kimbolton enter katharine , dowager , sick ; led between griffith , her gentleman usher , and patience , her
hag-born-not honour ' d with a human shape .
well , i cannot last ever ; but it was alway yet the trick of our english nation , if
enter king edward , bringing forth warwick , wounded king edward .
princess of france .
bring him dead or living within this twelvemonth , or turn thou no more to seek a living in our
this was the sport , my lord : when publius shot , the bull , being gall ' d ,
tale he told to-day at dinner of his own doors being shut against his entrance .
in sooth , i know not why i am so sad .
gibe my missive out of audience .
see it ; but what we do not see we tread upon , and never think of it .
a sister as a wife , one day shall crown th ' alliance on ' t , so please you
d to the walls ; your naked infants spitted upon pikes , whiles the mad mothers with their howls confus
d i ' th ' floor .
strange things in hand , master brook !
- but what art thou that hast this fortune on me ?
nor lead me , like a firebrand , in the dark out of my way , unless he bid '
forswear not thyself , sweet youth , for i am not welcome .
you , son john , and my cousin westmoreland , towards york shall bend you with your dearest speed page
wars ' twixt you twain would be as if the world should cleave , and that slain men should solder
' d , but not betray ' d .
go home , call for sweet water , wash thy hands .
the point envenom ' d too ?
the palace enter imogen alone imogen .
his lecture will be done ere you have tun ' d .
let us go , for it is after midnight , and ere day we will awake him and be sure
with tears distill ' d by moans .
' dst the bowels of thy sov ' reign ' s son .
yet my heart throbs to know one thing : tell me , if your art can tell so much ,
, take thou this task in hand .
, and will as tenderly be led by the nose as asses are .
on , lord ; we ' ll follow you .
go thou with them ; and in the emperor ' s court there is a queen , attended by a
my lord , i ' ll yield myself to prison willingly , or unto death , to do my country
leader of the conspiracy against caesar cassius , instigator of the conspiracy casca , conspirator against caesar trebonius , "
dinner , ho , dinner !
will ' t hold ?
ice .
deny me this .
if you think your mystery in stratagem can bring this instrument of honour again into his native quarter , be
how shall we find the concord of this discord ?
studies my lady ?
what ho , abhorson !
he said he had wounds which he could show in private , and with his hat , thus waving it
so do i too , if it be not too much .
i rais ' d him , and i pawn ' d mine honour for his truth ; who being so
why , thy horn is a foot , and so long am i at the least .
sheathe thy impatience ; throw cold water on thy choler ; go about the fields with me through frogmore ;
ay , to the proof , as mountains are for winds , that shake not though they blow perpetually .
from the count orsino , is it ?
had not befallen ; but since it is as it is , mend it for your own good .
here ' s money for my meat .
there take an inventory of all i have to the last penny ; ' tis the king ' s .
is he pursued ?
shall have length of life enough to rain upon remembrance with mine eyes , that it may grow and sprout
o , if i thought that , i ' d beat him like a dog .
perhaps they had ere this , but that they stay the first departing of the king for ireland .
come , come , good wine is a good familiar creature , if it be well used .
' clock , i prithee call me .
not for all this land would i be guilty of so deep a sin .
a good l ' envoy , ending in the goose ; would you desire more ?
wishes to our most fair and princely cousin katherine .
me there .
yea , marry , sir john ; which i beseech you to let me have home with me .
you bear i ' th ' body of the weal ; and now , arriving a place of potency and
exeunt gremio and hortensio tranio .
txt to wait upon this new-made emperess .
determines further .
near to the king in blood , and near in love till you did make him misinterpret mepage _num_ complete
feather ; a monster , a very monster in apparel , and not like a christian footboy or a gentleman
none good , my liege , to please you with the hearing ; nor none so bad but well may
man , pompion the great , sir .
, when you are waspish .
the count he woos your daughter lays down his wanton siege before her beauty , resolv ' d to carry
i would you had been by the ship-side , to have help ' d her ; there your charity would
indeed , it is a strange-disposed time .
come , you are deceiv ' d , i think of no such thing .
you might take occasion to kiss .
thou tremblest ; and the whiteness in thy cheek is apter than thy tongue to tell thy errand .
good my lord , be quiet .
txt in peril of precipitation from off the rock tarpeian , never more to enter our rome gates .
it makes us , or it mars us ; think on that , and fix most firm thy resolution .
exeunt lear , burgundy , [cornwall , albany , gloucester , and attendants] .
he dreads his wife .
nothing can be made out of nothing .
despis ' d , distressed , hated , martyr ' d , kill ' d !
on each side , the which at touraine , in saint katherine ' s churchyard , out of a great
proud diomed , believe , i come to lose my arm or win my sleeve .
from a spider without page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
how now , ophelia ?
that hath no arithmetic but her brain to set down her reckoning , bites his lip with a politic regard
the garter inn enter host and bardolph bardolph .
thou didst usurp my place , and dost thou not usurp the just proportion of my sorrow ?
a sexton .
to see these grecian lords !
do i ?
him by wearing his apparel neatly .
[cry within] hark , hark , i hear him , mistress ; fly , be gone !
those that come to see only a show or two , and so agree the play may pass , if
he ' s a god or a painter , for he makes faces .
noble menenius , be you then as the people ' s officer .
stand !
come to thee as now i reap at thy too cruel hand !
thy dearest heart-blood there rather than have made that savage duke thine heir , and disinherited thine only son .
no , by my troth ; not so much as will serve to be prologue to an egg and butter
for there ' s no motion that tends to vice in man but i affirm page _num_ complete works of
the king he is hunting the deer : i am coursing myself .
where ' s gardiner ?
(no dull flesh) in his fiery race , but love , for love , thus shall excuse my jade ,
god buy you ; and god mend your voices .
lovers can see to do their amorous rites by their own beauties ; or , if love be blind ,
awake , i say !
it is , my liege ; and all things are in readiness .
would have fled ; and fly would talbot never , though he might .
as hercules did shake down mellow fruit .
i heard it not .
if it be worth stooping for , there it lies in your eye ; if not , be it his
, according as marriage binds and blood breaks .
; that i thought her as chaste as unsunn ' d snow .
but when the duke is slain they ' ll quickly fly .
take no delight nor no penance ; but ' a must fast three days a week .
know ' st thou not any whom corrupting gold will tempt unto a close exploit of death ?
my lord of york will still be cross in talk .
but first i will release the fairy queen .
but she is none : she knows the heat of a luxurious bed ; her blush is guiltiness , not
to th ' dumbness of the gesture one might interpret .
by cheshu , he will maintain his argument as well as any military man in the world , in the
' tis very late ; she ' ll not come down to-night .
who ' s that that bears the sceptre ?
he will spend his mouth and promise , like brabbler the hound ; but when he performs , astronomers foretell
is .
what i have spoke or thou canst worst devise .
away , and talk not ; trouble us no more .
the one , to save the money that he spends in tiring ; the other , that at dinner they
and when we have our armours buckled on , the venom ' d vengeance ride upon our swords , spur
as thy eye-beams , when their fresh rays have smote the night of dew that on my cheeks down flows
sick at the heart .
ay , honest .
till term of eighteen months be full expir ' d .
he was not three leagues off when i left him .
the good gods assuage thy wrath , and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet here ; this ,
at my depart , these were his very words : ' go tell false edward , the supposed king ,
i hate him for he is a christian ; but more for that in low simplicity he lends out money
come , thou canst not hide it .
it may be i go under that title because i am merry .
to the base earth from the firmament !
ay , and perhaps receive much honour by him .
life every man holds dear ; but the dear man holds honour far more precious dear than life .
reproach attend the sequel of your imposition , your mere enforcement shall acquittance me from all the impure blots and
happiness for ever .
a mirth-moving jest , which his fair tongue , conceit ' s expositor , delivers in such apt and gracious
call my guard , i prithee .
i must needs tell thee all .
to whisper .
single fight .
by the bare scalp of robin hood ' s fat friar , this fellow were a king for our wild
forethink thy fall .
they say edgar , his banish ' d son , is with the earl of kent in germany .
peace is to me a war .
enter stanley how now , lord stanley !
enter fluellen fluellen .
in peace and honour rest you here , my sons !
speak there !
and oftentimes have purpos ' d to forbid sir valentine her company and my court ; but , fearing lest
doth a battle , when they charge on heaps the enemy flying .
faith , the cry goes that you shall marry her .
the day is yours .
the first murther !
enter friar , [laurence] alone , with a basket .
[sad and solemn music] griffith .
he was the wretched ' st thing when he was young , so long a-growing and so leisurely that ,
are my deserts no better ?
you ' ll sup with me ?
your cause of sorrow must not be measured by his worth , for then it hath no end .
i do profess to be no less than i seem , to serve him truly that will put me in
who saw the duke of clarence ?
sting your hearts .
be it known to you , as it is very well , i was lately here in the end of
benedictus ?
faint-hearted boy , arise , and look upon her .
how brooks your grace the air after your late tossing on the breaking seas ?
of themselves .
no villainous bounty yet hath pass ' d my heart ; unwisely , not ignobly , have i given .
so much for nestor .
the lords sit next the bishops .
spurn ' d me such a day ; another time you call ' d me dog ; and for these
i did ; i saw him dead , breathless and bleeding on the ground .
that will be never- tune your instrument .
i am for it , lieutenant , and i ' ll do you justice .
i pray you all , tell me what they deserve that do conspire my death with devilish plots of damned
the palace enter suffolk , in conference with the king , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
whereat the great lord of northumberland , whose warlike ears could never brook retreat , cheer ' d up the
dost thou desire my slumbers should be broken , while shadows like to thee do mock my sight ?
oft have i heard of you , my lord berowne , before i saw you ; and the world '
his nurse !
welcome , iago ; we must to the watch .
thanks , sir ; all the rest is mute .
would there had been some hurt done !
i think she will be rul ' d in all respects by me ; nay more , i doubt it
whe ' er thou be ' st he or no , or some enchanted trifle to abuse me , as
i pray thee , buckingham , go and meet him and ask him what ' s the reason of these
nay , but be wise ; yet we see nothing done ; she may be honest yet .
i shall not sleep in quiet at the tower .
i know thee too ; and more than that i know thee i not desire to know .
exeunt severally scene vi .
my lord , i fear , has forgot britain .
fair desires , in all fair measure , fairly guide them- especially to you , fair queen !
sweet earl , divorce not wisdom from your honour .
i will lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring that , commend me to the court where your lady
swits and spurs , swits and spurs !
be whores still ; and he whose pious breath seeks to convert you- be strong in whore , allure him
or we poor ghosts will cry to th ' shining synod of the rest against thy deity .
txt thou mov ' st no less with thy complaining than thy master in bleeding .
i dreamt there was an emperor antony- o , such another sleep , that i might see but such another
, as how i came into that desert place- in brief , he led me to the gentle duke ,
neighbour ?
to trash for over-topping , new created the creatures that were mine , i say , or chang ' d
if you will follow me , i will show you enough ; and when you have seen more and heard
, or his laundry , his washer , and his wringer .
the jewels of our father , with wash ' d eyes cordelia leaves you .
expedition .
if it please you to dine with us .
saint ; much more a shrew of thy impatient humour .
farther .
worst in this royal presence may i speak , yet best beseeming me to speak the truth .
what wheels , racks , fires ?
injurious wasps , to feed on such sweet honey and kill the bees that yield it with your stings !
and heaven defend your good souls , that you think i will your serious and great business scant for she
i smell some l ' envoy , some goose , in this .
he said it would be thus- poor banish ' d man !
i thank you for this profit , and from hence i ' ll love no friend sith love breeds such
a sweeter and a lovelier gentleman- fram ' d in the prodigality of nature , young , valiant , wise
all the fairies run away .
' d ; and couple clowder with the deep-mouth ' d brach .
txt provost .
thus , indian-like , religious in mine error , i adore the sun that looks upon his worshipper but knows
a crow when thou hold ' st up thy hand .
innocent babe truly begotten ; and the king shall live without an heir , if that which is lost be
; and he ' s of a most facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the- lafeu .
and may , through all the world .
may you a better feast never behold , you knot of mouth-friends !
traveller .
i here engage my words .
, and many such-like as ' s of great charge , that , on the view and knowing of these
hath three branches-it is to act , to do , and to perform ; argal , she drown ' d
meet on the market-place .
doth sway my life .
they come to meet you .
there did i see that low-spirited swain , that base minnow of thy mirth , ' costard .
o , in the duke of gloucester ' s purse !
' tis cinna , i do know him by his gait ; he is a friend .
' i would entreat you not to fear , not to tremble .
enter king henry , queen margaret , the prince of wales , clifford , northumberland , with drum and trumpets
air , banish ' d this frail sepulchre of our flesh , as now our flesh is banish ' d
nourishment which is called supper .
the first-born of egypt .
then be my passions bottomless with them .
, the age to come would say this poet lies , such heavenly touches ne ' er touched earthly faces
the bark is ready and the wind at help , th ' associates tend , and everything is bent for
his name that valiant duke hath left with thee ; his dukedom and his chair with me is left .
do not repent these things , for they are heavier than all thy woes can stir ; therefore betake thee
care not .
i have , and most unwillingly , of late heard many grievous-i do say , my lord , grievous-complaints of
to you .
i hod no judgment when to her i swore .
such as my heart doth tremble to unfold : a sort of naughty persons , lewdly bent , under the
but what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these princely suitors that are already come ?
the blossoms of their fortune .
she that makes dainty , she i ' ll swear hath corns .
trip , audrey , trip , audrey .
what ' s his name ?
exeunt , bearing the dead bodies page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
which concerns him first , neglecting an attempt of ease and gain , to wake and wage a danger profitless
you do impeach your modesty too much to leave the city and commit yourself into the hands of one that
how stand i then , that have a father klll ' d , a mother stain ' d , excitements
what doth he think of us ?
so thou be good , slander doth but approve , thy worth the greater being wooed of time , for
then enter saturninus , tamora , bassianus lavinia , chiron , demetrius , and their attendants many good morrows to
faith , sir , has led the drum before the english tragedians-to belie him i will not-and more of his
nor i your mother ?
dead ; then recover ' d again with aqua-vitae or some other hot infusion ; then , raw as he
anon his thisby must be answered , and forth my mimic comes .
wherever sorrow is , relief would be .
thou didst drink the stale of horses and the gilded puddle which beasts would cough at .
reveng ' d ?
now what my love is , proof hath made you know ; and as my love is siz ' d
where ' s antony ?
pluck down my officers , break my decrees ; for now a time is come to mock at form- harry
enter nurse [and peter] .
letters came last night to a dear friend of the good duke of york ' s that tell black tidings
stay , salisbury , with the rude multitude till i return .
the change of man and boy with a reed voice ; and turn two mincing steps into a manly stride
out , out , brief candle !
their heavy toil ; but love , first learned in a lady ' s eyes , lives not alone immured
i am abused , and my relief must be to loathe her .
methinks you are sadder .
first page .
ay , my lord , this same .
that if you be honest and fair , your honesty should admit no discourse to your beauty .
art suborn ' d against his honour in hateful practice .
[they converse apart] dumain .
; breaking his oath and resolution like a twist of rotten silk ; never admitting counsel o ' th '
nay , i am for all waters .
wherein your cunning can assist me much .
i spake with the old woman about it .
mother and two brothers .
to lucio] you , sirrah , that knew me for a fool , a coward , one all of luxury
come , come to field with him .
in short time after lie depos ' d the king ; soon after that depriv ' d him of his
are you he ?
txt archbishop .
why , get you gone !
contrary .
both , they whirl asunder and dismember me .
forres .
from whence that tender spray did sweetly spring- i mean our princely father , duke of york .
therefore , my lords , it highly us concerns by day and night t ' attend him carefully , and
, humours of blood , he was the mark and glass , copy and book , that fashion ' d
i am , in my condition , a prince , miranda ; i do think , a king- i would
kate like the hazel-twig is straight and slender , and as brown in hue as hazel-nuts , and sweeter than
it hath already publicly been read , and on all sides th ' authority allow ' d ; you may
dost thou forget from what a torment i did free thee ?
, but for all that very ruttish .
be patient yet .
a man of his place , and so near our favour , to dance attendance on their lordships ' pleasures
alas , how then ?
i am glad of it .
another part of the field a loud alarum .
take my sword ; give it the captain .
txt that art to me as secret and as dear as anna to the queen of carthage was- tranio ,
hounds of sparta ; never did i hear such gallant chiding , for , besides the groves , the skies
madam , we are here .
i have so ; what of him ?
as a form of wax resolveth from his figure ' gainst the fire ?
the lack of many a thing i sought , and with old woes new wail my dear time ' s
belief in her renown with tokens thus and thus ; averring notes of chamber-hanging , pictures , this her bracelet-
i know thee not , old man .
your ladyship is ignorant what it is .
as we this garden !
i must weep , but they are cruel tears ; this sorrow ' s heavenly , it strikes where it
in other place .
and shall i now give o ' er the yielded set ?
my wife hath sent to him ; the hour is fix ' d ; the match is made .
i brought the old man and his son aboard the prince ; told him i heard them talk of a
gentlemen both , you will mistake each other .
no , he deserves no pity .
never trust me then ; and by all means stir on the youth to an answer .
too well , too well .
i ' ll fight no more ' gainst troy .
so the safety of my liege .
come hither , little kinsman ; hark , a word .
haste , signify so much ; while we attend , like humble-visag ' d suitors , his high will .
an honest mind and plain- he must speak truth !
therefore my mistress ' eyes are raven black , her eyes so suited , and they mourners seem , at
how to reckon .
if he revenge it not , yet will his friends ; so will the queen , that living held him
is she not proud ?
o , i die , horatio !
too familiar is my dear son with such sour company .
as she would catch another antony in her strong toil of grace .
' st of virtue for the name ; but do not so .
nor here , nor here , nor what ensues , but have a fog in them that i cannot look
but if you mind to hold your true obedience , give me assurance with some friendly vow , that i
but what thou art , god , thou , and i , do know ; and all too soon ,
let him and presently prefer his suit to caesar .
elbow .
luciana .
[trumpets sound] the king ' s coming ; i know by his trumpets .
had york and somerset brought rescue in , we should have found a bloody day of this .
[sleeps] enter the ghost of young prince edward , son to henry the sixth ghost .
i will be gone .
but there is never a fair woman has a true face .
) , will you be rul ' d by me ?
they told me that your name was fontibell .
the spaniard , tied by blood and favour to her , must now confess , if they have any goodness
come , gertrude , we ' ll call up our wisest friends and let them know both what we mean
enter menteith , caithness , angus , lennox , and soldiers .
it you in earnest of a further benefit , so you do condescend to help me now .
- the king ' s .
to this i am most constant , though destiny say no .
was setting forth .
la fin couronne les oeuvres .
spurn the sea , if it could so roar to me .
i speak not yet of proof .
they know he is- a most arch heretic , a pestilence that does infect the land ; with which they
is there not a double excellency in this ?
no more .
will deserve it .
the english power is near , led on by malcolm , his uncle siward , and the good macduff .
[aside] why , thus it shall become high-witted tamora to gloze with all .
i would not have it so .
was ever king that joy ' d an earthly throne and could command no more content than i ?
why , very well ; i hope here be truths .
hath leonato any son , my lord ?
the king doth love you well .
slain , sir , doubtless .
marcus , loose when i bid .
i do not think ' t .
so please your grace , the packet is not come , where that and other specialties are bound ; to-morrow
sit thee down , clitus .
me commodities to buy ; even now a tailor call ' d me in his shop , and show '
say it , he won me .
smallness of a gnat to air , and then have turn ' d mine eye and wept .
honest ; caesar was mighty , bold , royal , and loving .
sir , the duke ' s pleasure is that you keep costard safe ; and you must suffer him to
o , what a world of vile ill-favour ' d faults looks handsome in three hundred pounds a year !
i strike quickly , being moved .
shall then my father ' s will be of no force to dispossess that child which is not his ?
if they make you not then the better answer , you may say they are not the men you took
pretty too !
brother , with your true sword drawn , oppos ' d to hinder me , should stop my way ,
it is not fit your lordship should undertake every companion that you give offence to .
though i go alone , like to a lonely dragon , that his fen makes fear ' d and talk
vileness is so : the property by what it is should go , not by the title .
d ; and then cried , " cursed fate that gave thee to the moor !
be by , good madam , when we do awake him .
i did not take my leave of him , but had most pretty things to say .
not till you have slept .
therefore i pray you that to our sister you do make return ; say you have wrong ' d her
sang .
_num_ since i left you , mine eye is in my mind , and that which governs me to go
what counterfeit did i give you ?
is expected ?
a laughter .
this is your charge : you shall comprehend all vagrom men ; you are to bid any man stand ,
faith , he tonight hath boarded a land carack ; if it prove lawful prize , he ' s made
neck .
not a man in england can advise me like you ; be to yourself as you would to your friend
exit silvia .
i have spoke the truth .
the dreadful sagittary appals our numbers .
wilt thou not , beast , abide ?
this man ' s art , and that man ' s scope , with what i most enjoy contented least
love him , daughter anne- why , how now , what does master fenton here ?
then he was urg ' d to tell my tale again .
our hope is done .
i heard you were saucy at my gates , and allow ' d your approach rather to wonder at you
; i ' ll play the orator as well as nestor , deceive more slily than ulysses could , and
like youthful steers unyok ' d , they take their courses east , west , north , south ; or
than breath or pen can give expressure to .
beshrew me , but his passions move me so that hardly can i check my eyes from tears .
to be tender-minded does not become a sword .
together with so mortal a purpose as then each bore , upon importance of so slight and trivial a nature
i will be angry ; what hast thou to do ?
[drum sounds afar off] hark !
yet , countrymen , o , yet hold up your heads !
ay , or i ' ll hang her .
thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud , and caterpillars eat my leaves away ; but i will remedy
such sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing .
you mistook , sir ; i say she did nod ; and you ask me if she did nod ;
i will make proof of thine .
what miserable praise hast thou for her that ' s foul and foolish ?
i sweet , good creature , wheresoe ' er she is her heart weighs sadly .
well , thou hast call ' d her to a reckoning many a time and oft .
the english camp enter fluellen and gower gower .
he was provided to do us good .
uneasy lies the head that wears a crown .
he creates lucius proconsul ; and to you , the tribunes , for this immediate levy , he commands his
now near enough ; your leavy screens throw down , and show like those you are .
no : ' tis hereafter to know , but now to promise ; do but now promise , kate ,
he will not be commanded .
i bade the vile owl go learn me the tenour of the proclamation , and he rails upon me .
he that has the two fair daughters ; is ' t he you mean ?
your honour will command , wherein your lady and your humble wife may show her duty and make known her
so , by your circumstance , i fear you ' ll prove .
ah , thou honeysuckle villain !
for depravation , to square the general sex by cressid ' s rule .
then be his , and like a vine grow to him ; wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine
for nature crescent does not grow alone in thews and bulk ; but as this temple waxes , the inward
but say that he or we , as neither have , receiv ' d that sum , yet there remains
do so , and those musicians that shall play to you hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence
all ; and women too , but innocent and pure ; no sovereignty- sebastian .
the prince of darkness is a gentleman !
a friend should bear his friend ' s infirmities , but brutus makes mine greater than they are .
if your father will do me any honour , so ; if not , let him kill the next percy
your friend , i can tell you that by the way ; i praise heaven for it .
his brothers unto reason .
ay , my good lady , he .
nay , i dare not swear it .
is he sure bound ?
health , peace , and happiness , to my royal father !
methought , the wood began to move .
but to my charge .
not you ; married your royalty , was wife to your place ; abhorr ' d your person .
smoke and lukewarm water is your perfection .
most royal sir , from thence ; from him whose daughter his tears proclaim ' d his , parting with
a low transformation !
swearing , in act thy bed-vow broke and new faith torn , in vowing new hate after new love bearing
we have scotch ' d the snake , not kill ' d it .
bind up those tresses .
mantua .
i left no ring with her ; what means this lady ?
s an adultress .
good words are better than bad strokes , octavius .
, of so great a favour growing proud , disdain to root the summer-swelling flow ' r and make rough
now , by the jealous queen of heaven , that kiss i carried from thee , dear , and my
by me ; thou art but dead .
season your admiration for a while with an attent ear , till i may deliver upon the witness of these
how doth that royal merchant , good antonio ?
bloody sweat from his war-wearied limbs and , in advantage ling ' ring , looks for rescue , you ,
with the eye without the ear , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my breath and blood !
; no farther with your din express impatience , lest you stir up mine .
good lords , make all the speedy haste you may .
comes caesar to the capitol tomorrow ?
' menenius .
out an unstain ' d shepherd , with wisdom i might fear , my doricles , you woo ' d
o , then my best blood turn to an infected jelly , and my name be yok ' d with
txt rosaline .
then she puts you to entreaty , and there begins new matter .
commits .
but , sweet ned- to sweeten which name of ned , i give thee this pennyworth of sugar , clapp
take thou some new infection to thy eye , and the rank poison of the old will die .
[singing] a cup of wine that ' s brisk and fine , and drink unto the leman mine ; and
these lies are like their father that begets them- gross as a mountain , open , palpable .
get thee gone and hire those horses .
walter ' s dagger was not come from sheathing ; there were none fine but adam , ralph , and
' tis much he dares , and , to that dauntless temper of his mind , he hath a wisdom
, robbing no old to dress his beauty new , and him as for a map doth nature store ,
i pried me through the crevice of a wall , when , for his hand , he had his two
just ; you say well ; so would i have said .
enter a lord from bunting , with his train lord .
the duke of gloucester ' s garden enter margery jourdain , the witch ; the two priests , hume and
go then , for ' tis in vain ' to seek him here that means not to be found .
brother , well i wot thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine , for thou , poor man ,
wilt thou suffer them to make a rescue ?
first watch .
therefore , most gracious duke , with thy command let him be brought forth and borne hence for help .
why stand we like soft-hearted women here , wailing our losses , whiles the foe doth rage , and look
think not on him till to-morrow .
to be slow in words is a woman ' s only virtue .
hang ' d !
they laugh that win .
no notes of sally , for the heavens , sweet brother !
a charitable wish and full of love .
if i had , my weapon should quickly have been out , i warrant you .
ah , warwick !
to me , sir ?
ariel ' s song full fathom five thy father lies ; of his bones are coral made ; those are
aside !
i would not , so with love i might entreat you , be any further moved .
shrine , and i will help thee .
lord cardinal , the king ' s further pleasure is- because all those things you have done of late ,
' and so i was , which plainly signified that i should snarl , and bite , and play the
house .
side ; the queen , suffolk , york , somerset , and buckingham , on the other suffolk .
but tell me , wench , how will the world repute me for undertaking so unstaid a journey ?
it had been so with us , had we been there .
why , what art thou ?
o negligence , fit for a fool to fall by !
sacred beauty , blunt the sharp ' st intents , divert strong minds to the course of alt ' ring
do !
give me the letter .
error i ' th ' bill , sir ; error i ' th ' bill !
and hang a calf ' s-skin on his recreant limbs .
you know me well , and herein spend but time to wind about my love with circumstance ; and out
your mistress bears well .
ay , madam , you may say what sights you see ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
holla , you clown !
how came her eyes so bright ?
' twas the boy that stole your meat , and you ' ll beat the post .
the world ' s a huge thing ; it is a great price for a small vice .
merciful heaven !
conjoin together !
will or no , from such fell serpents as false suffolk is ; with whose envenomed and fatal sting your
, the slaughter of the prince that ow ' d that crown , and the dire death of my poor
we were as twinn ' d lambs that did frisk i ' th ' sun and bleat the one at
so study evermore is over-shot .
and they are often tarr ' d over with the surgery of our sheep ; and would you have us
gazeth , a man in hue all hues in his controlling , which steals men ' s eyes and women
exeunt all but gloucester gloucester .
i prithee , lady , go away with me .
well , sir , good night .
old time the clock-setter , that bald sexton time , is it as he will ?
what , you egg !
but swords i smile at , weapons laugh to scorn , brandish ' d by man that ' s of
and an injury , i never found man that knew how to love himself .
this gallant which thou seest was in the wreck ; and but he ' s something stain ' d with
confess , confess ; hath he not hit you here ?
o that i knew this husband , which you say must charge his horns with garlands !
the capon burns , the pig falls from the spit ; the clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell- my
has a great peard ; i spy a great peard under his muffler .
thy father was , as thou art , duke of york ; thy grandfather , roger mortimer , earl of
if i see anything to-night why i should not marry her to-morrow , in the congregation where i should wed
' red in a brake ; when i did him at this advantage take , an ass ' s nole
exeunt all but gloucester page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exit with patroclus thersites .
hastings .
txt rings , jewels , anything his rage did like .
' accurs ' d for making me , so young , so old a widow ; and when thou wed
we are all bastards , and that most venerable man which i did call my father was i know not
then shall we hear their ' larum , and they ours .
prithee be cheerful .
i ' faith , sweet love , i was coming to your house .
' tis a point of friendship .
and there were drawn upon a heap a hundred ghastly women transformed with their fear , who swore they saw
thou judgest false already .
this ; wherein we step after a stranger-march upon her gentle bosom , and fill up her enemies ' ranks-i
door with cannons , to scatter ' em as ' tis to make ' em sleep on may-day morning ;
[aside] i hear , yet say not much , but think the more .
receive him then to favour , saturnine , that hath express ' d himself in all his deeds a father
' why , a horse can do no more ; nay , a horse cannot fetch , but only carry
your folly .
sirs , take away the duke , and guard him sure .
myself in better plight for a lender than you are ; the which hath something embold ' ned me to
to saint jaques le grand .
suspected of your carriage from the court .
sure , you have some hideous matter to deliver , when the courtesy of it is so fearful .
ye say honestly .
o esperance !
stand in hard cure .
enter macbeth and a servant with a torch .
feed that he is grown so great ?
i think there is not in the world either malice or page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
account of fore-bemoaned moan , which i new pay as if not paid before .
all hell shall stir for this .
what can it not do and undo ?
nobody come ?
another part of the field page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
worship shadows and adore false shapes , send to me in the morning , and i ' ll send it
and what made the all-honour ' d honest roman , brutus , with the arm ' d rest , courtiers
blood away .
and i ' ll be sworn upon ' t that he loves her ; for here ' s a paper
helena .
take heed , signior baptista , lest you be cony-catch ' d in this business ; i dare swear this
convenient place , for he hath witness of his servant ' s malice .
txt as , after some oration fairly spoke by a beloved prince , there doth appear among the buzzing pleased
i should marry him , i should marry twenty husbands .
pray you , content you .
' odious ' - odorous !
a church .
chang ' d to merry meetings , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
is it that which i left with her ?
agamemnon .
do you find some page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
therefore mark my counsel , which must be ev ' n as swiftly followed as i mean to utter it
though honesty be no puritan , yet it will do no hurt ; it will wear the surplice of humility
look ' d on richard ' s face , this was my wish : ' be thou ' quoth i
katherine the curst !
give me the poniard ; you shall know , my boys , your mother ' s hand shall right your
but , now you have it , take it .
i pray thee , if it stand with honesty , buy thou the cottage , pasture , and the flock
de narbon .
stay but a little , i will come again .
live and thrive !
my quarrel and this english queen ' s are one .
enter [edmund the] bastard and curan , meeting .
so shall my virtue be his vice ' s bawd ; and he shall spend mine honour with his shame
consenting to the safeguard of your honour , i thought your marriage fit ; else imputation , for that he
madam , fare you well ; i ' ll send those powers o ' er to your majesty .
i was seven of the nine days out of the wonder before you came ; for look here what i
there lies the substance ; and i thank thee , king , for thy great bounty , that not only
_num_ take all my loves , my love , yea take them all , what hast thou then more than
if you ' ll back to th ' court- imogen .
why , my pretty youth ?
[to warwick] yet i confess that often ere this day , when i have heard your king ' s desert
between both .
instant , learn ' d , play ' d , eat together ; and wheresoe ' er we went ,
where is my gracious lord of canterbury ?
sir , make me not your story .
yea , art thou there ?
sweet sir toby , be patient for to-night ; since the youth of the count ' s was to-day with
[alarum] but hark !
a horseman ' s coat , it hath seen very hot service .
our strength is all gone into heaviness ; that makes the weight .
to rhesus ' tents , and brought from thence the thracian fatal steeds , so we , well cover '
[to the fool] and thou , his yokefellow of equity , bench by his side .
therefore i beat thee .
- well said , my hearts !
i dare say this quarrel will drink blood another day .
his heart , like an agate , with your print impressed , proud with his form , in his eye
there is but one mind in all these men , and it is bent against caesar .
what sights , my lord ?
proclaim no shame when the compulsive ardour gives the charge , since frost itself as actively doth burn , and
perform ' d at height , the pith and marrow of our attribute .
john of gaunt , crown ' d by the name of henry the fourth , seiz ' d on the
heard , and is to come again .
' twas merry when you wager ' d on your angling ; when your diver did hang a salt fish
do as i bid you , shut doors after you .
you shall perceive how you mistake my fortunes ; i am wealthy in my friends .
' with shame- the first that ever touch ' d him- he was carried from off our coast , twice
if thou mayest discern by that which is left of him what he is , fetch me to th '
be so bold as stay , sir , till she come down ; i come to speak with her ,
name , or thy name for an ass .
beseech you , father !
come , let me have a bigger .
then thou liest .
and therefore mark : john hath seiz ' d arthur ; and it cannot be that , whiles warm life
sentence and proscription .
i would i might go to hell among the rogues .
i am driven on by the flesh ; and he must needs go that the devil drives .
well ; weigh them , it is as heavy ; conjure with ' em , page _num_ complete works of
his noble jury and foul cause can witness .
gracious my lord , hard by here is a hovel ; some friendship will it lend you ' gainst the
as we do turn our backs from our companion , thrown into his grave , so his familiars to his
yea , is it come to this ?
here comes another of the tribe ; a third cannot be match ' d , unless the devil himself turn
and thou shalt have a licence to kill for a hundred lacking one .
men of peace , well encount ' red .
by my life , i do ; which i tender dearly , though i say i am a magician .
i do excel thee in my rapier as much as thou didst me in carrying gates .
go , base intruder , over-weening slave , bestow thy fawning smiles on equal mates ; and think my patience
is this the madman ?
thy breast doth live , as thine in me , how can i then be elder than thou art ?
you must provide to bottom it on me ; which must be done by praising me as much as you
' i would he had !
pistol him , pistol him .
all my treasury is yet but unfelt thanks , which , more enrich ' d , shall be your love
content , my liege !
second merchant .
exit first servant .
he is welcome hither .
' tis wonderful what may be wrought out of their discontent , now that their souls are topful of offence
thy match was mortal to him , and pure grief shore his old thread in twain ; did he live
mine honour in my necessity , am fain to shuffle , to hedge , and to lurch ; and yet
i would require is likewise your own benefit .
we will turn it finely off , sir ; we will take some care .
here comes sir john .
changeling never known .
for we want thy help .
where hast thou sent the king ?
hand of peace hath touch ' d , whose learning and good letters peace hath tutor ' d , whose
well , go to , very well .
my lord of oxford-you , sir william brandon- and you , sir walter herbert-stay with me .
for ever will i walk upon my knees , and never see day that the happy sees till thou give
, wall , moonshine , lion are presented by : quince , bottom , flute , snout , starveling ,
had i but said , i would have kept my word ; but when i swear , it is irrevocable
whence com ' st thou ?
ajax , farewell .
the duke and senators of venice greet you .
it faded on the crowing of the cock .
the business is for helen to come hither .
tell your nephew the prince of wales doth join with all the world in praise of henry percy .
i will not have it alt ' red .
no , uncle , i ' ll none .
art forsworn : with mine own weakness being best acquainted , upon thy part i can set down a story
what !
i ' ll fight with him alone .
you have too courtly a wit for me ; i ' ll rest .
him , and of my land , loyal and natural boy , i ' ll work the means to make
what , stand ' st thou still , and hear ' st such a calling ?
txt like trees bedash ' d with rain-in that sad time my manly eyes did scorn an humble tear ;
a crown ' s worth of good interpretation .
for the love of god , your help !
enter gloucester aloft , between two bishops .
exaction of the forfeiture ?
are these , i pray you , wind instruments ?
before a gate of the city enter coriolanus , volumnia , virgilia , menenius , cominius , with the young
hath caus ' d his death ; the which if wrongfully , let heaven revenge ; for i may never
as that which causeth it .
i , as aeneas our great ancestor did from the flames of troy upon his shoulder the old anchises bear
he , being in the vaward plac ' d behind with purpose to relieve and follow them- cowardly fled ,
i see , sir , you are liberal in offers ; you taught me first to beg , and now
i perceive , sir , by our general ' s looks we shall be fain to hang you .
catesby , o ' erlook the walls .
he did mean no chase .
it doth , it is a comforter .
thou seest , thou wicked varlet , now , what ' s come upon thee : thou art to continue
txt with unrestrained loose companions , even such , they say , as stand in narrow lanes and beat our
perhaps he loves you now , and now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch the virtue of his will ;
you have no cause .
wilt swift-footed time to the wide world and all her fading sweets : but i forbid thee one most heinous
how do you mean ?
i shall beseech your lordship to remain with me tal they meet together .
, bestow ' t on any man .
is your countryman , according to our proclamation , gone ?
my lord , fair helen told me of their stealth , of this their purpose hither to this wood ;
that i did .
this lodovico is a proper man .
own report ; who call ' d me traitor , mountaineer , and swore with his own single hand he
txt buckingham .
throca movousus , cargo , cargo , cargo .
o , these flaws and starts , impostors to true fear , would well become a woman ' s story
vows for thee broke deserve not punishment .
i will not excuse you ; you shall not be excus ' d ; excuses shall not be admitted ;
he were double and double a lord .
for that , methinks , is the curse depending on those that war for a placket .
whoever bound him , i will loose his bonds , and gain a husband by his liberty .
how live ?
, if not from my love ' s breath ?
a ghostly father , belike .
to fly the boar before the boar pursues were to incense the boar to follow us and make pursuit where
manent kent and gentleman .
, sweet friend .
what trumpet ?
if your grace could but be brought to know our ends are honest , you ' d feel more comfort
impetuous haste than young laertes , in a riotous head , o ' erbears your offices .
but i perceive in you so excellent a touch of modesty that you will not extort from me what i
' tis your fault ; ' tis your fault ; ' tis a good dog .
no , you unnatural hags !
have you wisdom ?
doth not rosemary and romeo begin both with a letter ?
sir , but i do ; or else i would be hence .
be trusted for speaking false in that .
would we had all such wives , that the men might go to wars with the women !
i had else been perfect , whole as the marble , founded as the rock , as broad and general
ay , desdemona .
re-enter ariel like a water-nymph fine apparition !
poison be their drink !
fall not a tear , i say ; one of them rates all that is won and lost .
what is the matter with thee ?
<exit scene _num_ a street enter antipholus of ephesus with the officer antipholus of ephesus .
by education a cardmaker , by transmutation a bear-herd , and now by present profession a tinker ?
txt nay , never lay thy hand upon thy sword ; i fear thee not .
mystery .
and show what we alone must think , which never returns us thanks .
get thee back to caesar ; tell him thy entertainment ; look thou say he makes me angry with him
i pray your worship come a little nearer this ways .
fair , kind , and true , have often lived alone .
i knew your father .
re-enter maria maria .
in april .
o , but i fear- how lost you company ?
if thou shouldst dally half an hour , his life , with thine , and all that offer to defend
he hath every month a new sworn brother .
o , a chair , a chair !
thought a sacrifice .
another lean unwash ' d artificer cuts off his tale , and talks of arthur ' s death .
by the watch .
truly , i would the gods had made thee poetical .
instruction give how i may bear me here .
she is herself a dowry .
you ?
antonio , i am married to a wife which is as dear to me as life itself ; but life
forth of my heart those charms , thine eyes , are blotted ; thy bed lust-stain ' d shall with
and when thou hast done so , come weep with me- past hope , past cure , past help !
' tis in the malice of mankind that he thus advises us ; not to have us thrive in our
enter pisanio cloten .
the black ones were there .
sentence of poor clarence ' death ?
true man thinks it big enough ; if it be too big for your thief , your thief thinks it
there shall your swords and lances arbitrate the swelling difference of your settled hate ; since we can not atone
into what dangers would you lead me , cassius , that you would have me seek into myself for that
no , nothing but ourselves .
therefore , bring forth , and in apollo ' s name , his oracle .
then let not him be slandered with revolt .
of beauty set , and you in grecian tires are painted new : speak of the spring , and foison
honour with your form .
who is ' t ?
this cannot be but a great courtier .
thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate , but certain issue strokes must arbitrate .
hot and valiant .
not come .
clarence , thy turn is next , and then the rest ; counting myself but bad till i be best
would i could meet that rogue diomed !
day to feast upon whole thousands of the french .
he falls [forward and swoons] .
i might have your company in hell but to torment you with my bitter tongue !
patroclus ' wounds have rous ' d his drowsy blood , together with his mangled myrmidons , that noseless ,
sall find , in the comparisons between macedon and monmouth , that the situations , look you , is both
have no wings to fly from god : war is his beadle , war is his vengeance ; so that
thus joan la pucelle hath perform ' d her word .
i would they were in afric both together ; myself by with a needle , that i might prick the
o , like a book of sport thou ' lt read me o ' er ; but there ' s
to death , my hand cut off and made a merry jest ; both her sweet hands , her tongue
another part of the field of battle page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and , kate , when france is mine and i am yours , then yours is france and you are
' first senator .
i think upon ' t , i think , i smell ' t , o villainy !
by heaven , i ' ll steal away .
he is in rome .
thence we look ' d toward england , and cited up a thousand heavy times , during the wars of
vouchsafe , bright moon , and these thy stars , to shine , those clouds removed , upon our watery
good day to you , gentle lord archbishop ; and so to you , lord hastings , and to all
' tis commanded i should do so .
who knows not he is dead !
how now , prince troilus !
that ' s true ; make no question of that .
but yet i would my master had mistress anne ; or i would master slender had page _num_ complete works
after all this , how did he bear him-self first gentleman .
enter dromio of ephesus , with a rope ' s-end here comes my man ; i think he brings the
ay , please your grace .
why under man ?
, so strong in both , unyoke this seizure and this kind regreet ?
enter caphis , and the servants of isidore and varro caphis .
some in their horse .
then there is another thing : we must have a wall in the great chamber ; for pyramus and thisby
exit fabian .
why do you look on me ?
poor rogues and usurers ' men !
lamely in the verse .
enter horatio .
sixth , a tenth , letting them thrive again on their abatement ; that ' s not my desire .
[aside] would it had been so that they had been my father ' s sons !
and so i leave you .
masters , i charge you in the prince ' s name accuse these men .
the element itself , till seven years ' heat , shall not behold her face at ample view ; but
my heart hath melted at a lady ' s tears , being an ordinary inundation ; but this effusion of
lordings , farewell ; and say , when i am gone , i prophesied france will be lost ere long
methinks i should know you , and know this man ; yet i am doubtful ; for i am mainly
why , ' tis impossible .
next unto high heaven , i love your son .
that do i long to hear .
where ' s my cousin toby ?
out tonight .
for your sake , jewel , i am glad at soul i have no other child ; for thy escape
this is call ' d the reproof valiant .
she ' s apt to learn , and thankful for good turns .
we are lucky , boy ; and to be so still requires nothing but secrecy .
hath the joints of every thing ; but everything so out of joint that he is a gouty briareus ,
that man ' s face can fold in pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny .
have used my credit .
think upon what hath chanced , and at more time , the interim having weigh ' d it , let
come , come , i ' ll go burn some sack ; ' tis too late to go to bed
; but thomas , my dear lord , my life , my gloucester , one vial full of edward '
because i will not do them the wrong to mistrust any , i will do myself the right to trust
with the major part of your syllables ; and though i must be content to bear with those that say
to sicily much tall youth that else must perish here .
speak , thy father ' s care ; art thou not weary , john ?
why should false painting imitate his cheek , and steal dead seeming of his living hue ?
he ' s poor in no one fault , but stor ' d with all .
caius marcius was a worthy officer i ' the war , but insolent , o ' ercome with pride ,
why do you look so strange upon your wife ?
give me a cup of sack , rogue .
paid for that .
can touch him further .
here ' s our own hands against our hearts .
if i have too austerely punish ' d you , your compensation makes amends ; for have given you here
give me leave , beseech you .
tyrants to the very same , and that unfair which fairly doth excel : for never-resting time leads summer on
never , never .
give you good morrow , sir .
fellows , hold the chair .
man that did usurp his back ?
child his new coat and forbid him to wear it .
riotous madness , to be entangled with those mouth-made vows , which break themselves in swearing !
poor jack , farewell !
she ' ll make you amends , i warrant you .
seek him , bid him come hither .
what a frosty-spirited rogue is this !
blood and labour of our great action ; therefore shall he die , and i ' ll renew me in
i am a tainted wether of the flock , meetest for death ; the weakest kind of fruit drops earliest
ay , that she can .
even by the rule of that philosophy by which i did blame cato for the death which he did give
the hand that hath made you fair hath made you good ; the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes
is full accomplish ' d ; for the roman eagle , from south to west on wing soaring aloft ,
give me thy hand , my cousin ; i will go eat with thee , and see your knights .
ay , leeks is good .
i think camillo ?
o , but impatience waiteth on true sorrow .
we have us ' d our throats in egypt .
; and now , like ajax telamonius , on sheep or oxen could i spend my fury .
txt he robs himself that spends a bootless grief .
care no more to clothe and eat ; to thee the reed is as the oak .
obloquy i ' th ' world in me to lose .
urge the king to do me this last right .
' sir nathaniel , this berowne is one of the votaries with the king ; and here he hath framed
pray , what ' s the news ?
powers page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
here at home unkept ; for call you that keeping for a gentleman of my birth that differs not from
for if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog , being a god kissing carrion- have you a daughter
though news be sad , yet tell them merrily ; if good , thou shamest the music of sweet news
and i mean not to sweat extraordinarily .
the sin upon their own heads .
henry percy , earl of northumberland .
have more than thou showest , speak less than thou knowest , lend less than thou owest , ride more
you ' ll not endure him ?
soul !
forbear to sleep the nights , and fast the days ; compare dead happiness with living woe ; think that
for now sits expectation in the air , and hides a sword from hilts unto the point with crowns imperial
the degree of the worthy ; but i am to stand for him .
[they put the tapers to his fingers , and he starts] falstaff .
chatillon .
what tell ' st thou me of robbing ?
was the crown offered him thrice ?
the empress ' sons , i take them : chiron , demetrius .
if i lose mine honour , i lose myself ; better i were not yours than yours so branchless .
dost thou not bring me letters from the friar ?
second stranger .
[charles is thrown .
but if thou live remembered not to be , die single and thine image dies with thee .
txt render me worthy of this noble wife !
my thoughts are whirled like a potter ' s wheel ; i know not where i am nor what i
aumerle , thou liest ; his honour is as true in this appeal as thou art an unjust ; and
my hand will serve the turn , my youth can better spare my blood than you , and therefore mine
curse not thyself , fair creature ; thou art both .
hark ye , master slender would speak a word with you .
unarm , unarm , and do not fight to-day .
and i hope i had it .
with a supply of roman gentlemen by the senate sent .
bring forth the parties of suspicion .
he is afear ' d to come .
nay , do not snatch it from me ; he that takes that doth take my heart withal .
thou art the list .
the queen ' s apartments enter the queen and her women , as at work queen katharine .
, and madly play with my forefathers ' joints , and pluck the mangled tybalt from his shroud .
flourish within the trumpets show the emperor is at hand .
art thou sick or angry ?
have i liv ' d thus long-let me speak myself , since virtue finds no friends-a wife , a true
ye shall have a hempen caudle then , and the help of hatchet .
but are they , ariel , safe ?
the words of your commission will tie you to the numbers and the time of their dispatch .
nay , then i ' ll stop your mouth .
shall our condition stand ?
for the latter end of his name .
nay , but hear me ; your sense pursues not mine ; either you are ignorant or seem so ,
them had twenty times their power , all these could not procure me any scathe so long as i am
a street enter lucio and two other gentlemen lucio .
he thinks , nay , with all confidence he swears , as he had seen ' t or been an
i shall , sir ; fare you well .
ay , you did wish that i would make her turn .
by mine honour , half drunk !
ned me to strike me , spurn me , nay , to kill me too ; and now , so
to-morrow to th ' field .
, and see there be no harm between them .
we did train him on ; and , his corruption being taken from us , we , as the spring
what in the world should make me now deceive , since i must lose the use of all deceit ?
he took my father grossly , full of bread , with all his crimes broad blown , as flush as
' tis good , sir .
come , sir , i will not let you go .
thus your own proper wisdom brings in the champion honour on my part against your vain assault .
good reasons must of force give place to better .
we took him setting of boys ' copies .
his weary joints would gladly rise , i know ; our knees still kneel till to the ground they grow
thou ' dst courtier be again wert thou not beggar .
one that is a prisoner nine years old .
what work is here !
then love me , rosalind .
helen , to you our minds we will unfold : to-morrow night , when phoebe doth behold her silver visage
and is ill school ' d in bolted language ; meal and bran together he throws without distinction .
exit enter flavius , in a cloak , muffled lucius ' servant .
i pray you , let-a me speak a word with your ear .
[aside] now winchester will not submit , i trow , or be inferior to the proudest peer .
as like almost to claudio as himself .
this is call ' d the retort courteous .
, as is the sepulchre in stubborn jewry of the world ' s ransom , blessed mary ' s son
now , my liege , tell me what blessings i have here alive that i should fear to die .
bid them use them well .
_num_ alas ' tis true , i have gone here and there , and made my self a motley to
i have foolishly suffered .
she hath more qualities than a water-spaniel- which is much in a bare christian .
o , let me kiss that hand !
aside the law , and turn ' d that black word death to banishment .
stand aside , good pompey .
i dare not know , my lord .
the council chamber cornets .
marry , god forbid , and come to padua , careless of your life !
why , then thou hast it .
' a bas been a vile thief this seven year ; ' a goes up and down like a gentleman
and , i beseech you , wrest once the law to your authority ; to do a great right do
[exit sergeant] thus are poor servitors , when others sleep upon their quiet beds , constrain ' d to watch
; he that sets up his rest to do more exploits with his mace than a morris-pike .
here stands the man ; good .
here ' s a maze trod , indeed , through forth-rights and meanders !
rascal thieves , here ' s gold .
almost into another man .
world rank me in register a master-leaver and a fugitive !
free .
with a thief to the gallows ; for though he go as softly as foot can fall , he thinks
enter cleopatra , attended [to scarus] give me thy hand- to this great fairy i ' ll commend thy acts
thy thrice noble cousin , harry bolingbroke , doth humbly kiss thy hand ; and by the honourable tomb he
a father cruel and a step-dame false ; a foolish suitor to a wedded lady that hath her husband banish
none but a holy hermit and her maid .
art rich ?
you ' ll heat my blood ; no more .
the flat transgression of a schoolboy who , being overjoyed with finding a bird ' s nest , shows it
, and lion prologue .
txt the melancholy jaques grieves at that ; and , in that kind , swears you do more usurp than
why , how now , kinsman ?
alack , i am afraid they have awaked and ' tis not done .
dwell i but in the suburbs of your good pleasure ?
should strike his father dead ; force should be right ; or , rather , right and wrong- between whose
it were no match , your nail against his horn .
hath all his ventures fail ' d ?
i will do a greater thing than that upon your request , cousin , in any reason .
in this slumbery agitation , besides her walking and other actual performances , what , at any time , have
kind of face , methought- i cannot tell how to term it .
a marvellous witty fellow , i assure you ; but i will go about with him .
must i remember ?
exeunt certain officers hermione .
well , god send the prince a better companion !
that they have let the dangerous enemy measure our confines with such peaceful steps ?
strike off all service i have done in most accepted pain .
how proud i am of thee and of thy gifts rome shall record ; and when i do forget the
both , both ; o , pardon !
the fouler fortune mine , and there an end .
' come , come , my lords ; these oracles are hardly attain ' d , and hardly understood .
i love him for his sake ; and yet i know him a notorious liar , think him a great
friend , smooth with mine enemy ; i have undone three tailors ; i have had four quarrels , and
here comes the lord .
i cannot blame him .
i will back thee .
i did not think the king so stor ' d with friends .
come , sir , i would you would make use of that good wisdom whereof i know you are fraught
sea .
page and robin ford .
to spend that shortness basely were too long if life did ride upon a dial ' s point , still
, an indigest deformed lump , not like the fruit of such a goodly tree .
exeunt alcibiades and lords [to flavius] come hither .
well , sir ?
this will i show the general .
' tis neither here nor there .
are you sick , hubert ?
from italy ?
then , isabel , live chaste , and , brother , die : more than our brother is our chastity
o seigneur !
he cannot speak , my lord .
when shall i see you ?
the duke ' s to blame in this ; ' twill be ill taken .
at hand ; when the sun sets , who doth not look for night ?
two , two !
faith , none but humphrey hour , that call ' d your grace to breakfast once forth of my company
under whose conduct came those pow ' rs of france that thou for truth giv ' st out are landed
most barbarous , most degenerate , have you madded .
percy ' s already in the field .
i am glad y ' are well .
how now , sir john !
there cut off thy most ungracious head , which i will bear in triumph to the king , leaving thy
d ' twixt son and father .
" they met me in the day of success , and i have learned by the perfectest report they have
her chamber is aloft , far from the ground , and built so shelving that one cannot climb it without
uncle , i must come forth .
you shall have none ill , sir ; for i ' ll try if they can lick their fingers .
this deed will be well welcome to lorenzo .
txt i shall be satisfied .
o , are you come , iago ?
his ; this little abstract doth contain that large which died in geffrey , and the hand of time shall
hark ye , lords .
my first son , whither wilt thou go ?
there was i , and little john doit of staffordshire , and black george barnes , and francis pickbone ,
self and vain conceit , as if this flesh which walls about our life were brass impregnable ; and ,
if it be not a bawd ' s house , it is pity of her life , for it is
[giving it to katharine] katharine .
age to brag what i have done being young , or what would do , were i not old .
pleas ' d to let him seek danger where he was to find fame .
faint ; my gashes cry for help .
i would thou hadst my bones , and i thy news .
txt and entrails feed the sacrificing fire , whose smoke like incense doth perfume the sky .
young budding virgin , fair and fresh and sweet , whither away , or where is thy abode ?
i am glad i was up so late , for that ' s the reason i was up so early
my death thou hast seal ' d up my expectation .
egyptian .
[dies] iden .
sir harry , place you that side ; i ' ll take the charge of this .
o lorenzo , if thou keep promise , i shall end this strife , become a christian and thy loving
perdie , your doors were lock ' d and you shut out .
what in the least will you require in present dower with her , or cease your quest of love ?
relate your wrongs .
and sent me from don armado .
she stabs herself and falls [on romeo ' s body] .
speak and be hang ' d !
therefore , most .
who shall answer him ?
i will bring these two moles , these blind ones , aboard him .
but i say there is no hope in ' t ; our throats are sentenc ' d , and stay
which vacant lie for thy best use and wearing .
thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet , or a hat , or a cloak , is nothing to
good sir , adieu .
[the english scale the walls and cry ' saint george !
you hold too heinous a respect of grief .
and therefore do we what we are commanded .
o braggart vile and damned furious wight !
what a strange drowsiness possesses them !
, bound in to saucy doubts and fears -but banquo ' s safe ?
ay , master .
what mean ' st thou , aaron ?
strange is it that our bloods , of colour , weight , and heat , pour ' d all together
fare ye well at once ; my bosom is full of kindness , and i am yet so near the
i pray thee now , deliver them like a man of this world .
thy conscience is so possess ' d with guilt .
he will shoot no more , but play with sparrows , and be a boy right out .
this dream is all amiss interpreted ; it was a vision fair and fortunate .
this cannot be cunning in her ; if it be , she makes a show ' r of rain as
vile worm , thou wast o ' erlook ' d even in thy birth .
the let-alone lies not in your good will .
great ajax bravely beat down him .
of ephesus-he dies , his goods confiscate to the duke ' s dispose , unless a thousand marks be levied
in the sun .
good sir topas , do not think i am mad ; they have laid me here in hideous darkness .
measureless content .
how novelties may move , and parts with person , alas , a kind of godly jealousy , which i
a displeasing play , to pray your patience for it and to promise you a better .
do so : to ebb , hereditary sloth instructs me .
but why commands the king that his chief followers lodge in towns about him , while he himself keeps in
i tell you , lords , you do but plot your deaths by this device .
like a babe .
show me the place ; i love to cope him in these sullen fits , for then he ' s
may it come , thy master , whom thou lov ' st , shall find thee full of labours .
on , on , on , on , on !
we know the time since he was mild and affable , and if we did but glance a far-off look
why , she is a pearl whose price hath launch ' d above a thousand ships , and turn '
hast drown ' d it with thine own .
what , thou mean ' st an officer ?
god save your grace !
i do thank thee for it .
sir , a chartreux friar , his confessor , who fed him every minute with words of sovereignty .
run to my study .
those runagates ?
we ' ll light upon some settled low content .
call the lady constance ; some speedy messenger bid her repair to our solemnity .
save thee , timon !
five fiends have been in poor tom at once : of lust , as obidicut ; hobbididence , prince of
give me a key for this , and instantly unlock my fortunes here .
your nobles will not hear you , but are gone to offer service to your enemy ; and wild amazement
peace ; no more .
wherever we shall meet , for timon ' s sake , let ' s yet be fellows ; let '
give it nothing , i pray you , for it is not worth the feeding .
what do you prate of service ?
i hope upon familiarity will grow more contempt .
, both from thy table , henry , and thy bed , until that act of parliament be repeal '
, in the loss of question , that you , his sister , finding yourself desir ' d of such
that they ' ll not show their teeth in way of smile though nestor swear the jest be laughable .
i ' ll not budge an inch , boy ; let him come , and kindly .
reasonably die , and never rise to do him wrong , or any way impeach what then he said ,
this ancient ruffian , sir , whose life i have spar ' d at suit of his grey beard- kent
courage , there will be pity taken on you ; you that have worn your eyes almost out in the
he- to give fear to use and liberty , which have for long run by the hideous law , as
good morrow , good sir hugh .
silius .
no , my good lord , my friends are in the north .
place i ' th ' state , will so your accusation overweigh that you shall stifle in your own report
father and his friends , and in part him .
he stole from france , as ' tis reported , for the king had married him against his liking .
you rogue , they were bound , every man of them , or i am a jew else- an ebrew
face ; at which appear ' d against him his surveyor , sir gilbert peck his chancellor , and john
seven days and nights ?
more matter for a may morning .
thou encounter any such , apprehend him , an thou dost me love .
unwilling and , for mine own part , have a desire to stay with my friends ; else , sir
her amber hairs for foul hath amber quoted .
here lies the county slain ; and juliet bleeding , warm , and newly dead , who here hath lain
prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk : such gain the cap of him that makes him fine , yet keeps
hume must make merry with the duchess ' gold ; marry , and shall .
forgot you !
another yet !
' glou .
what , are my deeds forgot ?
thus far , with rough and all-unable pen , our bending author hath pursu ' d the story , in
when caesar says " do this , " it is perform ' d .
servant-monster !
nay , i was rhyming : ' tis you that have the reason .
men ' s eyes were made to look , and let them gaze .
alas , i have show ' d too much the rashness of a woman !
let me see : every ' leven wether tods ; every tod yields pound and odd shilling ; fifteen hundred
well , i promis ' d you a dinner .
made .
towards which advance the war .
cut both the villains ' throats- for die you shall ; the lives of those which we have lost in
life were in ' t .
enter parolles parolles .
perfect and so peerless , are created of every creature ' s best !
villain , i say , knock me at this gate , and rap me well , or i ' ll
presence of dreaded justice , but on the ministers that do distribute it- in the name o ' th '
to him , sir topas .
mark ye me , i ' ll cavil on the ninth part of a hair are the indentures drawn ?
i will acquit you .
here to complain .
host .
i pray you , bring me on the way a little , and say if i shall see you soon
o , but for my love , day would turn to night !
then open not thy lips .
enter a post warwick .
arms .
but is there no quick recreation granted ?
think on my words .
he that has a house to put ' s head in has a good head-piece .
let it alone !
in god ' s name , turn me away and let the foul ' st contempt shut door upon me
did not thy hue bewray whose brat thou art , had nature lent thee but thy mother ' s look
how if it be false , son ?
flight of fowl scatter ' d by winds and high tempestuous gusts ?
the spirit of the time shall teach me speed .
there .
what , has your king married the lady grey ?
dukedoms for his daughter .
o , all the devils !
it is certain , corporal , that he is married to nell quickly ; and certainly she did you wrong
no , indeed , sir , not of a pin ; you are therein in the right ; but to
o , shut the door !
shall i not have barely my principal ?
enter patroclus patroclus .
which he took , as we do air , fast as ' twas minist ' red , and in '
bid him- ah , what ?
sneaking home , my father gave him welcome to the shore ; and when he heard him swear and vow
marry wives .
upon thy cheek lay i this zealous kiss as seal to this indenture of my love : that to my
jesu maria !
' poor rogues ' i pray you say .
enter talbot and burgundy without ; within , la pucelle , charles , bastard , alencon , and reignier ,
then never dream on infamy , but go .
and , see your wife is with him .
thou dost thyself and all our troy deceive .
have hope to see the nuptial of these our dear-belov ' d solemnized , and thence retire me to my
but she , your subject , loathes such sovereignty .
why , then to thee , thou silver treasure-house !
no ; to the spital go , and from the powd ' ring tub of infamy fetch forth the lazar
enter lion and moonshine lion .
well then , it now appears you need my help ; go to , then ; you come to me
the volscians titus lartius cominius menenius agrippa , friend to coriolanus tribunes of the people sicinius velutus junius brutus young
we ' ll touze you joint by joint , but we will know his purpose .
[aside] nor more willingly leaves winter ; such summer-birds are men- gentlemen , our dinner will not recompense this long
and what accites your most worshipful thought to think so ?
your own , you should not pass here ; no , though it were as virtuous to lie as to
thou know ' st how willingly i would effect the match between sir thurio and my daughter .
enter troilus troilus .
they that bear the cloth of honour over her are four barons of the cinque-ports .
brow of bragging horror ; so shall inferior eyes , that borrow their behaviours from the great , grow great
you , roderigo !
[aloud] i will knog your urinals about your knave ' s cogscomb for missing your meetings and appointments .
give thee mine .
o , never was there queen so mightily betray ' d !
woe above woe !
if you are so fond over her iniquity , give her patent to offend , for , if it touch
our then dictator , whom with all praise i point at , saw him fight when with his amazonian chin
enter silvius silvius .
tribune .
under .
i did not then entreat to have her stay ; it was your pleasure , and your own remorse ;
no , it is false , if it is a pick-purse .
is ' t possible , my lord ?
' old man .
now , perjur ' d henry , wilt thou kneel for grace and set thy diadem upon my head ,
approach , thou beacon to this under globe , that by thy comfortable beams i may peruse this letter .
and quick in quarrel , seeking the bubble reputation even in the cannon ' s mouth .
at a strife ?
' twas due on forfeiture , my lord , six weeks and past .
like a private man- that lucius ' banishment was wrongfully , and they have wish ' d that lucius were
this is hard and undeserved measure , my lord .
his name , i pray you .
those prisoners you shall keep .
he ' s dead .
may be she doth but counterfeit .
i ' ll keep them , by this hand !
nature shows art , that through thy bosom makes me see thy heart .
eros , thou yet behold ' st me ?
on my peril .
reigning , and make stale the glistering of this present , as my tale now seems to it .
the end _num_ the comedy of errors by william shakespeare <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare
never call a true piece of gold a counterfeit .
do you know me , sir ?
hastings , and others ; from the other side , prince john of lancaster , westmoreland , officers , and
o bloody richard !
tell out my blood .
bones , with reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls ; or bid me go into a new-made grave and hide
bate , i beseech you , widow dido .
_num_ thus is his cheek the map of days outworn , when beauty lived and died as flowers do now
if he come to-morrow i ' ll give him his payment .
i stay here on my bond .
' d me to my honours , and out of ruins made my name once more noble .
i do remember .
' tis easy to ' t ; and there i will attend what further comes .
why of thy thought , iago ?
within these three hours ' twill be time enough to go home .
o lord , ay !
and then he offered it the third time ; he put it the third time by ; and still as
and ere i take this charm from off her sight , as i can take it with another herb ,
- look down into the pomgarnet , ralph .
-why , there ' t serves well again .
had you been as wise as bold , young in limbs , in judgment old , your answer had not
these happy masks that kiss fair ladies ' brows , being black puts us in mind they hide the fair
lord cardinal , he is your prisoner .
that dreamers often lie .
the reason of this ?
deadly sorrow to behold a foul knave uncuckolded .
make less thy body hence , and more thy grace ; leave gormandizing ; know the grave doth gape for
say , shall the current of our right run on ?
habit that too much o ' erleavens the form of plausive manners , that these men carrying , i say
but this it is , our foot upon the hills adjoining to the city shall stay with us- order for
a pox o ' your throat , you bawling , blasphemous , incharitable dog !
[exeunt some with lord say] the proudest peer in the realm shall not wear a head on his shoulders ,
be cross with him ; and i ' ll go fetch thy sons to back thy quarrels , whatsoe '
if it should prove that thou art so inhuman- ' twill not prove so .
fear you not her courage .
' tis but the boldness of his hand haply , which his heart was not consenting to .
spur all blood he was .
' tis well ; and hold your own , in any case , with such austerity as longeth to a
michael , speed .
[to northumberland] we are amaz ' d ; and thus long have we stood to watch the fearful bending of
their thund ' ring shock at meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven .
meantime we shall express our darker purpose .
and no great friend , i fear me , to the king .
the fruit she goes with i pray for heartily , that it may find good time , and live ;
his wife shines through it ; and yet cannot he see , though he have his own lanthorn to light
to have some conference with his grace .
sicilius .
i have no wife .
thy letters may be here , though thou art hence , which , being writ to me , shall be
why , if it please you , take it for your labour .
course .
a public place enter menenius , cominius , sicinius and brutus , the two tribunes , with others menenius .
i hope this passionate humour of mine will change ; it was wont to hold me but while one tells
to prison , eyes ; ne ' er look on liberty !
they are rising , they are rising .
an if he may , then am i lawful king ; for richard , in the view of many lords
my joy is death- death , at whose name i oft have been afeard , because i wish ' d
for hamlet , and the trifling of his favour , hold it a fashion , and a toy in blood
a man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age .
there ' s not a soldier of us all that , in the thanksgiving before meat , do relish the
a widow cries : be husband to me , heavens !
than the force of honesty can translate beauty into his likeness .
sir , know you this glove ?
no , by my faith , bianca .
and therefore yet relent and save my life .
no , good swabber , i am to hull here a little longer .
instance , o instance !
what , have you din ' d at home ?
therefore , thou art a sheep .
might break out and swear he ' d fetch us in ; yet is ' t not probable to come
poor bird !
thigh , the brawns of hercules ; but his jovial face- murder in heaven !
o heavy deed !
bear , ' and ever and anon they made a doubt presence majestical would put him out ; ' for
thou precious varlet , my tailor made them not .
to milan let me hear from thee by letters of thy success in love , and what news else betideth
indeed ?
there they live like the old robin hood of england .
good mercutio !
thou changed and self-cover ' d thing , for shame !
now , signior , what news ?
he is a bastard , not thy son .
' tis gaultree forest , an ' t shall please your grace .
and , my gracious duke , be it so she will not here before your grace consent to marry with
yet can i not of such tame patience boast as to be hush ' d and nought at an to
did he ask for me ?
most noble caesar !
whereof prospero starts suddenly , and speaks , after which , to a strange , hollow , and confused noise
i can speak english , lord , as well as you ; for i was train ' d up in
he ' s married , madam .
the lady constance speaks not from her faith , but from her need .
' tis full three months since i did see him last .
enter coriolanus , in a gown of humility , with menenius here he comes , and in the gown of
give no reason , nor i will not , more than a lodg ' d hate and a certain loathing
come , thou shalt go to the wars in a gown .
a lodging fit to entertain such friends as time in padua shall beget .
away , bardolph !
what he hath lost , noble macbeth hath won .
] enter the thieves again .
gentlemen , have you provided me here half a dozen sufficient men ?
) , and when i am king of england i shall command all the good lads eastcheap .
he calls me boy , and chides as he had power to beat me out of egypt .
windsor .
and this same half-fac ' d fellow , shadow- give me this man .
he is a proper man ' s picture ; but alas , who can converse with a dumb-show ?
believe me , there ' s an ill opinion spread then , even of yourself , lord cardinal .
you have said well .
- how long hast thou been a grave-maker ?
' s flood ; who then , affrighted with their bloody looks , ran fearfully among the trembling reeds and
main chance , father , you meant ; but i meant maine , which i will win from france ,
if thou dost love fair hero , cherish it , and i will break with her and with her father
enter macbeth , banquo , ross , and angus .
be priz ' d .
[la pucelle , &c .
i had been drown ' d but that the shore was shelvy and shallow-a death that i abhor ; for
i think this honourable lord did but try us this other day .
th ' untun ' d and jarring senses , o , wind up of this child-changed father !
cry the man mercy , love him , take his offer ; foul is most foul , being foul to
won ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
patch of velvet .
for their fell faults our brothers were beheaded , our father ' s tears despis ' d , and basely
yea , marry , let them come before me .
what committed ?
, enter the town] enter charles , bastard , alencon , reignier , and forces charles .
she will not fail , for lovers break not hours unless it be to come before their time , so
be not offended , for it hurts not him that he is lov ' d of me ; i follow
so the poor chicken should be sure of death .
more active-valiant or more valiant-young , more daring or more bold , is now alive to grace this latter age
i shall obey him .
- do you hear , forester ?
an end , sir !
ne ' er trust me then ; for when a world of men could not prevail with all their oratory
he will not say so .
york set him on ; york should have sent him aid .
now heaven hath all , and all the better is it for the maid .
tak ' st more or less than a just pound- be it but so much as makes it light or
antony .
if these be they , i know not how to wish a pair of worthier sons .
if then thy spirit look upon us now , shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death to see
art thou afeard ?
sovereign of egypt , hail !
keep your hundred pounds to yourself ; he shall need none so long as i live .
, had of your father claim ' d this son for his ?
salt scorn of his eyes , should he scape hector fair .
i have some of ' em in limbo patrum , and there they are like to dance these three days
is signior lucentio within , sir ?
that comes in likeness of a coal-black moor .
hear of you , and for the love he beareth to your daughter , and she to him- to stay
well contented to make your house our tow ' r .
will i ?
[aside] if i find him comforting the king , it will stuff his suspicion more fully .
be pinch ' d as thick as honeycomb , each pinch more stinging than bees that made ' em .
- henceforth my wooing mind shall be express ' d in russet yeas , and honest kersey noes .
[leaps down] o me !
before gloucester ' s castle ; kent in the stocks .
buy terms divine in selling hours of dross ; within be fed , without be rich no more , so
txt what woman ' s that ?
i lov ' d her most , and thought to set my rest on her kind nursery .
lo , in these windows that let forth thy life i pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes .
am i both priest and clerk ?
heart and goodwill you might , but surely , master , not a rag of money .
[dies] theseus .
' if i do not take pity of her , i am a villain ; if i do not love
shall i lose my doctor ?
she strokes his cheek .
set your heart at rest ; the fairy land buys not the child of me .
what wound did ever heal but by degrees ?
o the pernicious caitiff !
power and person .
, as if you snuff ' d up love by smelling love , with your hat penthouse-like o ' er
to what end , my lord ?
sir , tell not me of the father ; i do fear colourable colours .
come , the recorders !
he may keep it still at a face-royal , for a barber shall never earn sixpence out of it ;
if there be truth in sight , you are my daughter .
thus , brutus , did my master bid me kneel , thus did mark antony bid me fall down ,
first , rehearse your song by rote , to each word a warbling note ; hand in hand , with
take heed ; for he holds vengeance in his hand to hurl upon their heads that break his law .
the image of the jest i ' ll show you here at large .
where do i dwell ?
a peace is of the nature of a conquest ; for then both parties nobly are subdu ' d ,
yet , warwick , in despite of all mischance , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
base dunghill villain and mechanical , i ' ll have thy head for this thy traitor ' s speech .
go , sirrah , to my cell ; take with you your companions ; as you look to have my
now sir , this granted- as it is a most pregnant and unforced position- who stands so eminently in the
dear , they durst not , so dear the love my people bore me ; nor set a mark so
you speak not as you think ; it cannot be .
i am very loath to be your idol , sir ; but since your falsehood shall become you well to
black .
let ' s be merry : good my lord cardinal , i have half a dozen healths to drink to
break out into a flame ; as fest ' red members rot but by degree till bones and flesh and
i think the boy hath grace in him ; he blushes .
but now will canker sorrow eat my bud and chase the native beauty from his cheek , and he will
some innocents scape not the thunderbolt .
come , somerset , we ' ll see thee sent away .
let them be joyful too , for they shall taste our comfort .
is worse , within thy nasty mouth !
txt did he so often lodge in open field , in winter ' s cold and summer ' s parching
but shall i live in hope ?
lady macbeth is carried out .
since every one , hath every one , one shade , and you but one , can every shadow lend
[to richmond] quiet untroubled soul , awake , awake !
his wits begin t ' unsettle .
what is it , my good friends ?
for by these shall i try friends .
this is as strange a maze as e ' er men trod ; and there is in this business more
when he was brought again to th ' bar to hear his knell rung out , his judgment , he
the king hath strictly charg ' d the contrary .
o , think on that ; and mercy then will breathe within your lips , like man new made .
i ' ll help you to a horse .
not till king henry be dead .
there stands the castle , by yon tuft of trees , mann ' d with three hundred men , as
before the castle .
, and all we mourn for .
them with an after fleet .
you shall have letters of me presently .
enter a messenger what says lord stanley ?
thou must not take my former sharpness ill .
o thou damned cur !
the moor hath kill ' d my mistress !
if he have caught the benedick , it will page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
o , romeo , that she were , o that she were an open et cetera , thou a pop
marcius , we have at disadvantage fought , and did retire to win our purpose .
where have you been broiling ?
if she had partaken of my flesh , and cost me the dearest groans of a mother .
, the mutinous parts that envied his receipt ; even so most fitly as you malign our senators for that
i did deny him , and suffer ' d him to go displeas ' d away- even he that had
i ' ll question her .
they call for dates and quinces in the pastry .
your voices might be curses to yourselves ?
the lover of any other .
i do owe them still my life and services .
shall all thy mother ' s hopes lie in one tomb ?
ah ha , my lord , this prince is not an edward !
friar , you come to marry her .
how calm and gentle i proceeded still in all my writings .
the street before the prison enter , on one side , duke disguised as before ; on the other ,
execute thy wrath in me alone ; o , spare my guiltless wife and my poor children !
good gentlemen , he hath much talk ' d of you , and sure i am two men there are
you understand me not that tell me so .
o this false soul of egypt !
before god !
where sups he ?
he ' s his wife ' s head , and i can never cut of a woman ' s head
paris falls .
i will tomorrow , and betimes i will , to the weird sisters .
be peace .
it seems you lov ' d not her , to leave her token .
i remember him well , and i remember him worthy of thy praise .
our natures do pursue , like rats that ravin down their proper bane , a thirsty evil ; and when
there present yourself and your fair princess- for so , i see , she must be- fore leontes .
let us in-your king , whose labour ' d spirits , forwearied in this action of swift speed , craves
tell me , my daughters (since now we will divest us both of rule , interest of territory , cares
you have no children , butchers , if you had , the thought of them would have stirr ' d
york , with much ado at length have gotten leave to look upon my sometimes royal master ' s face
i love not to be cross ' d .
txt my legs are longer though , to run away .
disgrace : nor can thy shame give physic to my grief , though thou repent , yet i have still
me to steal it .
in the capitol .
, and at the door too , like a post with packets .
thou know ' st little of my wrongs : here ' s beaufort , that regards nor god nor king
this is the woman , but not this the man .
mark then abounding valour in our english , that , being dead , like to the bullet ' s grazing
hasty ; but he fell to himself again , and sweetly in all the rest show ' d a most
not for the wide world !
feather , that stands upon the swell at the full of tide , and neither way inclines .
a health , gentlemen !
a kissing traitor .
last time i danc ' d attendance on his will till paris was besieg ' d , famish ' d
spare not the babe page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
sword and lance : hundreds he sent to hell , and none durst stand him ; here , there ,
nurse , where ' s my daughter ?
take that for coming a-night to jane smile ; and i remember the kissing of her batler , and the
[pulling clothes out of the basket] page .
thou shalt not lack the flower that ' s like thy face , pale primrose ; nor the azur '
your songs ?
txt to let him slip at will .
be it so , titus , and gramercy too .
what i was , i am : more straining on for plucking back ; not following my leash unwillingly .
, ingenious , foolish , rascally knave .
call you this chiding ?
whose rage doth rend like interrupted waters , and o ' erbear what they are us ' d to bear
well , on .
, and rebels ' arms triumph in massacres !
[to viola] boy , thou hast said to me a thousand times thou never shouldst love woman like to me
we have not yet set down this day of triumph .
my royal lord , you do not give the cheer .
yet one time he did call me by my name .
when in your motion you are hot and dry- as make your bouts more violent to that end- and that
why then , alas , do i put up that womanly defense , to say i have done no harm
commend me bountifully to his good lordship , and i hope his honour will conceive the fairest of me ,
i am your master , dromio .
dromio , what stuff of mine hast thou embark ' d ?
sir thomas gargrave , hast thou any life ?
the sweet and bitter fool will presently appear ; the one in motley here , the other found out there
of skimble-skamble stuff as puts me from my faith .
i am sure , is sent for .
i cry your worships mercy , heartily ; i beseech your worship ' s name .
exeunt gloucester and servants duchess .
kent , sir , the banish ' d kent ; who in disguise followed his enemy king and did him
sooth , madam , i hear nothing .
mayor of london sheriff of wiltshire hastings , a pursuivant tressel and berkeley , gentlemen attending on lady anne elizabeth
lucius , what book is that she tosseth so ?
and his offence is so , as it appears , accountant to the law upon that pain .
[sits down] enter cleopatra , led by charmian and iras , eros following eros .
so some gentleman or other shall scape a predestinate scratch ' d face .
then weigh what loss your honour may sustain if with too credent ear you list his songs , or lose
well , i ' ll repent , and that suddenly , while i am in some liking .
- send us your prisoners , or you will hear of it .
tigers , not daughters , what have you perform ' d ?
no obstacle , no incredulous or unsafe circumstance- what can be said ?
bound to diomed .
why should you want ?
may ; and how his audit stands , who knows save heaven ?
ready , so please your grace .
foh !
within a quarter of an hour .
as far as i could ken thy chalky cliffs , when from thy shore the tempest beat us back ,
, obey ' d him , been , out of fondness , superstitious to him , almost forgot my prayers
caesar , i shall .
bemonster not thy feature !
to his new-appearing sight , serving with looks his sacred majesty , and having climbed the steep-up heavenly hill ,
the king hath granted every article : his daughter first ; and then in sequel , all , according to
my father ' s love is enough to honour him .
[aside] how fiery and forward our pedant is !
who wooes even now the frozen bosom of the north and , being anger ' d , puffs away from
if but one of his pockets could speak , would it not say he lies ?
, the gentleman is full of virtue , bounty , worth , and qualities beseeming such a wife as your
this is the strangest tale that ever i beard .
i find thee apt ; and duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed that rots itself in ease on
this disturbed sky is not to walk in .
he ' d make an end of thy posterity .
cardinal , prithee call gardiner to me , my new secretary ; i find him a fit fellow .
never , o never , do his ghost the wrong to hold your honour more precise and nice with others
he is drunk now ; where had he wine ?
i must remove some thousands of these logs , and pile them up , upon a sore injunction ; my
of your brother a merriment than a vice .
is it possible dat i sould love de enemy of france ?
mine own company , chitopher , vaumond , bentii , two hundred fifty each ; so that the muster-file ,
txt fellow with the best king , thou shalt find the best king of good fellows .
good morrow , lord aeneas .
to give it due content .
why , there thou say ' st !
enter friar [laurence] and romeo .
away with her ; go , bear her hence perforce .
cause why i should welcome such a guest as grief , save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest as
, be bold you do so grow in my requital as nothing can unroot you .
assign ' d am i to be the english scourge .
faith , to say truth , brown and not brown .
an if i do not , may my hands rot of and never brandish more revengeful steel over the glittering
nay , to be perjur ' d , which is worst of all ; and , among three , to
so judas did to christ ; but he , in twelve , found truth in all but one ; i
i have heard my father name him .
be bloody , bold , and resolute : laugh to scorn the power of man , for none of woman
make show to the world he is ; if i find a hole in his coat i will tell him
proculeius , what thou hast done thy master caesar knows , and he hath sent for thee .
' d , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
fie , you confine yourself most unreasonably ; come , you must go visit the good lady that lies in
and be not jealous on me , gentle brutus ; were i a common laugher , or did use to
flaminius !
the dearest friend to me , the kindest man , the best condition ' d and unwearied spirit in doing
mark their yellowing noise ; and- after conflict such as was suppos ' d the wand ' ring prince and
txt i tell the day to please him thou art bright , and dost him grace when clouds do blot
possess it , i ' ll make answer .
speak him full of grace .
dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy ?
these news , i must confess , are full of grief ; yet , gracious madam , bear it as
to search his house for his wife ' s love .
strike , as thou didst at caesar , for i know , when thou didst hate him worst , thou
that handkerchief thou speak ' st of i found by fortune and did give my husband , for often with
lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts .
pray now , what colour are your eyebrows ?
an all men were a my mind- ulysses .
methinks my favour here begins to warp .
enter rosalind , reading a paper rosalind .
_num_ those lips that love ' s own hand did make , breathed forth the sound that said ' i
you have heard him swear downright he was .
why , so i say .
adders fang ' d , they bear the mandate ; they must sweep my way and marshal me to knavery
, and that he knew , i warrant him .
he had sworn to marry me when his wife ' s dead ; therefore i ' ll lie with him
[draws his sword .
repent but you that you shall lose your friend , and he repents not that he pays your debt ;
thy behaviours that in their kind they speak it ; only sin and hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue , that
such as have not thrived upon the present state , whose numbers threaten ; and quietness , grown sick of
come on , there is sixpence for you .
txt then every soldier kill his prisoners ; give the word through .
if there be cords or knives , poison or fire , or suffocating streams , i ' ll not endure
when steel grows soft as the parasite ' s silk , let him be made an overture for th '
the grey-ey ' d morn smiles on the frowning night , check ' ring the eastern clouds with streaks of
and therefore have no names .
in war was never lion rag ' d more fierce , in peace was never gentle lamb more mild ,
will ' t please you eat ?
i will kneel to him .
enter lady macbeth .
motley in my brain .
naughty lady , these hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin will quicken , and accuse thee .
so shall i , love , and so , i pray , be you .
i had rather live with cheese and garlic in a windmill far than feed on cates and have him talk
our earl of warwick , edward ' s greatest friend .
what would she find ?
son george fall into the blind cave of eternal night .
with much much more dismay i view the fight than thou that mak ' st the fray .
' let them signify under my sign ' here you may see benedick the married man .
walk ; let ' s see if other watchmen do hear what we do .
either envy , therefore , or misprision is guilty of this fault , and not my son .
would i had died a maid , and never seen thee , never borne thee son , seeing thou hast
txt boy delay .
' naked !
i ' ll warrant you ' tis as well .
if you shall chance , camillo , to visit bohemia , on the like occasion whereon my services are now
' ; reconciles them to his entreaty and himself to th ' drink .
within what space hop ' st thou my cure ?
all the trades in rome .
if thou get ' st any leave of me , hang me ; if thou tak ' st leave ,
doth any name particular belong unto the lodging where i first did swoon ?
go some of you and fetch a looking-glass .
my curses on her !
must combine by holy marriage .
" speak , caesar is turn ' d to hear .
and a friend to thee and rome .
and is it not , then , well serv ' d in to a sweet goose ?
i am as well acquainted here as i was in our house of profession ; one would think it were
where the devil should he learn our language ?
pardon , trim it handsomely .
that last is true-the sweeter rest was mine .
baptista ' s house enter katherina and bianca bianca .
what two things ?
i will apprehend him .
[to elinor] so shall it be ; your grace shall stay behind , so strongly guarded .
and by black night doth take away , death ' s second self that seals up all in rest .
' d tenth , and by the hazard of the spotted die let die the spotted .
in sign of truth , i kiss your highness ' hand .
tir ' d , then , in a word , i also am longer to live most weary , and
coat with scanting a little cloth .
choir , fell of a distance from her , while her grace sat down to rest awhile , some half
am i king ?
enter , with drum and colours , bertram , parolles , and the whole army mariana .
the great danger which this man ' s life did owe you , you ' ll rejoice that he is
woo .
lists set out enter ajax , armed ; agamemnon , achilles , patroclus , menelaus , ulysses , nestor ,
i know i can do it .
je quand sur le possession de france , et quand vous avez le possession de moi- let me see ,
ay , my good lord- my lord , i should say rather .
lawrence poultney , did of me demand what was the speech among the londoners concerning the french journey .
we have some haste , leonato .
' ry word .
put up her lovely visage ?
take .
go to the pulpit , brutus .
of the elm .
what is she ?
i will set forward to-night .
marry , sir , in her buttocks ; i found it out by the bogs .
call not your stocks for me .
o , fear him not !
o , my heart is sick !
unswept , and mountainous error be too highly heap ' d for truth to o ' erpeer .
marry , sir , besides myself , i am due to a woman-one that claims me , one that haunts
i came to kill thee , cousin , and bear hence a great addition earned in thy death .
o , do not wish one more !
let us all ring fancy ' s knell : i ' ll begin it- ding , dong , bell .
txt o , he hath kept an evil diet long and overmuch consum ' d his royal person !
a soldier , that came hither in company of the marquis of montferrat ?
my name is nym , and falstaff loves your wife .
_num_ cupid laid by his brand and fell asleep , a maid of dian ' s this advantage found ,
txt of what your reverence shall incite us to .
ay , ' twas he that told me first .
if , sir , you come with news from the court , i take it there ' s but two
my name is caius marcius , who hath done to thee particularly , and to all the volsces , great
ay , timon .
too , from him .
unfinish ' d , yet so famous , so excellent in art , and still so rising , that christendom
and thus most humbly i do take my leave .
dally not with the gods , but get thee gone .
the cry of talbot serves me for a sword ; for i have loaden me with many spoils , using
you bless me , gods !
' t would drink the cup and all .
will you have doll tearsheet meet you at supper ?
o priam , yield not to him !
good master fenton , i will not be your friend , nor enemy ; my daughter will i question how
advise your fellows so .
marry , thou dost wrong me , thou dissembler , thou !
belov ' d of beauteous hermia .
do make myself a suitor to your daughter , unto bianca , fair and virtuous .
is no less than what we say he is .
o , that ' s the case of the shepherd ' s son !
who was the thane lives yet , but under heavy judgement bears that life which he deserves to lose .
i cannot find it ; ' tis not in the bond .
let vultures gripe thy guts !
enter the king , the queen , cardinal , suffolk , york , buckingham , salisbury , and warwick ,
truly , and i hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow '
; for every scruple of her contaminated carrion weight a troyan hath been slain ; since she could speak ,
fortune forbid my outside have not charm ' d her !
enter cassandra , raving cassandra .
how hast thou the heart , being a divine , a ghostly confessor , a sin-absolver , and my friend
of mantua , sir ?
[aside] hortensio , say thou wilt see the tailor paid .
i cannot perceive how , unless you give me your doublet , and stuff me out with straw .
] some of your function , mistress , leave procreants alone and shut the door ; cough , or cry
, by fortinbras of norway , thereto prick ' d on by a most emulate pride , dar ' d
not titus ' brother .
sweet life !
fair sir , god save you !
the red wine first must rise in their fair cheeks , my lord ; then we shall have ' em
called conscience , with twenty popish tricks and ceremonies which i have seen thee careful to observe , therefore i
ay , who art thou ?
by the fire that quickens nilus ' slime , i go from hence thy soldier , servant , making peace
france is a stable ; we that dwell in ' t jades ; therefore , to th ' war !
perhaps some merchant hath invited him , and from the mart he ' s somewhere gone to dinner ; good
now , as fond fathers , having bound up the threat ' ning twigs of birch , only to stick
thou thy oaths , though they would swear down each particular saint , were testimonies against his worth and credit
shifting every place , and dar ' st not stand , nor look me in the face .
grief fills the room up of my absent child , lies in his bed , walks up and down with
you see , my lord , how ample y ' are belov ' d .
my haste is very great .
his army be dismiss ' d from him .
' th ' bosom of our hard-rul ' d king .
to say bassanio ' s dead !
either accept the title thou usurp ' st , of benefit proceeding from our king and not of any challenge
ay , his breast- so says the bond ; doth it not , noble judge ?
here comes the prince .
txt flute .
' d by a friend that came from him .
does shake the head to hear of pleasure ' s name .
i am not furnish ' d with the present money ; besides , i have some business in the town
but now you partly may perceive my mind .
you , titus lartius , must to corioli back .
let me have way , my lord , to find this practice out .
what , must it , nurse ?
your request ?
_num_ o lest the world should task you to recite , what merit lived in me that you should love
i love thee so that , maugre all thy pride , nor wit nor reason can my passion hide .
ay , amen !
of her worst wearing gown was better worth than all my father ' s lands , till suffolk gave two
exit cromwell [aside] it shall be to the duchess of alencon , the french king ' s sister ; he
[aside to agrippa] that year , indeed , he was troubled with a rheum ; what willingly he did confound
genitive case ?
peter quince !
not i , believe me ; thus i ' ll visit her .
set down your venerable burden .
cut off , and her tongue cut out , and ravish ' d demetrius .
they say he keeps a troyan drab , and uses the traitor calchas ' tent .
look , he ' s winding up the watch of his wit ; by and by it will strike .
that is antonio , the duke ' s eldest son ; that , escalus .
were half to half the world by th ' ears , and he upon my party , i ' d
i would play lord pandarus of phrygia , sir , to bring a cressida to this troilus .
can this cockpit hold the vasty fields of france ?
marcius , his name ?
enter king and guard cranmer .
but how did you desire it should be made ?
] oph .
nay , if you strive- desdemona .
' gainst thursday next to go with paris to saint peter ' s church , or i will drag thee
the most heaviest .
yield in lieu of all thy pains and husbandry .
the mere want of gold and the falling-from of his friends drove him into this melancholy .
untimely storms make men expect a dearth .
th ' arrearages , or look upon our romans , whose remembrance is yet fresh in their grief .
it is religion to be thus forsworn ; for charity itself fulfils the law , and who can sever love
exit with forces lucy .
hast thou not kiss ' d thy hand and held my stirrup , bareheaded plodded by my foot-cloth mule ,
this is strange to me .
put him quite besides his patience .
but let us give him burial , as becomes ; give mutius burial with our bretheren .
new customs , though they be never so ridiculous , nay , let ' em be unmanly , yet are
for strokes receiv ' d and many blows repaid have robb ' d my strong-knit sinews of their strength ,
the truth .
, an ill-beseeming semblance for a feast .
lucentio that comes a-wooing- ' priami ' is my man tranio- ' regia ' bearing my port- ' celsa senis
when i came hither i was lord high constable and duke of buckingham ; now , poor edward bohun .
pardon , goddess of the night , those that slew thy virgin knight ; for the which , with songs
doctor , which did refuse three thousand ducats of me , and begg ' d the ring ; the which
had i as many eyes as thou hast wounds , weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood ,
here comes the prince and claudio .
your reasons at dinner have been sharp and sententious ; pleasant without scurrility , witty without affection , audacious without
, nobly named so , twice being by the people chosen censor , was his great ancestor .
, are as interpreters of my behind-hand slackness !
o ' er my spirit thy full supremacy thou knew ' st , and that thy beck might from the
[to the guard] shall i be heard ?
in this spleen ridiculous appears , to check their folly , passion ' s solemn tears .
believe me , on mine honour , my words express my purpose .
this trusty servant shall pass between us .
o momentary grace of mortal men , which we more hunt for than the grace of god !
had i thy brethren here , their lives and thine were not revenge sufficient for me ; no , if
us to-day .
of this young lady , and i off ' red him my company to a willow tree , either to
a roasted crab , and , when she drinks , against her lips i bob , and on her withered
a noise of hunting is heard within .
till i know ' tis done , howe ' er my haps , my joys were ne ' er begun
idle time , could not again reply ; or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover , herself
see , see , your silence , cunning in dumbness , from my weakness draws my very soul of counsel
than to perform it first .
thou dar ' st .
[sitting down by her] queen margaret .
wherein i sigh not , julia , for thy sake , the next ensuing hour some foul mischance torment me
such manly drops , this show ' r , blown up by tempest of the soul , startles mine eyes
it is an honour that i dream not of .
cornwall and albany , with my two daughters ' dowers digest this third ; let pride , which she calls
exeunt all but enobarbus and menas menas , i ' ll not on shore .
it was much like an argument that fell out last night , where each of us fell in praise of
' the battle with the centaurs , to be sung by an athenian eunuch to the harp .
harry , how fares your uncle ?
deliver me the key ; here do i choose , and thrive i as i may !
) whew !
exeunt shepherd and clown autolycus .
did plot the duke of gloucester ' s death , suggest his soon-believing adversaries , and consequently , like a
death makes no conquest of this conqueror ; for now he lives in fame , though not in life .
we will ourself in person to this war ; and , for our coffers , with too great a court
doth she not give us thanks ?
but wherefore waste i time to counsel the that art a votary to fond desire ?
no marvel though you bite so sharp at reasons , you are so empty of them .
by holy mary , butts , there ' s knavery !
robs the vast sea ; the moon ' s an arrant thief , and her pale fire she snatches from
good boy , wink at me , and say thou saw ' st me not .
my love is most immaculate white and red .
i have been up this hour , awake all night .
god ' s will , gentlemen !
tables of their thoughts to every ticklish reader !
didst note it ?
to this point i stand , that both the world , i give to negligence , page _num_ complete works
that will i , for i must bear answer back how you excuse my brother , rosalind .
then put up your pipes in your bag , for i ' ll away .
madam , this is a mere distraction ; you turn the good we offer into envy .
come in , without there !
convenient is it .
if it had not been i ' th ' church , i would have swing ' d him , or
their manage , and to that end riders dearly hir ' d ; but i , his brother , gain
could not but believe she excelled many ; but i have not seen the most precious diamond that is ,
fear and sleep in the affliction of these terrible dreams that shake us nightly .
txt queen .
o , if men were to be saved by merit , what hole in hell were hot enough for him
when thou ran ' st up gadshill in the night to catch my page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
we three are but thyself , and , speaking so , thy words are but as thoughts ; therefore be
i have too few to take my leave of you , when the tongue ' s office should be prodigal
txt not that i pity henry ' s misery , but seek revenge on edward ' s mockery .
to hear by the nose , it is dulcet in contagion .
a cry within , " a sail , a sail , a sail !
them and show the heavens more just .
wear the leek upon saint tavy ' s day .
let all my land be sold .
my captain , sir , commends him to you ; my captain , sir john falstaff- a tall gentleman ,
he would be drunk too ; that let me inform you .
come on , away .
i do in birth deserve her , and in fortunes , in graces , and in qualities of breeding ;
hamlet ; for , upon my life , this spirit , dumb to us , will speak to him .
o , i must , madam .
let me see- yea , marry , william cook , bid him come hither .
i know a discontented gentleman whose humble means match not his haughty spirit .
sight .
come on , sir ; hold .
ay , you have been a mouse-hunt in your time ; but i will watch you from such watching now
good morrow , kind sir eglamour .
winning match , play ' d for a pair of stainless maidenhoods .
who goes there ?
pray you go , master page .
enter menenius brutus .
i would kiss before i spoke .
observation strange , my meaner ministers their several kinds have done .
gurney .
to damnation add greater than that .
who might be your mother , that you insult , exult , and all at once , over the wretched
hope i have .
tremble and start at wagging of a straw , intending deep suspicion .
o , sir , plantain , a plain plantain ; no l ' envoy , no l ' envoy ;
now boast thee , death , in thy possession lies a lass unparallel ' d .
yet let me wonder , harry , at thy affections , which do hold a wing , quite from the
come near for fear of sudden death .
he wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat ; it ever changes with the next block .
thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life ; he could not have scaped sixpence a day .
, and defy the foul fiend .
i will not do you that wrong .
mind : look what an unthrift in the world doth spend shifts but his place , for still the world
who have been false to fulvia ?
south , weighing the youthful season of the year .
re-enter attendant with glass give me that glass , and therein will i read .
there may be in the cup a spider steep ' d , and one may drink , depart , and
you start away .
charles duke of orleans , nephew to the king ; john duke of bourbon , and lord bouciqualt ; of
o thou side-piercing sight !
exeunt] scene vi .
true nobility is exempt from fear : more can i bear than you dare execute .
why , is not oxford here another anchor ?
disorder , that hath spoil ' d us , friend us now !
lancaster ; and force perforce i ' ll make him yield the crown , whose bookish rule hath pull '
person ; hither come even at his feet to lay my arms and power , provided that my banishment repeal
i think i should have told your grace ' s tale .
shell .
thou art a villain to impeach me thus ; i ' ll prove mine honour and mine honesty against thee
i ' ll do ' t , but it dislikes me .
txt to chide him from our eaves , for he persists as if his life lay on ' t .
for his , it stuck upon him as the sun in the grey vault of heaven ; and by his
i know that , but i would have thee hence and here again .
i speak not this as doubting any here ; for did i but suspect a fearful man , he should
and yet so fast asleep .
i think , but dare not speak .
upon which errand i now go toward him ; therefore , follow me , and mark what way i make
much good , i may be pluck ' d into the swallowing womb of this deep pit , poor bassianus
heart , once be stronger than thy continent , crack thy frail case .
came by it , what stuff ' tis made of , whereof it is born , i am to learn
what , stand ' st thou idle here ?
master , a mercatante or a pedant , i know not what ; but formal in apparel , in gait
my father and my uncle and myself did give him that same royalty he wears ; and when he was
sudden sight hath thrall ' d my wounded eye .
serv ' d his designments in mine own person ; holp to reap the fame which he did end all
aunchient pistol , i do partly understand your meaning .
say , how came you hither ?
nay , go not back .
mine honest friend , will you take eggs for money ?
it cannot be ; it is impossible ; mirth cannot move a soul in agony .
it is often so indeed ; but much of the father ' s substance !
o , my lord , would it not grieve an able man to leave so sweet a bedfellow ?
fear comes upon me .
sinewy vigour of the traveller .
i have drunk poison whiles he utter ' d it .
proud athens he ' s set down by this , whose fall the mark of his ambition is .
business from our age , conferring them on younger strengths while we unburthen ' d crawl toward death .
to the cyprus wars , which even now stands in act , that , for their souls , another of
you nymphs , call ' d naiads , of the wind ' ring brooks , with your sedg ' d
go apart , adam , and thou shalt hear how he will shake me up .
with him ; and public reasons shall be rendered of caesar ' s death .
may well stretch so far as to annoy us all , which to prevent , let antony and caesar fall
with what a majesty he bears himself ; how insolent of late he is become , how proud , how
if you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle head , you would eat chickens i
star that ushers in the even doth half that glory to the sober west as those two mourning eyes become
young arthur is alive .
the building in my fancy pluck upon my hateful life .
thy greatest help is quiet , gentle nell .
uncleanly scruples !
win a woman .
your hands , come !
cry ' holla ' to thy tongue , i prithee ; it curvets unseasonably .
[they converse apart] katharine .
we ' ll see ' em starv ' d first .
while she lives , my heart will be a burden to me .
over the black gown of a big heart .
a present for the emperor ; which i , the factor for the rest , have done in france .
i believe thee ; for i think thou never wast where grace was said .
thou coward , art thou bragging to the stars , telling the bushes that thou look ' st for wars
not what i can urge against him .
will mark it .
here ' s that shall drive some of them to a non-come .
o , what a sympathy of woe is this as far from help as limbo is from bliss !
i am woe for ' t , sir .
you shall find her the infernal ate in good apparel .
txt skill infinite or monstrous desperate .
it needs not , nor it boots thee not , proud queen ; unless the adage must be verified ,
the battlements their ordnance fire ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
states quite from their fixture !
what , will you make a younker of me ?
your means abroad- you have me , rich ; and i will never fail beginning nor supplyment .
could not with graceful eyes attend those wars which fronted mine own peace .
king for him attempting who was self-subdu ' d ; and , in the fleshment of this dread exploit ,
whither go you ?
how now , meg !
lightest word would harrow up thy soul , freeze thy young blood , make thy two eyes , like stars
this is all-souls ' day , fellow , is it not ?
wrench his sword from him .
, i agreed .
would move me ; but i am constant as the northern star , of whose true-fix ' d and resting
[exit an officer .
let go his arm .
thus for thus , and such a grief for such , in every lineament , branch , shape , and
; heard where his plants in others ' orchards grew ; saw how deceits were gilded in his smiling ;
exeunt petruchio and katherina hortensio .
last scene of all , that ends this strange eventful history , is second childishness and mere oblivion ; sans
but , by your leave , it never yet did hurt to lay down likelihoods and forms of hope .
now , music , sound , and sing your solemn hymn .
a godly peace concluded of between the realms of england and of france .
poet .
and i , forsooth , in love ; i , that have been love ' s whip ; a very
may he continue long in his highness ' favour , and do justice for truth ' s sake and his
and ask no other dowry with her but such another jest .
in this air but three days longer , on the pain of death .
nay , ' tis most credible .
we are like to prove a goodly commodity , being taken up of these men ' s bills .
on my word , it will serve him ; she ' s as big as he is ; and there
no , by my troth , i did not mean such love .
nay , in that you are astray : ' twere best pound you .
high emperor , upon my feeble knee i beg this boon , with tears not lightly shed , that this
if we lose the field we cannot keep the town .
born to our desire , than think that we before have heard them told : thy registers and thee i
o , be persuaded !
i will be satisfied ; let me see it , i say .
that will i , should i die the hour after .
' s green all girded up in sheaves borne on the bier with white and bristly beard : then of
the strain of man ' s bred out into baboon and monkey .
enter rosalind , celia , and corin , at a distance phebe .
let me not , since i have my dukedom got , and pardon ' d the deceiver , dwell in
you being their mouths , why rule you not their teeth ?
under what title shall i woo for thee that god , the law , my honour , and her love
fie upon thee !
methinks they should invite them without knives : good for their meat and safer for their lives .
o error , soon conceived , thou never comest unto a happy birth , but kill ' st the mother
come , son , let ' s away ; our army is ready ; come , we ' ll after
well then , i pray , your price o ' th ' consulship ?
slaughter ; with faces fit for masks , or rather fairer than those for preservation cas ' d or shame-
in respect that it is solitary , i like it very well ; but in respect that it is private
txt emilia .
i will not slay thee , but i ' ll drive thee back .
why , then , by god- queen elizabeth .
death with a bottom of brown bread ; i said a gown .
titus , thou shalt obtain and ask the empery .
(sings) but age with his stealing steps hath clawed me in his clutch , and hath shipped me intil the
do you not love me ?
and calls them brothers , friends , and countrymen .
this is the most omnipotent villain that ever cried ' stand !
wilt thou kill god ' s officers and the king ' s ?
and she in mine .
let not my cold words here accuse my zeal .
a heavy reckoning for you , sir .
i do refuse you for my judge and here , before you all , appeal unto the pope , to
o , for the love of laughter , let him fetch his drum ; he says he has a stratagem
sir , sir , that cannot be .
up peerless .
we ' ll burn the house of brutus .
my unsoil ' d name , th ' austereness of my life , my vouch against you , and my
once .
ay , the heavens hear me !
of honour , afterwards queen an old lady , friend to anne bullen patience , woman to queen katharine lord
how fares your grace ?
there again .
[a march afar off] edward .
indeed , your drums , being beaten , will cry out ; and so shall you , being beaten .
sir , go you in ; and , madam , go with him ; and go , sir paris .
and truth in virtue , i am affianc ' d this man ' s wife as strongly as words could
tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow creeps in this petty pace from day to day to the last syllable
let her to the greeks ; and so i ' ll tell her the next time i see her .
to hear meekly , sir , and to laugh moderately ; or , to forbear both .
are .
so guildenstern and rosencrantz go to ' t .
so busily she turns the leaves !
hear , hear how dying salisbury doth groan .
and what have kings that privates have not too , save ceremony- save general ceremony ?
>> the comedy of errors act i .
come on , then ; down , and swear .
her father .
fled to his house amazed .
put not your worthy rage into your tongue ; one time will owe another .
exit boy i doubt he be hurt .
softly !
there is a sickness which puts some of us in distemper ; but i cannot name the disease ; and
mean him , but therein suits his folly to the mettle of my speech ?
and i could sing , would weeping do me good , and never borrow any tear of thee .
n from thee .
of their plot is almost come .
i have no hope that he ' s undrown ' d .
shallow ' s house enter shallow , falstaff , bardolph , and page shallow .
i said ' good morrow , ajax ' ; and he replies ' thanks , agamemnon .
no stoics nor no stocks , i pray , or so devote to aristotle ' s checks as ovid be
to barbarous licence ; as ' tis ever common that men are merriest when they are from home .
to see , i hazarded the loss of whom i lov ' d .
back of his hand , thus , and then the people fell ashouting .
let ' s make no stay .
the table ' s full .
we thank you all .
let me dispute with thee of thy estate .
from forth this morsel of dead royalty the life , the right , and truth of all this realm is
coldest , and despair most fits .
i laugh to see your ladyship so fond to think that you have aught but talbot ' s shadow whereon
our tongues held vile to name .
thou villain base , know ' st me not by my clothes ?
in person i ' ll hear his confessions justify ; and point by point the treasons of his master he
you are the thickest here .
_num_ that thou hast her it is not all my grief , and yet it may be said i loved
i humbly thank your royal majesty .
one face , one voice , one habit , and two persons !
of pompey ' s statue , which all the while ran blood , great caesar fell .
[to perdita] o cursed wretch , that knew ' st this was the prince , and wouldst adventure to mingle
is he dispatch ' d ?
what would your majesty ?
which of them both is dearest to me i have no skill in sense to make distinction .
nor his beauty .
how came you thus recovered ?
and , trust me , i was coming to you .
' thus , my most royal liege , accusing it , i put it on my head , to try
desire of this .
many a morning hath he there been seen , with tears augmenting the fresh morning ' s dew , adding
pray you give me my gown ; or else keep it in your page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
hurries up and down the little number of your doubtful friends .
most sovereign creature- cleopatra .
paris and i kiss evermore for him .
you are come to see my daughter anne ?
so- very well .
txt five hundred were but yesterday dubb ' d knights .
the noise was here .
, i have resum ' d again the part i came in .
and did deliver to our age , this tale of heme the hunter for a truth .
, if that our noble father were alive ?
enter the two kings , with their powers , at several doors king john .
unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense .
hear me , o , hear me !
' tis so ; and that self chain about his neck which he forswore most monstrously to have .
o , my heart bleeds to think o ' th ' teen that i have turn ' d you to
good your highness , patience .
my lord , your loving nephew now is come .
die , prophet , in thy speech .
of my poor queen .
of the world .
my heart is ever at your service , my lord .
nay , as i am a gentleman , i will .
for why my bowels cannot hide her woes , but like a drunkard must i vomit them .
the hand of brutus !
keep peace , upon your lives !
your letters did withhold our breaking forth , till we perceiv ' d both how you were wrong led and
here , hamlet , take my napkin , rub thy brows .
have given out him .
our meaning .
ost .
manningtree ox with the pudding in his belly , that reverend vice , that grey iniquity , that father ruffian
when they next wake , all this derision shall seem a dream and fruitless vision ; and back to athens
as the duke said , the will of heaven be done , and the king ' s pleasure by me
to-morrow next we will for ireland ; and ' tis time , i trow .
it is now dead midnight .
down with him , thief !
i have a woman ' s longing , an appetite that i am sick withal , to see great hector
a calendar , a calendar !
on the torture of the mind to lie in restless ecstasy .
our content is our best having .
go and importune her .
to-morrow , my lord .
sweet nell , ill can thy noble mind abrook the abject people gazing on thy face , with envious looks
txt she shall be buried by her antony ; no grave upon the earth shall clip in it a pair
thus far ; and so farewell .
fly ?
the lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard .
hear it not , duncan , for it is a knell that summons thee to heaven , or to hell
breathes upon a bank of violets , stealing and giving odour !
sex .
ay , sir ; i ' ll call them to you .
txt <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library ,
pray now , no more ; my mother , who has a charter to extol her blood , when she
well , old man , i will tell you news of your son .
an oath .
i ' ll look no more , lest my brain turn , and the deficient sight topple down headlong .
for , by the sacred radiance of the sun , the mysteries of hecate and the night ; by all
him i ' ll desire to meet me at the consecrated fount , a league below the city ; and
his mother was a vot ' ress of my order ; and , in the spiced indian air , by
say not we brought it .
is man no more than this ?
milk-white horses , trapp ' d in silver .
for from my heart thine image ne ' er shall go ; my sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell
enter jessica , above , in boy ' s clothes jessica .
not know me yet ?
open , locks , whoever knocks !
cease ; no more .
guilt is great ; receive the sentence of the law for sins such as by god ' s book are
the heavens do low ' r upon you for some ill ; move them no more by crossing their high
to cry amen to that , thus we appear .
, that white-fac ' d shore , whose foot spurns back the ocean ' s roaring tides and coops from
it is young orlando , that tripp ' d up the wrestler ' s heels and your heart both in
that very hour , and in the self-same inn , a mean woman was delivered of such a burden ,
nine changes of the wat ' ry star hath been the shepherd ' s note since we have left our
know ' st thou not the duke hath banish ' d me , his daughter ?
the charm dissolves apace , and as the morning steals upon the night , melting the darkness , so their
no more , i pray you .
[aside to prospero] sir , all this service have i done since i went .
thou art a strange fellow .
i think he be angry indeed .
aconitum or rash gunpowder .
did this in caesar seem ambitious ?
most sweet lady- olivia .
ay , and mark thee too , jack .
who being then appointed master of this design , did give us , with rich garments , linens , stuffs
why , yet it lives there uncheck ' d that antonio hath a ship of rich lading wreck ' d
ay , but when ?
it is yours .
o , what a scandal is it to our crown that two such noble peers as ye should jar !
[aside to wolsey] but to be commanded for ever by your grace , whose hand has rais ' d me
there is something in the wind , that we cannot get in .
time is a very bankrupt , and owes more than he ' s worth to season .
ay , good brother , or go about to think .
they do but jest , poison in jest ; no offence i ' th ' world .
i cannot tell ; things must be as they may .
] what trumpet is that same ?
and hang up them .
thou liest , malignant thing .
therein , ye gods , you make the weak most strong ; therein , ye gods , you tyrants do
thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright when it doth tax itself ; as these black masks proclaim an enshielded
txt exit tamora chiron .
i think thee now some common customer .
re-enter warwick now where is he that will not stay so long till his friend sickness hath determin ' d
am i so round with you , as you with me , that like a football you do spurn me
to sauce thy dishes .
you must take your chance , and either not attempt to choose at all , or swear before you choose
hie to the goths and raise an army there ; and if ye love me , as i think you
- you tailor ' s yard , you sheath , you bowcase , you vile standing tuck !
th ' consul ' s view slew three opposers ; tarquin ' s self he met , and struck him
good signior , you shall more command with years than with your weapons .
the reek of a lime-kiln .
txt and i have seen thee pause and take thy breath , when that a ring of greeks have hemm
and he did bid us follow to the temple .
never tell him , my lord .
make my master out of love with thee .
his heels and curtsy at his frowns , to show how much thou art degenerate .
the commonwealth doth stand , and so would do , were he more angry at it .
my father glendower is not ready yet , nor shall we need his help these fourteen days .
break thou in pieces and consume to ashes , thou foul accursed minister of hell !
my master preaches patience to him , and the while his man with scissors nicks him like a fool ;
he was not so resolv ' d when last we spake together .
now , by saint john , that news is bad indeed .
go , hie thee , hie thee from this slaughter-house , lest thou increase the number of the dead ,
enter queen margaret , prince of wales , and exeter prince of wales .
i therefore vouch again that with some mixtures powerful o ' er the blood , or with some dram conjured
fight till the last gasp ; i will be your guard .
fare thee well , dame , whate ' er becomes of me .
the blood upon your visage dries ; ' tis time it should be look ' d to .
, who was to edmund langley , edward the third ' s fifth son , son .
love is holy ; and my integrity ne ' er knew the crafts that you do charge men with .
exit , borne out by his attendants king richard .
; as in this glorious and well-foughten field we kept together in our chivalry .
be it lawful i love thee as thou lov ' st those , whom thine eyes woo as mine importune
bigot and lord salisbury , with eyes as red as new-enkindled fire , and others more , going to seek
come then , let ' s go fight with them .
for i have heard that she was there in place .
there is ten thousand- macbeth .
erpressed defence can bide ?
i ' ll throw thy body in another room , and triumph , henry , in thy day of doom
the queen returns , finds the king dead , and makes passionate action .
sweet lovers love the spring .
i then mov ' d you , my lord of canterbury , and got your leave to make this present
o , a good wish upon you !
a head of gallant warriors , noble gentlemen .
i am invited , sir , to certain merchants , of whom i hope to make much benefit ; i
i fear he will prove the weeping philosopher when he grows old , being so full of unmannerly sadness in
be calm , good wind , blow not a word away till i have found each letter in the letter-
mistress anne , yourself shall go first .
brave burgundy , undoubted hope of france !
[to aemilius] go thou before to be our ambassador ; say that the emperor requests a parley of warlike lucius
high degree .
s blood , the privy maidens ' groans , for husbands , fathers , and betrothed lovers , that shall
' t .
[aside] then we are like to have biting statutes , unless his teeth be pull ' d out .
' s tongue unfold the imagin ' d happiness that both receive in either by this dear encounter .
to be detected with a jealous rotten bell-wether ; next , to be compass ' d like a good bilbo
all other doubts , by time let them be clear ' d : fortune brings in some boats that are
when remedies are past , the griefs are ended by seeing the worst , which late on hopes depended .
i bleed inwardly for my lord .
it rejoices me that i hope i shall see him ere i die .
get you to bed on the instant ; i will be returned forthwith .
as caesar loved me , i weep for him ; as he was fortunate , i rejoice at it ;
i comes forward i peace , ye fat-kidney ' d rascal !
i know ' t too well .
peace , i say !
what , conrade !
therefore , as i am bound , receive it from me .
in your hand , and stand between two churchmen , good my lord ; for on that ground i '
he is mad .
' tis time to part .
txt and left behind him richard , his only son , who , after edward the third ' s death
us to make our wills more keen .
you swore to me , when i did give it you , that you would wear it till your hour
juno but an ethiope were ; and deny himself for jove , turning mortal for thy love .
i will not be sworn but love may transform me to an oyster ; but i ' ll take my
i mean , sir , for his weapon ; but in the imputation laid on him by them , in
' tis one thing to be tempted , escalus , another thing to fall .
wide revenge swallow them up .
it is not meet the council hear a riot ; there is no fear of got in a riot ;
will prove our country ' s bliss .
well , mildly be it then- mildly .
neither his daughter , if we judge by manners ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
a little boy , as touching the hit it ?
and will by and by depart .
you shall advise me in all for cleopatra .
god , god , forgive us all !
has no friends so much as but to prop him ?
praising what is lost makes the remembrance dear .
txt and not dismember caesar !
have i not heard the sea , puff ' d up with winds , rage like an angry boar chafed
i would not be sir nob in any case .
then mark th ' inducement .
make good people .
the sum is paid , the traitors are agreed , the king is set from london , and the scene
be not dismay ' d , fair lady ; nor misconster the mind of talbot as you did mistake the
thee have i not locked up in any chest , save where thou art not , though i feel thou
destruction fang mankind !
what a damn ' d epicurean rascal is this !
sirs , stop their mouths , let them not speak to me ; but let them hear what fearful words
a sail , a sail !
bargain of your faith , i do beseech you even at that time i may be married too .
i never did thee harm ; why wilt thou slay me ?
serious vanity !
necessity will make us all forsworn three thousand times within this three years ' space ; for every man with
enter king henry , warwick , montague , clarence , oxford , and exeter warwick .
let husbands know their wives have sense like them ; they see and smell and have their palates both for
if any such be here- as god forbid !
now , herald , are the dead numb ' red ?
if we shadows have offended , think but this , and all is mended , that you have but slumb
and so , good morrow to you every one .
nought shall make us rue , if england to itself do rest but true .
why the devil came you between us ?
you have a hanging look- do you call , sir , your occupation a mystery ?
pandar our doubtful hope , our convoy , and our bark .
there they hoist us , to cry to th ' sea , that roar ' d to us ; to
abate thy rage , abate thy manly rage ; abate thy rage , great duke .
must i do so ?
at head .
my good lord , i guess their tenour .
a rape upon the maiden virtue of the crown .
exeunt coriolanus and menenius he has it now ; and by his looks methinks ' tis warm at ' s
most notedly , sir .
this would make mercy swear and play the tyrant .
what the goodyear , my lord !
turn head and stop pursuit ; for coward dogs most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten runs
go to ; well .
wife , go you to her ere you go to bed ; acquaint her here of my son paris '
think you i bear the shears of destiny ?
good day , good day .
all corners else o ' th ' earth let liberty make use of ; space enough have i in such
what drink ' st thou oft , instead of homage sweet , but poison ' d flattery ?
now upon my bended knee , in sight of england and her lordly peers , deliver up my title in
there is a fellow somewhat near the door , he should be a brazier by his face , for ,
tower and welcome you .
time we have confidence ; and of other wooers .
the liker you ; few taller are so young .
let ' s see his pockets ; these letters that he speaks of may be my friends .
lear .
you ' ll ne ' er be friends with him : ' a kill ' d your sister .
enter juliet alone .
she was , good curtis , before this frost ; but thou know ' st winter tames man , woman
txt or pardon ' d being down ?
sad remembrance .
the room where they supp ' d is too hot ; they ' ll come in straight .
there ' s the point .
madam , he ' s married to octavia .
yea , man and birds are fain of climbing high .
exit reignier from the walls suffolk .
come down .
these signs forerun the death or fall of kings .
[gazes on her] o fairest beauty , do not fear nor fly !
so much for that .
when you and i met at saint albans last your legs did better service than your hands .
ratcliff .
good night , lord brutus .
i shall drive you then to confess the wilful abuse , and then i know how to handle you .
o , above measure false !
at mine unworthiness , that dare not offer what i desire to give , and much less take what i
txt hath followed certain men unto this house .
go before , nurse .
sir , a word .
servant , you are sad .
i know not where ; but wheresoever , i wish him well .
is all things well , according as i gave directions ?
er be drunk whilst i live again , but in honest , civil , godly company , for this trick
lords .
here comes his body , mourned by mark antony , who , though he had no hand in his death
go in to him , and fetch him out .
do forswear her , as one unworthy all the former favours that i have fondly flatter ' d her withal
boast .
and what ' s to come she can descry .
the drum .
for debt , pompey- or how ?
so far afoot , i shall be weary , love .
to my fortunes and me .
ay indeed was he .
give me your hand , orlando .
if the king had no son , they would desire to live on crutches till he had one .
what , art thou afraid ?
your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to the doctor ; for me to put him to
but such is the infection of the time that , for the health and physic of our right , we
and trust me , love , in my eye so do you .
wine , and it perfumes the blood ere one can say ' what ' s this ?
exeunt servants madam , undress you , and come now to bed .
red labour , i have left asleep ; and for the rest o ' th ' fleet , which i
you know that you are brutus that speaks this , or , by the gods , this speech were else
your minister for you obeys works under you ; and to your audit comes their distract parcels in combined sums
bring you to ' t .
i ' ll overtake you .
a rascal bragging slave !
your niece will not be seen , or if she be , it ' s four to one she '
on , gentlemen , away ; our masquing mates by this time for us stay .
indeed she ' s a most fresh and delicate creature .
: nor did i wonder at the lily ' s white , nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose
i love thee better now than e ' er i did .
[within] my liege , beware ; look to thyself ; thou hast a traitor in thy presence there .
now , hercules be thy speed , young man !
and you , sir , for this chain arrested me .
if i would time expend with such a snipe but for my sport and profit .
my brother was too careless of his charge .
, of england here .
lend thine ear .
know , caesar doth not wrong , nor without cause will he be satisfied .
eat , that meat was made for mouths , that the gods sent not corn for the rich men only
in a most curious mantle , wrought by th ' hand of his queen mother , which for more probation
, bigot , and soldiers lewis .
with you .
keep you your word , o duke , to give your daughter ; you yours , orlando , to receive
i ' ll deny nothing .
i can tell thee where that saying was born , of ' i fear no colours .
how now , quilt ?
cousin , farewell ; what presence must not know , from where you do remain let paper show .
the capitol enter two officers , to lay cushions , as it were in the capitol first officer .
dawn , doth rise and help hyperion to his horse ; and follows so the ever-running year with profitable labour
a whoreson , mad fellow ' s it was .
you cannot shun yourself .
sir , that ' s to-morrow .
in a false quarrel there is no true valour .
it is i that all th ' abhorred things o ' th ' earth amend by being worse than they
- what , are you gone again ?
let but your honour know , whom i believe to be most strait in virtue , that , in the
enter vaux queen .
quarrel , sir ?
me the false way .
[sly is carried out .
enter bassianus and lavinia tamora .
your pulsidge beats as extraordinarily as heart would desire ; and your colour , i warrant you , is as
in the meantime let me be that i am , and seek not to alter me .
rebellion in this laud shall lose his sway , meeting the check of such another day ; and since this
sparkling in lovers ' eyes ; being vex ' d , a sea nourish ' d with lovers ' tears
ay , sir ; well , well .
all have not offended ; for those that were , it is not square to take , on those that
i am as thy general is .
all things that we ordained festival turn from their office to black funeral- our instruments to melancholy bells , our
were never orphans had so dear a loss .
thyself art coming to see perform ' d the dreaded act which thou so sought ' st to hinder .
suffolk , let them go .
quickly , quickly !
only thus much i give your grace to know : by all the duties that i owe to rome ,
wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile ; filths savour but themselves .
be not amaz ' d , there ' s nothing hid from me .
it cry sleep to death .
my friends , the boy hath taught us manly duties ; let us find out the prettiest daisied plot we
why should that name be sounded more than yours ?
it is a good divine that follows his own instructions ; i can easier teach twenty what were good to
second apparition .
news , and such old news as you never heard of !
txt why somerset should be preferr ' d in this .
richard and hastings .
turn out that eyeless villain .
these ducats pawn i for my father here .
now tell me , i pray , you that durst swear that your mistress blanca lov ' d none in
help to search my house this one time .
me to mark me for his friend ; yet i protest , for his right noble mind , illustrious virtue
me of reason .
thou and i are too wise to woo peaceably .
for many miles about there ' s scarce a bush .
your prattling nurse into a rapture lets her baby cry while she chats him ; the kitchen malkin pins her
so got udge me , that is a virtuous mind .
that thou didst love her , strikes some scores away from the great compt ; but love that comes too
thou hast a servant nam ' d lucilius .
txt alcibiades .
urs .
uncertain life and sure death .
cause were known to them it most concerns ; nor would your noble mother for much more be so dishonoured
ask what thou wilt ; that i had said and done .
i ' ll leave you .
fair lovers , you are fortunately met ; of this discourse we more will hear anon .
and in the morning early shall mine uncle bring him our purposes ; and so farewell .
pride .
doting chronicles , say it did so a little time before that our great grandsire , edward , sick '
thick-ey ' d musing and curs ' d melancholy ?
antony , thou wouldst say .
o me , the gods !
speak my mind of him ; and indeed this day , sir-i may tell it you-i think i have incens
what wouldst do then , apemantus ?
d him with a scruple that will undo her .
produce the prisoner .
that ' s sides and heart .
thou part ' st a fair fray .
have forgot our way ; we ' ll rest us , hermia , if you think it good , and
would ?
o my love !
i dare not speak much further ; but cruel are the times when we are traitors and do not know
he ' s shrewdly vex ' d at something .
from isles of greece the princes orgillous , their high blood chaf ' d , have to the port of
at further space , t ' appear where you shall hold your session .
of york , is it not ?
but whom his grace affects , must be companion of his nuptial bed .
i greatly fear my money is not safe .
more of him anon .
go , get aboard ; look to thy bark .
o , sir , she makes no doubt of that .
o brave young prince !
if it be mine , keep it not from me , quickly let me have it .
so shall you feel the loss , but not the friend which you weep for .
and the letter is to desire and require her to solicit your master ' s desires to mistress anne page
to his full height .
' five or six thousand horse ' i said-i will say true- ' or thereabouts ' set down , for
' s lance ; and in the very pangs of death he cried , like to a dismal clangor heard
approach , ho !
gave me first my oath provokes me to this threefold perjury : love bade me swear , and love bids
enter roderigo .
stamp , rave , and fret , that i may sing and dance .
' tis dinner time .
painting .
truly , i will not go first ; truly , la !
if ever he have wife , let her be made more miserable by the death of him than i am
i love you the better .
dear goddess , hear that prayer of the people !
no , nor never can , deserve a sweet look from demetrius ' eye , but you must flout my
can you make no use of nothing , nuncle ?
will you speak well of him that kill ' d your cousin ?
it for a difference between himself and his horse ; for it is all the wealth that he hath left
well , masters , we hear our charge .
when comes troilus ?
craven ' s leg , [plucking it off] which i have done , because unworthily thou wast installed in that
' a was so forlorn that his dimensions to any thick sight were invisible .
these nine in buckram that i told thee of- prince .
she dies for ' t .
you have now the good advantage of the night .
o my dear mother , do i see you living ?
to your court whiles he was hast ' ning- in the chase , it seems , of this fair couple-
is ' t not a kind of incest to take life from thine own sister ' s shame ?
he is call ' d the britain reveller .
if you ' ll go fetch him , we ' ll say our song the whilst .
now is the jerkin under the line ; now , jerkin , you are like to lose your hair ,
unsolicited i left no reverend person in this court , but by particular consent proceeded under your hands and seals
- york .
sow .
nay , speak thy mind ; and let him ne ' er speak more that speaks thy words again to
hang there like fruit , my soul , till the tree die !
for mine own part , i never come into any room in a taphouse but i am drawn in .
, bearing thy heart which i will keep so chary as tender nurse her babe from faring ill .
txt what guests were in her eyes , which parted thence as pearls from diamonds dropp ' d .
post you to london , and you will find it so ; i speak no more than every one doth
good aunt , stand up .
good shepherd , tell this youth what ' tis to love .
but with his last attempt he wip ' d it out , destroy ' d his country , and his
be done than to be one of the twenty to follow mine own teaching .
there ' s my exchange [throws down a glove] .
give me a cup of sack to make my eyes look red , that it may be thought i have
good ursula , wake my cousin beatrice and desire her to rise .
[to imogen] brother , stay here .
to-morrow i ' ll to the wars , she to her single sorrow .
o , this boy lends mettle to us all !
an you should do it too terribly , you would fright the duchess and the ladies , that they would
this bud of love , by summer ' s ripening breath , may prove a beauteous flow ' r when
who took it from my pillow ?
; and yet ' tis well .
but macbeth is .
- but stay , what noise , enter queen .
peace , stand aside ; the company parts .
my lord , good morrow ; good morrow , catesby .
no , my good lord ; therefore mistrust me not .
alack , poor gentleman !
i will go before , sir .
but let the frame of things disjoint , both the worlds suffer , ere we will eat our meal in
blessed are you whose worthiness gives scope , being had to triumph , being lacked to hope .
hermits in their holy prayers .
that which i show , heaven knows , is merely love , duty , and zeal , to your unmatched
if he ask for me , i am ill and gone to bed .
sit , then , and talk with her ; she is thine own .
pity teach thee how .
how now , what ' s the matter ?
poor duke ' s officer .
thy devotion and right christian zeal .
let thy effects so follow to be most unlike our courtiers , as good as promise .
[flourish] [within : ' make way there-caesar !
when i have pluck ' d the rose , i cannot give it vital growth again , it must needs
track of his bright passage to the occident .
' tis well , lavinia , that thou hast no hands ; for hands to do rome service is but
o cursed spite that ever i was born to set it right !
what lights come yond ?
sirrah , walk off .
well , death ' s the end of all .
fear ; therefore no marvel though demetrius do , as a monster , fly my presence thus .
' tranio .
it is no mean happiness , therefore , to be seated in the mean : superfluity come sooner by white
' your brooches , pearls , and ouches .
knacks , trifles , nosegays , sweetmeats- messengers of strong prevailment in unhardened youth ; with cunning hast thou filch
so will it , madam , till i lie with you .
barren , barren , barren ; beggars all , beggars all , sir john -marry , good air .
enter hume hume .
thy beauty sounded , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the end <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library
what , hast thou din ' d ?
give me some sack ; and , sweetheart , lie thou there .
but what at full i know , thou know ' st no part ; i knowing all my peril ,
exit bastard .
to thy great comfort in this mystery of ill opinions , here ' s the twin-brother of thy letter ;
it cannot be ; thou dost but say ' tis so ; i trust i may not trust thee ,
, or quickly will be landed .
we will begin these rites , as we do trust they ' ll end , in true delights .
tell her , emilia , i ' ll use that tongue i have ; if wit flow from ' t
i have told your lordship already the stocks carry him .
will you sit ?
eleven , sir .
" brutus .
confirm it so , mine honourable lord .
go to the gate , somebody knocks .
then there ' s my glove ; descend , and open your uncharged ports .
therefore be suspicious i more incline to somerset than york : both are my kinsmen , and i love them
therefore devise with me how we may fly , whither to go , and what to bear with us ;
exit an attendant bertram .
let the mark have a prick in ' t , to mete at , if it may be .
] we do , my lord .
' o dear ophelia , i am ill at these numbers ; i have not art to reckon my groans
what made me love thee ?
scene _num_ a public place enter second merchant , angelo , and an officer second merchant .
never man ' s eye may behold my body ; do this , and be a charitable murderer .
an ' twere not as good a deed as drink to turn true man and to leave these rogues ,
break , heart ; i prithee break !
she ' s a fair creature ; will you go see her ?
let me go , i say .
hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea ?
he would not take the crown ; therefore ' tis certain he was not ambitious .
that ' s her chamber .
[aside to sampson] no .
o tullus !
approach , and speak .
[alarum within] parolles .
it is a quarrel just and reasonable , to be reveng ' d on him that kill ' d my
for my private part , i am no more touch ' d than all priam ' s sons ; and
what manners is in this , to press before thy father to a grave ?
, kept him a foreign man still ; which so griev ' d him that he ran mad and died
exit pisanio cloten .
' d down from the clouds to turn and wind a fiery pegasus and witch the world with noble horsemanship
no weapons , sir .
apparent hazard of his life .
madam , i will , if suddenly i may .
trust me , he beat him most pitifully .
he is simply the most active gentleman of france .
midnight , assist our moan , help us to sigh and groan heavily , heavily , graves , yawn and
and what wit could wit have to excuse that ?
skilful enough to have liv ' d still , if knowledge could be set up against mortality .
lord longaville is one .
meantime , this deep disgrace in brotherhood touches me deeper than you can imagine .
what , hoa , mistress page !
thine , in all compliments of devoted and heart-burning heat of duty , don adriano de armado .
promis ' d , and i ' ll be gone , sir , and not trouble you .
let me wipe off this honourable dew that silverly doth progress on thy cheeks .
] my lord ?
none .
exeunt all but the king , katherine , and alice king henry .
to them , with his soldiers , talbot talbot .
a street enter a company of mutinous citizens , with staves , clubs , and other weapons first citizen .
you ' ll lose the tide if you tarry any longer .
rate case .
here ' tis .
play something like the murther of my father before mine uncle .
what claim lays she to thee ?
a murtherer and a villain !
now , now .
i ' ll get me such a colour ' d periwig .
there ' s a good mother , boy , that blots thy father .
the hurt cannot be much .
shall ring thy dire departure out .
our bodies are gardens , to the which our wills are gardeners ; so that if we will plant nettles
you have been a scourge to her enemies ; you have been a rod to her friends .
there ' s many have committed it .
yet had we not determin ' d he should die until your lordship came to see his end- which now
alack the day , i know you not , young gentleman ; but i pray you tell me , is
why , then farewell ; thou never shalt mock diomed again .
ebbing men indeed , most often , do so near the bottom run by their own fear or sloth .
you , edward , shall unto my lord cobham , with whom the kentishmen will willingly rise ; in them
bear hence his body ; i will help to bury it .
[aside] pray heaven she win him .
and see already how he doth begin to make us strangers to his looks of love .
to eltham will i , where the young king is , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
txt isabella .
conceive , and grow big-bellied with the wanton wind ; which she , with pretty and with swimming gait following-
thy sale of offices and towns in france , if they were known , as the suspect is great ,
horn-mad , thou villain !
ay ; is it not a language i speak ?
a poor capocchia !
your own neck down .
[aside to costard] they have been at a great feast of languages and stol ' n the scraps .
cranmer .
why , this it is to have a name in great men ' s fellowship .
she is of so free , so kind , so apt , so blessed a disposition , she holds it
william .
you found his mote ; the king your mote did see ; but i a beam do find in each
o , sir , pardon me !
th ' legitimate .
make room , and let him stand before our face .
on , bacons on !
tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit ; for i am sick when i do look on thee
o , it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters ,
to make you understand this in a manifested effect , i crave but four days ' respite ; for the
, that vanity in years ?
seem they grave and learned ?
you are young , sir harry guildford .
marry , have we , sir .
er-read these letters and well consider of them .
if marcius should be join ' d wi ' th ' volscians- cominius .
why , here walk i in the black brow of night to find you out .
and , might we lay th ' old proverb to your charge , so like you ' tis the worse
asses are made to bear , and so are you .
and in ushering , mend him who can .
one word in private with you ere i die .
go tell this heavy message to the king .
nay , i will .
revenge .
but i am in so far in blood that sin will pluck on sin .
if you misdoubt me that i am not she , i know not how i shall assure you further but
hadst thou been aught but gossamer , feathers , air , so many fadom down precipitating , thou ' dst
' d ; but oft have hind ' red , oft , the passages made toward it .
exeunt scene viii .
, for look you how he writes .
all villains that do stand by thee are pure .
' tis sad titus calls .
thou speak ' st as if i would deny my name .
what in the contrary ?
why in that rawness left you wife and child , those precious motives , those strong knots of love ,
i ' ll tell you there is good men porn at monmouth .
ad manes fratrum sacrifice his flesh before this earthy prison of their bones , that so the shadows be not
should i not say ' hath a dog money ?
thanks , and good night to the greeks ' general .
content yourself .
my octavia , read not my blemishes in the world ' s report .
ay , that ' s a colt indeed , for he doth nothing but talk of his horse ; and
the princess !
, concurring both in name and quality .
and when shalt thou see him again ?
exit francis hostess .
i ' ll fight at sea .
truly , fortune ' s displeasure is but sluttish , if it smell so strongly as thou speak ' st
and wilt thou learn of me ?
yet to be known shortens my made intent .
, i feel .
th ' chins , that the foul lake o ' erstunk their feet .
sweet madam !
this is no answer .
and he is welcome .
thursday is near ; lay hand on heart , advise : an you be mine , i ' ll give
for this drivelling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in
s tongue , nor never come in vizard to my friend , nor woo in rhyme , like a blind
now the gods keep you old enough that you may live only in bone , that none may look on
look thee here ; take up , take up , boy ; open ' t .
when clouds are seen , wise men put on their cloaks ; when great leaves fall , then winter is
crier hobgoblin , make the fairy oyes .
i am descended of a gentler blood ; thou art no father nor no friend of mine .
i ' ll call page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
txt first murderer .
me your thoughts .
insolence of office , and the spurns that patient merit of th ' unworthy takes , when he himself might
my brother dead !
may i govern so to heal rome ' s harms and wipe away her woe !
but , mother , i am not sir robert ' s son : i have disclaim ' d sir robert
thou ' rt kind .
gremio , ' tis known my father hath no less than three great argosies , besides two galliasses , and
and grant , as timon grows , his hate may grow to the whole race of mankind , high and
it much repairs me to talk of your good father .
and be a happy mother by the deed .
he , conjunct , and flattering his displeasure , tripp ' d me behind ; being down , insulted ,
how the debt grows , i will pay it .
the dead .
merely awry .
slaughter .
alas , poor women !
no , no .
o , lawful let it be that i have room with rome to curse awhile !
well , god ' s a good man .
you would not hear me at many leisures i propos ' d .
services , took from you th ' apprehension of his present portance , which , most gibingly , ungravely ,
sword , and thy free awe pays homage to us , - thou mayst not coldly set our sovereign process
this consequence : ' good sir , ' or so , or ' friend , ' or ' gentleman '
good my lords , i am not prone to weeping , as our sex commonly are- the want of which
, to give her the avaunt , it is a pity would move a monster .
howbeit , i thank you ; i mean to stride your steed , and at all times to undercrest your
kingdoms are clay ; our dungy earth alike feeds beast as man .
arm you , i pray you , to th ' , speedy voyage ; for we will fetters put upon
[to bertram] these things shall be done , sir .
[enter the king , prince of wales , lord john of lancaster , earl of westmoreland , with worcester and
to shape my legs of an unequal size ; to disproportion me in every part , like to a chaos
no , let ' s come in !
what form ?
now , where ' s your master ?
o most unhappy day !
that matter is answered directly .
grudge break to new mutiny , where civil blood makes civil hands unclean .
what colour is this cloak of ?
instruct my daughter how she shall persever , that time and place with this deceit so lawful may prove coherent
away with him , and make a fire straight ; and with our swords , upon a pile of wood
follower of my lady ' s .
, lucentio .
foot ; in token of which duty , if he please , my hand is ready , may it do
after them ?
what ' s pity ?
softly , pray .
ay , my lord ; even so as it is here set down .
txt with slow but stately pace kept on his course , whilst all tongues cried ' god save thee ,
i ' ll pray , and then i ' ll sleep .
the nobleness of life is to do thus [emhracing] , when such a mutual pair and such a twain can
are you there , butcher ?
if ever man went to arthur ' s bosom .
my king !
i am much sorry , sir , you put me to forget a lady ' s manners by being so
return ' d so soon !
why should our endeavour be so lov ' d , and the performance so loathed ?
' twill be much both for your honour better and your cause ; for if the trial of the law
belong you to the lady olivia , friends ?
gentlewoman protected by the countess a widow of florence .
what cheer , madam ?
brutus , bait not me , i ' ll not endure it .
now , gentlemen , let ' s tune , and to it lustily awhile .
if one so rude and of so mean condition may pass into the presence of a king , lo ,
and never yet did insurrection want such water colours to impaint his cause , nor moody beggars , starving for
txt and then let kate be chaste , and dian sportful !
[aside] i am fearful-wherefore frowns he thus ?
[gloucester and clarence withdraw] king edward .
if thou vanquishest , thy words are true ; otherwise i renounce all confidence .
enter hastings , a pursuivant hastings .
and didst thou not , when she was gone down stairs , desire me to be no more so familiarity
mars his idiot !
men so ; but i ' ll deceive you in another sort , and that you ' ll say ere
come , boy ; i am past moe children , but thy sons and daughters will be all gentlemen born
how esteem ' st thou me ?
why , this is an arrant counterfeit rascal ; i remember him now- a bawd , a cutpurse .
whereof , my lord , ' tis time must do .
from out the state of hellish cruelty !
how is ' t , my noble lord ?
not so , my lord ; for his valour cannot carry his discretion , and the fox carries the goose
you weary those that refresh us .
this same skull , sir , was yorick ' s skull , the king ' s jester .
with angelo to-night shall lie his old betrothed but despised ; so disguise shall , by th ' disguised ,
scatters his grain , and shortly comes to harvest .
didst thou not mark the king , what words he spake ?
quiet consummation have , and renowned be thy grave !
this tunis , sir , was carthage .
i cannot tell , good sir , for which of his virtues it was , but he was certainly whipt
why , there is it !
why then a ladder , quaintly made of cords , to cast up with a pair of anchoring hooks ,
i ran from shrewsbury , my noble lord ; where hateful death put on his ugliest mask to fright our
fly , run , hue and cry , villain ; i am undone .
a daughter !
caesar less , but that i loved rome more .
look who comes here ; will you be chid ?
enter dogberry and his compartner [verges] , with the watch .
she ' s quick ; the child brags in her belly already ; ' tis yours .
fie , privacy , fie !
peto .
ay , that ' s the way ; dull not device by coldness and delay .
o , no , my reasons are too deep and dead- too deep and dead , poor infants , in
this is the fruit of whoring .
you have told me too many of him already , sir , if they be true ; if not true
methinks i play as i have seen them do in whitsun pastorals .
but that the poor monster ' s in drink .
a provoking merit , set awork by a reproveable badness in himself .
lie down , lay thine ear close to the ground , and list if thou canst hear the tread of
when from the dauphin ' s crest thy sword struck fire , it warm ' d thy father ' s
diana .
is not their climate foggy , raw , and dull ; on whom , as in despite , the sun
some rise by sin , and some by virtue fall ; some run from breaks of ice , and answer
ay , but he ' ll have but a year in all these ducats ; he ' s a very
sir toby .
devil .
o my poor kingdom , sick with civil blows !
i speak my body shall make good upon this earth , or my divine soul answer it in heaven- thou
john a gaunt loved him well , and betted much money on his head .
what , will you not suffer me ?
my lord , i cannot be so soon provided ; please you , deliberate a day or two .
the stair , into the lobby .
s one thing wanting , which i doubt not but our rome will cast upon thee .
good my lord , give me thy favour still .
that fortune hath bestow ' d upon her , tell her i hold as giddily as fortune ; but '
, cousin percy , you and i and my good lord of worcester will set forth to meet your father
why , then the devil give him good of it !
why , then , we are awake ; let ' s follow him ; and by the way let us
go we to our tent .
i do beseech you send for some of them .
; commit not with man ' s sworn spouse ; set not thy sweet heart on proud array .
my lord , i cannot .
too late !
shall there have money or anything i want .
take him hence ; to th ' rack with him !
hold , warwick , seek thee out some other chase , for i myself must hunt this deer to death
so i ' ll fight against the part i come with ; so i ' ll die for thee ,
i have it ready for thee ; here it is .
refuse not , mighty lord , this proffer ' d love .
the count melun is slain ; the english lords by his persuasion are again fall ' n off , and
will you tell me , master shallow , how to choose a man ?
marry , i wad full fain heard some question ' tween you tway .
i am the youngest of that name , for fault of a worse .
flower ?
to the descent and dust beneath thy foot , a most toad-spotted traitor .
so do each lord ; and either greet him not , or else disdainfully , which shall shake him more
[exit page] a pox of this gout !
a hall of justice page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
do they charge me further ?
can never amend .
if thou wilt weep my fortunes , take my eyes .
wilt thou not answer , man ?
what fellow ' s this ?
but what particular rarity ?
but get thee back , my soul is too much charged with blood of thine already .
i ' ll tell him yet of angelo ' s request , and fit his mind to death , for
clarence and edward .
txt the narrow-prying father , minola , the quaint musician , amorous licio- all for my master ' s sake
to make you sport .
no ; thou shalt .
you shall tell me where in the forest you live .
in faith , he ' s penitent ; and yet his trespass , in our common reason- save that ,
juliet .
no , though be thought his accusation true .
i never saw such noble fury in so poor a thing ; such precious deeds in one that promis '
now , afore god , ' tis shame such wrongs are borne in him , a royal prince , and
' twixt you and me .
creatures may be alike ; were ' t he , i am sure he would have spoke to us .
nay , look not so upon me ; we shall hear of your lordship anon .
dear sir , forbear !
terror , dress ' d him with our love , and given his deputation all the organs of our own
my friend stephano , signify , i pray you , within the house , your mistress is at hand ;
for thy three thousand ducats here is six .
we must not make a scarecrow of the law , setting it up to fear the birds of prey ,
nobility of rome coriolanus .
madam , good hope ; his grace speaks cheerfully .
beg another of thy daughters .
we , poor unfledg ' d , have never wing ' d from view o ' th ' nest ,
his assistants , yea or no ; who answer ' d him they came from buckingham upon his party .
i will not hurt him .
i ' ll write straight to my sister to hold my very course .
and will you persever to enjoy her ?
why , ' tis found so .
light , seeking light , doth light of light beguile ; so , ere you find where light in darkness
now mark him , he begins again to speak .
will it never be morning ?
they have the more need to sleep now , then .
a room in the castle .
me a sterile promontory ; this most excellent canopy , the air , look you , this brave o '
, as truth ' s authentic author to be cited , ' as true as troilus ' shall crown up
i know him to be valiant .
kindred action like to this ?
what present hast thou there ?
is not , sir , my doublet as fresh as the first day i wore it ?
[retires] enter queen elizabeth and the duchess of york queen elizabeth .
he doth appear .
to nothing are they welcome .
simpcox .
what would you say , if i should let you speak ?
better not to have had thee than thus to want thee ; thou , having made me businesses which none
god save you , gentlemen !
thy evil spirit , brutus .
enter borachio and conrade .
then true noblesse would learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong .
noble douglas ' - stopping my greedy ear with their bold deeds ; but in the end , to stop
' sblood , but you will not hear me .
but i had rather fast from all four days than drink so much in one .
men tonight have had resort to you ; for here have been some six or seven , who did hide
as we are ourselves , what things are we !
you , cousins , shall go sound the ocean and cast your nets ; happily you may catch her in
cruelty ; yet you , the murderer , look as bright , as clear , as yonder venus in her
in common worldly things ' tis called ungrateful with dull unwillingness to repay a debt which with a bounteous hand
gilt o ' er-dusted .
bold oxlips , and the crown-imperial ; lilies of all kinds , the flow ' r-de-luce being one .
as with a man busied about decrees : condemning some to death and some to exile ; ransoming him or
with luscious woodbine , with sweet musk-roses , and with eglantine ; there sleeps titania sometime of the night ,
didst perceive ?
sirrah , where ' s snare ?
once i encount ' red him , and thus i said : ' thou maiden youth , be vanquish '
thou dost not slumber : see thy two sons ' heads , thy warlike hand , thy mangled daughter here
since death of my dear ' st mother it did not speak before .
, i cut them off ; and had a purpose now to lead out many to the holy land ,
it is the lord aeneas .
there ' s something tells me- but it is not love- i would not lose you ; and you know
ay , gracious sovereign ; they are so link ' d in friendship that young prince edward marries warwick '
or , if his mind be writ , give me his letter .
, the mountain lioness , the ocean swells not so as aaron storms .
i said , master froth here , this very man , having eaten the rest , as i said ,
my sons- god knows what hath bechanced them ; but this i know- they have demean ' d themselves like
ay , by heaven , my lord .
where is my other life ?
fear not , cesario , take thy fortunes up ; be that thou know ' st thou art , and
the stalling of an ox ?
how a good yoke of bullocks at stamford fair ?
you kill ' d her husband ; and for that vile fault two of her brothers were condemn ' d
first , of my word !
, you spirits oft walk in death) , the cock crows .
record it with your high and worthy deeds .
mean to shrink from me .
is that the law ?
if i did think , sir , i were well awake , i ' d strive to tell you .
peace , you dull fool !
england , i will fall from thee .
here is a touch ; is ' t good ?
the sailors heaved o ' erboard- by this bottle , which i made of the bark of a tree ,
my nephew ' s trespass may be well forgot ; it hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood
make a short shrift ; he longs to see your head .
are those dulcet sounds in break of day that creep into the dreaming bridegroom ' s ear and summon him
the leanness that afflicts us , the object of our misery , is as an inventory to particularize their abundance
that made me to fear ; although , my lord , i know my noble aunt loves me as dear
could well live one by another .
warwick and his company follow] scene ii .
heart thinks , his tongue speaks .
most mighty sovereign , you have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful .
enter ratcliff ratcliff .
make me no more ado , but all embrace him ; be friends , for shame , my lords !
this dead king to the living king i ' ll bear .
will ' t not be ?
txt the pow ' rs , delaying , not forgetting , have incens ' d the seas and shores ,
make content with his fortunes fit , for the rain it raineth every day .
why art thou thus attir ' d , andronicus ?
withal .
i did converse this quondam day with a companion of the king ' s who is intituled , nominated ,
y ' are servant to the count orsino , youth .
give me the map there .
shall this his mock mock of their dear husbands ; mock mothers from their sons , mock castles down ;
there is no excuse shall serve ; you shall not be excus ' d .
of a cat .
begins his golden progress in the east .
be chok ' d with such another emphasis !
i find not myself dispos ' d to sleep .
send for him , good uncle .
priam ' s palace music sounds within .
enter another carrier .
they that add , moreover , he ' s drunk nightly in your company .
it sounds no more ; and sure it waits upon some god o ' th ' island .
txt flout ' em and scout ' em , and scout ' em and flout ' em ; thought is
nay , i care not for their names ; they owe me nothing .
ending at the arrival of an hour .
why he sings ' em over as they were gods or goddesses ; you would think a smock were she-angel
most mistake in her gifts to women .
another part of the field alarum ; excursions .
answer to them .
under your hard construction must i sit , to force that on you in a shameful cunning which you knew
doth your brother that hath banish ' d you .
torn .
proclamation of thy passion , to say thou dost not .
now in page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
thoughts and dreams and sighs , wishes and tears , poor fancy ' s followers .
go in and cheer the king .
boundless intemperance in nature is a tyranny ; it hath been the untimely emptying of the happy throne , and
know their minds , boyet .
pardon me , madam ; little joy have to breathe this news ; yet what i say is true .
txt let come what comes ; only i ' ll be reveng ' d most throughly for my father .
oberon is passing fell and wrath , because that she as her attendant hath a lovely boy , stolen from
what hath he said ?
] osw .
yield , or thou diest .
[singing] and down , down , adown-a , etc .
he hath been lunatic , and , when he says he is , say that he dreams , for he
thus presumptuous and proud , can set the duke up in despite of me .
and if one should be pierc ' d which is the one ?
what say you to ' t , sir john ?
enter the other senators , from timon first senator .
nought ' s had , all ' s spent , where our desire is got without content .
go to , sweet queen , go to-commends himself most affectionately to you- helen .
then is there mirth in heaven , when earthly things made even atone together .
no , not an oath .
nay , do not quarrel with us , good old man .
mars dote on you for his novices !
what , madam !
would not put my reputation now in any staining act .
all famous colleges almost in christendom .
it comes upon me .
and i say ' ay .
most thankfully , my lord .
rather rejoicing to see another merry than merry at anything which profess ' d to make him rejoice ; a
the gods are just , and of our pleasant vices make instruments to scourge us .
it were pity to cast them away for nothing , though between them and a great cause they should be
the douglas and the hotspur both together are confident against the world in arms .
tarry , petruchio , i must go with thee , for in baptista ' s keep my treasure is .
my falcon now is sharp and passing empty .
nay , we must use expostulation kindly , for it is parting from us .
but there ' s no bottom , none , in my voluptuousness .
; the fourth , the reproof valiant ; the fifth , the countercheck quarrelsome ; the sixth , the lie
, thy natural magic and dire property on wholesome life usurp immediately .
what , the chain ?
thus may poor fools believe false teachers ; though those that are betray ' d do feel the treason sharply
-and ' tis a postmaster ' s boy .
being now at hand- thou shalt soon feel , to thy cold comfort , for being slow in thy hot
are afraid of goosequills and dare scarce come thither .
the king must take it ill that he , so slightly valued in his messenger , should have him thus
for my bounty .
cease their hatred ; and this dear conjunction plant neighbourhood and christian-like accord in their sweet bosoms , that never
what say ' st thou , ha ?
a statesman , and a soldier .
come , come , go in with me .
if i do , hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot at me ; and he that
exeunt citizens menenius .
sir , sir , i shall have law in ephesus , to your notorious shame , i doubt it not
therefore , my lord- antonio .
exeunt re-enter boatswain boatswain .
faith , gentlemen , now i play a merchant ' s part , and venture madly on a desperate mart
let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart that doth not wish you joy .
how dost thou like this tune ?
tis no jest that i do hate thee and love helena .
i beseech you , sir , look in this gentleman ' s face .
repair me with thy presence , silvia : thou gentle nymph , cherish thy forlorn swain .
little have you to say , when you depart from him , but , soft and low , ' remember
so your face bids me , though you say nothing .
king richard coeur-de-lion was thy father .
and the blessed sun himself a fair hot wench in flame-coloured taffeta , i see no reason why thou shouldst
but in what nature ?
enter the three witches .
i had you down , and might have made you finish .
but if you be afear ' d to hear the worst , then let the worst , unheard , fall
enter [don] john and borachio .
smile heaven upon this fair conjunction , that long have frown ' d upon their emnity !
hope well is not enrolled there ; and one day in a week to touch no food , and but
there i have another bad match : a bankrupt , a prodigal , who dare scarce show his head on
[aside] ah , sweet anne page !
, fine linen , turkey cushions boss ' d with pearl , valance of venice gold in needle-work ; pewter
grow as terrible as storms .
how should this grow ?
by sea and land in every place save here in italy .
give crowns like pins !
i am the duke that lov ' d your father .
and mark antony .
he was furnish ' d like a hunter .
t .
a bear ?
i also wish it to you .
come , sister .
new flight , and happy newness , that intends old right .
god send you joy , petruchio !
a verb , and such abominable words as no christian ear can endure to hear .
txt scene i .
the common curse of mankind , folly and ignorance , be thine in great revenue !
txt soldier .
go to him , dolabella , bid him yield ; being so frustrate , tell him he mocks the pauses
will you not , sons ?
>> act iv .
the fitchew nor the soiled horse goes to ' t with a more riotous appetite .
is the wind in that door , i ' faith ?
how doth thy husband ?
your table sport ; let them say of me ' as jealous as ford , that search ' d a
can you inquire him out and be edified by report ?
enter volumnia i talk of you : why did you wish me milder ?
dost thou infamonize me among potentates ?
sir , you show great mercy if you give him life , after the taste of much correction .
my mistress , dearest ; and i thus humble ever .
fabian .
you hear the learn ' d bellario , what he writes ; and here , i take it , is
the king , that calls your beauteous daughter wife , familiarly shall call thy dorset brother ; again shall you
would yet he had liv ' d !
consider this : he has been bred i ' th ' wars since ' a could draw a sword ,
why lifts she up her arms in sequence thus ?
give me those flowers .
mine eyes are not o ' th ' best .
the people fear me ; for they do observe unfather ' d heirs and loathly births of nature .
this tablet lay upon his breast , wherein our pleasure his full fortune doth confine ; and so , away
o ' my conscience , twenty of the dog-days now reign in ' s nose ; all that stand about
' pisanio .
darkness and devils !
you all consented unto salisbury ' s death , for none would strike a stroke in his revenge .
the shadow of your sorrow hath destroy ' d the shadow of your face .
and how quote you my folly ?
westminster .
is ' t but a drum ?
, round , old , withered knights .
there thou prick ' st her with a thistle .
but in my terms of honour i stand aloof , and will no reconcilement till by some elder masters of
for the most part , too , they are foolish that are so .
o , by no means , honest ventidius !
just , and always lov ' d us well .
do you hear , you minion ?
the deadly stroke , and humbly beg the death upon my knee .
enter thyreus cleopatra .
therefore we ' ll have some half a dozen friends , and there an end .
no , my good lord ; but pluto sends you word , if you will have revenge from hell ,
i beseech your graces both to pardon me : his majesty hath straitly given in charge that no man shall
' so so ' is good , very good , very excellent good ; and yet it is not ;
exeunt rosencrantz and guildenstern .
then will i come to my mother by-and-by .
let her wear it out with good counsel .
a golden mind stoops not to shows of dross ; i ' ll then nor give nor hazard aught for
and thou a natural coward without instinct .
but , o , what form of prayer can serve my turn ?
foul deeds will rise , though all the earth o ' erwhelm them , to men ' s eyes .
what visions have i seen !
to desdemona cassio , lieutenant to othello the duke of venice brabantio , venetian senator , father of desdemona gratiano
led since thy exile .
fear me not , my lord ; i will not be myself , nor have cognition of what i feel
my lord , my lord , the french have gather ' d head the dauphin , with one joan la
one ever near thee .
- ' neighbour quickly , ' says he- master dumbe , our minister , was by then- ' neighbour quickly
and left them more rich for what they yielded .
give me that mattock and the wrenching iron .
besides these , other bars he lays before me , my riots past , my wild societies ; and tells
an please your majesty , let his neck answer for it , if there is any martial law in the
the king did throw his warder down- his own life hung upon the staff he threw- then threw he down
your highness told me i should post before .
o madam , my old heart is crack ' d , it ' s crack ' d !
brood , nor great alcides , nor the god of war , shall seize this prey out of his father
deep scars in france and normandy ?
or seeming so in skill- cannot or will not relish a truth like us , inform yourselves we need no
thyself and thy belongings are not thine own so proper as to waste thyself upon thy virtues , they on
madam , we ' ll tell tales .
enter rosalind , silvius , and phebe rosalind .
the better part of ours are full of rest .
and is jane nightwork alive ?
how she holds up the neb , the bill to him !
now stops thy spring ; my sea shall suck them dry , and swell so much the higher by their
being thus quench ' d of hope , not longing , mine italian brain gan in your duller britain operate
swifter things .
the matter was , you stared upon me with ungentle looks .
world hath not her fellow .
was ever man so proud as is this marcius ?
nay , i ' ll read it first by your favour .
thy hand hath murd ' red him .
now , sir , young fortinbras , of unimproved mettle hot and full , hath in the skirts of norway
exeunt all but sicinius and brutus sicinius .
re-enter cassandra , with priam cassandra .
all dead .
not with salt tears ; if so , my eyes are oft ' ner wash ' d than hers .
be conected ; no more amazement ; tell your piteous heart there ' s no harm done .
yea , though i love him , i should .
truth from falsehood .
my lady ' s a cataian , we are politicians , malvolio ' s a peg-a-ramsey , and [sings] three
i pray thee moralize them .
and give sweet passage to my sinful soul .
who was it , mother ?
to him .
, if marcus did not name the word of hands !
which i take to be either a fool or a cipher .
not so fair , boy , as well-favour ' d .
give me thy hand , terrestrial ; so .
is this thy body ' s end ?
how comes this , sir john ?
by many hands your father was subdu ' d ; but only slaught ' red by the ireful arm of
we recommend to you , tribunes of the people , our purpose to them ; and to our noble consul
where he was to begin , and give away the benefit of our levies , answering us with our own
if you take it not patiently , why , your mettle is the more .
then , god grant me to thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed !
they could be content to visit other places , and come down with fearful bravery , thinking by this face
so , slave ; hence !
thou , nature , art my goddess ; to thy law my services are bound .
i do beseech your grace to pardon me ; it is a matter of small consequence which for some reasons
' caps , hands , and tongues applaud it to the clouds , ' laertes shall be king !
thy labour .
sole sir o ' th ' world , i cannot project mine own cause so well to make it clear
, the pissing conduit run nothing but claret wine this first year of our reign .
he is address ' d ; press near and second him .
fellows in arms , and my most loving friends , bruis ' d underneath the yoke of tyranny , thus
i know my remedy ; i must go fetch the third-borough .
what , you mean my face ?
what rhubarb , cyme , or what purgative drug would scour these english hence ?
ay , that i do ; and have done any time these three hundred years .
' constable .
love , therefore , and tongue-tied simplicity in least speak most to my capacity .
come , lieutenant , i have a stope of wine , and here without are a brace of cyprus gallants
berkeley bushy - favourites of king richard bagot - " " " " green - " " " " earl
this drum sticks sorely in your disposition .
the hearers may cry amen .
and draw her home with music .
you he bade attend him here this morning .
_num_ but be contented when that fell arrest , without all bail shall carry me away , my life hath
txt cor .
he runs at iago , but montano disarms him .
witness my tears , i cannot stay to speak .
so is all her sect ; and they be once in a calm , they are sick .
what ' s his name and birth ?
yet swear not , lest ye be forsworn again .
long a breeding as his white beard came to , in doing this for ' s country .
' tis enough that , britain , i have kill ' d thy mistress ; peace !
yes , i have gain ' d my experience .
that i might touch !
[kneels] ill mayst thou thrive , if thou grant any grace !
quoth he , although i think ' twas in another sense- i am content to be lucentio , because so
o that it were as like as it is true !
bring his constant pleasure .
yet , though i distrust , discomfort you , my lord , it nothing must ; for women ' s
when it concerns the fool or coward .
all you gods , in general synod take away her power ; break all the spokes and fellies from her
his fault is much , and the good king his master will check him for ' t .
thou this to hazard needs must intimate page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
txt against this cruelty fight on thy side , poor thing , condemn ' d to loss !
benefit of my senses as well as your ladyship .
whole kingdom to be contracted in one brow of woe , yet so far hath discretion fought with nature that
if thou lovest me then , steal forth thy father ' s house to-morrow night ; and in the wood
my liege , farewell .
what kind of help ?
you are married ?
the king , i can tell you , looks for us all .
every good tongue blesses , nor to betray you any way to sorrow- you have too much , good lady
home , home , the next way !
our poesy is as a gum , which oozes from whence ' tis nourish ' d .
my lord , from head to foot .
thou hast no feeling of it , moth ; i will speak that l ' envoy .
thus then , thou most renown ' d : caesar entreats not to consider in what case thou stand '
he and lepidus are at caesar ' s house .
what , art thou mad , old fellow ?
me depend upon thy stars , thy fortune , and thy strength , and dost thou now fall over to
for emulation who shall now be nearest will touch us all too near , if god prevent not .
to know my errand , madam .
dumain transformed !
and the queen too , and that presently .
boyet .
enter prince john of lancaster , warwick , lords , and others king .
so much the more our carver ' s excellence , which lets go by some sixteen years and makes her
and that count claudio did mean , upon his words , to disgrace hero before the whole assembly , and
txt julia .
then let your servants bring my husband forth .
say , scout , say .
be copy now to men of grosser blood , and teach them how to war .
farewell , ancient lady .
directly .
give me your answer ; i ' faith , do ; and so clap hands and a bargain .
though palaces and pyramids do slope their heads to their foundations , though the treasure of nature ' s germaines
i never had a brother ; nor can there be that deity in my nature of here and everywhere .
well , sir , i thank you .
so he did , my lord .
-out of our way , i say .
but i could then have look ' d on him without the help of admiration , though the catalogue of
we shall have old swearing that they did give the rings away to men ; but we ' ll outface
the trumpet sounds ; be copious in exclaims .
trumpets sound , and drums] all .
; my maiden ' s name sear ' d otherwise ; ne worse of worst-extended with vilest torture let my
no , that still i lay upon my mother ' s head ; but that i am as well begot
is she wedded or no ?
throat ; and wish-so please my sovereign-ere i move , what my tongue speaks , my right drawn sword may
hold you still , i say .
ambassador .
your money !
-nay , put me to ' t , i warrant you .
because they speak no english , thus they pray ' d to tell your grace , that , having heard
winter garments must be lin ' d , so must slender rosalinde .
, thy love , thy wit .
and weep ye now , seeing she is advanc ' d above the clouds , as high as heaven itself
live , brutus , live , live !
hath he seen majesty ?
murderers !
love sincere , his thoughts immaculate , his tears pure messengers sent from his heart , his heart as far
my grief was at the height before thou cam ' st , and now like nilus it disdaineth bounds .
exeunt all but the king and exeter king henry .
some rough-cast about him , to signify wall ; and let him hold his fingers thus , and through that
now to you : if on my credit you dare build so far to make your speed to dover ,
we ' ll know all our fortunes .
but break my heart , for i must hold my tongue !
but when the planets in evil mixture to disorder wander , what plagues and what portents , what mutiny ,
no ; i would tell what ' twere to be a judge and what a prisoner .
s first gift , a thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger and so riveted with faith unto your
treads , even such delight among fresh female buds shall you this night inherit at my house .
to be call ' d into a huge sphere , and not to be seen to move in ' t
go to , go to !
true wit !
, from this day forth , i ' ll use you for my mirth , yea , for my laughter
my villain !
is falstaff there ?
thy heart .
receiving nought by elements so slow , but heavy tears , badges of either ' s woe .
is she not hard-favour ' d , sir ?
enter king edward , gloucester , and soldiers king edward .
admiringly , my liege .
the duke of exeter is as magnanimous as agamemnon ; and a man that i love and honour with my
' d torment to her .
discern no part of his face from the window .
i am christophero sly ; call not me ' honour ' nor ' lordship .
may this be true ?
ladies , withdraw ; the gallants are at hand .
when the blood is made dull with the act of sport , there should be , again to inflame it
yes , that ' a did , and said they were devils incarnate .
to be .
you breathe these dead news in as dead an ear .
here ' s gold .
a senator ' s house enter a senator , with papers in his hand senator .
[exit an attendant .
than seen , and one infect another against the wind a mile !
my lord of canterbury , i have a suit which you must not deny me : that is , a
[aside] he lies , for i invented it myself- go to , sirrah , tell the king from me that
caesar , thou canst not die by traitors ' hands , unless thou bring ' st them with thee .
i do not know the matter ; he is rested on the case .
nay , if you stare , we shall hear more anon .
fairer face not wash ' d to-day .
token , for he conjured her she should ever keep it , that she reserves it evermore about her to
the white will decipher her well enough .
by my troth , i will speak my conscience of the king : i think he would not wish himself
why , then , lament therefore .
my life stands in the level of your dreams , which i ' ll lay down .
a chase in the north of england enter two keepers , with cross-bows in their hands first keeper .
maidens call it love-in-idleness .
but , my good lord , how now for mitigation of this bill urg ' d by the commons ?
i will , sir .
but , o , poor souls , come you to seek the lamb here of the fox , good night
madam , i have a touch of your condition that cannot brook the accent of reproof .
i have pepper ' d two of them .
their functions friendly .
france friend with england ; what becomes of me ?
fie , cousin percy !
do not call it sin in me that i am forsworn for thee ; thou for whom jove would swear
to-morrow then ensue to-day ; be not thyself-for how art thou a king but by fair sequence and succession ?
, king of comagene ; polemon and amyntas , the kings of mede and lycaonia , with more larger list
but his flaw ' d heart (alack , too weak the conflict to support !
you speak this to fetch me in , my lord .
txt the place which i have feasted , does it now , like all mankind , show me an iron
[reads] ' i commend me to thee , i commend thee , and i leave thee .
anjou and maine both given unto the french !
txt matter to alter it .
those are the raised father and his friends .
i ' ll believe him as an enemy , and give over my trade .
alas , three of master ford ' s brothers watch the door with pistols , that none shall issue out
you must not enter .
wheresoe ' er this foot of mine doth tread , he lies before me .
] you know not what you do .
have will , paris should ne ' er retract what he hath done nor faint in the pursuit .
get you some of this distill ' d carduus benedictus and lay it to your heart .
heaven guide him to thy husband ' s cudgel ; and the devil guide his cudgel afterwards !
txt exeunt coriolanus and aufidius first watch .
give me grace to lay my duty on your hand .
wooing , nor her sudden consenting ; but say with me , i love aliena ; say with her that
you mistake , sir ; i am sure no man hath any quarrel to me ; my remembrance is very
is he among these ?
i am not bid for love ; they flatter me ; but yet i ' ll go in hate ,
one sampler , sitting on one cushion , both warbling of one song , both in one key ; as
do not torment me , prithee ; i ' ll bring my wood home faster .
cassio , may you suspect who they should be that have thus mangled you ?
fear not , my lord ; your servant shall do so .
cousin , on wednesday next our council we will hold at windsor .
they are up already and call for eggs and butter .
i am now in great haste , as it may appear unto you .
think not the king did banish thee , but thou the king .
to her that is not here , nor doth not hear .
be the work of any hand .
thus do i escape the sorrow of antony ' s death .
nay , would i were so ang ' red with the same !
paulina more .
wherefore is this ?
and by an eminent body that enforc ' d the law against it !
no , for i hold him to be unworthy of his place that does those things .
they all cry ' marcius , marcius !
in such matters cried in the top of mine) an excellent play , well digested in the scenes , set
give master bardolph some wine , davy .
faith , and i ' ll send him packing .
so much for him .
watch you tonight ; for the command , i ' ll lay ' t upon you .
it is great sin to swear unto a sin ; but greater sin to keep a sinful oath .
or whether shall i say mine eye saith true , and that your love taught it this alchemy ?
swear by her foot , that she may tread out the oath .
i know your majesty has always lov ' d her so dear in heart not to deny her that a
stanley , i prithee go , and take me hence ; i care not whither , for i beg no
it is nois ' d he hath a mass of treasure .
txt have heaven and earth together demonstrated unto our climature and countrymen .
now , hamlet , where ' s polonius ?
or who was he that , otherwise than noble nature did , hath alter ' d that good picture ?
i was born free as caesar , so were you ; we both have fed as well , and we
i take it up ; and by that sword i swear which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder i
drum beats .
oft expectation fails , and most oft there where most it promises ; and oft it hits where hope is
i do , with all my heart ; and yet no man like he doth grieve my heart .
no , though thou call ' st thyself a hotter name than any is in hell .
the crown and reign as king .
o , the heavens !
what , my lord ?
txt _num_ o how much more doth beauty beauteous seem , by that sweet ornament which truth doth give !
my lady bade me tell you that , though she harbours you as her kins-man , she ' s nothing
o , ay , make up that !
a dearer merit , not so deep a maim as to be cast forth in the common air , have
as i am an honest man , he looks pale .
i thought , by the readiness in the office , you had continued in it some time .
come , tell us your reason .
txt and if his name be george , i ' ll call him peter ; for new-made honour doth forget
wishful sight .
txt for that good hand thou sent ' st the emperor .
' what tempest , i trow , threw this whale , with so many tuns of oil in his belly
if it appear not plain , and prove untrue , deadly divorce step between me and you !
why , ' tis not amiss , pompey .
i must take out the work ?
erhanging firmament , this majestical roof fretted with golden fire- why , it appeareth no other thing to me than
now , master slender- slender .
o heaven , the vanity of wretched fools !
, by ' r lady , inclining to threescore ; and now i remember me , his name is falstaff
away in courtesy ; this is the ape of form , monsieur the nice , that , when he plays
i will furnish it anon with new contents .
quick , and return .
poor shadows of elysium , hence and rest upon your never-withering banks of flow ' rs .
] lady .
because thy father henry did usurp ; and thou no more art prince than she is queen .
it is foul weather in us all , good sir , when you are cloudy .
, and casca ; a great crowd follows , among them a soothsayer .
my lord aeneas ?
[within] and you said no .
who glazed with crystal gate the glowing roses that flame through water which their hue encloses .
queen hecuba laugh ' d that her eyes ran o ' er .
, and kiss the lips of unacquainted change , and pick strong matter of revolt and wrath out of the
five hundred ducats , villain , for rope ?
exeunt paris and menelaus enter margarelon margarelon .
shall we to th ' court ?
what , will the aspiring blood of lancaster sink in the ground ?
first let me tell you whom you have condemn ' d : not me begotten of a shepherd swain ,
became a bull and bellow ' d ; the green neptune a ram and bleated ; and the fire-rob '
iago is most honest .
of books , all forms , all pressures past that youth and observation copied there , and thy commandment all
more mild .
humphrey of buckingham , i accept thy greeting .
tidings do i bring , and lucky joys , and golden times , and happy news of price .
could .
noblest of men , woo ' t die ?
here will rest me .
not an eye but is aweary of thy common sight , save mine , which hath desir ' d to
: his napkin , with his true tears all bewet , can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks .
enter decius .
you can fool no more money out of me at this throw ; if you will let your lady know
' n face ?
brass , cur ?
far and wide a broad goose .
ay , when the special thing is well obtain ' d , that is , her love ; for that
lord edmund spake not with your lord at home ?
do ' t ; the time is come .
such men as he be never at heart ' s ease whiles they behold a greater than themselves , and
nay come !
what wouldst thou have , boor ?
two equal men .
alas , my years are young and fitter is my study and my books than wanton dalliance with a paramour
that he will not .
i have here a dish of doves that i would bestow upon your worship ; and my suit is- launcelot
i must not believe you .
o no , good kate ; neither art thou the worse for this poor furniture and mean array .
to bed ; pinch wanton on your cheek ; call you his mouse ; and let him , for a
things that love night love not such nights as these .
ay , and for an assault too .
of a king and a bachelor .
go to , y ' are a dry fool ; i ' ll no more of you .
three hours since were wreck ' d upon this shore ; where i have lost- how sharp the point of
' tis no matter ; i shall speak as much as thou afterwards .
, against all checks , rebukes , and manners , i must advance the colours of my love , and
prithee , nuncle , tell me whether a madman be a gentleman or a yeoman .
well , thou dost best .
all hail , sweet madam , and fair time of day !
i met her deity cutting the clouds towards paphos , and her son dove-drawn with her .
look how thy eye turns pale .
here is a sick man that would speak with you .
come , my old son ; i pray god make thee new .
and myself were down together , i pluck ' d this glove from his helm .
tell me , how if my brother , who , as you say , took pains to get this son
was it not to refresh the mind of man after his studies or his usual pain ?
ah , gloucester , teach me to forget myself !
last that e ' er i took her leave at court , i saw upon her finger .
on themselves , and throwing but shows of service on their lords do well thrive by them ; and when
count claudio ?
is not your voice broken , your wind short , your chin double , your wit single , and every
virtue rudely strumpeted , and right perfection wrongfully disgraced , and strength by limping sway disabled and art made tongue-tied
i mean , sir , in delay we waste our lights in vain , like lamps by day .
my lord , her wits , i fear me , are not firm ; she hath been a suitor to
guess but by my entertainment with him if thou stand ' st not i ' th ' state of hanging
then the liars and swearers are fools , for there are liars and swearers enow to beat the honest men
madam , my instrument ' s in tune .
generations .
' s error have suffer ' d wrong , go keep us company , and we shall make full satisfaction
sir toby , madam , your kinsman .
but which are the offenders that are to be examined ?
myself , my friends , and all for love .
you are a gentleman and a gamester , sir .
the storm begins .
present object made probation .
hast thou no care of me ?
i did not , gentle husband , lock thee forth .
but ' tis my presence that doth trouble ye .
you ' ll leave your noise anon , ye rascals .
troilus , by menelaus .
he fell down in the marketplace and foamed at mouth and was speechless .
and yet salt water blinds them not so much but they can see a sort of traitors here .
had she a tongue to speak , now would she say that to her brother which i said to thee
he sure means brevity in breath , short-winded .
raging appetites that are most disobedient and refractory .
night , and weep afresh love ' s long since cancelled woe , and moan th ' expense of many
with due observance of thy godlike seat , great agamemnon , nestor shall apply thy latest words .
enter rosencrantz .
who is that that spake ?
, ' gainst knaves and thieves men shut their gate , for the rain it raineth every day .
my tables !
the dauphin stoop ; and had he match ' d according to his state , he might have kept that
brother , farewell ; i will unto the king ; and whatsoe ' er you will employ me in- were
i am no honest man if there be any good meaning toward you .
it appears , by his small light of discretion , that he is in the wane ; but yet ,
hop ' st to be ; or what thou art resign to death- it is not worth th ' enjoying
[aside] he heard not that .
know our farther pleasure in this case , to old freetown , our common judgment place .
re-enter arviragus , with imogen as dead , bearing her in his arms belarius .
and doth not hereford live ?
[aside] one way i like this well ; but being widow , and my gloucester with her , may all
it doth so , holy sir ; and there ' s my master , one that you love .
proceed directly .
i , in my condition , shall better speak of you than you deserve .
how shall she be endow ' d , if she be mated with an equal husband ?
i shall think the better of myself , and thee , during my life- i for a valiant lion ,
most radiant pyramus , most lily-white of hue , of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier , most
portia , art thou gone ?
beshrew me , sir , but if he make this good , he is as worthy for an empress '
a word with you , coz ; marry , this , coz : there is , as ' twere ,
good night , great hector .
i am ambitious for a motley coat .
sir , the event is yet to name the winner .
shall borrow , err in bestowing it .
heaven , i ratify this my rich gift .
ay , like a black dog , as the saying is .
nay , eleanor , then must i chide outright .
and hearts of men at duty , more than i could frame employment ; that numberless upon me stuck ,
that eyeless head of thine was first fram ' d flesh to raise my fortunes .
, heralds , officers , soldiers , executioners , messengers , attendants <<this electronic version of the complete works of
exit king philip .
but if thou , jealous , dost return to pry in what i farther shall intend to do , by
sure , sure , such carping is not commendable .
you hear all these matters deni ' d , gentlemen ; you hear it .
that is belov ' d .
an hundred marks ?
but being charg ' d , we will be still by land , which , as i take ' t
follow .
ay , mine own fortune in my misery .
had he done so ?
we from the west will send destruction into this city ' s bosom .
would half my wealth would buy this for a lie !
weathercock on a steeple !
to die by thee were but to die in jest : from thee to die were torture more than death
' tis honour with most lands to be at odds ; soldiers should brook as little wrongs as gods .
txt with permission .
we not , sir andrew ?
and look thou meet me ere the first cock crow .
out of this wood do not desire to go ; thou shalt remain here whether thou wilt or no .
i shall offend , either to detain or give it .
; witness these trenches made by grief and care ; witness the tiring day and heavy night ; witness all
but art thou not advis ' d he took some care to get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her ?
justice , most gracious duke ; o , grant me justice !
what tell you me of it ?
as doth a ruler with unlawful oaths ; or one that at a triumph , having vow ' d to
white-liver ' d runagate , what doth he there ?
, as one shall see in a summer ' s day ; a most lovely gentleman-like man ; therefore you
what say you , bottom ?
tenure of my book ; trust not my age , my reverence , calling , nor divinity , if this
these late eclipses in the sun and moon portend no good to us .
where th ' other instruments did see and hear , devise , instruct , walk , feel , and ,
i am no great nebuchadnezzar , sir ; i have not much skill in grass .
i never heard a passion so confus ' d , so strange , outrageous , and so variable , as
but shall we wear these glories for a day ; or shall they last , and we rejoice in them
lest his ungovern ' d rage dissolve the life that wants the means to lead it .
here is more of us !
have i , my lord ?
my lord aumerle , is harry hereford arm ' d ?
but what said lady bona to my marriage ?
who is there ?
i would not have your free and noble nature out of self-bounty be abused .
-thick , thick ; spare not me .
i know not what i speak .
elbows , and besmear our swords ; then walk we forth , even to the marketplace , and waving our
desire him to go in .
sirs , drag them from the pit unto the prison ; there let them bide until we have devis '
is it so nominated in the bond ?
what you command that rests in me to do .
for you , be that you are , long ; and your misery increase with your age !
sirrah , if thy captain knew i were here , he would use me with estimation .
marry , well rememb ' red ; i reason ' d with a frenchman yesterday , who told me ,
the cardinal in his passage fixeth his eye on buckingham , and buckingham on him , both full of disdain
exeunt pistol and bardolph doll .
i fear nothing what can be said against me .
a field of battle between towton and saxton , in yorkshire alarum ; excursions .
o , do but think you stand upon the rivage and behold a city on th ' inconstant billows dancing
exeunt mercutio , benvolio .
exit messala .
i claim her not , and therefore she is thine .
nay , let it rest where it began at first .
; if not , let me see thee a steward still , the fellow of servants , and not worthy
asmath , by the eternal god , whose name and power thou tremblest at , answer that i shall ask
exit enter young clifford young clifford .
' laer .
why , sir , she ' s a good creature .
i laugh to think that babe a bastard .
pray you fetch him hither .
i must now forsake ye ; the last hour of my long weary life is come upon me .
none , but that there is so great a fever on goodness that the dissolution of it must cure it
today see cassio wipe his beard with .
[ghosts vanish] posthumus .
to pieces with me !
[within] who ' s within there ?
myself .
so i say-both of galen and paracelsus .
go get you from the door .
' many a poor man ' s son would have lyen still , and ne ' er have spoke a
richard , and to me .
his duty , would have put his knife into him .
what says sir john sack and sugar ?
[they all shout and wave their swords , take him up in their arms and cast up their caps] o
by the heels for a rabbit-sucker or a poulter ' s hare .
this is not much .
not helping , death ' s my fee ; but , if i help , what do you promise me
he may do danger with .
most fair occasion , by the which we will untread the steps of damned flight , and like a bated
because their legs are both of a bigness , and ' a plays at quoits well , and eats conger
seese is not good to give putter ; your belly is all putter .
s go hand in hand , not one before another .
remember thee ?
when biondello comes , he waits on thee ; but i will charm him first to keep his tongue .
low degree .
it hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place to the devil wrath : one unperfectness shows me another ,
but he that will believe all that they say shall never be saved by half that they do .
o that your lordship were but now confessor to one or two of these !
how long a time lies in one little word !
txt to please his grandam , never trust me more .
great matter she ' d employ me in .
heart ; but if it were , doubt not her care should be to comb your noddle with a three-legg
fare you well , my lord ; and believe this of me : there can be no kernal in this
that is a good william .
when he is drunk asleep ; or in his rage ; or in th ' incestuous pleasure of his bed
but didst thou see them dead ?
who does it , then ?
sir richard , what think you ?
my company .
but ' twas ere i was born .
do so , and bid my sweet prepare to chide .
why , thou clay-brain ' d guts , thou knotty-pated fool , thou whoreson obscene greasy tallow-catch- fal .
they are not constant , but are changing still one vice but of a minute old for one not half
txt but resolution and the briefest end .
mine .
by your leave , hostess .
in the meantime , let me be thought too busy in my fears- as worthy cause i have to fear
for england- if your name be horatio , as i am let to know it is .
txt perchance shall dry your pities- but i have that honourable grief lodg ' d here which burns worse than
i ' ll make you amends next , to give you nothing for something .
but , i pray you , what think you of a duchess ?
my lord , that would dishonour him .
saucy sweetness that do coin heaven ' s image in stamps that are forbid ; ' tis all as easy
have befall ' n of them and thee till now .
as many farewells as be stars in heaven , with distinct breath and consign ' d kisses to them ,
exit scene i .
who is it that hath warn ' d us to the walls ?
orleans the bastard , charles , burgundy , alencon , reignier , compass him about , and talbot perisheth by
two years after were they at wars .
sir , the gods will have it thus ; my master and my lord i must obey .
in orsino ' s bosom .
edward the black prince died before his father page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
fellow , wilt thou bestow thy time with me ?
i ' ll ne ' er bear a base mind .
thou die ; and so should these , if i might have my will .
is cold because you come not home , you come not home because you have no stomach , you have
away , ass !
seen the ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam to be exalted with the threatening clouds , but never till
me to death !
i would have thee gone- and yet no farther than a wanton ' s bird , that lets it hop
of the wrong i did myself ; which was so much that heirless it hath made my kingdom , and
you spend your passion on a mispris ' d mood : i am not guilty of lysander ' s blood
this is the monkey ' s own giving out .
[exeunt servants with basket] gentlemen , i have dream ' d to-night ; i ' ll tell you my dream
go seek the traitor gloucester , pinion him like a thief , bring him before us .
bardolph , get thee before to coventry ; fill me a bottle of sack .
fare ye well , good niece .
as good as heart can wish .
ladies- and the moon , were she earthly , no nobler- whither do you follow your eyes so fast ?
runs tickling up and down the veins , making that idiot , laughter , keep men ' s eyes and
what wouldst thou of us , troyan ?
to end a tale of length , troy in our weakness stands , not in her strength .
of what personage and years is he ?
' tis two or three , my lord , that bring you word macduff is fled to england .
enforces homage .
for the table , sir , it shall be serv ' d in ; for the meat , sir ,
' d of harshness .
for my part , i ' ll meddle nor make no more i ' th ' matter .
o , hear me breathe my life before this ancient sir , whom , it should seem , hath sometime
give me the boy .
proceed in my speech .
txt poins .
gainst mine , lending soft audience to my sweet design , and credent soul to that strong-bonded oath , that
let heaven kiss earth !
engrossing death !
eye awake , mine own true love that doth my rest defeat , to play the watchman ever for thy
my vows are equal partners with thy vows .
as for cromwell , beside that of the jewel house , is made master o ' th ' rolls ,
d true .
the wine she drinks is made of grapes .
, grew shameless-desperate , open ' d , in despite of heaven and men , her purposes , repented the
or ever but in vizards show their faces ?
but for thee , fellow , who needs must know of her departure and dost seem so ignorant , we
it is as easy for me , kate , to conquer the kingdom as to speak so much more french
now , in good time !
enter agrippa and others agrippa .
am launcelot , your boy that was , your son that is , your child that shall be .
let there be no honour where there is beauty ; truth where semblance ; love where there ' s another
in the eyes of all posterity that wear this world out to the ending doom .
i have heard the frenchman hath good skill in his rapier .
exeunt lucius and lords queen .
what is ' t thou say ' st ?
hero that is dead !
soldiers , defer the spoil of the city until night ; for with these borne before us instead of maces
[music of the hautboys is under the stage] second soldier .
that she was false to wedlock ?
he knows himself my bed he hath defil ' d ; and at that time he got his wife with
unequal match ' d , pyrrhus at priam drives , in rage strikes wide ; but with the whiff and
ay ; ' tis an honester service than to meddle with thy mistress .
or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back , or who his spoil of beauty can forbid ?
but you must bear ; the heart ' s all .
i ' ll be your foil , laertes .
passion and so offend him ; for i tell you , sirs , if you should smile , he grows
most true , i have lost my teeth in your service .
to die , even when they to perfection grow !
we have not spoke us yet of torch-bearers .
every one may pare his nails with a wooden dagger ; and they are both hang ' d ; and
marry , as i take it , to rousillon ; whither i am going .
, afterwards seal it , and again return to bed ; yet all this while in a most fast sleep
what , mistress !
our wars are done .
all the guests and gentlewomen to the maskers .
a breath thou art , servile to all the skyey influences , that dost this habitation where thou keep '
o , the most piteous cry of the poor souls !
and at this sport sir valour dies ; cries ' o , enough , patroclus ; or give me ribs
belike for want of rain , which i could well beteem them from the tempest of my eyes .
lord worshipp ' d might he be , what a beard hast thou got !
who gave thee this letter ?
' daughter ' and ' mother ' so strive upon your pulse .
enter warwick , salisbury , and many commons warwick .
sad heart .
than thou goest , learn more than thou trowest , set less than thou throwest ; leave thy drink and
swore , and bide the penance of each three years ' day .
all faults i make , when i shall come to know them .
we shall have need t ' employ you towards this roman .
to windsor .
but yet she is not well .
my queen , my life , my wife !
why , then ' tis none to you ; for there is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes
i hope you will consider what is spoke comes from my love .
right , if doing nothing be death by th ' law .
those happy smilets that play ' d on her ripe lip seem ' d not to know page _num_ complete
you wish me health in very happy season , for i am on the sudden something ill .
the reformation of our travell ' d gallants , that fill the court with quarrels , talk , and tailors
on toward calais , ho !
come , let them be opinion ' d .
send to heaven .
what freezings have i felt , what dark days seen !
lucetta .
all blest secrets , all you unpublish ' d virtues of the earth , spring with my tears !
latch them .
[aside] how should this be ?
it is as easy as lying .
a mark marvellous well shot ; for they both did hit it .
she had ; and would incense me to murder her i married .
birds , will fight , her young ones in her nest , against the owl .
i see we still did meet each other ' s man , and i was ta ' en for him
hector will challenge him .
a witch , a quean , an old cozening quean !
ay , just ; perpetual durance , a restraint , though all the world ' s vastidity you had ,
how many thousand times hath these poor lips , when they were living , warm ' d themselves on thine
if i should be !
yes ; and you heard what the other told me ?
again .
who , my cousin , cressida ?
that ' s fouler .
not stop a beer barrel ?
far be it from my heart , the thought thereof !
still i swear i love you .
far from her nest the lapwing cries away ; my heart prays for him , though my tongue do curse
upon my soul , my lord , the powers that you already have sent forth shall bring this prize in
how now , my lord ?
off .
, who at his hands receiv ' d my life , have by my hands of life bereaved him .
a bitter fool !
by the eighth hour .
so worthless peasants bargain for their wives , as market-men for oxen , sheep , or horse .
txt you have a noble and a true conceit of godlike amity , which appears most strongly in bearing thus
but , my good lord , ' tis thus : will you be cur ' d of your infirmity ?
foul fiend of france and hag of all despite , encompass ' d with thy lustful paramours , becomes it
make use of thy salt hours .
, as ' twere with a defeated joy , with an auspicious , and a dropping eye , with mirth
vouchsafe my pray ' r may know if you remain upon this island ; and that you will some good
behold , my lords , although the print be little , the whole matter and copy of the father- eye
what she should shame to know herself but with her most vile principal- that she ' s a bed-swerver ,
drives out fire , so pity pity- hath done this deed on caesar .
txt and it was dyed in mummy which the skillful conserved of maiden ' s hearts .
' thy yellow stockings ?
durst the traitor breathe out so proud words ?
i ' ll make him dance .
warwick !
petruchio , i shall be your ben venuto .
i thank you for your company ; but , good faith , i had as lief have been myself alone
but mine is made the prologue to their play ; for thousands more that yet suspect no peril will not
yes , it doth shine that night .
when it pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man from him , it shows to man the
and who is your deer ?
prison my heart in thy steel bosom ' s ward , but then my friend ' s heart let my
went you not to her yesterday , sir , as you told me you had appointed ?
then , gentle brother , get you in again ; comfort my sister , cheer her , call her wife
[aside] he ' s not yet through warm .
the king is kind ; and well we know the king knows at what time to promise , when to
here comes lorenzo ; more of this hereafter .
it is indifferent cold , my lord , indeed .
>> scene : rousillon ; paris ; florence ; marseilles act i .
never be so noble as a consul , nor yoke with him for tribune .
john stanley , the sheriff , and officers page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hence , and stand aloof .
here comes my son aumerle .
but were the day come , i should wish it dark , till i were couching with the doctor '
thine in the dearest design of industry , don adriano de armado .
have no sooner achieved , but we ' ll set upon them .
let us obey you to go with us .
the hunt is up , the morn is bright and grey , the fields are fragrant , and the woods
and when it ' s writ , for my sake read it over ; and if it please you ,
one reckonings , save the phrase is a little variations .
thank me , sir !
ll follow where thou lead ' st , like stinging bees in hottest summer ' s day , led by
do not talk to me , emilia ; i cannot weep , nor answer have i none but what should
well met , honest gentleman .
my husband ?
times a night , and there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a sheet of paper
who ' s that , i pray thee ?
what a torment wouldst thou prove , were it not thy sour leisure gave sweet leave , to entertain the
yea , yea , my lord ; i ' ll yield him thee asleep , where thou mayst knock a
[to bardolph] there ' s a dish of leather-coats for you .
, and sleep , upon the very naked name of love .
two of these fellows you must know and own ; this thing of darkness i acknowledge mine .
then began a stop i ' th ' chaser , a retire ; anon a rout , confusion thick .
an i but fist him once ; an ' a come but within my vice !
when it comes , cranmer will find a friend will not shrink from him .
thanks , noble clarence ; worthy brother , thanks .
i ' ll call them back again to comfort me .
i hate thee worse .
here are only numbers ratified ; but , for the elegancy , facility , and golden cadence of poesy ,
i hope my master ' s suit will be but cold , since she respects my mistress ' love so
now , as you are a roman , tell me true .
the scars upon your honour , therefore , he does pity , as constrained blemishes , not as deserv '
good uncle , go and see .
why , this that i speak of .
, upon pain of death .
now know you , casca , i have moved already some certain of the noblest-minded romans to undergo with me
friends , part !
what think you , sir john ?
cretan strand .
me ; upon my death the french can little boast ; in yours they will , in you all hopes
sir , my lord would instantly speak with you .
will you stay awhile ?
i am a gentleman of a company .
that light we see is burning in my hall .
jul .
upon the heath .
my niece ' s chambermaid .
come , shelter , shelter !
go bid my woman search for a jewel that too casually hath left mine arm .
did i not meet thy friends ?
the day looks pale at his distemp ' rature .
and may ye both be suddenly surpris ' d by bloody hands , in sleeping on your beds !
provide your going ; choose your own company , and command what cost your heart has mind to .
palm , unswear faith sworn , and on the marriage-bed of smiling peace to march a bloody host , and
sir , god save your life !
eight yards of uneven ground is threescore and ten miles afoot with me , and the stony-hearted villains know it
[whispers charmian] iras .
dedicated words which writers use of their fair subject , blessing every book .
[to viola] this comes with seeking you ; but there ' s no remedy ; i shall answer it .
richest lockram ' bout her reechy neck , clamb ' ring the walls to eye him ; stalls , bulks
villain , i have done thy mother .
hail , sir !
, swore him assistance , and performed it too .
take your assurance of her , cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum ; to th ' church take the priest ,
[lays his hand on his heart .
what , shall they seek the lion in his den , and fright him there , and make him tremble
besides , his picture i will send far and near , that all the kingdom may have due note of
away with him , i say !
this is a subtle whore , a closet lock and key of villainous secrets .
exeunt musicians enter cymbeline and queen second lord .
excellent thing in woman .
who cannot be crush ' d with a plot ?
if then one is , or hath , or means to be , that one meets hector ; if none
and then is heard no more .
himself !
my lord your son had only but the corpse , but shadows and the shows of men , to fight
t not , thou split ' st thine own .
would prevent .
heaven preserve you !
thou scornful page , there lies thy part .
now civil wounds are stopp ' d , peace lives again- that she may long live here , god say
a cause between an orange-wife and a fosset-seller , and then rejourn the controversy of threepence to a second day
shall i tell you , cousin ?
masters o ' th ' people , we do request your kindest ears ; and , after , your loving
roderigo !
where ' s thy master ?
[draws out his table-book] holofernes .
fair gentle sweet , your wit makes wise things foolish ; when we greet , with eyes best seeing ,
ay , as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck- to see this sight , it irks my very
this sight of death is as a bell that warns my old age to a sepulchre .
they do discharge their shot of courtesy- our friends at least .
there hath been a man or two lately kill ' d about her .
is ' t not a handsome gentleman ?
weaving spiders , come not here ; hence , you long-legg ' d spinners , hence .
pale again ?
they are not such as you .
what reproachful words are these ?
for two and twenty sons i never wept , because they died in honour ' s lofty bed .
lady , vouchsafe to listen what i say .
your noble tullus aufidius will appear well in these wars , his great opposer , coriolanus , being now in
for my part , i care not ; i say little , but when time shall serve , there shall
it is but change , titinius , for octavius is overthrown by noble brutus ' power , as cassius '
paris to the king , for there young henry with his nobles lie .
' d that any did .
madam , i trust , not so .
come , a passionate speech .
yours heavy .
damnable .
about the mount misenum .
thee : the bloody spur cannot provoke him on , that sometimes anger thrusts into his hide , which heavily
in ; which i held my duty speedily to acquaint you withal ; sithence , in the loss that may
mistaking the place where erected it .
off by poison .
no malice , sir ; no more than well becomes so good a quarrel and so bad a peer .
witchcraft , and that have prevail ' d upon my body with their hellish charms ?
fie on him , jezebel !
i did not .
how oft the sight of means to do ill deeds make deeds ill done !
what is the matter there ?
by god , thou hast deceiv ' d me , lancaster !
is not this a rare fellow , my lord ?
no , he must not .
with his gust is ' greeing , and to his palate doth prepare the cup .
so , your opinion is , aufidius , that they of rome are ent ' red in our counsels and
' sblood , i would my face were in your belly !
your praise is come too swiftly home before you .
; while proud ambitious edward duke of york usurps the regal title and the seat of england ' s true-anointed
they have here propertied me ; keep me in darkness , send ministers to me , asses , and do
do you not know me , father ?
now all the youth of england are on fire , and silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies ; now thrive
o thou public commoner !
txt yea , even the slightest worship of his time , or i will tear the reckoning from his heart
ends , rough-hew them how we will- hor .
what had he to do in these fierce vanities ?
easy as thanks .
txt first outlaw .
now i must to the young man send humble treaties , dodge and palter in the shifts of lowness ,
me , poor man-my library was dukedom large enough-of temporal royalties he thinks me now incapable ; confederates , so
aha boy , say ' st thou so ?
; for discipline ought to be used .
uncertain favour !
woman for ; besides that hook of wiving , fairness which strikes the eye- cymbeline .
i ' ll see what hole is here , and what he is that now is leapt into it .
play out the play .
and thou shalt live in this fair world behind , honour ' d , belov ' d , and haply
txt my father ' s land , as was my father ' s will .
will you go , mistress page ?
i have a daughter- would any of the stock of barrabas page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
speak of mortimer ?
you shall , sir .
i think so too .
my lord bassanio , upon more advice , hath sent you here this ring , and doth entreat your company
of thy land ' s view , i took a costly jewel from my neck- a heart it was ,
they most do show , who moving others , are themselves as stone , unmoved , cold , and to
yet now , farewell ; and farewell life with thee !
in- cannot make boast to have that which he hath , nor feels not what he owes , but by
enter banquo , and fleance with a torch .
of william shakespeare .
nay , it is ten times strange .
i warrant you , buck ; and of the season too , it shall appear .
thou ' rt poison to my blood .
come in disguis ' d against me to try a fall .
love as meet to be an emperor ' s counsellor .
a great pin ere thou and i part .
o , behold this ring , whose high respect and rich validity did lack a parallel ; yet , for
i am peppered , i warrant , for this world .
emilia .
the time will not allow the compliment that very manners urges .
thou art a traitor .
i prithee , who doth he trot withal ?
, hath amaz ' d me more than i dare blame my weakness .
' s neck , bespake them thus , ' i thank you , countrymen .
come , take away .
let ' s take leave of him .
hast smutch ' d thy nose ?
advance our waving colours on the walls ; rescu ' d is orleans from the english .
or , if you ' d ask , remember this before : the thing i have forsworn to grant may
but the gift is good in those in whom it is acute , and i am thankful for it .
to draw apart the body he hath kill ' d ; o ' er whom his very madness , like
guiderius and arviragus .
taxation !
general , are come with cassius .
most shallowly did you these arms commence , fondly brought here , and foolishly sent hence .
you had my prayers to lead them on ; and to keep them on , have them still .
down ; and what is written shall be executed .
we will be revenged .
o , no ; for the duke ' s daughter , her cousin , so loves her , being ever
dear lady- olivia .
caius lucius will do ' s commission throughly ; and i think he ' ll grant the tribute , send
txt those centuries to our aid ; the rest will serve for a short holding .
let me not hold my tongue , let me not , hubert ; or , hubert , if you will
foaming bottles and ale-wash ' d wits is wonderful to be thought on .
- now , our joy , although the last , not least ; to whose young love the vines of
to be honest , as this world goes , is to be one man pick ' d out of ten
triumph of his pledge .
come now ; what masques , what dances shall we have , to wear away this long age of three
if it will please you to show us so much gentry and good will as to expend your time with
true inheritor .
, when articles too nicely urg ' d be stood on .
sale is present death in mantua , here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him .
tell me , good my friend , what torch is yond that vainly lends his light to grubs and eyeless
pity me not , but lend thy serious hearing to what i shall unfold .
for raising this sea-storm ?
than to do ' t .
whip me such honest knaves .
frenzy .
hark , hark , my lord !
he ' s a coward and a coystrill that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn o
what ' s hecuba to him , or he to hecuba , that he should weep for her ?
ay , sir .
how much , methinks , i could despise this man , but that i am bound in charity against it
get on your nightgown , lest occasion call us and show us to be watchers .
the benefit thereof is always granted to those whose dealings have deserv ' d the place and those who have
[rises .
that did i , my lord , and was accounted a good actor .
no , he must die .
provost , how came it claudio was beheaded at an unusual hour ?
i ' ll follow , sir .
the day will come that thou shalt wish for me to help thee curse this poisonous bunch-back ' d toad
to you no less flowing than marchioness of pembroke ; to which tide a thousand pound a year , annual
fill me some wine .
[aside] now divine air !
you blocks , you stones , you worse than senseless things !
as she liv ' d peerless , so her dead likeness , i do well believe , excels whatever yet
such-like liberties of sin ; if it prove so , i will be gone the sooner .
my mistress !
the earth i rain my waters-on the earth , and not on him .
we fat all creatures else to fat us , and we fat ourselves for maggots .
wert thou an oracle to tell me so , i ' d not believe thee .
>> act i .
by yea and no , i think the oman is a witch indeed ; i like not when a oman
who can be angry now ?
kiss and talk to .
grass-plot , in this very place , to come and sport .
, obeying with my wind when i do blow , and yielding to another when it blows , commanded always
on your eyelids crown the god of sleep , charming your blood with pleasing heaviness , making such difference '
mate a sounder man than surrey can be and an that love his follies .
we will not dance .
and further , i have learn ' d the king himself in person is set forth , or hitherwards intended
corinth , as we thought .
you are undone , captain , all but your scarf ; that has a knot on ' t yet .
i ' ll put it on .
wail ; for , with throwing thus my head , dogs leap the hatch , and all are fled .
my lord- king john .
oft our displeasures , to ourselves unjust , destroy our friends , and after weep their dust ; our own
i know it is the sun that shines so bright .
offer me no money , i pray you ; that kills my heart .
marry , that ' s a bountiful answer that fits all questions .
some moment ; whom after under the confession ' s seal he solemnly had sworn that what he spoke my
txt how eagerly ye follow my disgraces , as if it fed ye ; and how sleek and wanton ye
dozy th ' arithmetic of memory , and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail .
monster , i will kill this man ; his daughter and i will be king and queen-save our graces !
so please you entertain me .
>> _num_ the tragedy of coriolanus by william shakespeare dramatis personae caius marcius , afterwards caius marcius coriolanus generals against
which she shall purchase with still-lasting war .
though i die for ' t , as no less is threat ' ned me , the king my old
come , wife , let ' s in , and learn to govern better ; for yet may england curse
wisdom .
well as by nature .
peaseblossom .
like proportion of lineaments , of manners , and of spirit , which makes me think that this antonio ,
i prithee tell me what thou think ' st of me .
ay , if your self ' s remembrance wrong yourself .
deem cannon bullets .
canst thou , when thou command ' st the beggar ' s knee , command the health of it ?
come , wherefore should you be so pashful ?
a bunch of radish !
my most redoubted father , it is most meet we arm us ' gainst the foe ; for peace itself
judicious grieve ; the censure of the which one must in your allowance o ' erweigh a whole theatre of
let them all come down .
by heaven , poins , i feel me much to blame so idly to profane the precious time , when
you are the fount that makes small brooks to flow .
i now bestow , he is complete in feature and in mind , with all good grace to grace a
expectation of the world , to frustrate prophecies , and to raze out rotten opinion , who hath writ me
deaths ' sad story .
for th ' other , sir john- let me see .
men of courage and with means defendant ; for england his approaches makes as fierce as waters to the sucking
sir thomas lovel and lord marquis dorset , ' tis said , my liege , in yorkshire are in arms
hence , old goat !
now , ajax , hold thine own !
my father die .
since night you lov ' d me ; yet since night you left me .
about , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
in nature ' s infinite book of secrecy a little i can read .
bless me , what a fry of fornication is at door !
hadst thou been meek , our title still had slept ; and we , in pity of the gentle king
i do well believe you .
shroud , the universal landlord .
it were fit you knew him ; lest , reposing too far in his virtue , which he hath not
cry but ' ay me !
and twenty fifteens , and one shining to the pound , the last subsidy .
he gives , what thinks he shows , yet gives he not till judgment guide his bounty , nor dignifies
there , take you that , sir knave .
i wish you now , then ; pray you take note of it ; and when you have a business
are they not lamely writ ?
degree of this fortune as cassio does ?
it seem ' d she was a queen over her passion , who , most rebel-like , sought to be
conscience ; that his bones when he has run his course and sleeps in blessings , may have a tomb
what ho , pisanio !
it sorts well with your fierceness .
d there was no need to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet .
me for help , and said his name was antigonus , a nobleman !
' s-up to the day !
farewell , andronicus , my noble father , the woefull ' st man that ever liv ' d in rome
say on ; come to hecuba .
what instance gives lord warwick for his vow ?
he that is truly dedicate to war hath no self-love ; nor he that loves himself hath not essentially ,
some say that ever , ' gainst that season comes wherein our saviour ' s birth is celebrated , the
and not from one oppos ' d .
i do condemn mine ears that have so long attended thee .
i could be well moved , if i were as you ; if i could pray to move , prayers
' d the pride of france .
i prithee , diomed , visit me no more .
rogues , hence , avaunt !
yes , every man of them , and no man here but honors you , and every one doth wish
come , come , let ' s fall in with them .
to every county where this is question ' d send our letters with page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
do you but mark how this becomes the house : ' dear daughter , i confess that i am old
a morris for mayday , as the nail to his hole , the cuckold to his horn , as a
thy brother ' s blood the thirsty earth hath drunk , broach ' d with the steely point of clifford
exeunt pyramus and thisby wall .
lend me the letter ; let me see what news .
enter warwick lewis .
is there not , besides , the douglas ?
and so we ' ll leave you to your meditations how to live better .
perseverance , dear my lord , keeps honour bright .
image of pride , why should i hold my peace ?
diable !
now the gods keep you !
you have put him down , lady ; you have put him down .
the knowledge of mine own desert , and this my hand , against my self uprear , page _num_ complete
that he is dead , good warwick , ' tis too true ; but how he died god knows ,
good my lord , soothe him ; let him take the fellow .
[sheathes his sword] bardolph .
i am afraid my daughter will run mad , so much she doteth on her mortimer .
your man and you are marvellous merry , sir .
there they stand yet ; and modestly i think the fall of every phrygian stone will cost a drop of
read o ' er this paper while the glass doth come .
thou art a scholar ; speak to it , horatio .
i pray you , stay not , but in haste to horse .
!
it was well done , and thou shalt sleep again ; i will not hold thee long .
in this world .
; show thee a jay ' s nest , and instruct thee how to snare the nimble marmoset ; i
hang there , my verse , in witness of my love ; and thou , thrice-crowned queen of night ,
exit act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene vii .
but look , the morn , in russet mantle clad , walks o ' er the dew of yon high
stay then ; i ' ll go alone .
' o god !
it had been vicious to have mistrusted her ; yet , o my daughter !
my lord , i do confess i ne ' er was married , and i confess , besides , i
for what i have conquer ' d i grant him part ; but then , in his armenia and other
why then , thus it is : you must prepare your bosom for his knife .
a goodly prize , fit for the devil ' s grace !
o cromwell , thou fall ' st a blessed martyr !
yea , in truth , my lord .
bear .
the thracian king , adallas ; king manchus of arabia ; king of pont ; herod of jewry ; mithridates
poor tom !
' some are born great , ' - olivia .
the children thus dispos ' d , my wife and i , fixing our eyes on whom our care was
we ' ll hear him .
' and then with kind embracements , tempting kisses , and with declining head into his bosom , bid him
well , more gold .
but yesternight , my lord , she and that friar , i saw them at the prison ; a saucy
most damned angelo !
no more of stay ; to-morrow thou must go .
the warlike service he has done , consider ; think upon the wounds his body bears , which show like
to banish him , and then that henry bolingbroke and he , being mounted and both roused in their seats
flame of golden sovereignty ; acquaint the princes with the sweet silent hours of marriage joys .
farewell , kind charmian .
this would drink deep .
so hast thou ; thou , and thou , and thou .
there was blow for blow .
his ring i do accept most thankfully , and so , i pray you , tell him .
orphan ' s water-standing eye- men for their sons , wives for their husbands , orphans for their parents '
bear him away .
the sum of all our answer is but this : we would not seek a battle as we are ;
father shall specify- gobbo .
yea , and to tickle our noses with speargrass to make them bleed , and then to beslubber our garments
thousand thanks , and pray ' em take their pleasures .
rumble thy bellyful !
if any man be seen to talk with a woman within the term of three years , he shall endure
it appear not inconvenient to you , to set her before your eyes to-morrow , human as she is ,
therefore i ' ll make him sure ; yea , and i ' ll swear i kill ' d him
easily ; if he covetously reserve it , how shall ' s get it ?
joy to you , mariana !
in his clouds on our behalf armies of pestilence ; and they shall strike your children yet unborn and unbegot
this hill is far enough .
wherefore should i stand in the plague of custom , and permit the curiosity of nations to deprive me ,
it is disposed ; therefore it is meet that noble minds keep ever with their likes ; for who so
[as they are going out , ] enter edgar [disguised] .
wherefore weep you ?
dream on , dream on of bloody deeds and death ; fainting , despair ; despairing , yield thy breath
there ' s that will sack a city .
[within] your wife , sir knave !
he came in thunder ; his celestial breath was sulpherous to smell ; the holy eagle stoop ' d as
true , when avoided grace makes destiny .
love , may sweep to my revenge .
the crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark when neither is attended ; and i think ne nightingale ,
call him in .
her life was beastly and devoid of pity , and being dead , let birds on her take pity .
sound trumpets ; let our bloody colours wave , and either victory or else a grave !
has this fellow no feeling of his business , that he sings at grave-making ?
be not afraid ; she shall not harm thee , helena .
give him their heirs as pages , followed him even at the heels in golden multitudes .
- i come , my queen .
and here ' s another , writ in my cousin ' s hand , stol ' n from her pocket
i know not how to pray your patience ; yet i must speak .
a rare talent !
i yesternight maintain ' d the change of words with any creature , refuse me , hate me , torture
me die , for now thou hast no cause .
a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours .
draw and fight .
he ne ' er drinks but timon ' s silver treads upon his lip ; and yet- o , see
[exit simple] a justice of peace sometime may be beholding to his friend for a man .
i ' ll not put the dibble in earth to set one slip of them ; no more than were
for competence of life i will allow you , that lack of means enforce you not to evils ; and
saint edmundsbury ; even on that altar where we swore to you dear amity and everlasting love .
[to his wife and mother] your hand , and yours .
if traffic do it , the gods do it .
you had rather be at a breakfast of enemies than dinner of friends .
how long hath he been there ?
i beseech you , let me answer to the particular of the inter ' gatories .
by this light , a most perfidious and drunken monster !
yead miller , by these gloves .
command our present numbers be muster ' d ; bid the captains look to ' t .
farewell , mad wenches ; you have simple wits .
roses in their hats warwick .
would you , the supervisor , grossly gape on ?
txt dromio of syracuse .
the treacherous fastolfe wounds my heart whom with my bare fists i would execute , if i now had him
debts .
if you apply yourself to our intents- which towards you are most gentle- you shall find a benefit in this
' t has been proved .
singeing his pate against the burning zone , make ossa like a wart !
health to my lord and gentle cousin , mowbray .
that bear ' st a cheek for blows , a head for wrongs ; who hast not in thy brows
unreal mockery , hence !
txt celia .
that he should dream , knowing all measures , the full caesar will answer his emptiness !
' d her when you should marry her .
o antony , beg not your death of us !
thus- as much as would maintain , to the king ' s honour , full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred
two creatures heartily .
the night is dark ; light and spirits will become it well .
scene iii .
good parts in thee .
, tombless , with no remembrance over them .
no , by this heavenly light !
the king ' s son have i landed by himself , whom i left cooling of the air with sighs
, sign ' d in thy spoil , and crimson ' d in thy lethe .
so much the more must pity drop upon her .
you , and there is gallant and most prave passages .
' but yet for all that , cousin , let him be a handsome fellow , or else make another
true wherein my youth hath faulty wand ' red and irregular , and pardon on lily true submission .
his sword .
traitors too .
and shall , sir .
affliction alters .
and breathe short-winded accents of new broils to be commenc ' d in stronds afar remote .
the female ; so do the kings of france unto this day , howbeit they would hold up this salique
_num_ that you were once unkind befriends me now , and for that sorrow , which i then did feel
enter two sentinels-[first , ] francisco , [who paces up and down at his post ; then] bernardo , [who
he shall live a man forbid .
but to the proud .
lest they should spy my windpipe ' s dangerous notes : great men should drink with harness on their throats
new-shed blood as fresh as morning dew distill ' d on flowers ?
what instance for it ?
it is now two o ' clock ; but let me see- by ten we shall have each a hundred
that , sir , which i will not report after her .
friends , more known .
small time , but , in that small , most greatly lived this star of england .
by this hand , it will not kill a fly .
assurance bless your thoughts !
come , fear not you : good counsellors lack no clients .
what proclamation , man ?
and this my neighbour too ?
take up thy master .
by all the gods that romans bow before , i here discard my sickness !
there ' s a necessity in ' t- and change garments with this gentleman .
jealousy , and to become the geck and scorn o ' th ' other ' s villainy ?
; is ' t not enough to torture me alone , but slave to slavery my sweet ' st friend
' tis agamemnon ' s wish ; and great achilles doth long to see unarm ' d the valiant hector
boys , bid him welcome .
pleads he in earnest ?
though he be blunt , i know him passing wise ; though he be merry , yet withal he '
my lord , i rescued her ; her highness is in safety , fear you not ; but on ,
call in ribs , call in tallow .
with rome ?
the seas , that , when thou com ' st to kneel at henry ' s feet , thou mayst
, quite from himself to god .
you heard her say herself , it was not i .
, making god so free an offer , he let him outlive that day to see his greatness , and
how now , captain macmorris !
on such thorns , and play as wantonly , when summer ' s breath their masked buds discloses : but
alas , poor man !
troilus , i say !
but say , my lord , it were not regist ' red , methinks the truth should eve from age
fie on him !
that beetles o ' er his base into the sea , and there assume some other , horrible form which
[they all start] you do him injury to scorn his corse .
i know them both ; th ' other ' s a jeweller .
madam , we ' ll dance .
, were i crown ' d the most imperial monarch , thereof most worthy , were i the fairest youth
here are the heads of thy two noble sons ; and here ' s thy hand , in scorn to
making me a cuckold .
give me thy hand , messala .
she made great caesar lay his sword to bed .
the observation we have made of it hath not been little .
my master is awak ' d by great occasion to call upon his own , and humbly prays you page
rough , their royal blood enchaf ' d , as the rud ' st wind that by the top doth
loyal , true , and crimeless .
an advocate for an impostor !
quoth forrest ' girdling one another within their alabaster innocent arms .
the observance of civility like one well studied in a sad ostent page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
art thou there , diomed ?
i bespoke it not .
i think he will stand very strong with us .
when jacob graz ' d his uncle laban ' s sheep- this jacob from our holy abram was , as
un peu , madame .
that ' s for advantage .
txt desdemona .
her sovereign aid , and rest myself content .
my dearest master !
burn so bright , and everything in readiness for hymenaeus stand- i will not re-salute the streets of rome ,
were i like thee , i ' d throw away myself .
i was too young that time to value her , but now i know her .
enter macduff and lennox .
see , here ' s ' to jove ' and this ' to mercury ' ; this ' to apollo
tongues to be , your being shall rehearse , when all the breathers of this world are dead , you
in choosing for yourself you show ' d your judgment , which being shallow , you shall give me leave
please it your majesty , i have done already .
y ' are meek and humble-mouth ' d ; you sign your place and calling , in full seeming ,
jove knows what man thou mightst have made ; but i , thou diedst , a most rare boy ,
i have already .
are you sure of that ?
we came crying hither ; thou know ' st , the first time that we smell the air we wawl
' tis true ; for you are over boots in love , and yet you never swum the hellespont .
scarcity and want shall shun you , ceres ' blessing so is on you .
i can tell them that .
see , antony , that revels long o ' nights , is notwithstanding up .
tell me , thou villain slave , where are my children ?
; in a word , the seeming truth which cunning times put on to entrap the wisest .
is lucius general of the forces ?
and i , to keep all this .
to grace him only , that thought he could do more , a very little i have yielded to ;
drown desperate sorrow in dead edward ' s grave , and plant your joys in living edward ' s throne
the man you mean .
true and good , the apparition comes .
i must indeed ; and therefore came i hither .
now to dignify the times , since cxsar ' s fortunes !
none , man ; all idle ; whores and knaves .
a stone is silent and offendeth not , and tribunes with their tongues doom men to death .
father , come ; i ' ll take my leave of the jew in the twinkling .
he not ?
orlando , " " " " " " adam , servant to oliver dennis , " " " touchstone ,
txt bagot .
o hal , i prithee give me leave to breathe awhile .
macduff , this noble passion , child of integrity , hath from my soul wiped the black scruples , reconciled
[kneeling] long live queen margaret , england ' s happiness !
this discipline shows thou hast been in love .
part of thy father may be sav ' d in thee .
arrest me , foolish fellow , if thou dar ' st .
his companions ; warily i stole into a neighbour thicket by , and overheard what you shall overhear- that ,
dismiss them home .
his daughter is to be brought by you to the supper .
but , after all this fooling , i would not have it so .
enter falstaff solus .
if he would despise me , i would forgive him ; for if he love me to madness , i
i bruis ' d my shin th ' other day with playing at sword and dagger with a master of
of fair .
i wonder at this haste , that i must wed ere he that should be husband comes to woo .
i , that i was no prodigal .
but he hath forc ' d us to compel this offer ; and it proceeds from policy , not love
some roman courtezan !
katherine .
yield you forth to public thanks , forerunning more requital .
i know not , madam ; ' tis a fair young man , and well attended .
ha , thou mountain-foreigner !
what tell ' st thou me of supping ?
is that anything now ?
patience once more , whiles our compact is urg ' d : you say , if i bring in your
former lions of your blood .
what say you to a letter from your friends of much good news ?
i am his cupbearer ; if from me he have wholesome beverage , account me not your servant .
loses all .
i see no reason why a king of years should be to be protected like a child .
what say ' st thou , my bully rook ?
now , as i live , i will .
lo , lo , lo , lo , what modicums of wit he utters !
o the lord , that sir john were come !
our fine musician groweth amorous .
with meekness and humility ; but your heart is cramm ' d with arrogancy , spleen , and pride .
foreknowing that the truth will fall out so .
wound , and worthily , my falsehood !
' rs of oaths did melt .
williams .
ay , and briefly .
nay , more , the king ' s council are no good workmen .
- will you walk out of the air , my lord ?
' have frighted with our trumpets ; so , ' tis clear , they ' ll say ' tis nought
comfort me , boy ; what great men have been in love ?
them , and outswear them too .
as ' tis said , the bastard son of gloucester .
have i not ever said how that ambitious constance would not cease till she had kindled france and all the
well , the gods give us joy !
song [all together here] who doth ambition shun , and loves to live i ' th ' sun , seeking
this world .
shall never requite him .
life ' s but a walking shadow , a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage
here comes a member of the commonwealth .
but if you have a stomach , to ' t a god ' s name ; you shall have me
lucullus to borrow so many talents ; nay , urg ' d extremely for ' t , and showed what
i had rather be married to a death ' s-head with a bone in his mouth than to either of
who am i , sir ?
d more than a prison .
[taking a pot of ale] here ' s- third servant .
look upon his face .
' tis a mere french word : we english warriors wot not what it means .
pronounce that sentence , then , on me , my liege ; i cannot live out of her company .
thou liest ; thou canst not .
to-morrow shall i beg leave to see your kingly eyes ; when i shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount
as sweet as balm , as soft as air , as gentle- o antony !
] sirrah , go hire me twenty cunning cooks .
go , pluck him by the elbow ; i must speak with him .
now , mistress , how chance you went not with master slender ?
there are two gentlemen have in this robbery lost three hundred marks .
i am senseless of your wrath ; a touch more rare subdues all pangs , all fears .
why , cousin !
despair , and die .
submission , dauphin !
why , he hack ' d it with his dagger , and said he would swear truth out of england
o , he ' s the very soul of bounty !
- what , oswald , ho !
what , courage , man !
that you may well perceive i have not wrong ' d you !
before you .
talbot .
txt to understand my purposes aright .
brothers , help to convey her hence away , and with my sword i ' ll keep this door safe
i am here to speak with her , and bring her along with you , it may awake my bounty
why , uncle , thou hast many years to live .
seld-shown flamens do press among the popular throngs and puff to win a vulgar station ; our veil ' d
well enough .
i ' ll be reveng ' d .
a very drab , a scullion !
' says he that takes upon him not to conceive .
look then to be well edified when the fool delivers the madman .
commit it , count .
i know not if ' t be true , but i for mere suspicion in that kind will do as
god give us leisure for these rites of love !
and when the king comes , offer him no violence .
but were i brutus , and brutus antony , there were an antony would ruffle up your spirits and put
my regan counsels well .
the palace enter tyrrel tyrrel .
that i might see what the old world could say , to this composed wonder of your frame , whether
you serve octavius caesar , do you not ?
lorenzo , i commit into your hands the husbandry and manage of my house until my lord ' s return
-and these are of the second edition .
then by your side no bed-room me deny , for lying so , hermia , i do not lie .
for our losses his exchequer is too poor ; for th ' effusion of our blood , the muster of
spread they shall be , to thy foul disgrace and utter ruin of the house of york .
thou worthiest marcius !
for the love o ' god , peace !
him ; his bold head ' bove the contentious waves he kept , and oared himself with his good arms
here they are , madam .
ladies , a general welcome from his grace salutes ye all ; this night he dedicates to fair content and
side , and fall to reprobation .
black and blue .
thou leave it , without more mercy , to it own protection and favour of the climate .
txt king henry .
the rest o ' th ' fleet ?
; guide , if thou canst , this after me .
sworn .
[music] here a dance of shepherds and shepherdesses polixenes .
what , will you have me , or your pearl again ?
this duke as much they love and dote on ; call him bounteous buckingham , the mirror of all courtesy-
not cast aside so soon .
would be content ; for then i should not love thee ; no , nor thou become thy great birth
nay , an you will not , sir , i ' ll take my heels .
[dies] clifford .
so then the volsces stand but as at first , ready , when time shall prompt them , to make
sweet prince , the untainted virtue of your years hath not yet div ' d into the world ' s
if his cause be wrong , our obedience to the king wipes the crime of it out of us .
labienus- this is stiff news- hath with his parthian force extended asia from euphrates , his conquering banner shook from
inch-thick , knee-deep , o ' er head and ears a fork ' d one !
in a natural cause that admiration did not whoop at them ; but thou , ' gainst all proportion ,
when that the poor have cried , caesar hath wept ; ambition should be made of sterner stuff : yet
lady , the gods throw stones of sulphur on me , if that box i gave you was not thought
take but degree away , untune that string , and hark what discord follows !
by the lord , thou art a tyrant to say so ; thou wouldst make an absolute courtier , and
throwing into the water .
enter three murtherers .
pitiful-hearted butter , that melted at the sweet tale of the sun !
my train are men of choice and rarest parts , that all particulars of duty know and in the most
receive ' em nobly and conduct ' em into our presence , where this heaven of beauty shall shine at
me give the lie to my true sight , and swear that brightness doth not grace the day ?
prepare there ; the duke is coming ; see the barge be ready ; and fit it with such furniture
had he been slaughter-man to all my kin , i should not for my life but weep with him ,
' n off , whose thankless natures- o abhorred spirits !
txt in them and in ourselves our safety lies .
thus have i yielded up into your hand the circle of my glory .
i know not what it means ; away with her !
did you e ' er meet ?
honourable an action !
and so am i to you .
though yet of hamlet our dear brother ' s death page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
marry , and i am glad of it with all my heart !
now god in heaven forbid !
the morn is fair .
most reverend nestor , i am glad to clasp thee .
my ancestors did from the streets of rome the tarquin drive , when he was call ' d a king
by all likelihood some cheer is toward .
a very forward march-chick !
come , coz ; come , coz ; we stay for you .
, he be as miserably slain as i .
his health is well , sir .
exit reynaldo .
even to my wish .
all this the world well knows yet none knows well , to shun the heaven that leads men to this
in life but double death , ' now gloucester ' s dead .
' what say you to ' t ?
what error drives our eyes and ears amiss ?
and with colours spread march ' d through the city to the palace gates .
[beats him] dromio of ephesus .
that might come if he were known alive ?
' a noise within .
matrons , turn incontinent .
sir , i know that well enough .
so please you , leave me ; stick to your journal course .
if those that care to keep your royal person from treason ' s secret knife and traitor ' s rage
so young , and so untender ?
fore-thinking this , i have already fit- ' tis in my cloak-bag- doublet , hat , hose , all that
i jest not ; i will make it good how you dare , with what you dare , and when
him to one that i would have him help to waste his borrowed purse .
what , art thou like the adder waxen deaf ?
against ill chances men are ever merry ; but heaviness foreruns the good event .
fie , how impatience loureth in your face !
[aside to donalbain .
trouble him not ; to bed , to bed !
talbot is taken , whom we wont to fear ; remaineth none but mad-brain ' d salisbury , and he
your daughter ' s chastity- there it begins .
the jew shall have all justice .
that would fain have a measure to the health of black othello .
and far surmounts our labour to attain it .
give me any gage of thine , and i will wear it in my bonnet ; then if ever thou
too fairly , hubert , for so foul effect .
o , i believe with him , in argument of praise , or to the worth of the great count
nym , thou hast spoke the right ; his heart is fracted and corroborate .
nurse ?
i will live in thy heart , die in thy lap , and be buried thy eyes ; and moreover
we are hither come to offer you our service .
out , insolent !
i could say more , but reverence to your calling makes me modest .
the means that heaven yields must be embrac ' d and not neglected ; else , if heaven would ,
who doth molest my contemplation ?
sheriff , farewell , and better than i fare , although thou hast been conduct of my shame .
and what stock he springs of- the noble house o ' th ' marcians ; from whence came that ancus
of reason you would quench or but allay the fire of passion .
what would he say ?
happy are in this , give them thy fingers , me thy lips to kiss .
good sir , whose powers are these ?
hear me , gentle liege .
subscrib ' d his pow ' r ?
[sound a flourish , with drums] enobarbus .
' tis nine o ' clock ; our friends all stay for you ; no masque to-night ; the wind
moor ; well shalt thou know her by thine own proportion , for up and down she doth resemble thee
season after could not believe but that i was in hell , such terrible impression made my dream .
this young maid might do her a shrewd turn , if she pleas ' d .
arch .
others prince john .
' s angel .
all men make faults , and even i in this , authorizing thy trespass with compare , my self corrupting
rare , which you know cannot err .
who did strike out the light ?
yea , brother of clarence , art thou here too ?
if i could bear it longer and not fall to quarrel with your great opposeless wills , my snuff and
a room in the garter inn enter falstaff and pistol falstaff .
hic et ubique ?
i hope , not dead .
well , i will call beatrice to you , who i think hath legs .
grumio , biondello .
enter lear and gloucester lear .
but , gentle people , give me aim awhile , for nature puts me to a heavy task .
the more i stay , the more i ' ll succour thee .
of george begins with g , it follows in his thought that i am he .
not in a grave to lay one in , another out to have .
graze where you will , you shall not house with me .
defer no time , delays have dangerous ends ; enter , and cry ' the dauphin !
our fears in banquo .
the private wound is deepest .
i have professed me thy friend , and i confess me knit to thy deserving with cables of perdurable toughness
be ransom ' d , and we ne ' er the wiser .
iago , look with care about the town , and silence those whom this vile brawl distracted .
and woo me .
how oddly thou repliest !
who sensibly outdares his senseless sword , and when it bows stand ' st up .
dishonour ' d by a man which ever profess ' d to him , why , his revenges must in
[squeezing the juice on lysander ' s eyes] when thou wak ' st , thou tak ' st true delight
sher .
begin you to grow upon me ?
answer not : i am gone .
it oft falls out , to have what we would have , we speak not what we mean : i
he hath commission from thy wife and me to hang cordelia in the prison and to lay the blame upon
as who , my lord ?
the forest enter touchstone and audrey touchstone .
o paulina , we honour you with trouble ; but we came to see the statue of our queen .
a farmhouse near gloucester ' s castle .
inc .
richmond is on the seas .
and cease to weep .
cambrics , lawns .
old man .
with bitter words .
sweet robe of durance ?
whom should i knock ?
[seeing autolycus] who have we here ?
england , from trent and severn hitherto , by south and east is to my part assign ' d ;
enter cromwell , standing amazed why , how now , cromwell !
they go up into the senate house] enter a captain captain .
in this last tempest .
did ever dian so become a grove as kate this chamber with her princely gait ?
i have done no harm .
but wherefore should i go ?
give me the cups ; and let the kettle to the trumpet speak , the trumpet to the cannoneer without
she will not .
you must know i am supposed dead .
and i am sick when i look not on you .
think you there was or might be such a man as this i dreamt of ?
et le menton ?
[to edgar] thou , robed man of justice , take thy place .
harm-doing-o , now , after so many courses of the sun enthroned , still growing in a majesty and pomp
the world like cutler ' s poetry upon a knife , ' love me , and leave me not .
as all the world is cheered by the sun , so i by that ; it is my day ,
that cannot be .
greatness ?
true hope is swift and flies with swallow ' s wings ; kings it makes gods , and meaner creatures
- beseeching him to give her virtuous breeding- she is young , and of a noble modest nature ; i
for what doth cherish weeds but gentle air ?
when by and by the din of war ' gan pierce his ready sense , then straight his doubled spirit
stay , gentle helena ; hear my excuse ; my love , my life , my soul , fair helena
would thou wert clean enough to spit upon !
antonio , an old man , his brother .
but yet it shall not serve : let me see thine eyes ; wink now ; now open them ;
argument all bare is of more worth than when it hath my added praise beside .
both alike : he merits well to have her that doth seek her , not making any scruple of her
in everything i wait upon his will .
praise her , but i would somebody had heard her talk yesterday , as i did .
' tis thought the old man and his sons were angels .
be it known that we , the greatest , are misthought for things that others do ; and when we
they call drinking deep , dying scarlet ; and when you breathe in your watering , they cry ' hem
and also , i think , thou art not ignorant how she opposes her against my will .
o , sir john , do you remember since we lay all night in the windmill in saint george '
to give us warrant from the hand of heaven and on our actions set the name of right with holy
away , go , away !
, have earnestly implor ' d a general peace betwixt our nation and the aspiring french ; and here at
i was the chief that rais ' d him to the crown , and i ' ll be chief to
i do believe thee .
as a buck to be so bought and sold .
all which , sir , though i most powerfully and potently believe , yet i hold it not honesty to
when many times the captive grecian falls , even in the fan and wind of your fair sword , you
the kingly crowned head , the vigilant eye , the counsellor heart , the arm our soldier , our steed
it hath struck ten o ' clock .
' lucius .
princes , enough , so please you .
field , and then to break promise with him and make a fool of him .
knock [within] .
sir , the manner of your bearing towards him , with what you as from your father shall deliver ,
he that brings this love to the little knows this love in me ; and by him seal up thy
well , what then , what then ?
is thy name colville ?
douglas flieth .
form .
ford ' s a knave , and i will aggravate his style ; thou , master brook , shalt know
enter silvia above , at her window silvia .
well , husband your device ; i ' ll to the vicar .
i know not what ' twas but distraction .
mistress overdone ' s own house , for here be many of her old customers .
state and come to speak with coriolanus .
good gentlemen , look fresh and merrily ; let not our looks put on our purposes , but bear it
now , welcome , kate ; and bear me witness all , that here i kiss her as my sovereign
from the ground like feathered mercury , and vaulted with such ease into his seat as if an angel dropp
' you do him the more wrong , ' quoth i ; " twas i did the thing you wot
[aside] you are a fool granted ; therefore your issues , being foolish , do not derogate .
charity , for shame !
o cassius , if you could but win the noble brutus to our party- cassius .
case ye , case ye !
ferdinand .
do you wish , then , that the gods had made me poetical ?
summon the town .
i ' m not their father ; yet who this should be doth miracle itself , lov ' d before
thunder the wide cheeks o ' th ' air , and yet to charge thy sulphur with a bolt that
but this same cassio , though he speak of comfort touching the turkish loss , yet he looks sadly and
i am bound to the count orsino ' s court .
here is a letter , lady , the paper as the body of my friend , and every word in
for that he has- as much as in him lies- from time to time envied against the people , seeking
will of caesar , it will inflame you , it will make you mad .
we will have more of this tomorrow .
he put it into his mouth ; meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat and lips to open .
this is a merry ballad , but a very pretty one .
lorenzo , and thy love .
who was most marble there changed colour ; some swooned , all sorrowed .
i ' ll be sworn , if thou be launcelot , thou art mine own flesh and blood .
hear me , my masters and my common friends- sicinius .
i would dissemble with my nature where my fortunes and my friends at stake requir ' d i should do
no , good master fenton .
will you dispatch us here under this tree , or shall we go with you to your chapel ?
the valiant caesar !
be patient , for you shall remain with us .
hast thou affections ?
another island , so thou wilt let me live and feel no pain .
away , patroclus !
come , lend me thy hand .
i keep but three men and a boy yet , till my mother be dead .
i know her well : she had her breeding at my father ' s charge .
i ' ll to my wedding bed ; and death , not romeo , take my maidenhead !
great patience .
by my penny of observation .
and ban thine enemies , both mine and thine !
o , slow-wing ' d turtle , shall a buzzard take thee ?
if that the turkish fleet be not enshelter ' d and embay ' d , they are drown ' d
exit lorenzo .
take heed , lest by your heat you burn yourselves .
yes , warwick , edward dares and leads the way .
i therefore apprehend and do attach thee for an abuser of the world , a practicer of arts inhibited and
out upon you , how am i mistook in you !
he smiles , methinks , as who should say , had death been french , then death had died to-day
, spoke at a venture .
somewhat too sudden , sirs , the warning is ; but we will presently provide for them .
i pray thee hear me speak .
grew upon my lips ; then laid his leg over my thigh , and sigh ' d and kiss '
yet if i knew what hoop should hold us stanch , from edge to edge o ' th ' world
hath an argosy cast away coming from tripolis .
what , the sword and the word !
s name .
whither they are fled .
one from the lord stanley .
txt thy wife is proud ; she holdeth thee in awe more than god or religious churchmen may .
once this-your long experience of her wisdom , her sober virtue , years , and modesty , plead on her
the grave doth gape and doting death is near ; therefore exhale .
it is much that the moor should be more than reason ; but if she be less than an honest
that doth seem as dead .
then , saunder , sit there , the lying ' st knave in christendom .
exeunt all but malcolm and donalbain .
do you persuade yourself that i respect you ?
i will prevent this , detect my wife , be reveng ' d on falstaff , and laugh at page
will he tell us what this show meant ?
belong to th ' gallows , and be hang ' d , ye rogue !
fore god , they are both in a tale .
it is very true .
ho , guildenstern !
master malvolio ?
sweet , and talk so like a waiting gentlewoman of guns and drums and wounds- god save the mark !
perjury , perjury , in the high ' st degree ; murder , stern murder , in the dir '
thither come , and let my gravestone be your oracle .
[aside] o , ho , i know the riddle .
i humbly take my leave .
you beg more than word then .
' tis better hope he is ; for his designs crave haste , his haste good hope .
or what is he of basest function that says his bravery is not on my cost , thinking that i
he is a marvellous good neighbour , faith , and a very good bowler ; but for alisander- alas !
and tell me , noble diomed-faith , tell me true , even in the soul of sound good-fellowship- who in
and is aufidius with him ?
>> _num_ the tragedy of hamlet , prince of denmark by william shakespeare dramatis personae claudius , king of denmark
this woman ' s answer sorts , for womanish it is to be from thence .
whose misadventur ' d piteous overthrows doth with their death bury their parents ' strife .
exit chamberlain attended .
give me a living reason she ' s disloyal .
exit ulysses .
incapable and shallow innocents , you cannot guess who caus ' d your father ' s death .
we must all part into this sea of air .
when such a spacious mirror ' s set before him , he needs must see himself .
why , then he is alive .
no ; i rather added a lustre to it .
a barren detested vale you see it is : the trees , though summer , yet forlorn and lean ,
[falls asleep] wind horns .
and as for you yourself , our quondam queen , you have a father able to maintain you , and
smil ' st thou ?
hath he borne himself penitently in prison ?
come on , sir knave , have done your foolishness , and tell me how thou hast dispos ' d
the devil tempts thee here in likeness of a new untrimmed bride .
it is the first time that ever i heard breaking of ribs was sport for ladies .
i that am honest , i that hold it sin to break the vow i am engaged in ; i
skill .
in some bush ?
taken sanctuary .
one- enter ghost .
humbleness .
and so she is , by my troth .
would i had no being , if this salute my blood a jot ; it faints me to think what
disloyal ?
i am not well in health , and that is all .
here comes the holy legate of the pope .
dost thou not laugh ?
why , he is dead .
me for thy use- may it be possible that foreign hire could out of thee extract one spark of evil
shall i teach you to know ?
of the commonwealth .
there she appear ' d indeed !
do , my lord .
two of the fairest stars in all the heaven , having some business , do entreat her eyes to twinkle
of men , they must perforce have melted , and barbarism itself have pitied him .
since cleopatra died , i have liv ' d in such dishonour that the gods detest my baseness .
slender .
heads should have gone off .
if i could add a lie unto a fault , i would deny it ; but you see my finger
let go thy hold when a great wheel runs down a hill , lest it break thy neck with following
o , call back yesterday , bid time return , and thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men !
and why so , my lord ?
the sum of all is that the king hath won , and hath sent out a speedy power to encounter
, sing , number- hoo !
after ' the duke his father ' with the ' knife , ' he stretch ' d him , and
look , here comes helena .
know you such a one ?
was ever heard the like ?
fearful war to diet rank minds sick of happiness , and purge th ' obstructions which begin to stop our
renowned lucius , from our troops i stray ' d to gaze upon a ruinous monastery ; and as i
injurious world !
; wherein my hope is i shall so prevail to force him after ; in whose company i shall re-view
the man hath seen some majesty , and should know .
now jove , in his next commodity of hair , send the a beard !
my way is now to hie home to his house , and tell his wife that , being lunatic ,
answer , thou dead elm , answer .
[aside to cardinal] now , by god ' s mother , priest , i ' ll shave your crown for
which humbleness may drive unto a fine .
her love , but if she lost it or made a gift of it , my father ' s eye
' tis true , fair daughter , and this blessed day ever in france shall be kept festival .
i dare say you love him not so ill to wish him here alone , howsoever you speak this ,
lo , to interrupt my purpos ' d rest , toward that shade i might behold addrest the king and
in anything .
well , sir , this gentleman is come to me with commendation from great potentates , and here he means
if your worship will take order for the drabs and the knaves , you need not to fear the bawds
and i from heaven banish ' d as from hence !
not live long after i saw richmond .
, stain my man ' s cheeks !
if aught possess thee from me , it is dross , usurping ivy , brier , or idle moss ;
i ' d defy them all .
' by jesu , a very good blade !
i ' ll tell you in a little .
i will fly , like a dog , the heels o ' th ' ass .
most like- bringing me here to kill me .
sometimes he angers me with telling me of the moldwarp and the ant , page _num_ complete works of william
not able to answer the welsh flannel ; ignorance itself is a plummet o ' er me ; use me
shall i prick him , sir ?
rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness .
a virtuous and a christian-like conclusion , to pray for them that have done scathe to us !
please it your majesty command me any service to her thither ?
what is your news ?
clarence still breathes ; edward still lives and reigns ; when they are gone , then must i count my
methought a serpent eat my heart away , and you sat smiling at his cruel prey .
upright he held it , lords , that held it last .
lechery , by this hand ; an index and obscure prologue to the history of lust and foul thoughts .
; but next day i told him of myself , which was as much as to have ask ' d
the wood .
ring of the time , and though they be outstripped by every pen , reserve them for my love ,
push-pin with the boys , and critic timon laugh at idle toys !
my aunt lavinia follows me everywhere , i know not why .
txt see what a scourge is laid upon your hate , that heaven finds means to kill your joys with
and the more pity that great folk should have count ' nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
methoughts that i had broken from the tower and was embark ' d to cross to burgundy ; and in
o , woe is me t ' have seen what i have seen , see what i see !
follow the noise so far as we have quarter ; let ' s see how it will give off .
good lord , for alliance !
the people are incens ' d against him .
go in with us and see ; we have an hour ' s talk with you .
[aside] to be whipt ; and yet a better love than my master .
exit puck oberon .
my lord , the king your father .
who talks within there ?
it is said : ' many a man knows no end of his goods .
on pain of death , no person be so bold or daring-hardy as to touch the lists , except the
shall i not hear my task ?
thou mayst .
expect him here ; but if she be obdurate to mild entreaties , god in heaven forbid we should infringe
harcourt .
we shall shock them .
come , my masters , let us share , and then to horse before day .
you have not patience ; come .
[enters the tomb .
a god ' s name , let it go .
it is needful that you frame the season for your own harvest .
er the boy , than whom no mortal so magnificent !
wrong , lives not to act another .
your hand ; most welcome !
now i change my mind , and partly credit things that do presage .
to be your regent in the realm of france .
we should have met you by sea and land , supplying every stage with an augmented greeting .
antony will be himself .
not a whit , when it jars so .
perish ' d by the way .
the queen of audience nor desire shall fail , so she from egypt drive her all-disgraced friend , or take
_num_ thou art as tyrannous , so as thou art , as those whose beauties proudly make them cruel ;
i have more care to stay than will to go .
of itself as in the prizer .
and any man may sing her , if he can take her cliff ; she ' s noted .
sometimes fashioning them like pharaoh ' s soldiers in the reechy painting , sometime like god bel ' s priests
[he gives them the arrows] ' ad jovem ' that ' s for you ; here ' ad apollinem .
yes , yes , sir thomas , there are that dare ; and i myself have ventur ' d to
then will i follow it .
[shouts within] what shouts are these ?
from a gun ?
txt yet not so deeply as to thee belongs , myself am mov ' d to woo thee for my
now is the woodcock near the gin .
one to ten !
but is it true , salerio ?
if you will marry , make your loves to me ; my lady is bespoke .
o horror , horror , horror !
come let me see it .
sir , those cold ways , that seem like prudent helps , are very poisonous where the disease is violent
txt under the surly gloucester ' s governance ?
hear me , good brother .
is wounded with the bait , the other rotted with delicious feed .
why , you know , ' tis dimpled .
what ruins are in me that can be found by him not ruin ' d ?
yet , you that hear me , this from a dying man receive as certain : where you are liberal
make way , they are coming .
but that slander , sir , is found a truth now ; for it grows again fresher than e '
how intend you- practis ' d ?
therefore this letter , being so excellently ignorant , will breed no terror in the youth : he will find
; i will rather trust a fleming with my butter , parson hugh the welshman with my cheese , an
warwick , these words have turn ' d my hate to love ; and i forgive and quite forget old
ay , mother ; but i would not have it so .
i think he told me paris should have married juliet .
you must away to court , sir , presently ; a dozen captains stay at door for you .
not so , an ' t please your worship .
on a spit , or your hands in your pocket , like a man after the old painting ; and
we do it wrong , being so majestical , to offer it the show of violence ; for it is
we follow thee .
i anger her sometimes , and tell her that paris is the properer man ; but i ' ll warrant
go , live still ; be alcibiades your plague , you his , and last so long enough !
decline an this , and see what now thou art : for happy wife , a most distressed widow ;
be dishonoured openly , and basely put it up without revenge ?
out of your grace , devise , ordain , impose , some gentle order ; and then we shall be
a street enter certain romans , with spoils first roman .
, a fourth for england- and other ventures he hath , squand ' red abroad .
experience , o , thou disprov ' st report !
look you , sir , here is the hand and seal of the duke .
thy grave admonishments prevail with me .
shrilly .
my conscience tells me you are innocent .
poll ?
the house of a most homely shepherd- a man , they say , that from very nothing , and beyond
come , sit down , every mother ' s son , and rehearse your parts .
the colour of his usual game , he shall here find his friends , with horse and men , to
' tis impossible .
lord chancellor , with purse and mace before him .
[sheathes his sword] come , tie his body to my horse ' s tail ; along the field i will
he was my friend , faithful and just to me ; but brutus says he was ambitious , and brutus
sir , i most humbly pray you to deliver this to my lord the king .
i dreamt tonight that i did feast with caesar , and things unluckily charge my fantasy .
, false murd ' rous coward , on thy knee make thee beg pardon for thy passed speech and say
[aside] these be fine things , an if they be not sprites .
' ll rail and brawl and with the clamour keep her still awake .
hadst thou not order ?
courteous lord , one word .
constable of france , and others french king .
' d thy throat shall cut , and mince it sans remorse .
we know what belongs to a watch .
here is warrant from the king t ' attach lord montacute and the bodies of the duke ' s confessor
back , and hums , as who should say , " you ' ll rue the time that clogs me
from the bill that writes them all alike ; and so of men .
[to kent and edgar] friends of my soul , you twain rule in this realm , and the gor '
is it therefore th ' ambassador is silenc ' d ?
will give you audience ; and wherein it shall appear that your demands are just , you shall enjoy them
made it for me , sir !
as i learn ' d , the night before there was no purpose in them of this remove .
love is a familiar ; love is a devil .
ah , humphrey , this dishonour in thine age will bring thy head with sorrow to the ground !
the king is not at the palace ; he is gone aboard a new ship to purge melancholy and air
labour be his meed !
to hideous winter and confounds him there , sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone , beauty o
me and my utmost hopes , i should have found in some place of my soul a drop of patience
why doth it not then our eyelids sink ?
there ' s none else by .
' tis not to make me jealous to say my wife is fair , feeds well , loves company ,
read thou this challenge ; mark but the penning of it .
so , bring us to our palace , where we ' ll show what ' s yet behind that '
but what a fool am i to chat with you , when i should bid good-morrow to my bride and
then wav ' d his handkerchief ?
what ' s done is done .
i beseech thee , apparel thy head .
streak her eyes , and make her full of hateful fantasies .
tell me , that i may sack the hateful mansion .
death no more !
there , then , that vizard ; that superfluous case page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
once more , new servant , welcome .
meantime we thank you for your well-took labour .
txt in the seat royal of this famous isle ?
you will try in time , in despite of a fall .
[hautboys] the order of the coronation .
is there a murderer here ?
with an ordinary fool that has no more brain than a stone .
enter sir william lucy lucy .
daughters , sons , bak ' d and impasted with the parching streets , that lend a tyrannous and a
d me with , supply your present wants , and take no doit of usance for my moneys , and
sirrah , bring barnardine hither .
england ne ' er had a king until his time .
not so hot !
are you all afraid ?
well said ; that was laid on with a trowel .
fare you well , boy ; you know my mind .
this is the very top , the height , the crest , or crest unto the crest , of murder
it is petter that friends is the sword and end it ; and there is also another device in my
warwick is chancellor and the lord of calais ; stern falconbridge commands the narrow seas ; the duke is made
know , by measure of their observant toil , the enemies ' weight- why , this hath not a finger
i am a bastard too ; i love bastards .
[to to the pedant] sir , this is the gentleman i told you of ; i pray you stand good
you mar our labour ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i ' ll rob none but myself ; and let me die , stealing so poorly .
dear duff , i prithee , contradict thyself , and say it is not so .
d ; be cheerful , sir .
o learn to read what silent love hath writ , to hear with eyes belongs to love ' s fine
hero ?
come , thou shalt bear a letter to him straight .
were you a woman , as the rest goes even , i should my tears let fall upon your cheek
i think your lordship is not ignorant how his companion , youthful valentine , attends the emperor in his royal
what is my name ?
how can i grace my talk , wanting a hand to give it that accord ?
sir , she can turn and turn , and yet go on , and turn again ; and she can
wilt thou upon the high and giddy mast seal up the ship-boy ' s eyes , and rock his brains
and send you many lovers !
enter lucio and isabella provost .
by day , if he arise , be mock ' d and wond ' red at .
help , son !
now merrily to horse .
silvius .
from your affairs i hinder you too long-good night , sir thomas .
though he be honourable- cleopatra .
i pray you , after the lieutenant ; go .
how i am brav ' d , and must perforce endure it !
my mistress show ' d me thee , and thy dog and thy bush .
if we draw lots , he speeds ; his cocks do win the battle still of mine , when it
every man shift for all the rest , and let no man take care for himself ; for all is
txt how you were borne in hand , how cross ' d , the instruments , who wrought with them
faith , it does me ; though it discolours the complexion of my greatness to acknowledge it .
so long as nature will bear up with this exercise , so long i daily vow to use it .
i know that knave , hang him !
for he that drinks all night and is hanged betimes in the morning may sleep the sounder all the next
imperious caesar , dead and turn ' d to clay , might stop a hole to keep the wind away
letter for letter , but that the name of page and ford differs .
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene ii .
] enter don pedro , leonato , claudio .
now for a while farewell , good duke of york .
re-enter page , with tyrrel is thy name tyrrel ?
mine ear must pluck it thence .
break out into a second course of mischief , killing in relapse of mortality .
this do , and do it kindly , gentle sirs ; it will be pastime passing excellent , if it
no , good sweet sir ; no , i beseech you , sir .
lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe .
[shout within ' a lancaster !
costard the swain and he shall be our sport ; and so to study three years is but short .
belmont colchos ' strond , and many jasons come in quest of her .
sweet majesty , vouchsafe me- princess of france .
her death that tidings came- with this she fell distract , and (her attendants absent) swallow ' d fire .
hercules , master .
] and so near will i be that your best friends shall wish i had been further .
surveyor .
my best camillo !
if i court moe women , you ' ll couch with moe men- " so get thee gone ; good
he is a sailmaker in bergamo .
- you must retire yourself into some covert ; take your sweetheart ' s hat and pluck it o '
brother , good night .
alarum still .
price , betake you to your guard ; for your opposite hath in him what youth , strength , skill
i was the more deceived .
txt alarum and retreat within .
for my lord lackbeard there , he and i shall meet ; and till then peace be with him .
villain , thou didst deny the gold ' s receipt , and told ' st me of a mistress and
title , and what shame else belongs to ' t .
no , my dearest love , i would not for the world .
i warrant you , my lord .
upon your sword sit laurel victory , and smooth success be strew ' d before your feet !
on no thought i think- makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink .
if he be dead , brave talbot , then , adieu !
his passion is so ripe it needs must break .
hold on shore .
a gift , i warrant .
felt them , and they were as cold as any stone ; then i felt to his knees , and
i read in ' s looks matter against me , and his eye revil ' d me as his abject
what means our cousin that he stares and looks so wildly ?
but for containing fire to harm mine eye .
captain , i will .
scene iv the hall in leonato ' s house .
exit valentine proteus .
what i can do can do no hurt to try , since you set up your rest ' gainst remedy
content- and the argument shall be thy running away .
heart ' s discontent and sour affliction be playfellows to keep you company !
o dorset , speak not to me , get thee gone !
why ' tis this naming of him does him harm .
what do you think me ?
a footman , sweet sir , a footman .
not to relent is beastly , savage , devilish .
to the next day ' s fate , which promises royal peril .
axe , and hang himself .
me and gaging me to keep an oath that i have sworn .
but to the purpose- for we cite our faults that they may hold excus ' d our lawless lives ;
exeunt all but warwick warwick .
than ever , i mean purpose , courage , and valor , this night show it ; if thou the
o sleep , o gentle sleep , nature ' s soft nurse , how have i frightened thee , that
the drink , the drink !
he ' s grown a very land fish , languageless , a monster .
truly , young gentlemen , though there was no great matter in the ditty , yet the note was very
fair is foul , and foul is fair .
be smiles- but that shall be as it may .
petruchio ' s country house enter grumio grumio .
, besides yourself , to like of .
in delay there lies no plenty , then come kiss me , sweet and twenty ; youth ' s a
[kisses her .
i think our fellows are asleep .
what with him ?
i had thought t ' have held it poor ; but since my lord is antony again , i will
timon is dead , who hath outstretch ' d his span .
light did all the chivalry of england move to do brave acts .
mortal revenge upon these traitorous goths , and see their blood or die with this reproach .
, which is from my remembrance .
my brother robert , old sir robert ' s son ?
give me that man that is not passion ' s slave , and i will wear him in my heart
would you and i alone , without more help , could fight this royal battle !
where is lysander and fair hermia ?
that ' s to make him eat twenty of his words .
with cassio , mistress .
therefore do nimble-pinion ' d doves draw love , and therefore hath the wind-swift cupid wings .
i know a lady in venice would have walked barefoot to palestine for a touch of his nether lip .
ay , if ' a have no more man ' s blood in his belly than will sup a flea
if so , gaze on , and grovel on thy face until thy head be circled with the same .
i see before me , man .
this is my true-begotten father , who , being more than sand-blind , high-gravel blind , knows me not .
if thou art dun , we ' ll draw thee from the mire of this sir-reverence love , wherein thou
, not swerving with the blood , garnish ' d and deck ' d in modest complement , not working
o noble judge !
for now he firmly takes me for revenge ; and , being credulous in this mad thought , i '
philip , what say ' st thou to the cardinal ?
how now , sirrah ?
and check was the reward of valour .
my father capulet will have it so , and i am nothing slow to slack his haste .
this is his wife : that ring ' s a thousand proofs .
' tis hamlet ' s character .
from your kind aunt , duchess of burgundy , with aid of soldiers to this needful war .
is ' t possible ?
three proper young men , of excellent growth and presence .
; steed threatens steed , in high and boastful neighs piercing the night ' s dull ear ; and from
lord , what fools these mortals be !
into the hall , and milk comes frozen home in pail , when blood is nipp ' d , and
this late dissension grown betwixt the peers burns under feigned ashes of forg ' d love and will at last
wilt thou forsake thy fortune , bequeath thy land to him and follow me ?
txt so , prithee , go with me .
this done , he took the bride about the neck , and kiss ' d her lips with such a
that done , i will be walking on the works ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
but it is no matter .
i know him not .
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene ix .
exit mardian off , pluck off !
words are no deeds .
txt jul .
of laertes ?
go you to angelo ; answer his requiring with a plausible obedience ; agree with his demands to the point
prepare the body then , and follow us .
they are co-heirs ; and i had rather glib myself than they should not produce fair issue .
by janus , i think no .
by the lord , a buck-basket !
enter duke senior , amiens , and lords , like outlaws duke senior .
' a will betray us all unto ourselves- inform on that .
full of fine dirt ?
this is too heavy ; let me see another .
go get thee gone ; fetch me an iron crow .
emilia , run you to the citadel , and tell my lord and lady what hath happ ' d !
o , spare me not , my brother edward ' s son , for that i was his father edward
he will have all , i think .
i will not be absence at the grace .
must be employ ' d now to guard sure their master .
heavens bless my lord from fell aufidius !
before god , i am exceeding weary .
do you amend it , then ; it lies in you .
we meet .
come , come , dispatch ; the duke would be at dinner .
i think our father will hence to-night .
comfort to my age !
peace , you mumbling fool !
he hath some meaning in his mad attire .
and so have i a noble father lost ; a sister driven into desp ' rate terms , whose worth
leave holloaing , man .
she should have died hereafter ; there would have been a time for such a word .
cassandra .
there ' s a brave man , niece .
txt send for the man , and ask him .
are you aweary of me ?
not a word ; if you have anything to say to me , come to my ward ; for thence
of my travels ; in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous sadness .
confer with you of something nearly that concerns yourselves .
curses .
enter la pucelle here , here she comes .
five wits , nor my five senses can dissuade one foolish heart from serving thee , who leaves unswayed the
your own good thoughts excuse me , and farewell .
iras , " " " " officers , soldiers , messengers , and attendants <<this electronic version of the complete
i do make myself believe that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged lady a merited benefit ; redeem
i think he ' s gone to hunt , my lord , at windsor .
[steps aside] berowne .
mine inventory .
i kiss the instrument of their pleasures .
>> _num_ king henry the eighth by william shakespeare dramatis personae king henry the eighth cardinal wolsey cardinal campeius page
that is because the traitor murderer lives .
or suppose devouring pestilence hangs in our air and thou art flying to a fresher clime .
the next caesarion smite !
sir boy , i ' ll whip you from your foining fence !
ha , ha !
ay , the bolting ; but you must tarry the leavening .
the weird sisters , hand in hand , posters of the sea and land , thus do go about ,
priest ; say you consent and censure well the deed , and i ' ll provide his executioner- i tender
o , thine honour , lewis , thine honour !
help , lucius , help !
here ' s too much ' out upon thee !
nay , we must longer kneel : i am suitor .
extol what it hath done .
turn our impress ' d lances in our eyes which do command them .
enter lord hastings hastings .
see , they encounter thee with their hearts ' thanks .
we will greet the time .
truly , sir , to see your wife .
good friend , i prithee take him in thy arms .
this kind of service did not deserve corn gratis .
him and his worth and our great need of him you have right well conceited .
tigers must prey , and rome affords no prey but me and mine ; how happy art thou then from
whose whiteness so became them as if but now they waxed pale for woe .
o that my tongue were in the thunder ' s mouth !
er ta ' en ; and yet she writes pursuit would be but vain .
but in the balance of great bolingbroke , besides himself , are all the english peers , and with that
no better english ; for if thou couldst , thou wouldst find me such a plain king that thou wouldst
things for the cook , sir ; but i know not what .
[to bertram] your reputation comes too short for my daughter ; you are no husband for her .
leisure .
we thank your honour .
apemantus .
ah , you whoreson little valiant villain , you !
go thou with me , and let me counsel thee .
i do not know .
i tell him we shall stay here at the least a month , and he heartly prays some occasion may
' tis born .
we arrest your word .
what hath he sent her ?
and general .
at first the infant , mewling and puking in the nurse ' s arms ; then the whining school-boy ,
if i do send , dispatch page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the night has been unruly .
there can be no evasion to blench from this and to stand firm by honour .
what more remains ?
the ocean .
alack , when once our grace we have forgot , nothing goes right ; we would , and we would
fardel and i know not what ; but he at that time over-fond of the shepherd ' s daughter- so
old cassius still !
beat them down !
one that means his proper harm- in manacles , then reason safely with you .
he is good , and fair .
now i do- to work mine end upon their senses that this airy charm is for , i ' ll
send colville , with his confederates , to york , to present execution .
o , true bred !
well then , go you into hell ?
there are no tricks in plain and simple faith ; but hollow men , like horses hot at hand ,
o that i had my wish !
his act did not o ' ertake his bad intent , and must be buried but as an intent that
so much brain as ear-wax ; and the goodly transformation of jupiter there , his brother , the bull ,
are lost .
therefore , i do beseech you , make no moe offers , use no farther means , but with all
much in the letters ; nothing in the praise .
peace and content be here !
o , men ' s vows are women ' s traitors !
faith , as cold as can be .
only , this one : lord angelo is precise ; stands at a guard with envy ; scarce confesses that
you so remain .
being as good a man as yourself , both in the disciplines of war and in the derivation of my
but dead , rather ; for nature doth abhor to make his bed with the defunct , or sleep upon
brief as the lightning in the collied night that , in a spleen , unfolds both heaven and earth ,
prosper works upon thee .
i have ' t in my nose too .
txt another part of the park enter falstaff disguised as herne falstaff .
ambush on the forest side and from the bishop ' s huntsmen rescu ' d him ; for hunting was
thee open thy white hand and clap thyself my love ; then didst thou utter ' i am yours for
why came you from your master ?
great-bellied women , that had not half a week to go , like rams in the old time of war
nay , then i cannot blame his cousin king , that wish ' d him on the barren mountains starve
the hour steals on ; i pray you , sir , dispatch .
impotent and bedrid , scarcely hears of this his nephew ' s purpose , to suppress his further gait herein
yea , he loveth .
what tranio did , myself enforc ' d him to ; then pardon him , sweet father , for my
of the salt flood , who once a day with his embossed froth the turbulent surge shall cover .
s field ?
thou princely leader of our english strength , never so needful on the earth of france , spur to the
where ' s her grace ?
no , no , you must play pyramus ; and , flute , you thisby .
; only refer yourself to this advantage : first , that page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
what shrill-voic ' d suppliant makes this eager cry ?
my sovereign lord , bestow yourself with speed : the french are bravely in their battles set , and will
take hereford ' s rights away , and take from time his charters and his customary rights ; let not
for your vehement oaths , you should have been respective and have kept it .
' king henry .
how sometimes nature will betray its folly , its tenderness , and make itself a pastime to harder bosoms !
i humbly thank your ladyship .
i will presently to saint luke ' s ; there , at the moated grange , resides this dejected mariana
if his rule were true , he should be gracious .
txt must i be his last refuge ?
sound drums and trumpets .
an you part so , mistress , i would i might never draw sword again .
speak , sirs .
nobles receive so to heart the banishment of that worthy coriolanus that they are in a ripe aptness to take
a shorter time shall send me to you , lords ; and in my conduct shall your ladies come ,
and even now , to crown my thoughts with acts , be it thought and done : the castle of
o , sirs , consider : they that set you on to do this deed will hate you for the
when was she miss ' d ?
for thy conceit is soaking , will draw in more than the common blocks .
down , down i come , like glist ' ring phaethon , wanting the manage of unruly jades .
fare thee well , fare thee well .
petruchio , go thy ways , the field is won .
exit desdemona .
whom the foul fiend hath led through fire and through flame , through ford and whirlpool , o ' er
if they wrong her honour , the proudest of them shall well hear of it .
i pray thee keep that for the hangman ; for i know thou worshippest saint nicholas as truly as a
lull ' d in these flowers with dances and delight ; and there the snake throws her enamell ' d
they seem ' d almost , with staring on one another , to tear the cases of their eyes ;
yes , sir , i have indeed .
marry , he hath better bethought him of his quarrel , and he finds that now scarce to be worth
follow me not ; stay here .
exit host falstaff .
[to longaville] you would for paradise break faith and troth ; [to dumain] and jove for your love would infringe
ay , sooth ; so humbled that he hath left part of his grief with me to suffer with him
yea , an ' t please you .
well then , amen .
prince of power .
when saw you my father last ?
do not seek to stuff my head with more ill news , for it is fun .
your renown , defacing monuments of conquer ' d france , undoing all , as all had never been !
take your paper too , and let me have them very well perfum ' d ; for she is sweeter
that our garments , being , as they were , drench ' d in the sea , hold , notwithstanding
sacrifice , and lift my soul to heaven .
silvia ?
sweet love , i see , changing his property , turns to the sourest and most deadly hate .
first let me ask of these , if they can brook i bow a knee to man .
if they set down before ' s , for the remove bring up your army ; but i think you
which be the malefactors ?
the murmuring surge that on th ' unnumb ' red idle pebble chafes cannot be heard so high .
pardon me , proteus ; all i can is nothing to her , whose worth makes other worthies nothing ;
i have made no fault .
fair sir , i pity her , and wish , for her sake more than for mine own , my
take , then , this your companion by the hand , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you must prepare to fight without achilles .
as i do live by food , i met a fool , who laid him down and bask ' d
their noise be our instruction .
go , seek him out .
hero !
nay , he is your brother by the surer side , although my seal be stamped in his face .
thou dar ' st not say so , villain , for thy life .
you must not so far prefer her fore ours of italy .
why should we , in the compass of a pale , keep law and form and due proportion , showing
thou canst quit thee by thy brother ' s mouth of what we think against thee .
why , it is at sea .
-nay , then .
' d branches which , being dead many years , shall after revive , be jointed to the old stock
father and mother is man and wife ; man and wife is one flesh ; and so , my mother
what , will your highness leave the parliament ?
be .
these ladies ' courtesy might well have made our sport a comedy .
the report of her is extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage .
' convey ' the wise it call .
' las , what ' s the matter ?
this torture should be roar ' d in dismal hell .
fare ye well awhile ; i ' ll end my exhortation after dinner .
pray you , a word with you .
hark ye : not so .
dower , he doth intend she shall be england ' s queen .
go you with me , uncle of exeter .
fairly spoke .
you hear this fellow in the cellarage .
' slight !
elsinore .
pomfret stones ; derives from heaven his quarrel and his cause ; tells them he doth bestride a bleeding land
; th ' expressure that it bears , green let it be , more fertile-fresh than all the field to
for my part , i am sorry it is turn ' d to a drinking .
and for this sin there is no remedy , it is so grounded inward in my heart .
there is , even at this present , now while i speak this , holds his wife by th '
but thou liest in thy throat ; that is not the matter i challenge thee for .
to relate the manner were , on the quarry of these murther ' d deer , to add the death
an if i live until i be a man , i ' ll win our ancient right in france again
and i in going , madam , weep o ' er my father ' s death anew ; but i
' ll smoke your skin-coat an i catch you right ; sirrah , look to ' t ; i '
txt subscrib ' d it , gave ' t th ' impression , plac ' d it safely , the
[a ladder brought , which aaron is made to climb] aaron .
he was thinking of civil wars when he got me ; therefore was i created with a stubborn outside ,
my lord , your sorrow was too sore laid on , which sixteen winters cannot blow away , so many
o , if the streets were paved with thine eyes , her feet were much too dainty for such tread
how much unlike art thou to portia !
' pol .
richmond in dorsetshire sent out a boat unto the shore , to ask those on the banks if they were
you loving men of angiers , arthur ' s subjects , our trumpet call ' d you to this gentle
did you see my cap ?
you will be scrap ' d out of the painted cloth for this .
(sings) they bore him barefac ' d on the bier (hey non nony , nony , hey nony) and in
shall rome stand under one man ' s awe ?
i cannot help it now , unless by using means i lame the foot of our design .
at sea , i think .
_num_ not marble , nor the gilded monuments of princes shall outlive this powerful rhyme , but you shall shine
exit the king , frowning upon the cardinal ; the nobles throng after him , smiling and whispering wolsey .
if thou say so , villain , thou kill ' st thy mistress ; but well and free , if
his wreaks , his fits , his frenzy , and his bitterness ?
now let ' s have a catch .
his sweet disaster ; with a world of pretty , fond , adoptious christendoms that blinking cupid gossips .
she is issue to a faithless jew .
not interrupt me in my course .
worms .
both sea and land , as soon as think the place where he would be .
will it please you to see the epilogue , or to hear a bergomask dance between two of our company
and kiss ' d it , madam .
like it , the execution of it shall make known : even with the speediest expedition i will dispatch him
but let that go .
spur we heat an acre .
but give me your hand , menas ; if our eyes had authority , here they might take two thieves
how many months do you desire ?
' s going to my wife , and falstaff ' s boy with her .
txt sing ; ask questions and sing ; pick his teeth and sing .
i make all use of it , for i use it only .
ladies , you are not merry .
of a child as soon as i ' th ' command of caesar .
how i dote on thee !
ford and mrs .
i look for an earthquake too then .
txt for , if they could , cupid himself would blush to see me thus transformed to a boy .
come , damn ' d earth , thou common whore of mankind , that puts odds among the rout of
boyet , you can produce acquittances for such a sum from special officers of charles his father .
from london by the king was i press ' d forth ; my father , being the earl of warwick
enter duke , viola , curio , and lords duke .
nay then , no matter ; stay with me awhile ; i am to break with thee of some affairs
brook is his name ?
should o ' erhear the speech , of vantage .
this hand is moist , my lady .
prospero my lord shall know what i have done ; so , king , go safely on to seek thy
disarm them , and let them question ; let them keep their limbs whole and hack our english .
prohibited commercial distribution includes by any page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
more should i question thee , and more i must , though more to know could not be more to
that we cannot mend ; they break their faith to god as well as us .
fie , you slug-abed !
they cannot be too sweet for the king ' s tartness .
it seems not meet , nor wholesome to my place , to be produced- as , if i stay ,
[within] it seems thou want ' st breaking ; out upon thee , hind !
horner` .
knows himself to be a fool .
my soul doth tell me hero is belied ; and that shall claudio know ; so shall the prince ,
carry them to the laundress in datchet mead ; quickly , come .
[they stand aside] gremio .
come , one for me .
sons and brothers ?
go , sirrah , seek him .
hector passes pandarus .
loves are dearer than the natural bond of sisters .
rome never had more cause .
surely , by all the glory you have won , an if i fly , i am not talbot '
we will persuade him , be it possible , to put on better ere he go to church .
what storm is this ?
exit herald my nell , i take my leave- and , master sheriff , let not her penance exceed the
agamemnon is a fool ; achilles is a fool ; thersites is a fool ; and , as aforesaid ,
why , you are nothing then ; neither maid , widow , nor wife .
eagles .
[sings] she loves another- who calls , ha ?
he , sir , that must marry this woman .
come more , for more you ' re ready .
englishmen .
let our best heads know that to-morrow the last of many battles we mean to fight .
if thou kill ' st me , boy , thou shalt kill a man .
breath of worldly men cannot depose the deputy elected by the lord .
by sir toby .
it is a high-wrought flood ; i cannot , ' twixt the heaven and the main , descry a sail
i ' ll send some holy bishop to entreat ; for god forbid so many simple souls should perish by
in such a night did thisby fearfully o ' ertrip the dew , and saw the lion ' s shadow
this in the name of god i promise here ; the which if he be pleas ' d i shall
i am bound to hear .
no such jade as you , if me you mean .
length .
txt dame eleanor gives gold to bring the witch : gold cannot come amiss were she a devil .
know not- something hath been amiss- a noble nature may catch a wrench- would all were well !
the queen ' s queen !
therefore , friends , as far as to the sepulchre of christ- whose soldier now , under whose blessed cross
nay , prithee dispatch .
good corporal nym , show thy valour , and put up your sword .
tongue .
general is excellent .
therefore heaven nature charg ' d that one body should be fill ' d with all graces wide-enlarg ' d
why , gloucester , gloucester , i ' ld speak with the duke of cornwall and his wife .
that ' s strange .
my gracious lord , no tribune hears you speak .
unarm thee , go ; and doubt thou not , brave boy , i ' ll stand to-day for thee
why , love , i say !
when he perceiv ' d me shrink and on my knee , his bloody sword he brandish ' d over
you yet to your own souls so blind that you will war with god by murd ' ring me ?
i am your sorrow ' s nurse , and i will pamper it with lamentation .
for all beneath the moon would i not leap upright .
my lord approaches .
and hug them hard and after scandal them , or if you know page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
ignorant of his birth and parentage , became a bricklayer when he came to age .
cousins , indeed ; and by their uncle cozen ' d of comfort , kingdom , kindred , freedom ,
than they , might in thy palace perish margaret .
enter another messenger .
[swallows some] guiderius .
let us leave here , gentlemen .
dissembling harlot , thou art false in all , and art confederate with a damned pack to make a loathsome
] hark !
alack for woe !
you deny me that .
it is so indeed .
this is the fruits of rashness .
your servant and your friend ; one that attends your ladyship ' s command .
the robb ' d that smiles steals something from the thief ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
a clifford !
enter caesar , antony , lepidus , and octavia antony .
that which not enriches him and makes me poor indeed .
in private will i talk with thee apart .
what cannot be eschew ' d must be embrac ' d .
puff !
of all the fair resort of gentlemen that every day with parle encounter me , in thy opinion which is
but your reason was not substantial , why there is no time to recover .
he that has but effected his good will page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
of all , katherine , break thy mind to me in broken english , wilt thou have me ?
why , now thou hast thy will ; for raging wind blows up incessant showers , and when the rage
damn ' d ; but if i may have your ladyship ' s good will to go to the world
nursing of my sons ?
i aim ' d so near when i suppos ' d you lov ' d .
god he swears , to that i ' ll urge him .
do you hear , my mad wenches ?
and , thou great-siz ' d coward , no space of earth shall sunder our two hates ; i '
caesar , i will .
[grovelling on the ground] o that ever i was born !
i am known to be a humorous patrician , and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not
if thou hadst not been born the worst of men , thou hadst been a knave and flatterer .
smiles on me , as who should say ' when i am dead and gone , remember to avenge me
how my achievements mock me !
away with her .
there ' s none but asses will be bridled so .
falling fabric .
with all expedience charge on us .
plain .
what relish is in this ?
do you hear , my lord ?
my lord , he is but even now gone hence ; here was he merry , hearing of a song
thus ornament is but the guiled shore to a most dangerous sea ; the beauteous scarf veiling an indian beauty
, and mine a sad one .
in what enormity is marcius poor in that you two have not in abundance ?
come ; we have no friend page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
standing to ' t ; that ' s the loss of men , though it be the getting of children
in his particular .
how if they will not ?
, sir ?
adieu , goodman devil .
but i can give thee more ; for i will raise her statue in pure gold , that whiles verona
silken streamers the young phorbus fanning .
, for i keep his house ; and i wash , wring , brew , bake , scour , dress
exeunt , severally , gloucester and winchester with their servants mayor .
the seasons change their manners , as the year had found some months asleep , and leapt them over .
the foe is merciless and will not pity ; for at their hands i have deserv ' d no pity
and your experience makes you sad .
o my gentle master !
-what are these faces ?
how he glisters thorough my rust !
for when my outward action doth demonstrate the native act and figure of my heart in complement extern , '
him ease .
armagnac , near knit to charles , a man of great authority in france , proffers his only daughter to
another part of blackheath alarums to the fight , wherein both the staffords are slain .
i love not the humour of bread and cheese ; and there ' s the humour of it .
and these does she apply for warnings and portents and evils imminent , and on her knee hath begg '
nay , patience , you must not leave me yet .
from troy and troilus .
you have of late stood out against your brother , and he hath ta ' en you newly into his
nay , then will i be gone .
what mean you , caesar ?
to whom , with all submission , on my knee i do bequeath my faithful services and true subjection everlastingly
orchard of oliver ' s house enter orlando and adam orlando .
stay , royal sir ; exit widow the jeweller that owes the ring is sent for , and he shall
scene _num_ on a ship at sea ; a tempestuous noise of thunder and lightning heard enter a shipmaster and
women are angels , wooing : things won are done ; joy ' s soul lies in the doing .
' come , i will give you way for these your letters , and do ' t the speedier that
i come , master shallow ; i come , master shallow .
what is the news i ' th ' court ?
most welcome , bondage !
and in the number , thee that wishest shame !
or discover his government .
friar , thou knowest not the duke so well as i do ; he ' s a better woodman than
now , soldiers , march away ; and how thou pleasest , god , dispose the day !
this was not counterfeit ; there is too great testimony in your complexion that it was a passion of earnest
if you will measure your lubber ' s length again , tarry ; but away !
bosworth field enter king richard in arms , with norfolk , ratcliff , the earl of surreys and others king
all you sage counsellors , hence .
er thy tale again .
brain makes of fumes .
i am but sorry , not afeard ; delay ' d , but nothing alt ' red .
fenton .
parle without , and answer within ; then a flourish .
more stirs against , both in his private conscience and his place , defacers of a public peace than i
i never saw a better fashion ' d gown , more quaint , more pleasing , nor more commendable ;
i dare not , sir .
i take your princely word for these redresses .
us with the spleen of fiery dragons !
fail , and that gave to me many a groaning throe .
you make amends .
, upon thy side , against my self i ' ll fight , and prove thee virtuous , though thou
were he twenty times my son i would appeach him .
bid them all fly ; for when i am reveng ' d upon my charm , i have done all
ay , to the leavening ; but here ' s yet in the word ' hereafter ' the kneading ,
think ' st thou i ' ll endanger my soul gratis ?
who offered him the crown ?
toss-pots still had drunken heads , for the rain it raineth every day .
ever .
i will weep for thee ; for this revolt of thine , methinks , is like another fall of man
then let thy love be younger than thyself , or thy affection cannot hold the bent ; for women are
territory .
do me right , or i will protest your cowardice .
and at that time i made her weep a good , for i did play a lamentable part .
will not leave the half-achieved harfleur till in her ashes she lie buried .
that ' s the letter i writ to her friend .
good masters , harm me not .
[dies] queen margaret .
why , then thou canst not break her to the lute ?
war , or peace , or both at once , may be as things acquainted and familiar to us ;
of kent , took odds to combat a poor famish ' d man .
i will owe thee an answer for that ; and now forward with thy tale .
thou shalt know the man by the athenian garments he hath on .
well , do not then ; for since you love me not , i will not love myself .
d wooers say .
[comes forward] peace , ye fat-guts !
exeunt servants katherina .
confusion now hath made his masterpiece .
night been thus encount ' red .
then is there here one master caper , at the suit of master threepile the mercer , for some four
what ' s your will ?
which he shall know within this hour , if i may come to th ' speech of him .
, venture again .
he brings me liberty .
' tis true , my liege ; this ring i had of her .
why , does he talk of him ?
if ever thou be ' st bound in thy scarf and beaten , thou shalt find what it is to
txt king .
a thousand thousand !
enter the king , the queen , cardinal , somerset , with attendants king henry .
[aside] if his wit had been like him that broke it , it would have run all out .
if any man challenge this , he is a friend to alencon and an enemy to our person ; if
i have not deserved this .
marrying the renowned claudio (whose estimation do you mightily hold up) to a contaminated stale , such a one as
at my cousin cressida ' s ?
txt whom i employ ' d was pre-employ ' d by him ; he has discover ' d my design
either get thee from the door , or sit down at the hatch .
go you to hunting ; i ' ll abide with him .
but how , when antony is gone , through whom i might command it ?
of safety and allowance as therein are set down .
if she first meet the curled antony , he ' ll make demand of her , and spend that kiss
the king is almost wounded to the death ; and , in the fortune of my lord your son ,
' dear brother , live , and be a king ' ?
if i owe you anything i will pay you in cudgels ; you shall be a woodmonger , and buy
it is twice blest : it blesseth him that gives and him that takes .
her choice .
grim-visag ' d war hath smooth ' d his wrinkled front , and now , instead of mounting barbed steeds
, and he shall marry her .
i will kiss thy lips .
so be gone .
napkin .
but to confound such time that drums him from his sport and speaks as loud as his own state and
what would you have , friend ?
is all things ready for the royal time ?
then , clifford , were thy heart as hard as steel , as thou hast shown it flinty by thy
why , this is the ring i gave to julia .
the bowl , then nightly sings the staring owl : ' tu-who ; tu-whit , to-who ' - a merry
this time the doors are made against you .
i was directed hither .
, a kind of sleeping in the blood , a whoreson tingling .
but , i beseech you , what says the other troop ?
and bloody england into england gone , o ' erbearing interruption , spite of france ?
enter chamberlain .
i may as well say the fool ' s the fool .
pisanio .
good king , to be so mightily abused !
plead were for myself ; and so , my lord , adieu .
you at my death .
, have been royally attorneyed with interchange of gifts , letters , loving embassies ; that they have seem '
- this grave shall have a living monument .
send to her , by the man that slew her brothers , a pair of bleeding hearts ; thereon engrave
before the capitol flourish .
commanded .
indeed , sir , he that sleeps feels not the toothache .
it is my lady ; o , it is my love !
antonio and old shylock , both stand forth .
merciful heaven , thou rather , with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt , splits the unwedgeable and gnarled oak than
txt the blind to hear him speak ; matrons flung gloves , ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers ,
no , it is struck .
' tis not the first time i have constrained one to call me knave .
perchance ' twill walk again .
atalanta ' s better part , sad lucretia ' s modesty .
but , ah , i will not !
you souls of geese that bear the shapes of men , how have you run from slaves that apes would
thou art thyself , though not a montague .
take the instant way ; for honour travels in a strait so narrow - where one but goes abreast .
casca , you are the first that rears your hand .
question it , horatio .
the day almost itself professes yours , and little is to do .
eringoes ; let there come a tempest of provocation , i will shelter me here .
mistress ford and mistress page , have i encompass ' d you ?
smooth runs the water where the brook is deep , and in his simple show he harbours treason .
have you any eyes ?
trumpet sounds a parley .
[beneath] swear by his sword .
the prince my brother hath outgrown me far .
thy lord ?
a miserable world !
what , is lavinia then become so loose , or bassianus so degenerate , that for her love such quarrels
sweet , let me see your face .
your loving friend , benedick .
nay , we must think men are not gods , nor of them look for such observancy as fits the
romeo can , though heaven cannot .
make it less , for fear i surfeit .
we bodg ' d again ; as i have seen a swan with bootless labour swim against the tide and
look , th ' unfolding star calls up the shepherd .
forgive my general and exceptless rashness , you perpetual-sober gods !
enter the king , scroop , cambridge , grey , and attendants king henry .
we will not now be troubled with reply .
thy face through tears of mine give light .
the money is paid back again .
o , heaven forgive us !
you come not like caesar ' s sister .
mouth of all find-faults- as i will do yours for upholding the nice fashion of your country in denying me
you are three that rome should dote on ; yet , by the faith of men , we have some
for that i am prepar ' d and full resolv ' d , foul-spoken coward , that thund ' rest
o heavenly julia !
ah , boy , cornelia never with more care read to her sons than she hath read to thee sweet
if thou wilt curse , thy father , that poor rag , must be thy subject ; who , in
there will little learning die , then , that day thou art hang ' d .
scurvy knave !
exeunt mrs .
my lord is dead ; edmund and i have talk ' d , and more convenient is he for my
i , sir ?
knock me down with ' em ; cleave me to the girdle .
hear , hear !
nay , that ' s certain ; they that dally nicely with words may quickly make them wanton .
txt but rather one that smiles and still invites all that pass by .
followed it as gentle day , doth follow night who like a fiend from heaven to hell is flown away
go , leave me .
the weather that love not the wind .
, which a dismiss ' d offence would after gall , and do him right that , answering one foul
by gar , he has save his soul dat he is no come ; he has pray his pible well
txt for somerset , off with his guilty head .
ourselves , or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths .
i dare assure you , sir , ' tis almost two , and ' twill be supper-time ere you come
txt montjoy .
go on and fetch our horses back again .
i know you ' d fain be gone .
yea , wherefore should she not ?
what do you here ?
my steward !
' tis the time ' s plague when madmen lead the blind .
cominius and lartius stand bare may these same instruments which you profane never sound more !
vein of chivalry .
the plains near rouen enter charles , the bastard , alencon , la pucelle , and forces pucelle .
not so neither .
and for that offence immediately we do exile him hence .
who is not lord timon ' s ?
my lord , he speaks most vilely of you , like a foul-mouth ' d man as he is ,
he must be told on ' t , and he shall .
let go my hand .
will issue too .
cupid have mercy !
i ' ll see what i can do .
what , shall our feast be kept with slaughtered men ?
you have done well , that men must lay their murthers on your neck .
in some sort , sir ; but though my case be a pitiful one , i hope i shall not
more slander to thy dismal seat , we give to thee our guiltless blood to drink .
wherefore speaks he this to her he hates ?
the duke ' s palace enter valentine and speed speed .
re-enter widow with helena king .
be bought up , and no sword worn but one to dance with .
the good queen , for she is good , hath brought you forth a daughter ; page _num_ complete works
before brutus ' tent .
thou the lamentable tale of me , and send the hearers weeping to their beds ; for why , the
of fear , and a portent of broached mischief to the unborn times ?
digest as much .
nay , then her wax must melt .
besides , the king hath wasted all his rods on late offenders , that he now doth lack the very
i have receiv ' d a hurt .
a mighty power ; which were on foot , in his own conduct , purposely to take his brother here
and you shall be satisfied .
exeunt gardiner and page enter the king and the duke of suffolk king .
there on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds clamb ' ring to hang , an envious sliver broke , when
' tis he , i ken the manner of his gait : he rises on the toe .
i fear , i fear ' twill prove a giddy world .
good sir , be patient .
' lord .
my lord aumerle , i know your daring tongue scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver ' d .
hear me with patience .
, for our entrance ; but , let them measure us by what they will , we ' ll measure
, to the mercy of a rude stream , that must for ever hide me .
thy face : o let it then as well beseem thy heart to mourn for me since mourning doth thee
the vision which i made known to lucius ere the stroke of yet this scarce-cold battle , at this instant
whiles yet the dew ' s on ground , gather those flowers ; make haste ; who has the note
what ' s i ' th ' fardel ?
now , sir , have i met you again ?
let ' em enter .
my masters , let ' s stand close ; my lord protector will come this way by and by ,
let me not be pent up , sir ; i will fast , being loose .
so did we woo transformed timon to our city ' s love by humble message and by promis ' d
shall pride carry it ?
o , tell , tell , thersites .
which , i think , is a very ill house too .
bed shall seem a school , his board a shrift ; i ' ll intermingle everything he does with cassio
having made one , methinks it should have power to steal both his , and leave itself unfurnish ' d
storms .
i prithee let me bring thee where crabs grow ; and i with my long nails will dig thee pig-nuts
thou hast some suit to caesar , hast thou not ?
a fearful army , led by caius marcius associated with aufidius , rages upon our territories , and have already
let his grace go forward and dare us with his cap like larks .
is and pale of cheer , with sighs of love that costs the fresh blood dear .
but not a thousand marks between you both .
but i am a plain-dealing villain .
for mine own part , i am , as they say , but to parfect one man in one poor
would ' t had been done .
call hither to the stake my two brave bears , that with the very shaking of their chains they may
a wise father that knows his own child .
o heaven !
i think the devil will not have me damn ' d , lest the oil that ' s in me
no , your poor disposer ' s sick .
' unto all they meet .
then , if you will elect by my advice , crown him , and say ' long live our emperor
in the heat of their division .
have we devils here ?
trinculo , if you trouble him any more in ' s tale , by this hand , i will supplant
heav ' d forth such groans that their discharge did stretch his leathern coat almost to bursting ; and the
, the sciences that should become our country ; but grow , like savages- as soldiers will , that nothing
how comes these staggers on me ?
are they all in love , that every one her own hath garnished with such bedecking ornaments of praise ?
i cry thee mercy .
i have one thing more to ask him yet , good charmian .
[knocks] gremio .
my deeds upon my head !
region of his face ; for i will make him tell the tale anew , where , how , how
herein i see thou lov ' st me not with the full weight that i love thee .
would they were basilisks to strike thee dead !
i never was nor never will be false .
a mighty strength they carry .
being something gently consider ' d , i ' ll bring you where he is aboard , tender your persons
softly , dear sir [picks his pocket] ; good sir , softly .
behold , my lord of winchester , the duke hath banish ' d moody discontented fury , as by his
exit provost now will i write letters to angelo- the provost , he shall bear them- whose contents shall witness
with a tale .
down young hotspur and his troops , quenching the flame of bold rebellion even with the rebels ' blood .
prize , and have it ; yea , and can show it you here in the house .
you ' ll see your rome embrac ' d with fire before you ' ll speak with coriolanus .
content with hermia !
thus doth tyrannize o ' er me .
i was , fair madam .
re-enter mariana i pray you be acquainted with this maid ; she comes to do you good .
shall have our answer .
brandish ' d steel , which smoked with bloody execution , like valor ' s minion carved out his passage
countess .
; but i ' ll amerce you with so strong a fine that you shall all repent the loss of
age cannot wither her , nor custom stale her infinite variety .
what unaccustom ' d cause procures her hither ?
you are to blame .
o thou thing !
the devil take order now !
now by saint peter ' s church , and peter too , he shall not make me there a joyful
why , good fellow , what shall i do the while ?
were i but twenty-one , your father ' s image is so hit in you his very air , that
do you think i keep thieves in my house ?
shall i have a cox-comb of frieze ?
what should i do with him ?
the weak door of our fainting land .
nerissa .
, when , with a most impatient devilish spirit , ' frets , call you these ?
i have within my mind a thousand raw tricks of these bragging jacks , which i will practise .
a sovereign shame so elbows him ; his own unkindness , that stripp ' d her from his benediction ,
stand forth , lysander .
very like , very like .
if you go out in your own semblance , you die , sir john .
' s spade .
the young dumain , a well-accomplish ' d youth , of all that virtue love for virtue loved ; most
excellent !
give me thy hand , that i may dew it with my mournful tears ; nor let the rain of
augustus lives to think on ' t ; and so much for my peculiar care .
weal , on you depending , counts it your weal he have his liberty .
thou canst not , son ; it is impossible .
made you my guardians , my depositaries ; but kept a reservation to be followed with such a number .
or slunk not saturnine , as tarquin erst , that left the camp to sin in lucrece ' bed ?
us , his countenance , like richest alchemy , will change to virtue and to worthiness .
, an ass , a madman !
then is my sovereign slain ?
come here for physic .
never hung poison on a fouler toad .
leapt into destruction .
cramps , fill all thy bones with aches , make thee roar , that beasts shall tremble at thy din
i will tell you , sir , if you will give me the hearing .
now will i begin your moral , and do you follow with my l ' envoy .
i cry you mercy .
and i wish , my liege , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
face ; but when he once attains the upmost round , he then unto the ladder turns his back ,
so , fare you well ; unless you please to enter in the castle , and there repose you for
, little eyases , that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapp ' d fort
so fair ?
, and disdain ; the least of which haunting a nobleman loseth men ' s hearts , and leaves behind
there shall i rest secure from force and fraud .
make no farther .
sola !
i know not which pleases me better , that my husband is deceived , or sir john .
here , madam .
this is not lear .
his taken labours bid him me forgive ; i , his despiteful juno , sent him forth from courtly friends
how scapes he agues , in the devil ' s name glend .
then stand with us .
being the bosom lover of my lord , must needs be like my lord .
run away , i pray you !
well , juliet , i will lie with thee to-night .
his looks ; a largess universal , like the sun , his liberal eye doth give to every one ,
may be the letter moved him ; for , as i think , they do command him home , deputing
-and then another fault in the semblance of a fowl- think on ' t , jove , a foul fault
- indeed , this counsellor is now most still , most secret , and most grave , who was in
flatterers , foes to nobleness .
why , no , boy .
we ' ll see your trinkets here all forthcoming .
it said , ' tis meet that some more audience than a mother , since nature makes them partial ,
in thy faint slumbers i by thee have watch ' d , and heard thee murmur tales of iron wars
no , say ' st me so , friend ?
it will help nothing to plead mine innocence ; for that dye is on me which makes my whit '
and little medicine .
o caesar , this charmian liv ' d but now ; she stood and spake .
i know the reason , lady , why you ask .
what pleasure , sir , find we in life , to lock it from action and adventure ?
your own desert ?
thou art an old love-monger , and speakest skilfully .
go thou further off ; bid me farewell , and let me hear thee going .
judgment hath repented o ' er his doom .
this is illyria , lady .
lose he his other eye ?
to supper , to our house .
, an honest maid as ever broke page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
scorn and defiance , slight regard , contempt , and anything that may not misbecome the mighty sender , doth
what speech , my good lord ?
i would know that of your honour .
ever and a day .
but , sure , he is the prince of the world ; let his nobility remain in ' s court
for them all together , which maintain ' d so politic a state of evil that they will not admit
let us go sit here upon the church bench till two , and then all to bed .
be kent unmannerly when lear is mad .
yet are these feet , whose strengthless stay is numb , unable to support this lump of clay , swift-winged
, so he would keep fair quarter with his bed !
juno sings her blessings on you .
the ship is here put in , a veronesa .
reason panders will .
i ' ll give thee , ere i leave thee , so much money , to warrant thee , as
how purpos ' d , sir , i pray you ?
you where you ' ll be loath to be .
lord timon !
what got he by that ?
what are their wills ?
re-enter lady macbeth .
marry , i tell thee it is not meet that i should be sad , now my father is sick
the count ' s palace enter bertram , the countess of rousillon , helena , and lafeu , all in
from your own mouth , my lord , did i this deed .
by our beards , if we had them , thou art .
why , this , volumnius : the ghost of caesar hath appear ' d to me two several times by
had the full view of , such a noise arose as the shrouds make at sea in a stiff tempest
now , good my lord , lie here and rest awhile .
nothing !
you derogately when to sound your name it not concern ' d me .
i know my business is but to the court .
as if that name , shot from the deadly level of a gun , did murther her ; as that
' s mine own , which is most faint .
they do disdain us much beyond our thoughts , which makes me sweat with wrath .
i cannot endure my lady tongue .
what stern ungentle hands hath lopp ' d , and hew ' d , and made thy body bare of
your hearts to , when they once perceive the least rub in your fortunes , fall away like water from
so , if any of the audience hiss , you may cry ' well done , hercules ; now thou
the orchard at swinstead abbey enter prince henry , salisbury , and bigot prince henry .
unto her he gave the stablishment of egypt ; made her of lower syria , cyprus , lydia , absolute
[music plays] julia .
turn back , dull earth , and find thy centre out .
my wounds ache at you .
is this th ' athenian minion whom the world voic ' d so regardfully ?
now art thou within point blank of our jurisdiction regal .
what news , what news , in this our tott ' ring state ?
that it loves ; hath it not , boy ?
what is thy news ?
txt gon .
now is my turn to speak .
even for this , let us divided live , and our dear love lose name of single one , that
with the health that pompey gives him , else he is a very epicure .
though our silence be drawn from us with cars , yet peace .
he seems indifferent or rather swaying more upon our part than cherishing th ' exhibiters against us ; for i
should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt after new fancies .
when gloucester says the word , king henry goes ; for friendly counsel cuts off many foes .
full well , andronicus , agree these deeds with that proud brag of thine that saidst i begg ' d
a letter for me !
what , gone , my lord , and bid me not farewell !
madam , my lord will go away to-night : a very serious business calls on him .
but were our witty empress well afoot , she would applaud andronicus ' conceit .
i have been sexton here , man and boy thirty years .
o lady fortune , stand you auspicious !
these were her words , utt ' red with mild disdain : ' tell him , in hope he '
thou ' rt dead .
times of sacrifice , embarquements all of fury , shall lift up their rotten privilege and custom ' gainst my
canidius , our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land , and our twelve thousand horse .
thy better must .
speak of you , his cheek looks pale , and with a rising sigh he wisheth you in heaven .
ere almost rome should know we were afoot .
and have you ?
why , thou full dish of fool , from troy .
why , gentlemen , you do me double wrong to strive for that which resteth in my choice .
past cure i am , now reason is past care , and frantic-mad with evermore unrest , my thoughts and
i charge you , as you hope to have redemption by christ ' s dear blood shed for our grievous
why or for what the nobles were committed is all unknown to me , my gracious lord .
his most noble blood .
thee capable .
are there not stones in heaven but what serve for thunder ?
faith , so they say ; but i think it rather consists of eating and drinking .
either thou wilt die by god ' s just ordinance ere from this war thou turn a conqueror ; or
wherein rome hath done you any scath , let him make treble satisfaction .
what is ' t to me when you yourselves are cause , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
alexander- god knows , and you know- in his rages , and his furies , and his wraths , and
we know each other ' s faces ; for our hearts , he knows no more of mine than i
not one of them that yet looks on me , or would know me .
bacon-fed knaves !
he ' ll wrest the sense , and hold us here all day .
, all the voyage of their life is bound in shallows and in miseries .
what is ' t you seek ?
he shall know you better , sir , if i may live to report you .
duke .
nay , that ' s impossible ; she may wear her heart out first .
do you study them both , master parson ?
the holy close of lips , strength ' ned by interchangement of your rings ; and all the ceremony of
you for it , though i alone do feel the injury .
will you again unknit this churlish knot of all-abhorred war , and move in that obedient orb again where you
if we know him to be a thief , shall we not lay hands on him ?
there is no ancient gentlemen but gard ' ners , ditchers , and grave-makers .
what ' s else to say ?
that ' s as much as to say , the sweet youth ' s in love .
or slightly handled in discourse .
a bachelor .
what , with the case of eyes ?
duke , living in exile frederick , his brother , and usurper of his dominions amiens , lord attending on
was not he proclaim ' d by richard that dead is , the next of blood ?
the blow ; unless it swell past hiding , and then it ' s past watching pandarus .
he went hence but now , and certainly in strange unquietness .
nay , pray you lead the way .
the gorge , disrelish and abhor the moor ; very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to
could i come near your beauty with my nails , i could set my ten commandments in your face .
' marcus .
exit martius .
a noble spirit !
i should not see the sandy hour-glass run but i should think of shallows and of flats , and see
we are impressed and engag ' d to fight- forthwith a power of english shall we levy , whose arms
with me from forth the streets of pomfret , whom i found with many hundreds treading on his heels ;
ay , ay , the cords .
commend me to thy brother , edmund york .
outrage ; and it now is done .
against my soul ' s pure truth why labour you to make it wander in an unknown field ?
come you hither , sirrah .
almost at point to enter .
an officer !
not know my voice !
enter the prince of wales , gloucester , buckingham , catesby , cardinal bourchier , and others buckingham .
d depart away with shame .
i will tell you everything , right as it fell out .
this love will undo us all .
i lodge in fear ; though this a heavenly angel , hell is here .
re-enter emilia with iago .
come , shall we go ?
oberon .
long mayst thou eve to bear his image and renew his glories !
[aside] to say the truth , so judas kiss ' d his master and cried ' all hail !
than priests and fanes that lie .
' these well express in thee thy latter spirits .
why , man , he ' s a very devil ; i have not seen such a firago .
bastardy ?
four thron ' d ones could have weigh ' d such a compounded one ?
more than the wild-cat ; drones hive not with me , therefore i part with him ; and part with
bray ' d with minstrelsy , i have retir ' d me to a wasteful cock and set mine eyes
i may not evermore acknowledge thee , lest my bewailed guilt should do thee shame , nor thou with public
why , any cloak will serve the turn , my lord .
my lord , i will be rul ' d ; the rather , if you could devise it so that
which is so plain that exeter doth wish his days may finish ere that hapless time .
my youngest boy , and yet my eldest care , at eighteen years became inquisitive after his brother , and
o tranio , till i found it to be true , i never thought it possible or likely .
sea-water shalt thou drink ; thy food shall be the fresh-brook mussels , wither ' d roots , and husks
is ' t good to soothe him in these contraries ?
of the time .
my mother , you wot well my hazards still have been your solace ; and believe ' t not lightly-
i have a strange infirmity , which is nothing to those that know me .
our bloods are now in calm ; and so long health !
this is the old man still .
now join your hands , and with your hands your hearts , that no dissension hinder government .
he , sir , sitting , as i say , in a lower chair , sir ; ' twas in
say then to caesar , our ancestor was that mulmutius which ordain ' d our laws- whose use the sword
lay on our royal sword your banish ' d hands ; swear by the duty that you owe to god
the physician .
lords attendant .
all that i have to say is to tell you that the lanthorn is the moon ; i , the
i tell thee what , antonio- i love thee , and ' tis my love that speaks- there are a
will you take up your wife ' s clothes ?
where had you this pretty weathercock ?
hold you the watch to-night ?
too- i grieving grant did you too much disquiet .
once be chastis ' d with the sober eye of dull octavia .
call you me fair ?
a notable contempt .
they are .
txt come , officer , as loud as e ' er thou canst , cry .
txt macduff .
shall i be charg ' d no further than this present ?
very well , my lord .
for what offence ?
master constable-- dog .
they told me i was everything .
the physician to my love , angry that his prescriptions are not kept hath left me , and i desperate
is it not true , master page ?
i cannot tell vat is dat ; but it is tell-a me dat you make grand preparation for a duke
and i take him to be valiant .
celia .
did he not send you twain ?
blest pray you be , that , after this strange starting from your orbs , you may reign in them
enter the ghost of lady anne , his wife ghost .
let shame come when it will , i do not call it .
that leads my use of anger to better vantage .
therefore i will , sir , thus : if alcibiades kill my countrymen , let alcibiades know this of timon
before my body i throw my warlike shield !
she that would alter services with thee , the fortunate-unhappy .
i am very glad of it ; i ' ll plague him , i ' ll torture him ; i
neither press , coffer , chest , trunk , well , vault , but he hath an abstract for the
forth , to-morrow you .
why , thou unconfinable baseness , it is as much as i can do to keep the terms of my
him .
break up the seals and read .
why , then , women are more valiant , that stay at home , if bearing carry it ; and
wherein crafty , but in villany ?
i hope he is ; but yet let mothers doubt .
think ' st thou that duty shall have dread to speak when power to flattery bows ?
iras , long farewell .
i boarded the king ' s ship ; now on the beak , now in the waist , the deck
what more fearful ?
come , go with me into mine armoury .
i ' ll not be strucken , my lord .
found some place but weakly guarded , where the breach was made .
his choler ?
round about dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey .
shall we disturb him , since he keeps no mean ?
or shall i think in silver she ' s immur ' d , being ten times undervalued to tried gold
and there ' s troilus will not come far behind him ; let them take heed of troilus , i
o therefore love be of thyself so wary , as i not for my self , but for thee will
, i will never have her unless thou entreat for her .
good even , good master what-ye-call ' t ; how do you , sir ?
can curses pierce the clouds and enter heaven ?
' tis unreasonable .
as i belong to worship , and affect in honour honesty , the tract of ev ' rything would by
enter cornelius and ladies there ' s business in these faces .
saucy controller of my private steps !
and here ' s another , whose warp ' d looks proclaim what store her heart is made on .
i lose your company ; therefore forbear a while .
he will seek there , on my word .
and bad ' st me bury love .
i by him , at all adventures , so we were quit here .
hath butler brought those horses from the sheriff ?
what , still in tears ?
the rogue ' s company .
but shall we dance , if they desire us to ' t ?
they were train ' d together in their childhoods ; and there rooted betwixt them then such an affection which
well , i will for refuge straight to bristow castle .
there is that in this fardel will make him scratch his beard .
ay , biddy , come with me .
tell my friends , tell athens , in the sequence of degree from high to low throughout , that whoso
his meed he ' s unfellowed .
rapier and dagger .
i pray you tell me .
love the worst of all , a whitely wanton with a velvet brow , with two pitch balls stuck in
all thy other titles thou hast given away ; that thou wast born with .
enter king edward , gloucester , hastings , and soldiers king edward .
true , and they are to meddle with none but the prince ' s subjects .
my noble girls !
a drum so lost !
go , some of you , knock at the abbey gate , and bid the lady abbess come to me
let ' s hear our tribune .
joy , gentle friends , joy and fresh days of love accompany your hearts !
o excellent device !
enter exton , with attendants , hearing a coffin exton .
timon hath done his reign .
by your leave .
' item : she is curst .
thus it is : the volsces have an army forth ; against whom cominius the general is gone , with
peace your tattlings .
love ' s arms are peace , ' gainst rule , ' gainst sense , ' gainst shame .
pray , sir , be patient ; ' tis as much impossible , unless we sweep ' em from the
re-enter talbot , burgundy , and the rest talbot .
' [exeunt .
t be long .
proof enough to misuse the prince , to vex claudio , to undo hero , and kill leonato .
i ' ll be sworn- posthumus .
, and with his mad attendant and himself , each one with ireful passion , with drawn swords , met
enter montague , with drum and colours montague .
re-enter second servingman second servant .
how does thine ague ?
there do i give to you and jessica , from the rich jew , a special deed of gift ,
a prison .
stay , let thy humble handmaid speak to thee .
wretched isabel !
exit longaville berowne .
besides , you grow dishonest .
dice ; and chide the cripple tardy-gaited night who like a foul and ugly witch doth limp so tediously away
five tribunes , to defend their vulgar wisdoms , of their own choice .
toward peloponnesus are they fled .
exit katherina baptista .
no , ' tis to thyself .
enter polonius .
go , you cot-quean , go , get you to bed !
no , make a lott ' ry ; and , by device , let blockish ajax draw the sort to
that thing you speak of , i took it for a man .
the oldest have borne most ; we that are young shall never see so much , nor live so long
yes , faith , my lord .
o ratcliff , i have dream ' d a fearful dream !
wilt thou set thy foot o ' my neck ?
my lord , wise men ne ' er sit and wail their woes , but presently prevent the ways to
welcome hither , as is the spring to th ' earth .
if ' t be not for some purpose of import , give ' t me again .
it is a man ' s office , but not yours .
a diamond gone , cost me two thousand ducats in frankfort !
my lord , methinks , is very long in talk .
with circumstance ; the seventh , the lie direct .
er and o ' er !
i am yet unknown to woman , never was forsworn , scarcely have coveted what was mine own , at
brought him to his wits again , or lose my labour in assaying it .
' and there , indeed , let him name his name , and tell them plainly he is snug the
i will say for you .
invention play ' d on ?
if you do find me foul in her report , the trust , the office i do hold of you
ingrateful injury ; to report otherwise were a malice that , giving itself the lie , would pluck reproof and
withdraw , my lord !
' so she parted , and with the same full state pac ' d back again to york place ,
do , which now we ' ll show ' em in deeds .
almost at odds with morning , which is which .
' but there was such laughing !
you lie , ye rogue !
bon jour , monsieur le beau .
so let it now ; for it has been a great while going by .
took me by the hand and call ' d me brother ; and then the two kings call ' d
wolf for what we eat .
o cassio , cassio , cassio !
and , but for owen glendower , had been king , who kept him in captivity till he died .
the pretty-vaulting sea refus ' d to drown me , knowing that thou wouldst have me drown ' d on
[nym draws] o well-a-day , lady , if he be not drawn !
[knocks] i know her women are about her ; what if i do line one of their hands ?
i am no less in blood than thou art , edmund ; if more , the more th ' hast
horn .
i would it had been of horse .
a happiness that often madness hits on , which reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of .
lorenzo and salerio , welcome hither , if that the youth of my new int ' rest here have power
the scrimers of their nation page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and to that end we wish ' d your lordship here , t ' avoid the the the censures of
hast blush ' d extempore .
my once commended beauty , by all your vows of love and that great vow which did incorporate and make
knights , six thousand and two hundred good esquires ; and , to relief of lazars and weak age ,
provoke him , that he may ; for even out of that will i cause these of cyprus to mutiny
thralls of sleep ?
her son ; and if thy sons were ever dear to thee , o , think my son to be
his health was never better worth than now .
true : those that were your father ' s enemies have steep ' d their galls in honey , and
if i were brutus now and he were cassius , he should not humor me .
health to my sovereign , and new happiness added to that that am to deliver !
i should mount with wings of victory .
the canker galls the infants of the spring too oft before their buttons be disclos ' d , and in
, and the just pleasure lost , which is so deemed , not by our feeling , but by others
master brook , falstaff ' s a knave , a cuckoldly knave ; here are his horns , master brook
rape , call you it , my lord , to seize my own , my true betrothed love , and
churl , upon thy eyes i throw all the power this charm doth owe : when thou wak ' st
greatest liar .
come , citizens .
we thankful should be- which we of taste and feeling are- for those parts that do fructify in us more
eyes lock ' d in her crystal looks .
i must stay with the lackeys , with the luggage of our camp .
his sake .
, or die a soldier as i liv ' d a king .
will stay themselves from laughter when they do homage to this simple peasant .
leonato , i am sorry you must hear .
i must change arms at home and give the distaff into my husband ' s hands .
for god ' s sake , be quiet .
my staff understands me .
so sick i am not , yet i am not well ; but not so citizen a wanton as to
txt iras .
by an auricular assurance have your satisfaction , and that without any further delay than this very evening .
pardon what i have spoke ; for ' tis a studied , not a present thought , by duty ruminated
what a haste looks through his eyes !
you wrong me every way , you wrong me , brutus .
what follows then , my lord ?
dinner is ready .
see ; and ' honi soit qui mal y pense ' write in em ' rald tufts , flow '
our house is hell ; and thou , a merry devil , didst rob it of some taste of tediousness
[stabbing him] take that , and that .
the good gods will mock me presently when i shall pray ' o , bless my lord and husband !
maine , blois , poictiers , and tours , are won away long all of somerset and his delay .
for his funerals .
and yet , to say the truth , reason and love keep little company together now-a-days .
here ' s his dry hand up and down .
set him before me let me see his face .
heard you not what an humble suppliant page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
that heaven and earth may strike their sounds together applauding our approach .
ay , come-o jove !
will we ride through the streets , and at every corner have them kiss .
that i may strive to kill it with a groan .
alas , our places , the way of our profession is against it ; we are to cure such sorrows
well , give me the moiety .
though ink be made of gall .
very well ; what would you ?
and dout them with superfluous courage , ha !
this day hadst kept thy chair in peace .
a fearful sight of blood and death .
pray you , stand farther from me .
and the queen ' s sons and brothers haught and proud ; and were they to be rul ' d
enter brakenbury and in good time , here the lieutenant comes .
; and so may you , sir ; and so adieu , sir .
no sin at all , but charity .
enter old clifford warwick .
top to their low ranks , making them proud of his humility in their poor praise he humbled .
loss might be ten times so much ?
send to his brother ; fetch that gallant hither .
enter juliet again , [above] .
say , wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day ?
dark as night .
another part of the forest enter valentine valentine .
but , marry , thus , my lord : my dear lord and most esteemed friend , your brother troilus-
go call him forth .
my lord , i think i saw him yesternight .
this remembrance is !
look here , lavinia !
one stroke shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest ; and i the king shall love thee .
did not her kitchen-maid rail , taunt , and scorn me ?
flourish and shout .
here she stands take but possession of her with a touch- i dare thee but to breathe upon my love
or that i had any friend would be a man for my sake !
come , knight ; come , knight .
and thou the velvet ; thou art good velvet ; thou ' rt a three-pil ' d piece , i
regan , i and my hundred knights .
marry , here ' s grace and a codpiece ; that ' s a wise man and a fool .
love ' s heralds should be thoughts , which ten times faster glide than the sun ' s beams driving
how creeps acquaintance ?
do you know ford , sir ?
in your protectorship you did devise strange tortures for offenders , never heard of , that england was defam '
betwixt my uncle and one of the emperal ' s men .
with every minute you do change a mind and call him noble that was now your hate , him vile
falstaff .
so all their praises are but prophecies of this our time , all you prefiguring , and for they looked
how have you made division of yourself ?
enter sir hugh evans like a satyr , anne page as a fairy , and others as the fairy queen
if she be furnish ' d with a mind so rare , she is alone th ' arabian bird ,
these moors are changeable in their wills- fill thy purse with money .
how now , sir toby belch !
and , that my love may appear plain and free , all that was mine in silvia i give thee
sirrah , i am sworn brother to a leash of drawers and can call them all by their christen names
' twill be his death ; ' twill be his bane ; he cannot bear it .
for certain , sir , he is not ; i have a file of all the gentry .
, and gives memorial dainty kisses to it , as i kiss thee .
this jest is dry to me .
let ' s ha ' t , good soldier .
trumpets sound .
disrobe the images if you do find them deck ' d with ceremonies .
come , me your hand .
a gross hag !
' a made a finer end , and went away an it had been any christom child ; ' a
but , good kate , mock me mercifully ; the rather , gentle princess , because i love thee cruelly
by this day , i know not the phrase ; but i will maintain the word with my sword to
to a gossips ' feast , and go with me ; after so long grief , such nativity !
speak , pyramus .
o goneril , you are not worth the dust which the rude wind blows in your face !
the sooner , sweet , for you .
that there is shrewd construction made of her .
it is your former promise .
now by apollo , king , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
why , how now , count ?
i saw him hold lord percy at the point with lustier maintenance than i did look for of such an
' pronounce but ' love ' and ' dove ' ; speak to my gossip venus one fair word ,
and you must cut this flesh from off his breast .
ay , marry , there will be woe indeed , lords : the sly whoresons have got a speeding trick
say , where will you assault ?
she ' s dead as earth .
come , i ' ll go in with you .
but upon the fairest boughs , or at every sentence end , will i rosalinda write , teaching all that
o , i could hew up rocks and fight with flint , i am so angry at these abject terms
let him not come hither ; it is the foul-mouth ' dst rogue in england .
gentlemen , that i may soon make good what i have said- bianca , get you in ; page _num_
o sweet revenge , now do i come to thee ; and , if one arm ' s embracement will
d , and with no little study , that my teaching and the strong course of my authority might go
be merciful , say ' death ' ; for exile hath more terror in his look , much more than
i had my trial , and must needs say a noble one ; which makes me a little happier than
man ' s nature cannot carry page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
they that of late were daring with their scoffs are glad and fain by flight to save themselves .
exeunt lords what will ye do ?
rude hands of that welshman taken , a thousand of his people butchered ; page _num_ complete works of william
from the world , that , when he please again to lie himself , being wanted , he may be
i do not think but desdemona ' s honest .
to joy is little less in joy than hope enjoy ' d .
brown , madam ; and her forehead as low as she would wish it .
antic , or firework .
tell thou the earl that the lord bardolph doth attend him here .
first fight , i soon encountered and , interchanging blows , i quickly shed some of his bastard blood ;
to furnish rome and to prepare the ways you have for dignities , to the mere undoing of all the
my issue ?
my father lov ' d you : he said he did ; and with his deed did crown his word
painting is welcome .
txt armado .
men at some time are masters of their fates : the fault , dear brutus , is not in our
here ' s packing , with a witness , to deceive us all !
do not swear , and eat it .
thus stands my state , ' twixt cade and york distress ' d ; like to a ship that ,
both noisome and infectious .
away , my masters !
gent .
go to ; very good ; exceeding good .
their lord .
you ' ll be the man !
balsamum , and aqua-vitx .
; and as i hear , my lord , the lady constance in a frenzy died three days before ;
' tis not my blood wherein thou seest me mask ' d .
revenge the heavens for old andronicus !
the cause .
there is five in the first show .
and our good his .
take physic , pomp ; expose thyself to feel what wretches feel , that thou mayst shake the superflux to
yet he , of all the rest , i think , best loves ye .
will it give place to flexure and low bending ?
that sir which serves and seeks for gain , and follows but for form , will pack when it begins
go to , then .
s court ?
' item : she hath more hair than wit , and more faults than hairs , and more wealth than
enter bardolph , and one with him silence .
i here proclaim myself thy mortal foe ; with resolution whereso ' er i meet thee- as i will meet
, wanting aid , unto his dastard foemen is betray ' d .
but we have reason to cool our raging motions , our carnal stings , our unbitted lusts ; whereof i
winter ' s not gone yet , if the wild geese fly that way .
by fortune once more re-survey these poor rude lines of thy deceased lover : compare them with the bett '
i hope it remains not unkindly with your lordship that i return ' d you an empty messenger .
in their new fustian , their white stockings , and every officer his wedding-garment on ?
that ' s to ye sworn to none was ever said ; for feasts of love i have been called
enter falstaff , [gadshill , bardolph , and peto ; francis follows with wine] .
by my troth , i was seeking for a fool when i found you .
can you not hate me , as i know you do , but you must join in souls to mock
covered with a barbary horse ; you ' ll have your nephews neigh to you ; you ' ll have
instruments , that my disports corrupt and taint my business , let housewives make a skillet of my helm ,
beat me !
; she is too bright to be look ' d against .
it wastes it ?
but with much forcing of his disposition .
let him be furnish ' d with divines , and have all charitable preparation .
let ' s not meet her .
seven years hath esteemed him no better than a poor and loathsome beggar .
no , exeter , these graces challenge grace ; and , when the lion fawns upon the lamb , the
[caliban drinks] trinculo .
now , good metellus , go along by him .
nay , i beseech you , sir , be not out with me ; yet , if you be out
which of you have done this ?
no , nor your manhood that durst make you stay .
thy truth then be thy dower !
no man is beaten voluntary .
night , the time of night when troy was set on fire ; the time when screech-owls cry and ban-dogs
txt and one against glendower ; perforce a third must take up us .
tell me , you heavens , in which part of his body shall i destroy him ?
he came of an errand to me from parson hugh .
i pray you choose another subject .
sweet heart , i were unmannerly to take you out and not to kiss you .
let it come on .
tear my bright hair , and scratch my praised cheeks , crack my clear voice with sobs and break my
the queen my mother .
upon condition publius shall not live , who is your sister ' s son , mark antony .
i shall discover a thing to you , wherein i must very much lay open mine own imperfection ; but
where hadst thou it ?
enter othello and emilia .
and therefore will come .
is ' t true ?
tell me , daughter juliet , how stands your disposition to be married ?
he is my prisoner ; if i let him go , the debt he owes will be requir ' d
faults , and joy that thou becom ' st king henry ' s friend .
then , richard earl of cambridge , there is yours ; there yours , lord scroop of masham ; and
all things that you should use to do me wrong deny their office ; only you do lack that mercy
' a came ever in the rearward of the fashion , and sung those tunes to the overscutch ' d
such times seeing me , never shall , with arms encumb ' red thus , or this head-shake , or
exeunt duke and provost claudio .
>> scene v .
give him leave , madam ; he is a kind of chameleon .
therefore are they very dangerous .
fair diomed , you do as chapmen do , dispraise the thing that you desire to buy ; but we
no , take more .
grow patience !
this is strange ; your father ' s in some passion that works him strongly .
wherefore that box ?
a pestilence on him for a mad rogue !
if thou but frown on me , or stir thy foot , or teach thy hasty spleen to do me
warmed , or my affection put to th ' smallest teen , or any of my leisures ever charmed .
and only in that safety died her brothers .
enter cade , dick the butcher , smith the weaver , and a sawyer , with infinite numbers cade .
as much unto my good lord chamberlain !
away with her , and pen her up .
even this .
prithee let her alone and list to me .
, this bodes some strange eruption to our state .
flush youth revolt .
the palace enter gloucester , clarence , somerset , and montague gloucester .
nor a musician as i seem to be ; but one that scorn to live in this disguise for such
yoke-fellow to his honour-owing wounds , the noble earl of suffolk also lies .
if i may be believ ' d , so ; if not , let them that should reward valour bear
from the jewels that i love .
overweening traitor ' s foot to prove myself a loyal gentleman even in the best blood chamber ' d in
what are you then determined to do ?
' s leg-to what form but that he is , should wit larded with malice , and malice forced with
txt ford .
noble heroes , my sword and yours are kin .
gentlemen all , i do suspect this trash to be a party in this injury .
well deliver ' d it to me .
falling in , after falling out , may make them three .
sad .
txt or else thou diest to-morrow .
sir thurio , fear not you ; i will so plead that you shall say my cunning drift excels .
sir , you are very welcome to our house .
but , my lord , when returns cranmer ?
let us withdraw together , and we may soon our satisfaction have touching that point .
what is she , that all our swains commend her ?
say she shall be a high and mighty queen .
the king is in high rage .
i will hear you soon .
know ' st thou this paper ?
happy , indeed , as we have spent the day .
[aside] well , heaven forgive him !
what an exchange had this been without boot !
i pray you , sir , let him go while the humour lasts .
come , quick , quick , that i may lay my head in thy lap .
txt after he scores , he never pays the score .
sir william brandon , you shall bear my standard .
after him , may : they may give the dozen white luces in their coat .
it shall not live .
a time when fearful wars point at me ; her son gone , so needful for this present .
now you strike like the blind man !
txt where we do reign we will alone uphold , without th ' assistance of a mortal hand .
i ' ll be sure to keep him above deck .
we wait for certain money here , sir .
o wise young judge , how i do honour thee !
exeunt king , lords , and blackamoors princess of france .
friar !
they that stabb ' d caesar shed no blood at all , did not offend , nor were not worthy
of ever keeps a good fire .
, train borne by a lady ; then follows the marchioness dorset , the other godmother , and ladies .
here all eyes gaze on us .
upon mine honour , no .
to this hour no guess in knowledge which way they went .
then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp ' d ?
can no prayers pierce thee ?
cursed town .
txt so is she heir of naples ; ' twixt which regions there is some space .
was this the face that like the sun did make beholders wink ?
the law allows it and the court awards it .
richmond and victory !
can such things be , and overcome us like a summer ' s cloud , without our special wonder ?
my daughter takes his going grievously .
no wreck ; no bargains break that are not this day made ; this day , all things begun come
exit enter mariners boatswain .
wales , near milford haven enter pisanio and imogen imogen .
my lord , here stays without a messenger with letters from the doctor , new come from padua .
leontes leaving- th ' effects of his fond jealousies so grieving that he shuts up himself- imagine me , gentle
whom he may at pleasure whip or hang or torture , as he shall like , to quit me .
besides , i say and will in battle prove- or here , or elsewhere to the furthest verge that ever
more in me than thou understand ' st .
fight !
he last ask ' d the question .
i held the sword , and he did run on it .
so full of shapes is fancy , that it alone is high fantastical .
s affairs upon his coronation day , sir .
no counsel , take no warning by my coming .
i undertook it , vanquish ' d thereto by the fair grace and speech of the poor suppliant , who
, so , ' each one , tripping on his toe , will be here with mop and mow .
is it ?
for to determine this , come here to-day .
never but once .
' come , let ' s to dinner ; come , let ' s to dinner .
some of you , with pilate , wash your hands , showing an outward pity-yet you pilates have here deliver
said i well ?
and fortify your self in your decay with means more blessed than my barren rhyme ?
what is here ?
think on me , that am with phoebus ' amorous pinches black , and wrinkled deep in time ?
then call them to our presence : face to face and frowning brow to brow , ourselves will hear the
the duke ' s other letters in my tent .
exit [gloucester] .
' the purpose you undertake is dangerous ' - why , that ' s certain !
do not stand upon ' t .
so much unto an enemy of craft and vantage- my people are with sickness much enfeebled ; my numbers lessen
he hath a trick of coeur-de-lion ' s face ; the accent of his tongue affecteth him .
i have done , i ' faith .
descend to darkness and the burning lake ; false fiend , avoid !
three parts of him is ours already , and the man entire upon the next encounter yields him ours .
to you , my lord , i come-what lord you will- from the most gracious regent of this land ,
my noble lords and cousins an , good morrow .
cleopatra ' s palace enter antony , cleopatra , enobarbus , charmian , iras , alexas , with others antony
can find should merit any hate .
gaze where you should , and that will clear your sight .
if you shall prove this ring was ever hers , you shall as easy prove that i husbanded her bed
enter lysander , demetrius , hermia , and helena theseus .
at worcester must his body be interr ' d ; for so he will ' d it .
o , many have broke their backs with laying manors on ' em for this great journey .
and being fap , sir , was , as they say , cashier ' d ; and so conclusions pass
the belly answer ' d- first citizen .
txt e ' er since pursue me .
exeunt ambassadors .
hear it apart .
this blue-ey ' d hag was hither brought with child , and here was left by th ' sailors .
rome ?
alas , alas !
for my sake wear this ; it is a manacle of love ; i ' ll place it upon this
moreover that we much did long to see you , the need we have to use you did provoke our
marry , th ' athversary was have possession of the pridge ; but he is enforced to retire , and
then deliver up your pigeons ; and then look for your reward .
i cannot find him ; may be the knave bragg ' d of that he could not compass .
goats and monkeys !
, depart untouch ' d .
a plain in warwickshire enter warwick and oxford , with french soldiers warwick .
come , wife , come , mistress page ; i pray you pardon me ; pray heartly , pardon me
out upon ye !
txt i have not seen these two days .
my jove !
doctor caius comes one way , and steals away a fairy in green ; slender another way , and takes
ear open : he was torn to pieces with a bear .
to these injunctions every one doth swear that comes to hazard for my worthless self .
the earth that ' s nature ' s mother is her tomb .
nay , mother , resume that spirit when you were wont to say , if you had been the wife
put not yourself into amazement how these things should be : all difficulties are but easy when they are known
but wherefore stay we ?
[to goneril] life and death !
well , let her be admitted .
real necessities , and give way the while to unstable slightness .
do i not dwindle ?
tumble all together page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
being our kinsman , if we revel much .
honour to support so dissolute a crew .
send me a cool rut-time , jove , or who can blame me to piss my tallow ?
i think she knows not well there were so many-whom she may accuse .
you spotted snakes with double tongue , thorny hedgehogs , be not seen ; newts and blind-worms , do no
being reconciled to the prince your brother , i owe you all duty .
what treason were it to the ransack ' d queen , disgrace to your great worths , and shame to
who marvels , then , when helenus beholds a grecian and his sword , if he do set the very
- a most contagious treason come to light , look you , as you shall desire in a summer '
nay , by saint jamy , i hold you a penny , a horse and a man is more than
well , hearken a ' th ' end .
at the old place , my lord , in eastcheap .
fools , and tie the wiser souls to thy false seeming !
left them the heirs of shame .
what will you do ?
exit cranmer he has strangled his language in his tears .
go , sirs , take the basket again on your shoulders ; your master is hard at door ; if
was there ever man had such luck !
this fellow here , lord timon , this thy creature , by night frequents my house .
he ' s gone to th ' king ; i ' ll follow , and outstare him .
of service .
whereupon- methinks i see him now- posthumus .
they are sick ?
that you must cast your election on him .
i ' ll slit the villain ' s nose that would have sent me to the gaol .
do but meditate on blood- to swearing and stern looks , diffus ' d attire , and everything that seems
doth silvia know that i am banished ?
time with thoughts of love , which time and thoughts so sweetly doth deceive .
now , rouen , i ' ll shake thy bulwarks to the ground .
, to be the trumpet of his own virtues , as i am to myself .
how sweet !
words ; but they do no more adhere and keep place together than the hundredth psalm to the tune of
hold , patience !
he was not born to shame .
yonder , sure , they are coming .
mus .
he ' s traitor to th ' height .
o ' my life , if i were young again , the sword should end it .
empty ass , to shake his ears and graze in commons .
requiring fail , he will compel ; and bids you , in the bowels of the lord , deliver up
frenchmen how they fortify .
look in the lady ' s face .
whose end , both at the first and now , was and is , to hold , as ' twere
it is the curse of kings to be attended by slaves that take their humours for a warrant to break
o , that his fault should make a knave of thee that art not what th ' art sure of
sick of a calm ; yea , good faith .
never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there , let thine eye be thy cook .
lord warrant us !
why , that is nothing ; for i tell you , father , i am as peremptory as she proud-minded
god bye you , and keep you , and heal your pate .
what , was your vizard made without a tongue ?
let us go .
no , gracious lord , except i cannot do it .
proceed you in your tears .
of your good selves !
the duke of suffolk muffled up in rags ?
he will not hear till feel .
le foot , madame ; et le count .
we will , my lord .
famine and no other hath slain me .
ere i can perfect mine intents , to kneel .
what does the tyrant ?
it is war ' s prize to take all vantages ; and ten to one is no impeach of valour
silver !
and husks .
for him , poor soul .
' but who , o who , had seen the mobled queen- ' ham .
no , by my soul , she was not ; nor knew not what she did when she spoke to
i ' ll tell thee what , prince : a college of wit-crackers cannot flout me out of my humour
cleopatra ' s palace enter demetrius and philo philo .
itself .
on his head , and say ' get you to heaven , beatrice , get you to heaven .
and you the empress !
how cheer ' st thou , jessica ?
the desperate tempest hath so bang ' d the turks , that their designment halts .
sir , you have show ' d to-day your valiant strain , and fortune led you well .
my lord , i love you ; and durst commend a secret to your ear much weightier than this work
out !
condemn the fault and not the actor of it !
yea , my lord ; i thank it , poor fool , it keeps on the windy side of care
credit him .
thinks thou the fiery fever will go out with titles blown from adulation ?
we are but plain fellows , sir .
go , sirrah , for all you are my man , go wait upon my cousin shallow .
my liege , for very little pains will bring this labour to an happy end .
twenty sir john falstaffs , he shall not abuse robert shallow , esquire .
was it for me to kill the heir apparent ?
i ' ll be with you at your sheep-shearing too .
, i am sure , none ; unless the fiddler apollo get his sinews to make catlings on .
, as who should say ' there were wit in this head , an ' twould out ' ; and
- let ' s see- after some time , to abuse othello ' s ear that he is too familiar
this once again , but that your highness pleas ' d , was once superfluous : you were crown '
with the moor , say ' st thou ?
he cannot be such a monster .
exit tailor petruchio .
let us take the law of our sides ; let them begin .
all night and watch with you .
advise you what .
- this push will cheer me ever or disseat me now .
more direful hap betide that hated wretch that makes us wretched by the death of thee than i can wish
th ' offence .
sir , i thought it fit to send the old and miserable king to some retention and appointed guard ;
txt we live to tell it-that the subtle traitor this day had plotted , in the council-house , to murder
i ' ll have a bout with thee .
o douglas , hadst thou fought at holmedon thus , i never had triumph ' d upon a scot .
' d the danger formerly by me rehears ' d .
that is the voice , or i am much deceiv ' d , of portia .
oak .
the widow likes it not , for she looks very sad .
welcome hither .
for which i would not plead , but that i must ; for which i must not plead , but
and you , sir !
make no noise , make no noise ; draw the curtains .
why not on proteus , as of all the rest ?
her horse ; thou shouldst have heard in how miry a place , how she was bemoil ' d ,
you show too much of that for which the people stir ; if you will pass to where you are
prays the moor be safe ; for they were parted with foul and violent tempest .
, if york can prophesy .
calmly , i do beseech you .
this does make some obstruction in the blood , this cross-gartering ; but what of that ?
he hath rid his prologue like a rough colt ; he knows not the stop .
four lagging winters and four wanton springs end in a word : such is the breath of kings .
in lieu whereof three thousand ducats , due unto the jew , we freely cope your courteous pains withal .
enter roderigo and iago .
if you can , pace your wisdom in that good path that i would wish it go , and you
o weraday that ever i was born !
what a pestilent knave is this same ?
bring me the fairest creature northward born , where phoebus ' fire scarce thaws the icicles , and let us
i know ' t : i thank you .
right , i mean you .
use lenity , sweet chuck .
item : that the duchy of anjou and the county of maine shall be released and delivered to the king
now , good my lord , give me the scope of justice ; my patience here is touch ' d
our imputation shall be oddly pois ' d in this vile action ; for the success , although particular ,
[drum heard] warwick .
well , be ' t so , prithee .
son edward , vaughan , and all that have miscarried by underhand corrupted foul injustice , if that your moody
i pray thee , wish not one man more .
my sword make way for me for here is no staying .
son to the king of naples gonzalo , an honest old counsellor lords adrian francisco caliban , a savage and
many hands and no use , or purblind argus , all eyes and no sight .
you knew of his departure , as you know what you have underta ' en to do in ' s
i will go lose myself , and wander up and down to view the city .
is daily new and old , so is my love still telling what is told .
gualtier or walter , which it is i care not : never yet did base dishonour blur our name but
meus ' was still inscrib ' d ; in which you brought the king to be your servant .
he ' s opposite to humanity .
answer me to-morrow , or , by the affection that now guides me most , i ' ll prove a
he had none ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
why , she ' s a devil , a devil , the devil ' s dam .
i love thee not .
king philip .
exit roderigo .
her womb then rich with my young squire- would imitate , and sail upon the land , to fetch me
enter buckingham and old clifford buckingham .
the great man down , you mark his favourite flies , the poor advanc ' d makes friends of enemies
, volt .
i understand thee , and can speak thy tongue .
; if not , use him for the present , and dismiss him .
rainy eyes write sorrow on the bosom of the earth .
' tis past , and so am i .
but how many hath he kill ' d ?
iago , whose footing here anticipates our thoughts a se ' nnight ' s speed .
now .
o woe ?
come on my right hand , for this ear is deaf , and tell me truly what thou think '
let that be left which leaves itself .
theseus .
or no .
; and some that smile have in their hearts , i fear , millions of mischiefs .
and , gentle master , i receiv ' d no gold ; but i confess , sir , that we
come , good boy , the next way home .
that nature which contemns it origin cannot be bordered certain in itself .
bless you , friar .
exeunt lysander and demetrius hermia .
it thunders and lightens terribly ; then the spirit riseth] spirit .
but o does .
[to goneril] yes , forsooth , i will hold my tongue .
as the event stamps them ; but they have a good cover , they show well outward .
i lost a couple that ' twixt heaven and earth might thus have stood begetting wonder as page _num_ complete
' twas never merry world since lowly feigning was call ' d compliment .
sleep for a week ; for the next night , i warrant , the county paris hath set up his
thou wouldst be fee ' d , i see , to make me sport ; york cannot speak unless he
the plebeians swarming at their heels- go forth and fetch their conqu ' ring caesar in ; as , by
if i heard you rightly , the duke hath put on a religious life , and thrown into neglect the
when thou wak ' st , if she be by , beg of her for remedy .
[aside] o , this is well !
txt ev ' n to the hall , to hear what shall become of the great duke of buckingham .
what ' s he that wishes so ?
now name the rest of the players .
isis else defend , and serving you so long !
ay , is ' t , i warrant him ; do but read .
do not weep , good fools ; there is no cause ; when you shall know your mistress has deserv
it doth not fit me .
by th ' way we met my wife , her sister , and a rabble more of vile confederates .
pretty ophelia !
; and when thou art old and rich , thou hast neither heat , affection , limb , nor beauty
stokesly and gardiner : the one of winchester , newly preferr ' d from the king ' s secretary ;
here is the man .
of the sun !
and you , monarch !
you , mine alder-liefest sovereign , makes me the bolder to salute my king with ruder terms , such as
lethe wharf , wouldst thou not stir in this .
[within] nor to-day here you must not ; come again when you may .
refuse it not ; it hath no tongue to vex you .
i think it is good morrow , is it not ?
txt for hark you , tybalt being slain so late , it may be thought we held him carelessly ,
my cousin do not look exceeding narrowly to thee .
already have i been false to valentine , and now i must be as unjust to thurio .
hear your sentence .
love made them not ; with acture they may be , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
let me play the fool .
go to ; have your lath glued within your sheath till you know better how to handle it .
is ' t for my life ?
morning at the temple , and there , before the whole congregation , shame her with what he saw o
had henry got an empire by his marriage and all the wealthy kingdoms of the west , there ' s
please it our great general to call together all his state of war ; fresh kings are come to troy
brother , i say !
alarum ; retreat scene _num_ .
can there be more said ?
in answer of which claim , the prince our master says that you savour too much of your youth ,
, england did never owe so sweet a hope , so much misconstrued in his wantonness .
alack , i love myself .
and on cordelia .
can you do me greater harm than hate ?
i ' d change my sex to be companion with them , since leonatus ' false .
but in this troublous time what ' s to be done ?
an end .
o , fly to scotland till that the nobles and the armed commons have of their puissance made a little
your mistress sent to have me home to dinner !
sound drums and trumpets boldly and cheerfully ; god and saint george !
txt which spongy april at thy hest betrims , to make cold nymphs chaste crowns ; and thy broom groves
so near .
indeed your ' o lord , sir !
keepers , convey him hence ; and i myself will see his burial better than his life .
the service of the foot , being once gangren ' d , is not then respected for what before it
rogue , thou hast liv ' d too long .
who can control his fate ?
why , a prince should not be so loosely studied as to remember so weak a composition .
right well , dear madam .
therefore i have entreated him along , with us to watch the minutes of this night , that , if
bring him with triumph home unto his house .
prophet may you be !
s broker .
surely , sir , there ' s in him stuff that puts him to these ends ; for , being
take that life , beseech you , which i so often owe ; but your ring first , and here
where ' s dick , the butcher of ashford ?
leave ?
what devil art thou that dost torment me thus ?
dead then ?
shall i tell thee one thing , poins ?
you must not speak of that .
i hope you ' ll come to supper .
were i in england now , as once i was , and had but this fish painted , not a
well , be may chance to do some good on her .
and we create , in absence of ourself , our uncle york lord governor of england ; for he is
her gentlewomen , like the nereides , so many mermaids , tended her i ' th ' eyes , and
[within] the lord protect him !
but yet i love my country , and am not one that rejoices in the common wreck , as common
i am dying , egypt , dying .
i wish you the peace of mind , most royal couplement !
as by your high imperial majesty i had in charge at my depart for france , as procurator to your
oft die by vile bezonians : a roman sworder and banditto slave murder ' d sweet tully ; brutus '
a thousand , sir , early though ' t be , have on their riveted trim , and at the
txt brought to this shore ; and by my prescience i find my zenith doth depend upon a most auspicious
let that suffice .
, where doing tends to ill , the truth is then most done not doing it ; the better act
broad-fronted caesar , when thou wast here above the ground , i was a morsel for a monarch ; and
the which the prince admits him .
of it unknown to the beginning .
mad ; which is enough , i ' ll warrant , as this world goes , to pass for honest
the gifts she looks from me are pack ' d and lock ' d up in my heart , which
what shall be done page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
there ' s none so foul and foolish thereunto , but does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do
fie , what a spendthrift is he of his tongue !
call to me all my sad captains ; fill our bowls once more ; let ' s mock the midnight
lead the way , lords ; ye must all see the queen , and she must thank ye , she
call her forth , brother .
nay , sometimes , like to a bowl upon a subtle ground , i have tumbled past the throw ,
voice cry " havoc !
crave of you your leave that i may bear my evils alone .
you will the sooner that i were away , for you ' ll prove perjur ' d if you make
well ; mistress ford , what of her ?
we ' ll to dinner thither .
, since all the power thereof it doth apply to prove , by wit , worth in simplicity .
so loud a wind , would have reverted to my bow again , and not where i had aim '
sir , he doth in some sort confess it .
hadst it not .
, with open mouth swallowing a tailor ' s news ; who , with his shears and measure in his
txt marcade .
be heard of , say i taught thee- say wolsey , that once trod the ways of glory , and
friends , be gone ; you shall have letters from me to some friends that will sweep your way for
_num_ to me fair friend you never can be old , for as you were when first your eye i
advance your standards , and upon them , lords ; pell-mell , down with them !
o , good sir , tenderly , o !
act ; nay , many times , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
well , do your discretion .
so says the prince , and my new-trothed lord .
if my shirt were bloody , then to shift it .
enter the clown , with a basket and two pigeons in it news , news from heaven !
he rubs the vein of him .
txt therein illustrated ; the honour of it does pay the act of it , as , i ' th
what an infinite mock is this , that a man should have the best use of eyes to see the
tell me precisely of what complexion .
them than in the tongues of the french council ; and they should sooner persuade henry of england than a
[sings] fools had ne ' er less grace in a year , for wise men are grown foppish ; they
and trust , his sworn brother , a very simple gentleman !
make him a garland , as being forsaken , or to bind him up a rod , as being worthy
txt hast hang ' d them , when , indeed , only for that cause they have been most worthy
thou say ' st the king grows mad : i ' ll tell thee , friend , i am almost
i ' ll leave you , lady .
yet beheld- desires access to your high presence .
that i might see .
ay me , what act , that roars so loud and thunders in the index ?
give me no help in lamentation ; i am not barren to bring forth complaints .
, her hair , her cheek , her gait , her voice , handlest in thy discourse .
let ' s leave this town ; for they are hare-brain ' d slaves , and hunger will enforce them
this is the matter- nurse , give leave awhile , we must talk in secret .
whose was ' t ?
if you have lost him , why , i have lost him too .
no , wrangling woman , we ' ll no longer stay ; these words will cost ten thousand lives this
suit ; and sometime comes she with a tithe-pig ' s tail tickling a parson ' s nose as '
is ' t meet that he should leave the helm and , like a fearful lad , with tearful eyes
what news from oxford ?
' d at home , wear out thy youth with shapeless idleness .
secretary .
then ' tis he ; the rest that are within the note of expectation already are i ' the court
[as the men hide she drops a letter] lie thou there ; for here comes the trout that must be
thou wert but a lost monster .
where shall we go ?
chor .
assistant for a state , but keep a farm and carters .
call help .
please you to interpose , fair madam .
o monstrous beast , how like a swine he lies !
beshrew me much , emilia , i was , unhandsome warrior as i am , arraigning his unkindness with my
' tis he ; slink by , and note him .
thousand crowns ; and not demands , on payment of a hundred thousand crowns , page _num_ complete works of
if ever i did dream of such a matter , abhor me .
you have simply misus ' d our sex in your love-prate .
many years , though cloten then but young , you see , not wore him from my remembrance .
cowards !
exit maria i am as mad as he , if sad and merry madness equal be .
txt home to the centaur , with the gold you gave me .
again uncurse their souls ; their peace is made with heads , and not with hands ; those whom you
what ' s more to do , which would be planted newly with the time , as calling home our
come , both , you cogging greeks ; have at you exeunt fighting enter hector hector .
enter sailors .
now you know my meaning .
marry , to- come , captain , will you go ?
' d ?
what ' s the matter ?
now , by my modesty , a goodly broker !
ay , but not enough .
there ' s no comparison .
cesario , husband , stay .
but tell me yet , dost thou not know my voice ?
whither shall we fly ?
who by the hand of france this day hath made much work for tears in many an english mother ,
' a good answer .
exceed account .
peto !
if you miscarry , your business of the world hath so an end , and machination ceases .
enter king john , elinor , blanch , the bastard , pembroke , and others king john .
i do beseech your grace , let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me .
the field , and vanquished his foes .
stand you directly in antonio ' s way , when he doth run his course .
go find him out .
and a half , sir .
o , how i long to have some chat with her !
have with you , boys !
the very trick on ' t .
ay , ay , you writ them , sir , at my request ; but i will none of them
patience , prince saturninus .
to confirm this too , cardinal campeius is arriv ' d and lately ; as all think , for this
now , sir , this staff is my sister , for , look you , she is as white as
knighthoods and honours borne as i wear mine are titles but of scorn .
ferret and such fiery eyes as we have seen him in the capitol , being cross ' d in conference
i was before master tisick , the debuty , t ' other day ; and , as he said to
what , not one hit ?
she hath that ring of yours .
all sorts of hearts ; yea , from the glass-fac ' d flatterer to apemantus , that few things loves
your name , your quality ?
i do remember him at clement ' s inn , like a man made after supper of a cheese-paring .
cassius ; and ' twas i that the mad brutus ended ; he alone dealt on lieutenantry , and no
nothing but taking up ; and that thou ' rt scarce worth .
' and wish ' d to see thee cross-garterd .
and so , with thanks and pardon to you all , i do dismiss you to your several countries .
there ' s neither honesty , manhood , nor good fellowship in thee , nor thou cam ' st not
sir ?
go , trumpet , to the walls , and sound a parle .
what do you say , sister ?
this man was riding from alcibiades to timon ' s cave with letters of entreaty , which imported his fellowship
what , would you bury him in my despite ?
many thousand on ' s have the disease , and feel ' t not .
hasty sending .
ay brother , to our grief , as it is yours .
degree ?
god ' s blest mother !
thou wouldst make a good fool .
there shall she see my valour , which will then be a torment to her contempt .
clifford , devise excuses for thy faults .
even thus two friends condemn ' d embrace , and kiss , and take ten thousand leaves , loather a
when he is best , he is a little worse than a man , and when he is worst ,
farewell , my lord , securely i espy virtue with valour couched in thine eye .
to be her bridegroom ?
this is most likely !
i am in love too .
bear it coldly but till midnight , and let the issue show itself .
rose ; and on old hiems ' thin and icy crown an odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds is ,
the tower flourish .
and you the judges , bear a wary eye .
antonio , i arrest thee at the suit of count orsino .
exit page apemantus .
this week he hath been heavy , sour , sad , and much different from the man he was ;
and did you see the handkerchief ?
no more , gentlemen , no more .
lucentio , gentle sir .
foolish , and i fear not him .
thence , turning his face to the dew-dropping south .
i will not consent to die this day , that ' s certain .
stop there ; i ' ll have her ; she was mine , and not mine , twice or thrice
why do they run away ?
[within] cry , troyans .
you saw her fair , none else being by , herself pois ' d with herself in either eye ;
he plays o ' th ' viol-de-gamboys , and speaks three or four languages word for word without book ,
when the mind ' s free , the body ' s delicate .
what seest thou else in the dark backward and abysm of time ?
d , otherwise he had suffer ' d for ' t .
txt as he takes from you , i engraft you new .
the time will bring it out .
but he loves caesar best .
when , without stratagem , but in plain shock and even play of battle , was ever known so great
i thank you , good my lord , and thank you all .
only to despite them i will endeavour anything .
would i had known no more !
it is my wretched fortune .
but the disease is incurable .
what ' s his fault ?
i praise god for you , sir .
confin ' d together in the same fashion as you gave in charge ; just as you left them ;
they have made themselves , and that their fitness now does unmake you .
crushest the snake !
why , thou whoreson , impudent , emboss ' d rascal , if there were anything in thy pocket but
indian , threw a pearl away richer than all his tribe ; of one whose subdued eyes , albeit unused
i told you what would come of this .
open your gates and give the victors way .
away with her , and waft her hence to france .
there , take it ; and much thanks for my good cheer .
my children .
exit king henry .
how features are abroad , i am skilless of ; but , by my modesty , the jewel in my
my counsel is my shield .
being banish ' d for ' t , he came unto my hearth , presented to my knife his throat
[to richmond] virtuous and holy , be thou conqueror !
why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes ?
my lord , the mind of bolingbroke is chang ' d ; you must to pomfret , not unto the
in private ?
thee i ' ll chase hence , thou wolf in sheep ' s array .
let him that mov ' d you hither remove you hence .
rocks , which , touching but my gentle vessel ' s side , would scatter all her spices on the
in a cowslip ' s bell i lie ; there i couch when owls do cry .
come ; i ' ll manacle thy neck and feet together .
ask her forgiveness ?
a halter gratis ; nothing else , for god ' s sake !
txt [to marcius] follow cominius ; we must follow you ; right worthy you priority .
o , ' tis a perilous boy ; bold , quick , ingenious , forward , capable .
lives .
hard-handed men that work in athens here , which never labour ' d in their minds till now ; and
at him , but for the general .
enter lear .
nay , truly , sir , i could never say grace in all my life .
morn hath travelled on to age ' s steepy night , and all those beauties whereof now he ' s
who lets so fair a house fall to decay , which husbandry in honour might uphold , against the stormy
albeit you have deserv ' d high commendation , true applause , and love , yet such is now the
so that with ease , or with a little shuffling , you may choose a sword unbated , and ,
the dead with charity enclos ' d in clay- and then to calais ; and to england then ; where
i will be more jealous of thee than a barbary cock-pigeon over his hen , more clamorous than a parrot
thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine worth seizure do we seize into our hands , till
] the song .
riot , melted down thy youth in different beds of lust , and never learn ' d the icy precepts
now , quiet soul , depart when heaven please , for i have seen our enemies ' overthrow .
a lover as ever sigh ' d upon a midnight pillow .
madam , methinks , if you did love him dearly , you do not hold the method to enforce the
if thou more murmur ' st , i will rend an oak and peg thee in his knotty entrails ,
fare thee well !
so foul and fair a day i have not seen .
thou shalt accompany us to the place ; where we will , not appearing what we are , have some
wild trick of his ancestors .
[strikes him] fluellen .
this comes off well ; here ' s a wise officer .
they march over and go out .
[within] she comes to you .
; but whatsoe ' er thou tak ' st me for , i ' m sure thou hast a cruel
impediments in fancy ' s course are motives of more fancy ; and , in fine , her infinite cunning
therefore let me have right , and let desert mount .
i know thee not .
you must have but four here , sir ; and so , i pray you , go in with me
it ' s almost morning , is ' t not ?
and blood .
eye of cockatrice .
with the terror of the place- as in a vault , an ancient receptacle where for this many hundred years
and we give express charge that in our marches through the country there be nothing compell ' d from the
no boasting like a fool ; this deed i ' ll do before this purpose cool .
for what good turn ?
well then , confess and live .
i ' ll humbly signify what in his name , that magical word of war , we have effected ;
may i know ?
sitting on a bank , weeping again the king my father ' s wreck , this music crept by me
no , my brutus , you have some sick offense within your mind , which by the right and virtue
the news is true , my lord : he is descried ; caesar has taken toryne .
and have not we affections , desires for sport , and frailty , as men have ?
what man didst thou ever know unthrift that was beloved after his means ?
you know the peril .
where will you find men worthy enough to present them ?
what pace is this that thy tongue keeps ?
exeunt the presenters above speak first servant .
go make thee ready ; our letters are prepar ' d .
they bid us to the english dancing-schools and teach lavoltas high and swift corantos , saying our grace is only
thee and thy virtues here i seize upon .
if the duke , with the other dukes , come not to composition with the king of hungary , why
why , ' tis a gull a fool a rogue , that now and then goes to the wars to
i understand the business , i hear it .
farewell , good charles .
five justices ' hands at it ; and witnesses more than my pack will hold .
' item : she can knit .
for the robbery , lad- how is that answered ?
[within] come back ; what mean you ?
i likewise hear that valentine is dead .
what ' s a joint of mutton or two in a whole lent ?
when we first put out to sea .
i will prove so , sir , to my power .
enter king richard and guard but soft , but see , or rather do not see , my fair rose
, nor war ' s quick fire shall burn : the living record of your memory .
now the lord bless that sweet face of thine .
' tis evermore the prologue to his sleep .
fly o ' er our heads and downward look on us , as we were sickly prey .
' what ' s the price of this inkle ?
, but yet a woman ; and for secrecy , no lady closer , for i well believe thou wilt
how ill it follows , after you have laboured so hard , you should talk so idly !
thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice .
yet i ' ll not shed her blood , nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow and smooth
sirrah , come hither ; ' tis no time to jest , and therefore frame your manners to the time
; for use almost can change the stamp of nature , and either [master] the devil , or throw him
whence are you ?
prove this a prosp ' rous day , the three-nook ' d world shall bear the olive freely .
horns whelk ' d and wav ' d like the enridged sea .
their disposition , and out of his noble carelessness lets them plainly see ' t .
not be drunk ; but i know thou art no tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt be
like spirit to himself .
what , did they never whisper ?
that geffrey was thy elder brother born , and this his son ; england was geffrey ' s right ,
there lock yourself , and send him word you are dead .
[knocks] what , hoa !
death ; and more than so , my father , even in the downfall of his mellow ' d years
what , davy , i say !
sound , trumpets , alarum to the combatants !
take him to prison , officer ; correction and instruction must both work ere this rude beast will profit .
i do ; and will fetch off bohemia for ' t ; provided that , when he ' s remov
mine intents , but also to effect whatever i shall happen to devise .
ay , that i had not done a thousand more .
a lady ' s ear , and plead his love-suit to her gentle heart ?
the duke my father lov ' d his father dearly .
how did you dare to trade and traffic with macbeth in riddles and affairs of death , and i ,
being but three .
the galleys have sent a dozen sequent messengers this very night at one another ' s heels ; and many
and ere a man hath power to say ' behold !
i know it ; and my pretext to strike at him admits a good construction .
this ring was his of late .
this fellow doth not stand upon points .
this hand , to th ' infernal deep , with erebus and tortures vile also .
exit an attendant northumberland .
did you not use his daughter very friendly ?
do you think i will ?
every circumstance , you have great reason to do richard right ; especially for those occasions at eltham place i
-give ' t me again .
you must rise and be hang ' d , master barnardine !
his pocket !
how now , madam !
pray now , sit down .
i prithee , peace ; my soul is full of sorrow .
the nobles they are fled , the commons they are cold and will , i fear , revolt on hereford
your friends , sir ; the hangman .
exit bertram .
his poisoned me , and mine did him restore .
good morrow to you both .
what is that noise ?
" glamis thou art , and cawdor , and shalt be what thou art promised .
bed-rite shall be paid till hymen ' s torch be lighted ; but in vain .
haste we , diomed , to reinforcement , or we perish all .
into foul bogs .
your worship ' s wife , my mistress at the phoenix ; she that doth fast till you come home
quite besides the government of patience !
were ' t not affection chains thy tender days to the sweet glances of thy honour ' d love ,
before northumberland ' s castle enter rumour , painted full of tongues rumour .
fair lady cressid , so please you , save the thanks this prince expects .
' s welfare , nor how to shroud yourself from enemies ?
uncles of gloucester and of winchester , the special watchmen of our english weal , i would prevail , if
bottom .
now will i charge you in the band of truth , when you have conquer ' d my yet maiden
, mast ' ring what not strives , playing the place which did no form receive , playing patient sports
right joyous are we to behold your face , most worthy brother england ; fairly met !
the ears are senseless that should give us bearing to tell him his commandment is fulfill ' d that rosencrantz
txt and bootless unto them .
[aside] and yet it is almost against my conscience .
for my part , i have walk ' d about the streets , submitting me unto the perilous night ,
allegiance--mark you this-on my allegiance !
but , tell me is young george stanley living .
the posterior of the day , most generous sir , is liable , congruent , and measurable , for the
act .
make me happy in your unity .
, cold statues of the youth ; and , in a word , scare troy out of itself .
exit cassio .
would you imagine , or almost believe- were ' t not that by great preservation page _num_ complete works of
your dinner , and the generous islanders by you invited , do attend your presence .
and then to scape drowning thrice , and to be in peril of my life with the edge of a
did you see the meeting of the two kings ?
know you not the fire that mounts the liquor till ' t run o ' er in seeming to augment
but lest my liking might too sudden seem , i would have salv ' d it with a longer treatise
all-worthy villain !
you , madam , for you are more nobly born , despoiled of your honour in your life , shall
token to the future our past deeds .
yea , in very truth , do i , an ' twere an aspen leaf .
i grant ye .
exeunt falstaff and the justices bullcalf .
re-enter the first servingman first servant .
a very good whore !
for you all ?
i will inform your father .
end of thy blue bow dost crown my bosky acres and my unshrubb ' d down , rich scarf to
let ' s grant it is not amiss to tumble on the bed of ptolemy , to give a kingdom
drones suck not eagles ' blood but rob beehives .
' d me , as he is a gentleman and a soldier , he will not hurt you .
such civil war is in my love and hate , that i an accessary needs must be , to that
o , give me leave , i have deluded you .
txt with much more ease ; for my good will is to it , and yours it is against .
all ' s cheerless , dark , and deadly .
uncleanly if courtiers were shepherds .
you , minion , are too saucy .
go hie thee presently post to the road ; an if the wind blow any way from shore , i
scene _num_ france .
come , come with me , and we will make short work ; for , by your leaves , you
now old desire doth in his deathbed lie , and young affection gapes to be his heir ; that fair
that finds it .
did cicero say anything ?
i tell thee , pole , when in the city tours thou ran ' st a tilt in honour of
but since the cuckoo builds not for himself , remain in ' t as thou mayst .
he ' s like-that ' s dead ; whom i with this obedient steel , three inches of it ,
gremio , tranio .
to show false art what beauty was of yore .
charm ' d asleep with grant of our most just and right desires ; and true obedience , of this
to what end ?
your default .
enter an aedile let him be apprehended .
the honey-bag break not ; i would be loath to have you overflown with a honey-bag , signior .
some comet or unusual prodigy ?
speak to the business , master secretary ; why are we met in council ?
' d the nonpareil of beauty !
i cannot speak so well , nothing so well ; no , nor mean better .
txt lady percy , wife to hotspur , and sister to mortimer .
farewell , my hector and my troy ' s true hope .
] jack , meet me to-morrow in the temple hall at two o ' clock in the afternoon .
sport !
to be a well-favoured man is the gift of fortune , but to write and read comes by nature .
three or four bonds of forty pound apiece and a seal-ring of my grandfather ' s .
we must be brief when traitors brave the field .
exeunt corin and touchstone celia .
but , sirrah , mark , we use to say the dead are well .
which doth most consist of war-mark ' d footmen ; leave unexecuted your own renowned knowledge ; quite forgo the
had , my lords .
bed-hangers and these fly-bitten tapestries .
throw them into thames !
now all the service i require of them is that the one will help to cut the other .
the cyclops ' size ; but metal , marcus , steel to the very back , yet wrung with wrongs
o excellent young man !
and most chirurgeonly .
child rowland to the dark tower came ; his word was still fie , foh , and fum !
we will have , if this fadge not , an antic .
i fear there will a worse come in his place .
five summers have i spent in farthest greece , roaming clean through the bounds of asia , and , coasting
live but that there is this jewel in the world that i may see again .
would i had two coxcombs and two daughters !
come hither , boy ; ask me this slave in french what is his name .
it , but as we stand in fear- juliet .
forth , who , by belarius stol ' n , for many years thought dead , are now reviv '
both .
but ' tis not so ; ' twas but a bolt of nothing , shot at nothing , which the
[music ceases] patience .
give me audience , good madam .
i ' ll make a sop o ' th ' moonshine o ' you .
banquo .
more torches here !
my free drift halts not particularly , but moves itself in a wide sea of tax .
-and , my lord , he desires you that , if the king call for him at supper , you
uncle !
txt if love ambitious sought a match of birth , whose veins bound richer blood than lady blanch ?
and now i fear that fatal prophecy .
sir , i shall tell you .
the third o ' th ' world is yours , which with a snaffle you may pace easy , but
will your answer serve fit to all questions ?
from bought and sold lord talbot , who , ring ' d about with bold adversity , cries out for
by this i shall perceive the commons ' mind , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter mariners , wet mariners .
buckingham .
to-day .
come , come , come , off with your boots .
love looks not with the eyes , but with the mind ; and therefore is wing ' d cupid painted
our wooing doth not end like an old play : jack hath not jill .
and prabbles , and quarrels , and dissensions , and , i warrant you , it is the better for
humbly sues ; for queen , a very caitiff crown ' d with care ; for she that scorn '
o noble father , you lament in vain ; the tribunes hear you not , no man is by ,
i shall beseech your highness , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
thy eye jove ' s lightning bears , thy voice his dreadful thunder , which , not to anger bent
a paltry , insolent fellow !
wall-ey ' d wrath or staring rage presented to the tears of soft remorse .
such a " then " i write a " never .
and well met , gentlemen .
but when they heard he was thine enemy they set him free without his ransom paid , in spite of
exeunt diomedes and calchas achilles and patroclus stand in their tent ulysses .
look on this letter , madam ; here ' s my passport .
nor i , my lord- in faith .
, before our army hear me .
an if i have not , sir , i hope you have ; or else you may return without your
this was the most unkindest cut of all ; for when the noble caesar saw him stab , ingratitude ,
i must attend the duke at dinner ; by two o ' clock i will be with thee again .
am i not protector , saucy priest ?
o lord , that lends me life , lend me a heart replete with thankfulness !
o most unhappy strumpet !
in sooth , you are to blame .
s ghost .
would i had met my dearest foe in heaven or ever i had seen that day , horatio !
news , madam .
; let them curtsy with their left legs , and not presume to touch a hair of my mastcr '
, stabb ' d in my angry mood at tewksbury ?
hard that it seems the length of seven year .
by jove , i always took three threes for nine .
when would you have it done , sir ?
' madding of her lord .
the king has done you wrong ; but , hush , ' tis so .
' tis insensible then ?
' many there were that did his picture get , to serve their eyes , and in it put their
that is your part .
o sland ' rous world !
you must in no way say he is covetous .
forever .
give a doit to relieve a lame beggar , they will lay out ten to see a dead indian .
txt act iv .
d to our cause , must be as great as that which makes it .
well , thou shalt see ; thy eyes shall be thy judge , the difference of old shylock and bassanio
find him , my lord of warwick ; chide him hither .
base troyan , thou shalt die .
' coriolanus ' he would not answer to ; forbid all names ; he was a kind of nothing ,
go hence ; good night ; and here stands all your state : either be gone before the watch be
that spirit of his in aspiration lifts him from the earth .
awake remembrance of these valiant dead , and with your puissant arm renew their feats .
all ready ; and therefore , i pray thee , news .
yet i insisted , yet you answer ' d not , but with an angry waiter of your hand gave
my lord , i know not what the matter is ; but to my judgment your highness is not entertain
for your wants , your suffering in this dearth , you may as well strike at the heaven with your
she deserves well .
world , as you wish christian peace to souls departed , stand these poor people ' s friend , and
is that all the comfort you give me ?
audrey .
who comes so fast in silence of the night ?
two faults , madonna , that drink and good counsel will amend ; for give the dry fool drink ,
may it please your grace , antipholus , my husband , who i made lord of me and all i
nay , the man hath no wit that cannot , from the rising of the lark to the lodging of
art thou here yet ?
the law of children .
where is montjoy the herald ?
so vain that would refuse so fair an offer ' d chain .
shall we be merry ?
drown cats and blind puppies .
yet i have not seen so likely an ambassador of love .
[the ladies mask] enter blackamoors music , moth as prologue , the king and his lords as maskers , in
, to bridle and suppress the pride of suffolk and the cardinal , with somerset ' s and buckingham '
am i not of her blood ?
join not with grief , fair woman , do not so , to make my end too sudden .
this is an aspic ' s trail ; and these fig-leaves have slime upon them , such as th '
two scales , will even weigh ; and both as light as tales .
here ' s the pang that pinches : his highness having liv ' d so long with her , and
he hath evermore had the liberty of the prison ; give him leave to escape hence , he would not
and i ' ll keep him so that he shall not offend your majesty .
have you that i sent you for ?
i pray you , now receive them .
if every of your wishes had a womb , and fertile every wish , a million .
_num_ was it the proud full sail of his great verse , bound for the prize of (all too precious)
cassio find soliciting his wife .
i should not be ; and men may talk of kings , and why not i ?
when it comes so smoothly off , so obscenely , as it were , so fit .
first , i began in private with you , my lord of lincoln ; you remember how under my oppression
mark the full-fraught man and best indued with some suspicion .
[aside to clarence] silence !
ay , forsooth ; i have spoke with her , and we have a nay-word how to know one another
o , she that might have intercepted thee , by strangling thee in her accursed womb , from all the
silence !
publius , follow me .
what now , lucilius , is cassius near ?
' an bad thinking do not wrest true speaking , i ' ll offend nobody .
she never saw it .
the rarest of all women .
juno angry .
truly , officer , because he hath some offences in him that thou wouldst discover if thou couldst , let
i cannot blame her ; by god ' s holy mother , she hath had too much wrong ; and
now , gods that we adore , whereof comes this ?
to what , i pray ?
no way but this , killing myself , to die upon a kiss .
it is supposed the fair creature died- and here is come to do some villanous shame to the dead bodies
lightens , opens graves , and roars as doth the lion in the capitol , a man no mightier than
strife shall cumber all the parts of italy ; blood and destruction shall be so in use , and dreadful
txt half a year .
fie , brother , how the world is chang ' d with you !
the manner and true order of the fight this packet , please it you , contains at large .
howsoever , he shall pay for me ere he has me .
[clock strikes] tell the clock there .
, or break it all to pieces ; or there we ' ll sit , ruling in large and ample
[within] fathom and half , fathom and half !
cleopatra ' s palace enter cleopatra , enobarbus , charmian , and iras cleopatra .
give me thy hand ; be pilot to me , and thy places shall still neighbour mine .
now fetch me a stool hither by and by .
do confess to thee , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
decline to your confounding contraries and let confusion live .
we had need pray , and heartily , for our deliverance ; or this imperious man will work us an
i pray you , sir , what is he ?
txt prospero , the right duke of milan antonio , his brother , the usurping duke of milan ferdinand ,
, and break it with a deep-divorcing vow ?
o , were the sum of these that i should pay countless and infinite , yet would i pay them
then in dumb silence will i bury mine , for they are harsh , untuneable , and bad .
didst thou never see titan kiss a dish of butter ?
lord lucius , and you princes of the goths , the roman emperor greets you all by me ; and
call your men , mistress ford .
a leg of rome shall not return to tell what crows have peck ' d them here .
strong and swelling evil of my conception .
good name in man and woman , dear my lord , is the immediate jewel of their souls .
but on his own .
be , by th ' pow ' r of the king .
txt the memory be green , and that it us befitted to bear our hearts in grief , and our
if you will have it in showing , you shall read it in what-do-ye-call ' t here .
he hath been in unusual pleasure and sent forth great largess to your offices .
come , death , and welcome !
i am ; therefore come down and welcome me .
would he had been one of my rank !
doth harbour , even in mowbray ' s face .
the queen from france hath brought a puissant power ; even now we heard the news .
treasure seiz ' d , our soldiers put to flight , and , as thou seest , ourselves in heavy
what do they in the north , when they should serve their sovereign in the west ?
mine was secure .
help , jupiter !
if the quick fire of youth light not your mind , you are no maiden , but a monument ;
_num_ those lines that i before have writ do lie , even those that said i could not love you
enter calpurnia .
you shall be as a father to my youth ; my voice shall sound as you do prompt mine ear
[drum beats] the interruption of their churlish drums cuts off more circumstance : they are at hand ; to parley
you must not deny me : i must go with you to belmont .
marry , farewell !
[exit shallow] bardolph , look to our horses .
as a prince .
' tis wonder that an invisible instinct should frame them to royalty unlearn ' d , honour untaught , civility
who has the office ?
come , he is here , my lord ; do not deny him .
and so in me ; and so , i think , in an .
we look for you to-morrow .
how dost thou and thy master agree ?
his discontents are unremovably page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he ' s here in double trust : first , as i am his kinsman and his subject , strong
, a reverend carriage , a slow tongue , in the habit of some sir of note , and so
see , my women !
what joy is joy , if silvia be not by ?
have in pouch when thou shalt lack , base phrygian turk !
and sayest thou yet that exile is not death ?
pah !
' that i ' ll tear away ; and yet i will not , sith so prettily he couples it
trust not those cunning waters of his eyes , for villainy is not without such rheum ; and he ,
be not so hot ; the duke dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he dare rack his
fortune and victory sit on thy helm !
and yet , forsooth , she is a virgin pure .
she hath been in good case , and , the truth is , poverty hath distracted her .
' ' give my roan horse a drench , ' says he , and answers ' some fourteen , '
convulsions , shorten up their sinews with aged cramps , and more pinch-spotted make them than pard or cat o
in cradle of the rude imperious surge , and in the visitation of the winds , who take the ruffian
go to , sir ; you were beaten in italy for picking a kernel out of a pomegranate ; you
what is your sir , that you send for me ?
[aside] they are both in either ' s pow ' rs ; but this swift busines i must uneasy make
my lord .
gentlemen , heaven hath through me restor ' d the king to health .
no ; first shall war unpeople this my realm ; ay , and their colours , often borne in france
brave titinius !
all offences a guard of patience .
both or nothing , or senseless speaking , or a speaking such as sense cannot untie .
a street the trumpets sound .
txt me , lads of peace ; follow , follow , follow .
, and tear the stain ' d skin off my harlot-brow , and from my false hand cut the wedding-ring
yes , faith ; and let it be an excellent good thing .
[within] who is that at the door , that keeps all this noise ?
see how she leans her cheek upon her hand !
i would your highness would give it quick consideration , for there is no primer business .
my brother ; be he ne ' er so vile , this day shall gentle his condition ; and gentlemen
exit patroclus .
will prove those verses to be very unlearned , neither savouring of poetry , wit , nor invention .
with gracious favours- that he should , for a foreign purse , so sell his sovereign ' s life to
you slave , for what ?
hang it round with all my wanton pictures ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
he dreams .
the devil take thee , coward !
that to-morrow you will bring it home .
how easy is it for the proper-false in women ' s waxen hearts to set their forms !
i think it be no other but e ' en so .
he was a thing of blood , whose every motion page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
where ' s peaseblossom ?
god consigning to my good intents- no prince nor peer shall have just cause to say , god shorten harry
knows he the wickedness ?
d , shall be lamented , pitied , and excus ' d of every hearer ; for it so falls
will you not push her out ?
now , ursula , when beatrice doth come , as we do trace this alley up and down , our
no devil will fright thee then so much as she .
of oxford earl of northumberland earl of westmoreland lord clifford richard plantagenet , duke of york edward , earl of
a pox on him !
what means this passion at his name ?
[reads] ' whatsoever you may hear to the contrary , let claudio be executed by four of the clock ,
we have here recover ' d the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth .
say , my spirit , how fares the king and ' s followers ?
by a gem of women , to be abus ' d by one that looks on feeders ?
who hath he left behind him general ?
this worthy signior , i thank him , makes no stranger of me ; we are familiar at first .
legs and arms and heads , chopp ' d off in a battle , shall join together at the latter
clown sings o mistress mine , where are you roaming ?
more than she can eat .
let him come in .
why dost not speak ?
i speak no treason .
i must give myself some hurts , and say i got them in exploit .
there i shall see mine own figure .
[to don john] let me bid you welcome , my lord .
enter cornwall and edmund .
off your head .
good night , sweet lord menelaus .
i think you are fall ' n into the disease , for you hear not what i say to you
and like a traitor to the name of god didst break that vow ; and with thy treacherous blade unripp
well , sir , in brief , the gown is not for me .
enter caesar , brutus , cassius , casca , decius , metellus , trebonius , cinna , antony , lepidus
now she sharpens .
am i dar ' d and bearded to my face ?
philip of france , in right and true behalf of thy deceased brother geffrey ' s son , arthur plantagenet
who , like a block , hath denied my access to thee .
who ever saw the like ?
have you heard of no likely wars toward ' twixt the two dukes of cornwall and albany ?
rape and murder ; therefore called so ' cause they take vengeance of such kind of men .
, master brook , i fear not goliath with a weaver ' s beam ; because i know also life
we may carry it thus , for our pleasure and his penance , till our very pastime , tired out
all men ' s honours lie like one lump before him , to be fashion ' d into what pitch
enjoin ' d by holy laurence to fall prostrate here to beg your pardon .
[to bardolph] go , with her , with her ; hook on , hook on .
are foul ones .
know some strain in me that i know not myself , he would never have boarded me in this fury
d of , to part the queen ' s proud kindred from the prince .
scare away , or rather did affright ; and as she fled , her mantle she did fall ; which
i am the master of my speeches , and would undergo what ' s spoken , i swear .
that it did , sir , i ' the very throat on me ; but requited him for his lie
yet god achilles still cries ' excellent !
a calf , fair lady !
by me .
sit- and some wine !
he but usurp ' d his life .
i am not furnish ' d like a beggar ; therefore to beg will not become me .
if you call me jephthah , my lord , i have a daughter that i love passing well .
no , it will hang upon my richest robes and show itself , attire me how i can .
o caesar , read mine first , for mine ' s a suit that touches caesar nearer .
they that have done this deed are honorable .
god let me not live but i will murder your ruff for this .
let love , being light , be drowned if she sink .
shall i endure this monstrous villainy ?
dead though she be , she feels her young one kick ; so there ' s my riddle : one
a headless man ?
it is now apparent ?
their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees !
the fringed curtains of thine eye advance , and say what thou seest yond .
is sick !
now no way can i stray : save back to england , an the world ' s my way .
, for aye to be shady cloister mew ' d , to live a barren sister all your life ,
i will go darkly to work with her .
how the devil luxury , with his fat rump and potato finger , tickles these together !
we may as bootless spend our vain command upon th ' enraged soldiers in their spoil , as send precepts
give me pen and ink .
his little speaking shows his love but small .
' s hand and murder ' s bloody axe .
banish peto , banish bardolph , banish poins ; but for sweet jack falstaff , kind jack falstaff , true
i hear him mock the luck of caesar , which the gods give men to excuse their after wrath .
nay , then he is a conjurer .
we do remember ; but our argument is all too heavy to admit much talk .
' tis goneril .
alone i did it .
let ' s away , and get our jewels and our wealth together ; devise the fittest time and safest
i ' ll have more , or else unsay ' t ; and now , while ' tis hot ,
i swear again i would not be a queen for all the world .
the conclusion is , then , that it will .
be not too familiar with poins ; for he misuses thy favours so much that he swears thou art to
when ever yet was your appeal denied ; wherein have you been galled by the king ; what peer hath
[unveiling] look you , sir , such a one i was this present .
thou , wretched boy , that didst consort him here , shalt with him hence .
at your sweet pleasure , for the mountain .
ay , but not frighted me ; therefore i ' ll sleep again .
misery acquaints a man with strange bed-fellows .
a peevish self-will ' d harlotry it is .
the general and his wife are talking of it , and she speaks for you stoutly .
sir john , you shall not be excus ' d .
unrelenting clifford and the queen , who crown ' d the gracious duke in high despite , laugh ' d
will you put out mine eyes , these eyes that never did nor never shall so much as frown on
let him trot by .
the honourable lady of the house , which is she ?
i ha ' told him on ' t , but i could ne ' er get him from ' t
you cannot beg us , sir , i can assure you , sir ; we know what we know ;
kill claudio .
trust ye ?
descend , and keep your words .
let ' s present him to the duke , like a roman conqueror ; and it would do well to
i see a voice ; now will i to the chink , to spy an i can hear my thisby
shun the danger that his soul divines .
thou wast born of woman .
most true , he does .
up , up , and see the great doom ' s image !
no matter .
i found you as a morsel cold upon dead caesar ' s trencher .
txt was broke in twain ; by whom i have forgot , but , as i think , it was
cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh .
where meet we ?
nay , i have ta ' en you napping , gentle love , and have forsworn you with hortensio .
home .
softest things , who shut their coward gates on atomies , should be call ' d tyrants , butchers ,
what , here ?
outward composition of his body .
where ' s cotus ?
go , call at flavius ' house , and tell him where i stay ; give the like notice to
the gods be good unto us !
therefore never , never must i behold my pretty arthur more .
shall please me well .
scroop .
ladies !
if he be gone he ' ll make his grave a bed ; with female fairies will his tomb be
juliet , daughter to capulet .
humours !
bora .
thou art translated .
[within] an answer from the king , my lord of salisbury !
alas , i am a woman , friendless , hopeless !
donalbain .
i do not like this fooling .
ah , that thou wouldst as soon afford a grave as thou canst yield a melancholy seat !
think ' st thou that i will leave my kingly throne , wherein my grandsire and my father sat ?
but how , my lord , shall we resist it now ?
' s fed with stinking tallow- it were fit that all the plagues of hell should at one time encounter
take him up gently , and to bed with him ; and each one to his office when he wakes
, with purpose to be dress ' d in an opinion of wisdom , gravity , profound conceit ; as
ta ' en away this old man ' s daughter , it is most true ; true , i have
] nurse .
macduff i will surprise , seize upon fife , give to the edge o ' the sword his wife ,
rehearse that once more .
sir , sooth to say , you did not dine at home .
never , my lord .
what is your plot ?
by heaven , brat , i ' ll plague ye for that word .
honest- and live a subject ?
he says his name is master fer .
weeds ; by whose gentle help i was preserv ' d to serve this noble count .
that is to see how deep my grave is made ; for with his soul fled all my worldly solace
the queen , my lord , the queen !
the canopies of costly state , and lull ' d with sound of sweetest melody ?
when shall you see me write a thing in rhyme ?
her eyes are grey as glass , and so are mine ; ay , but her forehead ' s low
i think it be ; but we have no great cause to desire the approach of day .
his honour as he pleases , and for his own advantage .
and my poor fool is hang ' d !
than a breather .
now your jest is earnest .
there ' s mine !
he will give the devil his due .
woo the means of weakness and debility ; therefore my age is as a lusty winter , frosty , but
strike , fellows , strike ; this is the man i seek .
i never knew a woman love man so .
stop , or all will fall in broil .
then in the number let me pass untold , though in thy store ' s account i one must be
have done , for more i hardly can endure .
o , he smiles valiantly !
sir , it is a charge too heavy for my strength ; but yet we ' ll strive to bear
himself ; for , if thou be ' st capable of things serious , thou must know the king is
you hear how he importunes me-the chain !
that on mine honour here do i protest .
exit emilia .
and sweat under the business , either led or driven , as we point the way ; and having brought
winter ' s near .
your silence still ; and whatsoever else shall hap to-night , give it an understanding but no tongue .
but will you woo this wild-cat ?
and this .
gentlemen both , we will not wake your patience .
which shall be either to this gentleman or to her death , according to our law immediately provided in that
how now , enobarbus !
t that nod unto the world and mock our eyes with air .
twice then the trumpets sounded , and there i left him tranc ' d .
st against the thing thou swear ' st , and mak ' st an oath the surety for thy truth
nay , give me not the boots .
why should excuse be born or ere begot ?
for tears do stop the floodgates of her eyes .
txt that means not , hath not , or is not in love .
the wife of antony should have an army for an usher , and the neighs of horse to tell of
a sickly part of one true sense could not so mope .
have it ; and that which rather thou dost fear to do than wishest should be undone .
the palace enter the lord chamberlain and lord sandys chamberlain .
philomel with melody sing in our sweet lullaby .
what time ?
have it hath lost me in your liking .
my thoughts to thy good truth and honor .
your pardon , noble mistress .
stay the friar too .
have i had children ' s voices ?
would i had never seen her !
were ' t not that we stand up against them all , ' twere pregnant they should square between themselves
ourselves into a burning fever , and we must bleed for it ; of which disease our late king ,
passions in his craft of will , ' that he did in the general bosom reign of young , of
villains , forbear !
in th ' uncomprehensive deeps ; keeps place with thought , and almost , like the gods , do thoughts
good morrow , good cousin shallow .
let not the hours of this ungodly day wear out the day in peace ; but , ere sunset ,
come , boy , and go with me ; thy sight is young , and thou shalt read when mine
enter an english herald king henry .
is not this your son , my lord ?
the glory of our troy doth this day lie on his fair worth and single chivalry .
after the battle let george stanley die .
exeunt buckingham and train first gentleman .
good reverend father , make my person yours , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
much urging your pernicious lives , for ' twere no charity ; yet , to wash your blood from off
tranio hits you now .
or else a rude despiser of good manners , that in civility thou seem ' st so empty ?
all the better .
sir , you must no more call it york place : that ' s past : for since the cardinal
no , no , no ; not so ; i did not think thou wast within hearing .
all this done , repair to pompey ' s porch , where you shall find us .
from you , can thrust me from a level consideration .
few are angels ; out of which frailty and want of wisdom , you , that best should teach us
the secret mischiefs that i set abroach i lay unto the grievous charge of others .
let ' s to the capitol .
the dauphin is too wilful-opposite , and will not temporize with my entreaties ; he flatly says he ' ll
gull ?
in the thing i love for others ' uses .
why want ?
second brother .
enter slender slender .
so should i rob my sweet sons of their fee ; no , let them satisfy their lust on thee
heaven forgive our sins !
there ' s for you , patroclus .
solanio .
therefore stay yet ; thou need ' st not to be gone .
go with me , and see what i can show in this .
woe , woe , for england !
i ' ll keep my oath , patiently to bear my wroth .
txt for i never knew so young a body with so old a head .
well then , to work !
it was a gentle business and becoming the action of good women ; there is hope all will be well
farewell , until we meet again in heaven .
none , but your beauty ; would that fault were mine !
i swear i ' ll cuff you , if you strike again .
i ' ll plant plantagenet , root him up who dares .
your death has eyes in ' s head , then ; i have not seen him so pictur ' d
even here i will put off my hope , and keep it no longer for my flatterer ; he is
his weakness , and admire our sufferance .
i know where it is situate .
the jerusalem chamber enter the king , prince thomas of clarence , prince humphrey of gloucester , warwick , and
and by th ' way tell me how wales was made so happy as t ' inherit such a haven
it cannot be the volsces dare break with us .
very necessity of this thought , that i , your partner in the cause ' gainst which he fought ,
, scandalous to the world .
s porch .
this moral ties me over to time and a hot summer ; and so i shall catch the fly ,
and what of that ?
be it forbid , my lord !
mind , and will not use a woman lawlessly .
where should he die ?
my cowardice ; let her not strike me .
tam lentus vides ?
exit antigonus .
farewell ; and when you would say something that is sad , speak how i fell .
it sums up thousands in a trice .
' d hereditary ours .
this great world shall so wear out to naught .
they bow , their thoughts do hit the roofs of palaces , and nature prompts them in simple and low
the drawer stands amazed , not knowing which way to go .
hence with thy stripes , be gone .
he that was in question for the robb ' ry ?
if he be , he knows how to turn his girdle .
when thou dost hear i am as i have been , approach me , and thou shalt be as thou
i have brought you from venice .
a knight should violate !
then strike up drums .
believe ' t that we ' ll do anything for gold .
what then !
learning .
[to ferdinand] come on .
thou art left , marcius ; a carbuncle entire , as big as thou art , were not so rich
he ' s a lamb indeed , that baes like a bear .
, whose high imperious thoughts have punish ' d me with bitter fasts , with penitential groans , with nightly
is he married ?
things in motion sooner catch the eye than what stirs not .
i saw it , and told john a gaunt he beat his own name ; for you might have thrust
txt titus .
our honour ' s great disparagement , yet will i favour thee in what i can .
unworthy shoulders ?
you put our page out .
when thou reviewest this , thou dost review , the very part was consecrate to thee , the earth can
tamora , was it you ?
i am one of those .
use them after your own honour and dignity .
if he be sick with joy , he ' ll recover without physic .
come now , your promise .
searching the window for a flint i found this paper thus seal ' d up , and i am sure
romeo , that spoke him fair , bid him bethink how nice the quarrel was , and urg ' d
die , die , lavinia , and thy shame with thee ; [he kills her] and with thy shame thy
lord , who would live turmoiled in the court and may enjoy such quiet walks as these ?
i ' ll run from thee and hide me in the brakes , and leave thee to the mercy of
good madam , be not angry with the child .
i think , i ' faith , she loves me .
thy self to breed another thee , or ten times happier be it ten for one , ten times thy
the citizens fly and forsake their houses ; the rascal people , thirsting after prey , join with the traitor
thou art the thing itself ; unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor , bare , forked animal
life repair which this (time ' s pencil) or my pupil pen neither in inward worth nor outward fair can
i have writ me here a letter to her ; and here another to page ' s wife , who
sight ; yet will i still be thus to them .
who told you of this stranger ?
i fear me he will scarce be pleas ' d withal .
to hold you in perpetual amity , to make you brothers , and to knit your hearts with an unslipping
' s daughter is unequal odds , and therefore may be broke without offence .
he had two sons- if this be worth your hearing , mark it- the eldest of them at three years
why , york , what wilt thou do ?
the even mead , that erst brought sweetly forth the freckled cowslip , burnet , and green clover , wanting
i think it is the weakness of mine eyes that shapes this monstrous apparition .
so ?
ready for his friends .
content thee , prince ; i will restore to thee the people ' s hearts , and wean them from
but for your husband , he is noble , wise , judicious , and best knows the fits o '
o , that a lady of one man refus ' d should of another therefore be abus ' d !
for how do i hold thee but by thy granting , and for that riches where is my deserving ?
crouch in litter of your stable planks , to lie like pawns lock ' d up in chests and trunks
the very butcher of a silk button , a duellist , a duellist !
[they lead him out forcibly] oxford .
as hasty powder fir ' d doth hurry from the fatal cannon ' s womb .
marcus , look to my house .
gratiano , keep the house , and seize upon the fortunes of the moor , for they succeed on you
even he .
to none but thee ; no more but when to thee .
i have taught him , even as one would say precisely ' thus i would teach a dog .
alas , how shall this bloody deed be answer ' d ?
trumpets within .
an equal force , true sword to sword , i ' ll potch at him some way , or wrath
' tis very true ; you were in presence then , and you can witness with me this is true
you will ?
txt but do thy worst to steal thy self away , for term of life thou art assured mine ,
fortune , she said , was no goddess , that had put such difference betwixt their two estates ; love
your accent is something finer than you could purchase in so removed a dwelling .
, and in the praise thereof spends all his might , to make me tongue-tied speaking of your fame .
most mighty sovereign , on the western coast rideth a puissant navy ; to our shores throng many doubtful hollow-hearted
i am the fellow with the great belly , and he my dog .
was this very sword entrench ' d it .
he is a man , setting his fate aside , of comely virtues ; nor did he soil the fact
say the moral again .
creature , small beer .
hearst thou of them ?
but did you not request to have it cut ?
before you said ' let us make head .
' belarius .
sir john , we have had ill luck ; we could never meet .
why should i joy in any abortive birth ?
wilt thou be lord of all the world ?
indeed my mother !
well said , whetstone .
; not only good and wise but most religious ; one that in all obedience makes the church the chief
fo , fo !
' nerissa .
because i would not see thy cruel nails pluck out his poor old eyes ; nor thy fierce sister in
how old are you , friend ?
petition well that prays for peace .
self-harming jealousy !
; therefore , go on , for no dislike i ' th ' world against the person of the good
embroider ' d canopy to kings that fear their subjects ' treachery ?
exeunt solanio , salerio , and man shylock .
a witch by fear , not force , like hannibal , drives back our troops and conquers as she lists
come , marcus , come ; kinsmen , this is the way .
ah , how the poor world is pest ' red with such water-flies-diminutives of nature !
i will have more , or scold it out of him .
of space had pointed him sharp as my needle ; nay , followed him till he had melted from the
this ' s a good friar , belike !
but two months dead !
alas , sir , i am but a poor petitioner of our whole township .
still music page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[behind] what , ho !
[trumpets] the trumpets sound .
with winds that sailors rail at .
' antipholus of syracuse .
i ' faith , i fear it has .
and even for that do i love you the more .
(sings) a pickaxe and a spade , a spade , for and a shrouding sheet ; o , a pit
the palace enter the archbishop of york , the young duke of york , queen elizabeth , and the duchess
and then grace us in the disgrace of death ; when , spite of cormorant devouring time , th '
henry percy , surnamed hotspur , his son .
a chain .
o , how we joy to see your wit restor ' d !
all , away !
we charge you that you have contriv ' d to take from rome all season ' d office , and
exit titus .
or that i could forget what i have been !
then cannot we be bought ; and so adieu- twice to your visor and half once to you .
for shame , you generals !
witness , you ever-burning lights above , you elements that clip us round about , witness that here iago doth
o , but they say the tongues of dying men enforce attention like deep harmony .
as i did stand my watch upon the hill , i look ' d toward birnam , and anon ,
the handkerchief !
highness ' council .
yea , davy ; i will use him well .
i decline .
more dreadful would have seem ' d than in lord angelo .
i scar ' d the dauphin and his trull , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter dromio of syracuse , from the bay dromio of syracuse .
the valued file distinguishes the swift , the slow , the subtle , the housekeeper , the hunter , every
to this effect , sir , after what flourish your nature will .
exeunt juliet and nurse .
you thus employ ' d , i will go root away the noisome weeds which without profit suck the soil
why , beg then .
thy mistress ' marks !
it is the rival of my love .
what ' s that , my lord ?
glove , that is all ; but i would fain see it once , an please god of his grace
although perhaps it may be heard at court that such as we cave here , hunt here , are outlaws
you are a merciful general .
i marvel our mild husband not met us on the way .
you are too shallow , hastings , much to shallow , to sound the bottom of the after-times .
should blush to see you so attir ' d ; swoon , i think , to show myself a glass
i hope so , lepidus .
he wond ' red that your lordship would suffer him to spend his youth at home , while other men
this weighty business will not brook delay ; i ' ll to the duke of suffolk presently .
first outlaw .
hortensio , to what end are all these words ?
faith , you said so before .
to coriolanus come all joy and honour !
it is my son , young harry percy , sent from my brother worcester , whencesoever .
o , beware , my lord , of jealousy !
exact regard support the worships of their name .
go seek him there .
if ever thou beest mine , kate , as i have a saving faith within me tells me thou shalt
o , it grieves my soul that i must draw this metal from my side to be a widow-maker !
what noise , what shriek is this ?
the new-delivered hastings ?
make gallant show and promise of their mettle ; but when they should endure the bloody spur , they fall
o setebos , these be brave spirits indeed !
if he do come in my way , so ; if he do not , if i come in his
sun ; for chair and dukedom , throne and kingdom , say : either that is thine , or else
hero thinks surely she will die ; for she says she will die if he love her not , and
exit launcelot alack , what heinous sin is it in me to be asham ' d to be my father
nor my prayers are not words duly hallowed , nor my wishes more worth than empty vanities ; yet prayers
ah , timorous wretch !
enter , with drum and colours , the powers of france over the stage , cordelia with her father in
what are you here that cry so grievously ?
now , my lord .
o misery !
i humbly beseech you , sir , to pardon me all the faults i have committed to your worship ,
; if thou pleasest not , i yield thee up my life .
no tongue hath power to curse him right .
my royal cousin , teach you our princess english ?
our hour is fully out .
stuffs out his vacant garments with his form ; then have i reason to be fond of grief .
that you know well .
obscure grave .
these lovers will not keep the peace .
england .
resolve me with all modest haste which way thou mightst deserve or they impose this usage , coming from us
i have left olivia sleeping- sir toby .
but by my ruin .
alice .
most potent , grave , and reverend signiors , my very noble and approved good masters , that i have
after them , and take a more page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exit mrs .
where are you there , sir john ?
, i would be blind with weeping , sick with groans , look pale as primrose with blood-drinking sighs ,
avoid the gallery .
good morrow , honest gentlemen .
these vile ' guns , he would himself have been a soldier .
self-love , my liege , is not so vile a sin as self-neglecting .
' ay , ' quoth jaques ' sweep on , you fat and greasy citizens ; ' tis just the
those scraps are good deeds past , which are devour ' d as fast as they are made , forgot
command these fretting waters from your eyes with a light heart ; trust not my holy order , if i
yet in good faith some say that thee behold , thy face hath not the power to make love groan
o my most worshipful lord , an ' t please your grace , i am a poor widow of eastcheap
my lord , i do protest- olivia .
certain it is i lik ' d her , and boarded her i ' th ' wanton way of youth
by the lord , our plot is a good plot as ever was laid ; our friends true and constant
- pattern ' d by that the poet here describes , by nature made for murders and for rapes .
what mortality is !
well , i will go .
you have received many wounds for your country .
bravely , coragio !
now , thieves ?
say ' st , free .
so , sir .
the painful service , the extreme dangers , and the drops of blood shed for my thankless country , are
by a familiar demonstration of the working , my tough signior .
let her live to join our kingdoms and our hearts ; and never page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
what , billing again ?
his rule be ; and when old time shall lead him to his end , goodness and he fill up
what ' s he comes here ?
you ' many thousands moe that go before it .
laws , since why to love , i can allege no cause .
txt exeunt [all but edgar] .
wreck .
other two be brain ' d like us , the state totters .
is it fit i went to look upon him ?
he is too good and fair for death and me ; whom i myself embrace to set him free .
bell shall ring her burial ; but throw her forth to beasts and birds to prey .
so let it help me now against thy sword , as i in justice and true right express it !
cheeks possess the same which native she doth owe .
go fetch it , sister .
quarrel have been overthrown and sold their bodies for their country ' s benefit , shall we at last conclude
exeunt act iv .
look you yonder , do you see ?
shylock thy master spoke with me this day , and hath preferr ' d thee , if it be preferment
my dear majesty your queen here , think , if i had play ' d the desk or table book
and what taxation ?
him have i lost , thou hast both him and me , he pays the whole , and yet am
it was ourself thou didst abuse .
hid .
come on , our queen ; to-morrow must we part ; be merry , for our time of stay is
in peace ; and of our labours thou shalt reap the gain .
haply the seas , and countries different , with variable objects , shall expel this something-settled matter in his heart
take hands , a bargain !
that will ask some tears in the true performing of it .
and to make a sweet lady sad is a sour offence .
no ?
the virtuous creature , that hath the jealous fool to her husband !
in fellowship and needly will be rank ' d with other griefs , why followed not , when she said
go to ; peace , mouldy ; you shall go .
alas , my lord , i have but kill ' d a fly .
it is the cause , it is the cause , my soul .
lady , by yonder blessed moon i swear , that tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops- jul .
her brain-sick raptures cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel which hath our several honours all engag ' d to
let not a traitor live !
we two , that with so many thousand sighs page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
_num_ how sweet and lovely dost thou make the shame , which like a canker in the fragrant rose ,
he passes .
say , what abridgment have you for this evening ?
stand not to answer : here , take thou the hilts ; and when my face is cover ' d
this night , iago .
' d that it pass ' d .
if you do find him , pray you give him this ; and when your mistress hears thus much from
o that she knew she were !
it well may serve a nursery to our gentry , who are sick for breathing and exploit .
hark you , sir ; i ' ll have them very fairly bound- all books of love , see that
the will of heav ' n be done in this and all things !
i ' ll , hold .
mistress .
let it not be sweet .
i never did her any to my knowledge .
thy fingers walk with gentle gait , making dead wood more blest than living lips , since saucy jacks so
i shall devise something ; but , i pray you , commend my counterfeiting to him .
our gracious brother , i will go with them ; haply a woman ' s voice may do some good
and whoso ' er gainsays king edward ' s right , by this i challenge him to single fight .
he has a familiar under his tongue ; he speaks not o ' god ' s name .
o doricles , your praises are too large .
' nothing in france until he has no wife !
the bird that hath been limed in a bush with trembling wings misdoubteth every bush ; and i , the
i may ; crowns in my purse i have , and goods at home , and so am come abroad
will you not dance ?
but let me to my fortune and the caskets .
good queen , let us entreat you .
let but the commons hear this testament- which , pardon me , i do not mean to read- and they
you ' re welcome hither .
well , nobles , well , ' tis politicly done to send me packing with an host of men .
the king is a thing- guil .
ay , ay !
but i must tell thee plainly , claudio undergoes my challenge ; and either i must shortly hear from him
yet are we masters of the field .
the upper germany , can dearly witness , yet freshly pitied in our memories .
thou disputes like an infant ; go whip thy gig .
not take his rougher accents for malicious sounds , but , as i say , such as become a soldier
i partly think a due sincerity govern ' d his deeds till he did look on me ; since it
what must be shall be .
poor soul , god ' s goodness hath been great to thee .
to which we all appeal .
i ' ll know his humor when he knows his time .
who ' s there , in th ' other devil ' s name ?
you have among you many a purchas ' d slave , which , fike your asses and your dogs and
wait close ; i will not see him .
d about , musing and sighing , with your arms across ; and when i ask ' d you what
' speak to me , son .
i that did never weep now melt with woe that winter should cut off our spring-time so .
if i would sell my horse and buy twenty moe better than he , why , give my horse to
before the king ' s palace .
to be young again , if we could , i will be a fool in question , hoping to be
o warwick , i do bend my knee with thine , and in this vow do chain my soul to
i mean his conversation with shore ' s wife- he liv ' d from all attainder of suspects .
that a king ' s children should be so convey ' d , so slackly guarded , and the search
but not for that dream i on this strange course , but on this travail look for greater birth .
be it as you shall privately determine , either for her stay or going .
, as aforesaid , ' honest launcelot gobbo , do not run ; scorn running with thy heels .
honey pack ' d , we bring it to the hive , and , like the bees , are murd
where have they this mettle ?
her sighs will make a batt ' ry in his breast ; her tears will pierce into a marble heart
humphrey , my son of gloucester , where is the prince your brother ?
as are despised in nativity , shall upon their children be .
re-enter messenger cymbeline .
i dreamt my lady came and found me dead (strange dream that gives a dead man leave to think !
of an ingraft infirmity .
stay , give me drink .
i may speak of thee as the traveller doth of venice : venetia , venetia , chi non ti vede
hang off , thou cat , thou burr ; vile thing , let loose , or i will shake thee
of steel !
o , let my sovereign turn away his face and bid his ears a little while be deaf , till
o , you are sick of self-love , malvolio , and taste with a distemper ' d appetite .
what beast ?
ecoutez : comment etes-vous appele ?
i am the man .
we shall , my liege .
banishment !
' d with struggling ; his hands abroad display ' d , as one that grasp ' d and tugg
what means your ladyship ?
many hot inroads they make in italy ; the borders maritime lack blood to think on ' t , and
pygmy ' s straw does pierce it .
but is not this braver ?
that he should die is worthy policy ; but yet we want a colour for his death .
though you change your place you need not change your trade ; i ' ll be your tapster still .
i do entreat you , not a man depart , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
no , no , no such matter ; you are wide .
the queen , your mother , in most great affliction of spirit hath sent me to you .
alla stoccata carries it away .
let it be known to him that we are here .
of the owl and the cuckoo ?
but have i not cause to weep ?
by the king .
i were best not call ; i dare not call .
ay , and for much more slaughter after this .
bid her come hither ; go .
that comes here to besiege his court , than seek a dispensation for his oath , to let you enter
that is the least , lucetta , of my fear : a thousand oaths , an ocean of his tears
like the sequel , i .
first , good peter quince , say what the play treats on ; then read the names of the actors
enter horatio with an attendant .
what hast thou done , unnatural and unkind ?
a single thing , as i am now , that wonders to hear thee speak of naples .
the life-weary taker mall fall dead , and that the trunk may be discharg ' d of breath as violently
of lamentation for the remembrance of my father ' s death .
ship i am sure lorenzo is not .
prick love for pricking , and you beat love down .
and though we here fall down , we have supplies to second our attempt .
call it my fear that keeps you in the house and not your own .
some treacherous device , and never leave thee till he page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and so i pray thee call beatrice .
txt thou shalt be whipp ' d with wire and stew ' d in brine , smarting in ling '
when the mind is quick ' ned , out of doubt the organs , though defunct and dead before ,
i have heard better news .
heav ' n ' s peace be with him !
to find it out- torment myself to catch the english crown ; and from that torment i will free myself
, but ' tis my heart that loves what they despise , who in despite of view is pleased to
sirrah , you boy , and bardolph , no word to your master that i am yet come to town
he does , he does !
knock your knave ' s pate .
it will be laid to us , whose providence should have kept short , restrain ' d , and out
second serving-man .
i do i know not what , and fear to find mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind
a very little little let us do , and all is done .
enter oliver adam .
i would it were my fault to sleep so soundly .
and is the bride and bridegroom coming home ?
bully knight !
[within] the porter for this time , sir , and my name is dromio .
nay , hear them , antony .
thee a better opinion than ever before .
no , yonder ' tis ; there , where we see the lights .
exeunt antony , eros , captains and soldiers charmian .
come , sister-cousin , i would say-pray , pardon me .
good cinna , take this paper , and look you lay it in the praetor ' s chair , where
better it were they all came by his father , or by his father there were none at all ;
my physic says ' ay .
the town is empty ; on the brow o ' the sea stand ranks of people , and they cry
see , lucius , see how much she makes of thee .
your public laws at heaviest answer .
his breeding , sir , hath been at my charge .
then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand what husband in thy power i will command .
why com ' st thou in such haste ?
i am sure thou dost .
enter a scout scout .
hazard of my head .
doff it for shame , and hang a calf ' s-skin on those recreant limbs .
what ' s that to us ?
they are but beggars that can count their worth ; but my true love is grown to such excess cannot
is it so long ?
sweet friends , your patience for my long abode !
' " all my offences that abroad you see are errors of the blood , none of the mind ;
how should he be made , then ?
; for i must tell thee it will please his grace , by the world , sometime to lean upon
e ' en so thou outrun ' st grace .
exit gaunt king richard .
be your tears wet ?
yet i am advis ' d to do it ; he says , to veil full purpose .
boldness be my friend !
sir , sir , impatience hath his privilege .
but when to my good lord i prove untrue i ' ll choke myself- there ' s all i '
lovers , to bed ; ' tis almost fairy time .
daughter , well met .
yet , ' tis the plague of great ones : prerogatived are they less than the base ; ' tis
her c ' s , her u ' s , and her t ' s .
now , thou varlet ; thou art to continue .
let me alone .
i tell thee , lord of greece , she is as far high-soaring o ' er thy praises as thou
your mother was most true to wedlock , prince ; for she did print your royal father off , conceiving
feet .
i shall be out of heart shortly , and then i shall have no strength to repent .
o heavens !
the juvenal , the prince your master , whose page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
what ' s montague ?
nay , pray you seek no colour for your going , but bid farewell , and go .
at antium .
i ne ' er had worse luck in my life in my ' o lord , sir !
with what a sharp-provided wit he reasons !
' tis ready , sir , here in the porch .
enter ophelia distracted .
battle ha ' done this slaughter ; besides , they have burned and carried away all that was in the
a match , sir .
anon , i wot not by what strong escape , he broke from those that had the guard of him
of my reason and my blood , and let all sleep , while to my shame i see the imminent
wound it with sighing , girl , kill it with groans ; or get some little knife between thy teeth
left man i ' th ' mire .
faith , sir , superficially .
make we our march towards birnam .
do another such offence than die for this .
a great part of your title , which is within a very little of nothing .
[they all cry ' henry !
but might you do ' t , and do the world no wrong , if so your heart were touch
it was the son of thy grandmother .
and i in fury hither followed them , fair helena in fancy following me .
ourself , my lord protector , and the rest , after some respite will return to calais ; from thence
i will put it to them ; but , vir sapit qui pauca loquitur .
where ' s the cook ?
o banquo , banquo !
i ' ll have the work ta ' en out , and give ' t iago .
let not the heavens hear these tell-tale women rail on the lord ' s anointed .
why then othello and desdemona return again to venice .
and , gentle longaville , where lies thy pain ?
he was perfumed like a milliner , and ' twixt his finger and his thumb he held a pouncet box
of what colour ?
dangerous fellow , hence !
could not out-peer these twain .
with all my heart , i ' ll gossip at this feast .
from hamlet ?
a herald , ho !
i understand not , madam .
sun is clouded .
third soldier .
i ' ll broach the tadpole on my rapier ' s point .
so shall no foot upon the churchyard tread (being loose , unfirm , with digging up of graves) but thou
were he my kinsman , brother , or my son , it should be thus with him .
i will deliver his wife into your hand .
land with hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel .
pay the musicians , sirrah .
the sheep for fodder follow the shepherd ; the shepherd for food follows not the sheep : thou for wages
you have holp to ravish your own daughters and to melt the city leads upon your pates , to see
who steals my purse steals trash ; ' tis something , nothing ; ' twas mine , ' tis his
not a word , a word ; we stand upon our manners .
enter the bastard , attended bastard .
first commoner .
wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world ?
[reads] ' justice and your father ' s wrath , should he take me in his dominion , could not
or both ?
' tis catching hither , even to our camp .
when she first met mark antony she purs ' d up his heart , upon the river of cydnus .
she ' s lim ' d , i warrant you !
though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb which hides your life , and shows not half your
_num_ canst thou o cruel , say i love thee not , when i against my self with thee partake
berowne they call him ; but a merrier man , within the limit of becoming mirth , i never spent
i tell you , younglings , not enceladus , with all his threat ' ning band of typhon ' s
a lord to a lord , a man to a man ; stuff ' d with all honourable virtues .
the day is broke ; be wary , look about .
therefore best not wake him in his slumber .
such things have been done .
; foul subornation is predominant , and equity exil ' d your highness ' land .
' tis true , my lords , he did .
ye men of cyprus , let her have your knees .
is it but thought so ?
demetrius thinks not so ; he will not know what all but he do know .
intend some fear ; be not you spoke with but by mighty suit ; and look you get a prayer-book
the crown and comfort of my life , your favour , i do give lost , for i do feel
men judge by the complexion of the sky the state in inclination of the day ; so may you by
you call ' d me brother , when i was but your sister : i you brothers , when we
_num_ those pretty wrongs that liberty commits , when i am sometime absent from thy heart , thy beauty ,
no , you are deceiv ' d ; therefore back to rome and prepare for your execution .
believe me , lord , i think he cannot choose .
[climbs into a tree] enter the king , with a paper king .
for his love ' .
go pronounce his present death , and with his former title greet macbeth .
soldiers , adieu !
it fails not yet , but flourishes in thee and in thy sons , fair slips of such a stock
erroneous vassals !
or charles or something weaker masters thee .
shape ; for revels , dances , masks , and merry hours , forerun fair love , strewing her way
txt for through the painter must you see his skill , to find where your true image pictured lies ,
but , sirrah , henceforth let me not hear you speak of mortimer .
with one fool ' s head i came to woo , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
with you , lord bishop , it is even so .
curtail ' d of this fair proportion , cheated of feature by dissembling nature , deform ' d , unfinish
by the destinies to be avoided , as venom toads or lizards ' dreadful stings .
william stafford .
where is that viper ?
mistress thersites !
esteem him as a lamb , being compared with my confineless harms .
[advancing .
master , go on ; and i will follow the to the last gasp , with truth and loyalty .
give me them that will face me .
i , her ?
our army shall in solemn show attend this funeral , and then to rome .
brawling in french ?
vat be all you , one , two , tree , four , come for ?
go great with tigers , dragons , wolves , and bears ; teem with new monsters whom thy upward face
peace , fool .
friar laurence ' s cell .
reproving , or if it do , not from those lips of thine , that have profaned their scarlet ornaments
, two , and the third in your bosom !
salt yesterday , look you , and bid me eat my leek ; it was in a place where i
let it go all .
how does my royal lord ?
re-enter fabian , with malvolio duke .
war bold as an oracle , and sets thersites , a slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint ,
aufidius .
the moor again ?
here , read , read ; perceive how i might be knighted .
of this pleasant chase ; ' tis not an hour since i left them there .
to be known by garment , not by favour .
enter priest o , welcome , father !
let us from it .
you cram these words into mine ears against the stomach of my sense .
come , let us to the banquet .
as stout and proud as he were lord of all- swear like a ruffian and demean himself unlike the ruler
a combless cock , so kate will be my hen .
the enemies ' drum is heard , and fearful scouring doth choke the air with dust .
red blood reigns in the winter ' s pale .
wilt thou needs be a beggar ?
take you some company , and away to horse !
fee-simple , with fine and recovery , he will never , i think , in the way of waste ,
my general will forget my love and service .
stand in authentic place ?
upon .
it cannot hold ; it will not .
instruments of chastisement ; so that his power , like to a fangless lion , may offer , but not
the lord forbid !
who sets me else ?
of his absence .
why , who cries out on pride that can therein tax any private party ?
he dies for claudio ' s death .
thus do i hope to shake king henry ' s head .
_num_ accuse me thus , that i have scanted all , wherein i should your great deserts repay , forgot
exit lady to your protection i commend me , gods .
and then to have the humour of state ; and after a demure travel of regard , telling them i
i am an humble suitor to your virtues ; for pity is the virtue of the law , and none
and his great love , sharp as his spur , hath holp him to his home before us .
in nature there ' s no blemish but the mind : none can be call ' d deform ' d
nightly she sings on yond pomegranate tree .
read on .
circuit on my head , like to the glorious sun ' s transparent beams , do calm the fury of
ay , for this i draw in many a tear and stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs , lest with
by saying that a costard was broken in a shin .
[cries] all manner of men assembled here in arms this day against god ' s peace and the king '
i am ill at reck ' ning ; it fitteth the spirit of a tapster .
duty so great , which wit so poor as mine may make seem bare , in wanting words to show
of athens here , my lord .
good will .
i had as lief be a list of an english kersey as be pil ' d , as thou art
scarr ' d the moon with splinters ; here i clip the anvil of my sword , and do contest
for katherine .
to you , antonio , i owe the most , in money and in love ; and from your love
may be broach ' d without controlment , justice , or revenge ?
in our last conflict four of his five wits went halting off , and now is the whole man govern
ave-maries on his beads ; his champions are the prophets and apostles ; his weapons , holy saws of sacred
what you do , good grey beard ?
from our father stanley lines of fair comfort and encouragement .
; pins and poking-sticks of steel- what maids lack from head to heel .
once , and a million !
o , blood , blood , blood !
oath to violate my lady ' s honour .
vanish , or i shall give thee thy deserving and blemish caesar ' s triumph .
i marvel i hear not of master brook ; he sent me word to stay within .
[to isabella) you had marr ' d all else .
with sweat ?
my heart is sorry for your daughter ' s death ; but , on my honour , she was charg
what if i do obey ?
re-enter warwick , gloucester , clarence clarence .
i ' ll fer him , and firk him , and ferret him- discuss the same in french unto him
which is one ?
ll give it ; yea , though thou do demand a prisoner , the noblest ta ' en .
now margaret ' s curse is fall ' n upon our heads , when she exclaim ' d on hastings
wherefore ask you this ?
lord stafford ' s father , duke of buckingham , is either slain or wounded dangerous ; i cleft his
well then , your bond ; and , let me see- but hear you , methoughts you said you neither
' twas not a haud credo ; ' twas a pricket .
he had not been there , bless the mark , a pissing while but all the chamber smelt him .
flute .
, as ' tis now , guide thou the sword .
' s night , though standing naked on a mountain top where biting cold would never let grass grow ,
ho you , sir !
be plain , good son , and homely in thy drift riddling confession finds but riddling shrift .
what pagan may that be ?
it comes not ill ; i hate not to be banish ' d ; it is a cause worthy my
txt exit belarius guiderius .
d , and don john is the author of all , who is fled and gone .
there , take it to you , trenchers , cups , and all ; [throws the meat , etc .
a married man more honourable than the bare brow of a bachelor ; and by how much defence is better
so , as a painted tyrant , pyrrhus stood , and , like a neutral to his will and matter
therefore , indeed , my father , i have on angelo impos ' d the office ; who may ,
had fast ' ned him unto a small spare mast , such as sea-faring men provide for storms ; to
edmund , i think , is gone , in pity of his misery , to dispatch his nighted life ;
[to richard] let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow !
pardon me , edward , i will make amends ; and , richard , do not frown upon my faults
it was thought meet paris should do some vengeance on the greeks ; your breath with full consent benied his
sickness in his judgment that makes it .
strike alarum , drums !
don pedro is returned to seek you .
heaven bless thee from a tutor , and discipline come not near thee !
all eyes !
i have told thee often , and i retell thee again and again , i hate the moor .
golden hairs , and as a bed i ' ll take them , and there he ; and in that
were ' t not a shame that whilst you live at jar the fearful french , whom you late vanquished
i have him already temp ' ring between my finger and my thumb , and shortly will i seal with
i must fetch his necessaries ashore .
not i ; i must be found .
stand by my side , you whom the gods have made preservers of my throne .
, show us the sleeve ; we in your motion turn , and you may move us .
for edward , for my brother , for his sake .
pardon , i beseech you !
' tis much .
give me thy hand , stand up ; prithee let ' s walk .
issued forced drops of blood ; five hundred poor i have in yearly pay , who twice a day their
alas , poor duke !
rest you happy !
stay you , good gentlemen .
and yonder , caesar .
live a thousand years , i shall not find myself so apt to die ; no place will please me
_num_ be wise as thou art cruel , do not press my tongue-tied patience with too much disdain : lest
your honours ' pardon .
sir , spare your threats .
why , none but mine own people .
a horned man ' s a monster and a beast .
your features !
when he thinks , good easy man , full surely his greatness is a-ripening , nips his root , and
you must either be directed by some that take upon them to know , or to take upon yourself that
it must be great that can inherit us so much as of a thought of ill in him .
of mischief , treason , villainies , ruthful to hear , yet piteously perform ' d ; and this shall
lesser than macbeth , and greater .
enter capulet and his wife [with others] .
by the mass , here comes bardolph .
would use his heaven for thunder , nothing but thunder .
and what says she to my little jewel ?
tush , never tell me !
enter vintner .
well , you are a rare parrot-teacher .
you promis ' d , when you parted with the king , to lay aside life-harming heaviness and entertain a
i pray you tarry ; pause a day or two before you hazard ; for , in choosing wrong ,
your hand , my perdita ; so turtles pair that never mean to part .
, did nothing .
my husband bids me ; now i will unmask .
whoever got thee , there thy mother stands ; for well i wot thou hast thy mother ' s tongue
well , to the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast fits a dull fighter and
ay ; i ask , that i might waken reverence , and bid the cheek be ready with a blush
s sole son- a widow that late he married- hath referr ' d herself page _num_ complete works of william
we ' ll follow cade , we ' ll follow cade !
inform her full of my particular fear , and thereto add such reasons of your own as may compact it
know you the hand ?
what , is the man lunatic ?
this will i carry to rome .
this was my lord ' s best hope ; now all are fled , save only the gods .
sorrow on thee and all the pack of you that triumph thus upon my misery !
a league of amity , and lastly to confirm that amity with nuptial knot , if thou vouchsafe to grant
gray ' s inn .
now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide ; hold hard the breath , and bend up every spirit
time , and i a tyrant have no leisure taken to weigh how once i suffered in your crime .
shall i endure the sight of somerset ?
here stands the spring whom you have stain ' d with mud ; this goodly summer with your winter mix
side , gelding the opposed continent as much as on the other side it takes from you .
>> scene : windsor , and the neighbourhood the merry wives of windsor act i .
hark what good sport is out of town to-day !
monsters .
txt unless the lady bona quit his pain .
stand forth , and with bold spirit relate what you , most like a careful subject , have collected out
[aside] a goodly lady , trust me ; of the hue that i would choose , were i to choose
sweet widow , by my state i swear to thee i speak no more than what my soul intends ;
before oliver ' s house enter orlando and adam , meeting orlando .
but who is here ?
my grief .
exeunt gentlemen .
dare no man answer in a case of truth ?
to make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl ?
but one danger , and to keep him here our certain death ; therefore it is decreed he dies to-night
who wouldst thou strike ?
am i subtle ?
if circumstances lead me , i will find where truth is hid , though it were hid indeed within the
to see great hercules whipping a gig , and profound solomon to tune a jig , and nestor play at
ay , greek , that is my name .
where art thou , pindarus ?
ever dancing in the air , the other down , unseen , and full of water .
further trial in those charges which will require your answer , you must take your patience to you and be
take them away .
come , gentle night ; come , loving , black-brow ' d night ; give me my romeo ; and
[balthasar sings .
for mine bedfellow .
let us hear , sweet bottom .
you repin ' d ; scandal ' d the suppliants for the people , call ' d them time-pleasers ,
ware horns , ho !
nay , rather damn them with king cerberus ; and let the welkin roar .
of swords , can try it out with all unspotted soldiers : some peradventure have on them the guilt of
entertain good comfort , and cheer his grace with quick and merry eyes .
you , my lords , look on her , mark her well ; be but about to say ' she
' and even there , his eye being big with tears , turning his face , he put his hand
throw away on slaves , wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles and patient underbearing of his fortune ,
' puppet !
you chid at sir proteus for going ungarter ' d !
and yet , for mine own part , sir , i do not care ; but rather because i am
he is my son ; ay , and therein my shame ; yet from my dugs he drew not this
thou art an unjust man in saying so .
saint denis be my speed !
mutual well-beseeming ranks march all one way and be no more oppos ' d against acquaintance , kindred , and
arise ; one knocks .
unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young gibbets , i never saw one so prone .
here , sir ; i ' d have beaten him like a dog , but for disturbing the lords within
no , my good lord ; therefore be patient .
nor what i have done by water .
exit falstaff mrs .
our horses they shall not see- i ' ll tie them in the wood ; our wizards we will change
is ' t real that i see ?
before we proceed any further , hear me speak .
exit , forced off by soldiers clifford .
i prithee now , sweet son , as thou hast said my praises made thee first a soldier , so
for such a warped slip of wilderness ne ' er issu ' d from his blood .
they say miracles are past ; and we have our philosophical persons to make modern and familiar things supernatural and
grace , his new-come champion , virtuous joan of arc , nor any of his false confederates .
what says the fellow there ?
believe me , sir , had i such venture forth , the better part of my affections would be with
in his death .
king lewis , i here protest in sight of heaven , and by the hope i have of heavenly bliss
the utmost man of expectation , i think we are so a body strong enough , even as we are
stand not upon the order of your going , but go at once .
i pray you let us see you in the field ; we have had pelting wars since you refus '
michael .
' tis in few words , but spacious in effect : we banish thee for ever .
how would (i say) mine eyes be blessed made , by looking on thee in the living day , when
by gar , ' tis no the fashion of france ; it is not jealous in france .
proper fellow of my hands ; and those two things , i confess , i cannot help .
sad , lady ?
your emperor continues still a jove .
' s page , hercules ; the pedant , judas maccabaeus .
thou art sensible in nothing but blows , and so is an ass .
did not we send grace , pardon , and terms of love to all of you ?
and the ball , the sword , the mace , the crown imperial , the intertissued robe of gold and
i draw the sword myself ; take it , and hit the innocent mansion of my love , my heart
tell him there ' s a post come from my master with his horn full of good news ; my
pair of reechy kisses , or paddling in your neck with his damn ' d fingers , make you to
head all at one side and sing it like poor barbary .
the roman gods , lead their successes as we wish our own , that both our powers , with smiling
o lord , i could have stay ' d here all the night to hear good counsel .
mariana .
if none of them have soul in such a kind , we left them all at home .
mount you , my lord ; towards berwick post amain .
slave of me !
therefore to france , my liege .
; i charge you by the law , whereof you are a well-deserving pillar , proceed to judgment .
, and to be out of the king ' s protection .
of me ?
madam , not now .
see what a ready tongue suspicion hath !
encrimsoned mood- effects of terror and dear modesty , encamped in hearts , but fighting outwardly .
or that the everlasting had not fix ' d his canon ' gainst self-slaughter !
come , sir boy , come follow me .
we have suppler souls than in our priest-like fasts .
which i first gave her .
that they are out by lease .
thou comest to use thy tongue ; thy story quickly .
hell and night must bring this monstrous birth to the world ' s light .
duke he shall not pass you .
marry , and it shall be done to-morrow morning , if i live .
are ready to perform it .
did you know him ?
when you disgrac ' d me in my embassade , then i degraded you from being king , and come
is this the monument of leonato ?
they ' re belov ' d !
what say you , lords ?
hermia .
thistles , kecksies , burs , losing both beauty and utility .
of heart , in liberty of bloody hand shall range with conscience wide as hell , mowing like grass your
i dedicate myself to your sweet pleasure , more noble than that runagate to your bed , and will continue
but a drum !
i suspect without cause , mistress , do i ?
voyage did claribel her husband find at tunis ; and ferdinand , her brother , found a wife where he
and why not you ?
which of you trembles not that looks on me ?
our treasure where we will , then take we down his load and turn him off , like to the
- from me awhile .
me .
the forest enter touchstone and audrey ; jaques behind touchstone .
hulk better stuff ' d in the hold .
then to you , mistress dorothy ; i will charge you .
i ' ll not have it so .
hang ' em !
[looking into the cave] stay , come not in .
that you are well deriv ' d .
ay , i know who ' tis ; he hath no interest in me in the world ; here comes
pray , sir , tell me that .
we number nothing that we spend for you ; our duty is so rich , so infinite , that we
lord of lords !
let me stay at thine apperil , timon .
wilt thou still talk ?
' twere best he speak no harm of brutus here .
' should ' is like a spendthrift sigh , that hurts by easing .
what phrase is this , ' he hears with ear ' ?
que dit-il ?
that you know that hero loves me ; intend a kind of zeal both to the prince and claudio ,
would he were knock ' d i ' th ' head !
what motive may be stronger with thee than the name of wife ?
of soft petitions , pity , and remorse , cool and congeal again to what it was .
their softest touch as smart as lizards ' stings !
did you not tell me this fat man was dead ?
enter page , shallow , slender , host , sir hugh evans , caius , and rugby shallow , page
so ' tis ; this comes off well and excellent .
alack , and what shall good old york there see but empty lodgings and unfurnish ' d walls , unpeopled
which sycorax could not again undo .
tell me .
er might say before .
about it .
' tis th ' account of all that world of wealth i have drawn together for mine own ends ;
who would these fardels bear , to grunt and sweat under a weary life , but that the dread of
' and ' as true as i live !
why , knows not montague that of itself england is safe , if true within itself ?
a man may see how the world goes with no eyes .
enter lysander lysander .
are they not athenians ?
, by this unholy braggart , fore your own eyes and ears ?
o cruel , irreligious piety !
then let the pebbles on the hungry beach fillip the stars ; then let the mutinous winds strike the proud
most noble brother , you have done me wrong .
southwark alarum and retreat .
you may not come , fair princess , within my gates ; but here without you shall be so receiv
whereupon he is retir ' d , to ripe his growing fortunes , to scotland ; and concludes in hearty
[here they do the ceremonies belonging , and make the circle ; bolingbroke or southwell reads : ' conjuro te
tell master parson evans i will do what i can for your master .
that paragon , thy daughter , for whom my heart drops blood and my false spirits quail to remember- give
at the last , do as the heavens have done : forget your evil ; with them forgive yourself .
my lord , here comes the rascal i spoke of , here with the provost .
now , by my sword , i will kill all his coats ; i ' ll murder all his wardrop
had you not been their father , these white flakes had challeng ' d pity of them .
what you would have i ' ll stay to know at your abandon ' d cave .
then gentle cheater urge not my amiss , lest guilty of my faults thy sweet self prove .
none of you but is able to bear against the great aufidius a shield as hard as his .
a plain near actium enter caesar , with his army , marching caesar .
that is he .
one bear will not bite another , and wherefore should one bastard ?
com ' st thou with deep premeditated lines , with written pamphlets studiously devis ' d ?
heaven doth with us as we with torches do , not light them for themselves ; for if our virtues
out of my sight !
is it even so ?
yea , two and two , newgate fashion .
there was it ; for which my sinews shall be stretch ' d upon him .
was i with you there for the goose ?
no lord of thine , thou haught insulting man , nor no man ' s lord ; i have no
canterbury .
_num_ lo in the orient when the gracious light lifts up his burning head , each under eye doth homage
were nothing but to waste night , day , and time .
you shall not be admitted to his sight .
, " " " maecenas , friend to caesar agrippa , " " " dolabella , " " " proculeius
i will , my liege .
by water shall he die and take his end .
o my son , god put it in thy mind to take it hence , that thou mightst win the
and indeed , it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame , the earth , seems to
pluck up , my heart , and be sad !
by my troth , yes ; i count it but time lost to hear such a foolish song .
if i had thee in lipsbury pinfold , i would make thee care for me .
dull and speechless tribes .
their own part , and in obsequious fondness crowd to his presence , where their untaught love must needs appear
be rul ' d by him , lord ajax .
and died that day when viola from her birth had numb ' red thirteen years .
how will he triumph , leap , and laugh at it !
upon that i kiss your hand , and i can you my queen .
i pray you , think you question with the jew .
bury him where you can , he comes not here .
re-enter macduff .
i had many living to upbraid my gain of it by their assistances ; which daily grew to quarrel and
; that i was constant cimber should be banish ' d , and constant do remain to keep him so
in vulgar fame , you have luxuriously pick ' d out ; for i am sure , though you can
his circumstance , expressly proves that no man is the lord of anything , though in and of him there
king dies .
were you sent hither to praise me ?
it with tears ?
to bordeaux , warlike duke !
most sure she was .
kent here set at liberty .
who craves a parley with the burgundy ?
so , no means of death , as here by caesar , and by you cut off , the choice
this was my master , a very valiant briton and a good , that here by mountaineers lies slain .
do not think , gentlemen , i am drunk : this is my ancient , this is my right hand
call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune .
well , i will do ' t ; yet , were there but this single plot to lose , this
that ' s news indeed .
o , he ' s a limb that has but a disease- mortal , to cut it off : to
the captain that did bring me first on shore hath my maid ' s garments .
the third of the five vowels , if you repeat them ; or the fifth , if i .
to-morrow will i wear it on my helm , and grieve his spirit that dares not challenge it .
but will my rosalind do so ?
i take this offer then : pay the bond thrice , and let the christian go .
i have bethought me of another fault .
to pass it , having no warrant .
the pretty and sweet manner of it forc ' d those waters from me which i would have stopp '
cassius , what night is this !
not till monday , my dear son , which is hence a just sevennight ; and a time too brief
like me , and like me banished , then mightst thou speak , then mightst thou tear thy hair ,
therefore art enforced to seek anew , some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days .
three judases , each one thrice worse than judas !
us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks .
if she prais ' d him above , his complexion is higher than his ; he having colour enough ,
[to antonio] rest you fair , good signior ; your worship was the last man in our mouths .
full of view .
valiant othello , we must straight employ you against the general enemy ottoman .
upon the watch , whereon it came that i was cast .
in padua .
no ; for my manly heart doth earn .
but pardon me , sweet aunt ; and , madam , if my uncle marcus go , i will most
get thee gone .
i have us ' d it , nuncle , ever since thou mad ' st thy daughters thy mother ;
dull , a constable costard , a clown moth , page to armado a forester the princess of france rosaline
peace ; for i will not have to do with you .
o my poor father !
txt born a bastard , and thou ' t die a bawd .
i am not such a truant since my coming , as not to know the language i have liv '
that must needs be sport alone ; and those things do best please me that befall prepost ' rously .
ear of greatness needs must bear by , smiling pickthanks and base newsmongers , i may , for some things
night , unseen , yet crescive in his faculty .
francisca .
why then preferr ' d you not your sums and bills when your false masters eat of my lord '
me , for accordingly you tread upon my patience ; but be sure i will from henceforth rather be myself
this your request is altogether just .
let him show us a cause .
o , i am scalded with my violent motion and spleen of speed to see your majesty !
horrible steep .
go thy ways , kate .
you might have been enough the man you are with striving less to be so ; lesser had been the
strain their cheeks to idle merriment , a passion hateful to my purposes ; or if that thou couldst see
a virtuous man whom i have often noted in thy company , but i know not his name .
at your kind ' st leisure .
a castle enter hubert and executioners hubert .
sin , and sin that amends is but patch ' d with virtue .
o deadly sin !
[they draw] enter antonio viola .
to the king .
the king riseth from his state , takes her up , kisses and placeth her by him queen katharine .
enter macbeth and banquo .
fill ithaca full of moths .
may this be wash ' d in lethe and forgotten ?
then must thou needs find out new heaven , new earth .
when second husband let me be accurst !
mistress quickly , which is in the manner of his nurse , or his dry nurse , or his cook
let it go naked : men may see ' t the better .
degree being vizarded , th ' unworthiest shows as fairly in the mask .
sit , sit .
here ' s no scoring but upon the pate .
i thank thee ; and i pray thee , once to-night give my sweet nan this ring .
now put it , god , in the physician ' s mind to help him to his grave immediately !
txt the other , london .
live in .
i thank you all .
the old duchess of norfolk , in a coronal of gold wrought with flowers , bearing the queen ' s
ecstasy ?
they say king john , sore sick , hath left the field .
king henry ' s diadem , enchas ' d with all the honours of the world ?
there ' s not one wise man among twenty , that will praise himself .
let no man mock me , for i will kiss her .
heav ' n as a false favourite doth his prince ' s name , in deeds dishonourable ?
arise , and say how thou cam ' st here .
txt solanio .
exit solanio .
my horse to yours- no .
so with me : my birthplace hate i , and my love ' s upon this enemy town .
' why , thy godhead laid apart , warr ' st thou with a woman ' s heart ?
here ' s three on ' s are sophisticated !
adieu , and take thy praise with thee to heaven !
ask a sacrifice .
sir , i would advise you to shift a shirt ; the violence of action hath made you reek as
that youth ' s a rare courtier- ' rain odours ' well !
thou dost not , though the great bulk achilles be thy guard , i ' ll cut thy throat .
here comes sleeve , and t ' other .
i hold it the more knavery to conceal it ; and therein am i constant to my profession .
to dorothy my woman hie thee presently .
anon falleth like a crab on the face of terra , the soil , the land , the earth .
which is it , girl , of these ?
these soldiers shall be levied ; and thou , lord bourbon , our high admiral , shall waft them over
to mourn a mischief that is past and gone is the next way to draw new mischief on .
he longs to eat the english .
mardian , go tell him i have slain myself ; say that the last i spoke was ' antony '
the world again ; revenge the jeering and disdain ' d contempt of this proud king , who studies day
do you quarrel , sir ?
a mark !
with surety stronger than achilles ' an fore all the greekish heads , which with one voice call agamemnon head
time i spend in talking to thee .
must i rob the law ?
i must discontinue your company .
stay .
s aim , my sole earth ' s heaven , and my heaven ' s claim .
or is it a fee-grief due to some single breast ?
' tis all the better ; your valiant britons have their wishes in it .
that daughter there of spain , the lady blanch , is niece to england ; look upon the years of
produce their bodies , be they alive or dead .
ne ' er so slow , yet it shall come for me to do thee good .
since my young lady ' s going into france , sir , the fool hath much pined away .
come , good lorenzo .
to be fear ' d they all will follow him .
indeed , madam , i seem so .
avaunt , and quit my sight !
but you must not now slumber in it .
ay , there ' s the question ; but i say ' tis true .
out , hyperbolical fiend !
o lord , lord !
d him mandrake .
sir , for a cardecue he will sell the fee-simple of his salvation , the inheritance of it ; and
think you , that we should also , look you , be an ass , and a fool , and
exit bigot pembroke .
so that you had her wrinkles and i her money , i would she did as you say .
why , there were but four even now .
-if , with dear heart ' s love , immaculate devotion , holy thoughts , i tender not thy beauteous
it more becomes a man than gilt his trophy .
wales , die in his youth by like untimely violence !
wittol !
which fierce fire and iron extends , creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses .
blow , winds , and crack your cheeks !
in apprehension how like a god !
praised !
and there will we be too , ere it be long , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
can of those mysteries which heaven will not have earth to know .
iago , who began ' t ?
come , we ' ll have him in a dark room and bound .
wilt thou make a trust a transgression ?
deeds to cross , join with the spite of fortune , make me bow , and do not drop in
i ' ll take it upon my death , i gave him this wound in the thigh .
o , how he loves caesar !
yes , my lord , her father is a king , the king of naples and jerusalem ; and of
romeo shall thank thee , daughter , for us both .
two nights together had these gentlemen (marcellus and bernardo) on their watch in the dead vast and middle of the
which flies before her face : not prizing her poor infant ' s discontent ; so run ' st thou
myself the crying fellow did pursue , lest by his clamor- as it so fell out- the town might fall
rich ; and as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds , so honour peereth in the meanest habit .
let ' s step into the shadow of these trees .
those his goodly eyes , that o ' er the files and musters of the war have glow ' d
i spoke it , tender juvenal , as a congruent epitheton appertaining to thy young days , which we may
sickness is catching ; o , were favour so , yours would i catch , fair hermia , ere i
the first service thou dost me , fetch that suit hither .
whither , my lord ?
the merchandise which thou hast brought from rome are all too dear for me .
to england , where i hope ere long to be presented by your victories with charles , alencon , and
then how or which way should they first break in ?
[to edgar] you , sir- i entertain you for one of my hundred ; only i do not like the
us all congest , as compound love to physic your cold breast .
with signs of war about his aged neck .
he may not , as unvalued persons do , carve for himself , for on his choice depends the safety
fairies use flow ' rs for their charactery .
i must offend before i be attainted ; and had i twenty times so many foes , and each of
_num_ my mistress ' eyes are nothing like the sun , coral is far more red , than her lips
what did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now ?
there , my music playing far off , i will betray page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
then lead me hence-with whom i leave my curse : may never glorious sun reflex his beams upon the country
joints , like strengthless hinges , buckle under life , impatient of his fit , breaks like a fire out
old ginger , nine score and seventeen pounds , of which he made five marks ready money .
if thou love me , ' tis time thou wert away .
enter old montague and his wife .
marr ' d .
it is not my consent , but my entreaty too .
now , sir !
now i see thou art a fool , and fit for thy master .
st with- shepherd .
it is but eight years since this percy was the man nearest my soul ; who like a brother toil
[within] nay , good my lord !
drum within .
thou shalt have none , rousillon , none in france then hast thou all again .
nay , if there be no remedy for it , but that you will needs buy and sell men and
no , faith , hate him not , for my sake .
ourselves complain .
, i will not be , though i should win your displeasure to entreat me to ' t .
come , tell me true ; it shall be the better for you .
thou sayest well , and it holds well too ; for the fortune of us that are the moon '
noble mortimer , leading the men of herefordshire to fight against the irregular and wild glendower , was by the
and as for you , that love to be protected under the wings of our protector ' s grace ,
we are held as outlaws .
is thy name wart ?
bohemia .
stop she please .
go follow them to prison .
above my fortunes , yet my state is well : i am a gentleman .
, let me ' bate !
why dost thou ask ?
the setting sun , and music at the close , as the last taste of sweets , is sweetest last
enter the king , warwick , gloucester , exeter , and others , with prisoners .
will poor folks lie , that have afflictions on them , knowing ' tis a punishment or trial ?
tut , when struck ' st thou one blow in the field ?
i will not think but they ascend the sky and there awake god ' s gentle-sleeping peace .
still in thy right hand carry gentle peace to silence envious tongues .
rich jewel ' d coffer of darius , transported shall be at high festivals before the kings and queens of
think you in your soul the count claudio hath wrong ' d hero ?
in the year eight hundred five .
that i may call thee something more than man , and after that trust to thee .
, provok ' d with raging ire , albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad .
good my lord , like this fellow .
the king hath note of all that they intend , by interception which they dream not of .
denmark to show my duty in your coronation , yet now i must confess , that duty done , my
braves your mightiness ; and shall she carry this unto her grave ?
exit catesby when holy and devout religious men are at their beads , ' tis much to draw them thence
ay , to be murder ' d by his enemies .
thy thoughts i cleave to .
a plague upon the tyrant that i serve !
[cymbeline and imogen converse apart] belarius .
gentle thou art , and therefore to be won , beauteous thou art , therefore to be assailed .
' for so he calls me .
a very riband in the cap of youth- yet needfull too ; for youth no less becomes the light and
' tis worse than murther to do upon respect such violent outrage .
o , the recorders !
o jesu , are you come from wales ?
satisfy !
or , if there were a sympathy in choice , war , death , or sickness , did lay siege
a public place enter titus , bearing arrows with letters on the ends of them ; with him marcus ,
upon this hint i spake : she loved me for the dangers i had pass ' d , and i
and shall our quick blood , spirited with wine , seem frosty ?
a wife of such wood were felicity .
you told me you salute not at the court , but you kiss your hands ; that courtesy would be
monster , i do smell all horse-piss at which my nose is in great indignation .
wrath makes him deaf ; speak thou , northumberland .
what do ye ask of me , my friend ?
if they get ground and vantage of the king , then join you with them , like a rib of
his death ' s upon him , but not dead .
tis a woman ; but what woman i will not tell myself ; and yet ' tis a milkmaid ;
, mark , and denotement of her parts and graces .
the tribunes are no soldiers , and their people will be as rash in the repeal as hasty to expel
troilus is the better man of the two .
his sword upon the table and says ' god send me no need of thee !
here , my good lord .
o place , o form , how often dost thou with thy case , thy habit , wrench awe from
o , god defend me !
i think she comes , and i ' ll prepare my tear-stain ' d eyes to see her miseries .
before the best lord , i would make thee my lady .
and here have i the daintiness of ear to check time broke in a disorder ' d string ; but
peremptorily i speak it , there is virtue in that falstaff .
good my liege , your preparation can affront no less than what you hear of .
by my knavery , if i had it , then i were .
we charge you , on allegiance to ourself , to hold your slaught ' ring hands and keep the peace
s life is done .
but thou art not quickly moved to strike .
cost my crown , and like an empty eagle tire on the flesh of me and of my son !
o , my heart !
so may you lose your arms .
o guilt indeed !
your mother too .
soft , swain , awhile , beseech you ; have you a father ?
' s throat .
ye have angels ' faces , but heaven knows your hearts .
confixed here , a marble monument !
there lies that tybalt .
the fire , to ride on the curl ' d clouds .
i think you would have begg ' d the ring of me to give the worthy doctor .
this is the man should do the bloody deed : he show ' d his warrant to a friend of
not this , by no means , that i bid you do : let the bloat king tempt you again
hark , hark , one knocks .
my ear indeed , thou hast a sigh to blow away this praise , ending with ' brother , son
these hands do lack nobility , that they strike a meaner than myself ; since i myself have given myself
meet i presently set forth .
tears thy father ' s eyes ?
some officers take them away .
true , my lord .
[reads] ' do ' t .
and those boils did run-say so .
they have confess ' d you did .
let me stay the growth of his beard , if thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin .
but when from under this terrestrial ball he fires the proud tops of the eastern pines and darts his light
many a man would take you at your word , and go indeed , having so good a mean .
[lucetta withholds the letter] how now , minion !
he stays upon your will .
therefore should every soldier in the wars do as every sick man in his bed- wash every mote out of
other ' s , profanation .
he dares not calm his contumelious spirit , nor cease to be an arrogant controller , though suffolk dare him
will to answer their suspicion with their lives .
what offence hath this man made you , sir ?
shall i be tempted to infringe my vow in the same time ' tis made ?
' " the diamond ?
; needs must you lay your heart at his dispose , subjected tribute to commanding love , against whose fury
what a piece of work is a man !
curl ' d pate will grow bald ; a fair face will wither ; a full eye will wax hollow
fie , sir , fie !
here in these confines slily have i lurk ' d to watch the waning of mine enemies .
txt portia , wife of brutus cicero , senator popilius , " popilius lena , " flavius , tribune marullus
both tribunes .
' s , when you have said she ' s goodly , come between , ere you can say she
happy the parents of so fair a child ; happier the man whom favourable stars allots thee for his lovely
of their noble country .
call them again .
but what says she to me ?
see where she comes from shrift with merry look .
exit <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library ,
i cannot hear of any that did see her .
the sea-coast enter antonio and sebastian antonio .
alike .
when there was nothing could have stay ' d my father from the breast of bolingbroke , o , when
a noise of hunters beard .
' d unto the sea , which hath requit it , him , and his innocent child ; for which
no man hate , envy no man ' s happiness ; glad of other men ' s good , content
god save thee , noble consul !
them fell ' d him dead ; but not without that harmful stroke which since hath pluck ' d him
let romeo hence in haste , else , when he is found , that hour is his last .
gentle mercutio , put thy rapier up .
speak , lavinia , what accursed hand hath made thee handless in thy father ' s sight ?
then , forth , dear countrymen ; let us deliver our puissance into the hand of god , putting it
prithee be not sad , thou art true and honest ; ingeniously i speak , no blame belongs to thee
fleece them !
i will not look upon .
now , now , you stars that move in your right spheres , where be your pow ' rs ?
they confess toward thee forgetfulness too general , gross ; which now the public body , which doth seldom play
wreath your arms like a malcontent ; to relish a love-song , like a robin redbreast ; to walk alone
see , your guests approach .
the king ' s park enter the king , berowne , longaville , and dumain king .
' d beard .
friend trinculo .
here lurks no treason , here no envy swells , here grow no damned drugs , here are no storms
well worth the seeing .
there is some soul of goodness in things evil , would men observingly distil it out ; for our bad
i know the knight is incens ' d against you , even to a mortal arbitrement ; but nothing of
nay , stand thou back ; i will not budge a foot .
, her marriage-dowry ; with both , her combinate husband , this well-seeming angelo .
o the blest gods !
they are wooed , they are constant being won ; they are burs , i can tell you ; they
txt and age in love , loves not to have years told .
divide your happy england into four ; whereof take you one quarter into france , and you withal shall make
titus ' garden enter young lucius and lavinia running after him , and the boy flies from her with his
farewell ; go , say i sent thee thither .
france is a bawd to fortune and king john- that strumpet fortune , that usurping john !
by gar , ' tis good ; vell said .
hail , you anointed deputies of heaven !
well , here is my leg .
see in a summer ' s day .
if then they chanc ' d to slack ye , we could control them .
wronged caius ligarius .
and thereof comes the proverb : blessing of your heart , you brew good ale .
followers against the state and profit of this land ; that , by confessing them , the souls of men
i ' ll serve you as i would do the gods .
him , he ' d have run .
faith , look you , one cannot tell how to say that ; for the defence of a town our
when could they say till now that talk ' d of rome that her wide walls encompass ' d but
kill ' d be cook ' d .
a dollar .
i am a feather for each wind that blows .
the murderers , exton and servants , rush in , armed king richard .
ah , he is young ; and his minority is put unto the trust of richard gloucester , a man
ah , richard , with the eyes of heavy mind , i see thy glory like a shooting star fall
but i love his lady too too much , and that ' s the reason i love him so little
think not , thou noble roman , that ever brutus will go bound to rome ; he bears too great
use me but as your spaniel , spurn me , strike me , neglect me , lose me ; only
she discourses , she carves , she gives the leer of invitation ; i can construe the action of her
a very handsome man .
enter peaseblossom , cobweb , moth , and mustardseed peaseblossom .
wilt thou ever be a foul-mouth ' d and calumnious knave ?
he has ; and we shall see him for it an archbishop .
] peter !
, like a fountain with an hundred spouts , did run pure blood , and many lusty romans came smiling
way fool , solely a coward ; yet these fix ' d evils sit so fit in him that they
nor ever heard , nor ever did suspect .
that you three fools lack ' d me fool to make up the mess ; he , he , and
from scotland am i stol ' n , even of pure love , to greet mine own land with my
and future ages groan for this foul act ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
this must my comfort be- that sun that warms you here shall shine on me , and those his golden
you fustilarian !
where lay the king to-night ?
the frozen ridges of the alps , or any other ground inhabitable where ever englishman durst set his foot .
in the presses , heaven forgive my sins at the day of judgment !
and i shall see some squeaking cleopatra boy my greatness i ' th ' posture of a whore .
what we oft do best , by sick interpreters , once weak ones , is not ours , or not
cease , cease these jars and rest your minds in peace ; let ' s to the altar .
happen , it concerns you something to know it .
good master vernon , it is well objected ; if i have fewest , i subscribe in silence .
txt a very horse that has he knows not what !
that ' s monstrous .
now god in heaven bless thee !
how now , bully rook !
and i for no woman .
mend when thou canst ; be better at thy leisure ; i can be patient , i can stay with
txt northumberland .
would take desire prisoner , and ransom him to any french courtier for a new-devis ' d curtsy .
and his opposite , the youth , bears in his visage no great presage of cruelty .
how came that ' widow ' in ?
what wind blew you hither , pistol ?
how does the queen ?
this , to confirm my welcome- and to you all , good health !
" this is a dreadful sentence .
but by being so retir ' d , o ' er-priz ' d all popular rate , in my false
fostered ; and for our eyes do hate the dire aspect of civil wounds plough ' d up with neighbours
do we but find the tyrant ' s power tonight , let us be beaten if we cannot fight .
if to come hither you have measur ' d miles , and many miles , the princess bids you tell
young henry percy , the lords of ross , beaumond , and willoughby , with all their powerful friends ,
i warrant they have made peace with bolingbroke .
acknowledge then the king , and let me in .
that parchment , being scribbl ' d o ' er , should undo a man ?
s daughter .
go , say i sent thee forth to purchase honour , and not the king exil ' d thee ;
but sure some tereus hath deflowered thee , and , lest thou shouldst detect him , cut thy tongue .
o , dismiss this audience , and i shall tell you more .
the duke !
do you not see pompey is uncasing for the combat ?
get you gone , and hasten your return .
how now , fair lords !
i think it is .
' d with the rest of this day ' s deeds ; or , by the lord , i will
exit king richard .
now let me see the proudest he that dares most but wag his finger at thee .
charge , whereof you cannot easily purge yourself .
i understand thy kisses , and thou mine , and that ' s a feeling disputation .
why with the time do i not glance aside to new-found methods , and to compounds strange ?
i should have been that i am , had the maidenliest star in the firmament twinkled on my bastardizing .
and your digestion sake , an after-dinner ' s breath .
, being no more in debt to years than thou , leads ancient lords and reverend bishops on to bloody
cousin , sir .
i will run , fiend ; my heels are at your commandment ; i will run .
if any such be here- as it were sin to doubt- that love this painting wherein you see me smear
; that unmatch ' d form and feature of blown youth blasted with ecstasy .
spoke more than for that angel knowledge you can say , yet confident i ' ll keep what i have
westmoreland earl of surrey earl of kent gower harcourt blunt of the king ' s party lord chief justice servant
s ' before me th ' art a knave .
disgrace not so your king , that he should be so abject , base , and poor , to choose
then judge , great lords , if i have done amiss , or whether that such cowards ought to wear
be brief .
their dangers , would then be nothing .
what old or newer torture must i receive , whose every word deserves to taste of thy most worst ?
txt though he hath fall ' n by prompture of the blood , yet hath he in him such a
i think not so .
lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones , in puny battle slay me .
is it but this- a tardiness in nature which often leaves the history unspoke that it intends to do ?
the noble sister of publicola , the moon of rome , chaste as the icicle that ' s curdied by
: how may i avoid , although my will distaste what it elected , the wife i chose ?
i hope not ; i had lief as bear so much lead .
he breathed , he was a man .
that were a kind of bastard hope indeed ; so the sins of my mother should be visited upon me
what would you ?
let your highness command upon me , to the which my duties page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
why , that ' s all one .
the very thought of my revenges that way recoil upon me- in himself too mighty , and in his parties
none , sir ; i have no pheasant , cock nor hen .
txt if it hath ruffian ' d so upon the sea , what ribs of oak , when mountains melt
so will i , signior gremio ; but a word , i pray .
bard .
strip thine own back .
o sir , let it not trouble you .
the mouse ne ' er shunn ' d the cat as they did budge from rascals worse than they .
hath woo ' d .
god keep your worship !
this fellow pecks up wit as pigeons pease , and utters it again when god doth please .
the recanter , feeling in itself a lack of timon ' s aid , hath sense withal of it own
rome ' s royal emperess , unfurnish ' d of her well-beseeming troop ?
blessing of his heart !
is laid for me ; but now am i so hungry that , if i might have a lease of
as great a sin , but partly led to diet my revenge , for that i do suspect the lusty
he knows not what he says ; and vain is it that we present us to him .
there is no truth at all i ' th ' oracle .
had i your tongues and eyes , i ' ld use them so that heaven ' s vault should crack
exeunt hostess , bardolph , and officers chief justice .
is not my teeming date drunk up with time ?
but you are come a market-maid to rome , and have prevented the ostentation of our love , which left
forth that pretty hollow cage , where like a sweet melodious bird it sung sweet varied notes , enchanting every
place !
a boy ?
shall i keep your hogs , and eat husks with them ?
pray you undo this button .
him !
novi hominem tanquam te .
i would desire you to eat it .
you are straight enough in the shoulders ; you care not who sees your back .
' - poins .
coming to look on you , thinking you dead- and dead almost , my liege , to think you were-
but what though ?
their aunt i am in law , in love their mother .
most true , if ever truth were pregnant by circumstance .
- go , some of you , and bring these gentlemen where hamlet is .
my tongue dares not , that my heart shall say .
my judgment in other conclusions ?
of france and england , whose very shores look pale with envy of each other ' s happiness , may
it were a bad recompense for your love to lay any of them on you .
what , did these rent lines show some love of thine ?
what is this same ?
and your reports have set the murther on .
, and the whole world again cannot pick out five such , take each one in his vein .
what said our cousin when you parted with him ?
shall a beardless boy , a cock ' red silken wanton , brave our fields and flesh his spirit in
hero and margaret have by this played their parts with beatrice , and then the two bears will not bite
friend , art thou certain this is true ?
hear me more plainly .
good fortune then , to make me blest or cursed ' st among men !
i had rather have skipp ' d from sixteen years of age to sixty , to have turn ' d
[to silence , who has drunk a bumper] why , now you have done me right .
the pig , or great , or the mighty , or the huge , or the magnanimous , are all
by ' r lady , a long lease for the clinking of pewter .
have lost , the disgrace we have digested ; which , in weight to re-answer , his pettiness would bow
; speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue ; not soon provok ' d , nor being provok '
by my troth , thou sayest true ; for since the little wit that fools have was silenced , the
txt both countenance and excuse .
o , when the last account ' twixt heaven and earth is to be made , then shall this hand
his country service .
but what make you here ?
i would it were otherwise ; i would my means were greater and my waist slenderer .
no ; he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in athens .
cheater , call you him ?
o murtherous coxcomb !
erwhelm it as fearfully as doth a galled rock o ' erhang and jutty his confounded base , swill '
what cannot be preserved when fortune takes , patience her injury a mockery makes .
art thou timandra ?
true ; and thy master a shepherd .
' d nature .
but think you , lords , that clifford fled with them ?
indeed , i am not john of gaunt , your grandfather ; but yet no coward , hal .
why , how shall i requite you ?
we will not look upon him .
how ill this taper burns !
child .
what is he , biondello ?
ay , why not ?
ay , that there is .
vow , burgundy , by honour of thy house , prick ' d on by public wrongs sustain ' d
make good speed .
- elsinore .
a blessed labour , my most sovereign lord .
i prithee , boy , run to the senate house ; stay not to answer me , but get thee
heaven ' s face doth glow ; yea , this solidity and compound mass , with tristful visage , as
if justice cannot tame you , she shall ne ' er weigh more reasons in her balance .
first , hear me speak .
your malice .
, thou bear ' st thy heavy riches but a journey , and death unloads thee .
the garden enter launcelot and jessica launcelot .
alas , i had rather be set quick i ' th ' earth .
a field of battle between the british and roman camps enter lucius , iachimo , and the roman army at
a cobbler .
gentlemen , go muster up your men and meet me presently at berkeley .
shall i draw it ?
lest the wise world should look into your moan , and mock you with me after i am gone .
have won his grace to come in person hither and take perforce my husband from the abbess .
if i dare eat , or drink , or breathe , or live , i dare meet surrey in a
i pray thee speak in sober judgment .
but till that time come not thou near me ; and when that time comes , afflict me with thy
how fondly dost thou reason !
yes , madam ; but i think your grace , out of the pain you suffer ' d , gave
i wonder , sir , sith wives are monsters to you .
bear him ashore .
txt enter fiends this speedy and quick appearance argues proof of your accustom ' d diligence to me .
hold then my sword , and turn away thy face , while i do run upon it .
in such a night did jessica steal from the wealthy jew , and with an unthrift love did run from
- how came ' t , camillo , that he did stay ?
ha , majesty !
some jay of italy , whose mother was her painting , hath betray ' d him .
what say you to his expertness in war ?
the meantime , lady , i ' ll raise the preparation of a war shall stain your brother .
city find .
silvius , the time was that i hated thee ; and yet it is not that i bear thee love
gentleman , my cadwal , arviragus , your younger princely son ; he , sir , was lapp ' d
and look whether the fiery trigon , his man , be not lisping to his master ' s old tables
the beauty of the sun , and by an by a cloud takes all away !
well saying !
it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing of letter did .
hold , ho !
these are my ministers , and come with me .
in such a one as , you consenting to ' t , would bark your honour from that trunk you
; two noblemen with the sword and mace .
i call thee coward ?
fair leave and large security .
] glou .
to show their open banner .
these , and your three motives to the battle , with i know not how much more , should be
a man doth mark , and dares not answer nay- for , indeed , who would set his wit to
be to me , and every man that dares not fight !
breath .
no , lady .
it shall go hard but i ' ll prove it by another .
and make me die the thrall of margaret ' s curse , nor mother , wife , nor england '
i see my reputation is at stake ; my fame is shrewdly gor ' d .
plague on ' t ; an i thought he had been valiant , and so cunning in fence , i
' twas her two sons that murdered bassianus ; they cut thy sister ' s tongue , and ravish '
page and anne quickly .
i fear our happiness is at the height .
some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
cousin , there ' s fall ' n between him and my lord an unkind breech ; but you shall
what say the augurers ?
to his presence , whisper him in your behalfs ; and if it be in man besides the king to
achilles !
what say ' st thou to me now ?
even o ' er the time he has lost .
[sings] the finch , the sparrow , and the lark , the plain-song cuckoo grey , whose note full many
tilly-fally , sir john , ne ' er tell me ; and your ancient swagg ' rer comes not in
no ; when nature hath made a fair creature , may she not by fortune fall into the fire ?
then let ' s make haste away and look unto the main .
have you yourselves , somerset , buckingham , brave york , salisbury , and victorious warwick , receiv ' d
them kill thee .
away , so i will not rest till i have run some ground .
the breath no sooner left his father ' s body but that his wildness , mortified in him , seem
where ' s your father ?
but of all , the burst and the ear-deaf ' ning voice o ' th ' oracle , kin to
plantagenet doth quit plantagenet , edward for edward pays a dying debt .
faith in thee is lost .
basset .
thersites , my lord .
let us lay hands upon him .
the tower enter lord scales upon the tower , walking .
heaven and fortune bar me happy hours !
one speak for both .
, no teeth for the present .
they must take it in sense that feel it .
well didst thou , richard , to suppress thy voice ; for had the passions of thy heart burst out
effected , will beget a very excellent piece of villainy .
what , then ; do you see ?
think that her old gloves were on , but ' twas her hands ; she has a huswife ' s
thou hast sworn my love to be .
if you ' ll patch a quarrel , as matter whole you have not to make it with , it
a deadly groan , like life and death ' s departing .
where be your gibes now ?
txt even as an adder when she doth unroll to do some fatal execution ?
lights , now canopied under these windows white and azure , lac ' d with blue of heaven ' s
what say ' st thou , charles ?
i will not eat my word , now thou art mine ; thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine
that beggars mounted run their horse to death .
but come !
it than now ; when your own percy , when my heart ' s dear harry , threw many a
see where his grace stands ' tween two clergymen !
we cannot hold mortality ' s strong hand .
first he denied you had in him no right .
nay , let them follow .
bar .
i protest unto thee- nurse .
now god be prais ' d that to believing souls gives light in darkness , comfort in despair !
the miserable change now at my end lament nor sorrow at ; but please your thoughts in feeding them with
solemniz ' d ; if the interim be but a se ' nnight , time ' s pace is so
not yet , my cousin ; we would be resolv ' d , before we hear him , of some
what , with worms and flies ?
some say that ravens foster forlorn children , the whilst their own birds famish in their nests ; o ,
had not that been as proper ?
thou visible god , that sold ' rest close impossibilities , and mak ' st them kiss !
ah , that this sight should make so deep a wound , and yet detested life not shrink thereat !
some dear cause will in concealment wrap me up awhile .
i must be cruel , only to be kind ; thus bad begins , and worse remains behind .
prithee , valiant youth , deny ' t again .
charles , i thank thee for thy love to me , which thou shalt find i will most kindly requite
oath , and all the peers ' , for surety of our leagues .
so is running away , when fear proposes the safety : but the composition that your valour and fear makes
my duty cannot suffer t ' obey in all your daughters ' hard commands .
hath any well-advised friend proclaim ' d reward to him that brings the traitor in ?
of this my letters before did satisfy you .
exeunt ; those above hearing off antony ' s body act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ act v .
why , do you think he will make no deed at all of this that so seriously he does address
words would bandy her to my sweet love , and his to me , but old folks , many feign
that were hard to compass , because she will admit no kind of suit- no , not the duke '
make your excuse wisely , you were best .
where ' s mounsieur cobweb ?
to-morrow , to-day , presently .
' and so , ere answer knows what question would , saving in dialogue of compliment , and talking of
linen] mrs .
to whom came he ?
nay , but speak not maliciously .
take thee that too .
ay , if the devil tempt you to do good .
; and , till that instant , shut my woeful self up in a mournful house , raining the tears
] this is thy sheath ; there rest , and let me die .
what a man are you !
seven groats and two pence .
that cranmer is return ' d with welcome , install ' d lord archbishop of canterbury .
he is attach ' d ; call him to present trial .
i speak amazedly ; and it becomes my marvel and my message .
a juggling trick , to be secretly open .
desdemona comes : re-enter desdemona and emilia .
his wrong doth equal mine .
most noble lord , pawn me to this your honour , she is his .
i will read it .
i wasted time , and now doth time waste me ; for now hath time made me his numb '
ay me , i can no more !
therefore my son i ' th ' ooze is bedded ; and i ' ll seek him deeper than e
enter troilus ' boy boy .
blood , no soul so near me as the sweet troilus .
brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint , from stubborn turks and tartars , never train ' d to offices
[to fabian] read it you , sirrah .
who willed you , or whose will stands but mine ?
thou driv ' st me past the bounds of maiden ' s patience .
young boys and girls are level now with men .
out on her , hilding !
how may that be ?
are you yet living ?
you should be women , and yet your beards forbid me to interpret that you are so .
how now , wife ?
there is some strange thing toward , edmund .
i ' ll to dinner .
to-night , say i .
as , for proof now : a purse of gold most resolutely snatch ' d on monday night and most
i am your debtor ; claim it when ' tis due .
were my brother , i would desire the duke to use his good pleasure , and put him to execution
us should see salvation ; we do pray for mercy , and that same prayer doth teach us all to
settle , come not before him .
i have heard of your paintings too , well enough .
they will say ' came you off with so little ?
thy false uncle- dost thou attend me ?
de nails , de arm , de ilbow .
yes , my good lord , it doth contain a king ; king richard lies within the limits of yon
or neither ?
full of protest , of oath , and big compare , want similes , truth tir ' d with iteration-
my lord , his majesty commended him to you by young osric , who brings back to him , that
an the worst fall that ever fell , i hope i shall make shift to go without him .
and say she uttereth piercing eloquence .
no more , thou thunder-master , show thy spite on mortal flies .
good madonna , give me leave to prove you a fool .
lend nor borrow upon advantage .
in sleep i heard him say , " sweet desdemona , let us be wary , let us hide our
then at my lodging , an it like you .
come , where is this young gallant that is so desirous to lie with his mother earth ?
will you ?
call it a travel that thou tak ' st for pleasure .
indeed , my lord , it followed hard upon .
i cannot tell ; i think not .
txt i would o ' erstare the sternest eyes that look , outbrave the heart most daring on the earth
dar ' st thou brave a nobleman ?
red .
indeed , neighbour , he comes too short of you .
keep promise , love .
o happy torment , when my torturer doth teach me answers for deliverance !
come , night ; end , day .
for my part , i may speak it to my shame , i have a truant been to chivalry ;
methinks i hear antony call .
arts they have as could put into them .
what are you there ?
thunder still .
my hour is almost come , when i to sulph ' rous and tormenting flames must render up myself .
of my ambition .
, my dear and faithful lord , that you should fashion , wrest , or bow your reading , or
i met a fool i ' th ' forest , a motley fool .
methinks , should not be chronicled for wise .
first , madam , he is well .
then all stand still ; or those that think it is unlawful business i am about , let them depart
as a child , skipping and vain ; form ' d by the eye and therefore , like the eye
y ' are a baggage ; the slys are no rogues .
[aside to falstaff] are these your letters , knight ?
boldness comes to me now and brings me heart .
one word more .
did i not , fellow ?
i charge thee , hence , and do not haunt me thus .
i cry you mercy , uncle , by your grace ' s pardon .
unbind my hands , i ' ll pull them off myself , yea , all my raiment , to my
how much money must i have ?
mariner .
discover how with most advantage they may vex us with shot or with assault .
in the meantime , good signior benedick , repair to leonato ' s , commend me to him and tell
alas , master , i know not .
that with the pain of death would hourly die rather than die at once !
but for this lord who hath abus ' d me as he knows himself , though yet he never harm
lessens his requests and to thee sues to let him breathe between the heavens and earth , a private man
of that kind our rustic garden ' s barren ; and i care not to get slips of them .
be it so .
then] exit hamlet , tugging in polonius .
king john .
go , begone .
he hath the falling sickness .
i should venture purgatory for ' t .
neptune ' s empire stands was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse .
hear me , hear me what i say : he that strikes the first stroke i ' ll run him
may move and what he hears may be believed , that the true prince may (for recreation sake) prove a
come , marcus , let us go .
there seen , heave him away upon your winged thoughts athwart the sea .
what ' s thy pleasure ?
, who would not make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch ?
you will think you have made no offence if the duke avouch the justice of your dealing ?
well as she knows me .
aufidius stands on him] lords .
why , he will look upon his boot and sing ; mend the ruff and page _num_ complete works of
all these accus ' d him strongly , which he fain would have flung from him ; but indeed he
the general ' s disdain ' d by him one step below , he by the next , that next
' o , how the wheel becomes it !
o , where ' s young talbot ?
toad , that under cold stone days and nights has thirty-one swelter ' d venom sleeping got , boil thou
her silence flouts me , and i ' ll be reveng ' d .
let sorrow split my heart if ever i did hate thee , or thy father !
lion .
no blame be to you , sir , for all was lost , but that the heavens fought .
they pass by strangely .
day , he means to recompense the pains you take by cutting off your heads .
were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold ?
but tell me true , for i must ever doubt though ne ' er so sure , is not thy
who is ' t can blame him ?
exit act v .
but with a baser man of arms by far once , in contempt , they would have barter ' d
plantagenet .
dar ' st acknowledge it , i will make it my quarrel .
' s passion- " b mi " bianca , take him for thy lord- " c fa ut " that
now ; and then comes answer like an absey book : ' o sir , ' says answer ' at
then you , belike , suspect these noblemen as guilty of duke humphrey ' s timeless death .
go where you will , the king shall be commanded ; and be you kings : command , and i
the sun rose he was harness ' d light , and to the field goes he ; where every flower
she hung about my neck , and kiss on kiss she vied so fast , protesting oath on oath ,
and thou , all-shaking thunder , strike flat the thick rotundity o ' th ' world , crack nature '
' tis no other , only it spoils the pleasure of the time .
and do you , gratiano , mean good faith ?
methinks i hear hither your husband ' s drum ; see him pluck aufidius down by th ' hair ;
fellow , i know thee .
to feel other men ' s minds ; methinks i could not die anywhere so contented as in the king
' tis nestor right .
will they not say afterwards , if they should grow themselves to common players (as it is most like ,
file of boys behind ' em , loose shot , deliver ' d such a show ' r of pebbles
when heaven doth weep , doth not the earth o ' erflow ?
the worst that they can say of me is that i am a second brother and that i am a
she pass to th ' ground , and all the world shall mourn her .
so should the murdered look ; and so should i , pierc ' d through the heart with your stern
my being here it is that holds thee hence .
why that ?
the youth ' s a devil .
suspicion !
bottom !
fields without the town page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
for them ?
alarum to the battle .
he alt ' red much upon the hearing it .
most excellent , i ' faith !
look to it , lords ; let not his smoothing words bewitch your hearts ; be wise and circumspect .
if he writ to me .
this man has marr ' d his fortune .
i cannot tell what the dickens his name is my husband had him of .
it seems to me that yet we sleep , we dream .
our dear redeemer , you straight are on your knees for pardon , pardon ; and i , unjustly too
see them well entertain ' d .
be with him !
we ' ll see these things effected to the full .
' tis a shrewd doubt , though it be but a dream .
s mouth which here you come to accuse .
[discovering himself] proceed , proceed ; i ' ll give her .
the silken figures in the brine that seasoned woe had pelleted in tears , and often reading what contents it
most dangerous is that temptation that doth goad us on to sin in loving virtue .
i have no power to speak , sir .
how many actions most ridiculous hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy ?
i will debate this matter at more leisure , and teach your ears to list me with more heed .
that liv ' d amongst men .
is this the promis ' d end ?
is ' t come to that ?
what ho , within !
i was never so bethump ' d with words since i first call ' d my brother ' s father
and a man of such perfection as we do in our quality much want- second outlaw .
nor taste , nor smell , desire to be invited to any sensual feast with thee alone : but my
>> scene : the roman empire act i .
hail , gentle sir .
he is no less than a stuff ' d man ; but for the stuffing--well , we are all mortal
[aside] the time seems long ; their blood thinks scorn till it fly out and show them princes born .
what night-rule now about this haunted grove ?
signior montano , your trusty and most valiant servitor , with his free duty recommends you thus , and prays
of the devil !
of honourable reckoning are you both , and pity ' tis you liv ' d at odds so long .
txt rom .
so bloodily hast struck .
sweet knight , thou art now one of the greatest men in this realm .
one doubt by death revives two greater in the heirs of life ; and therefore will he wipe his tables
for if i should despair i should grow mad , and in my madness might speak ill of thee ,
bed .
a noble troop of strangers- for so they seem .
and how doth my good cousin silence ?
mark me .
not have relish ' d among my other discredits .
roderigo kill ' d ?
[they sleep] enter puck puck .
" hem , " if anybody come .
fouler than heart can think thee , thou canst make no excuse current but to hang thyself .
i prithee , lady , have a better cheer ; if thou engrossest all the griefs are thine , thou
txt now , i fear thee not .
this deserves death .
the king retires attended first lord .
the other things anon .
txt quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him .
how hath your lordship brook ' d imprisonment ?
and that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee for false forswearing , and for murder too ; thou didst
this wedding day perhaps is but prolong ' d .
will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing ?
exit valentine .
you left poor henry at the bishop ' s palace , and ten to one you ' ll meet him
, here at my house , and at my proper cost .
i could tell you more news too : marullus and flavius , for pulling scarfs off caesar ' s images
given it for a wilderness of monkeys .
you have done that you should be sorry for .
the traitor saturnine .
sit , gods , upon your thrones , and smile at troy .
rosalind .
d , illumin ' d , cherish ' d , kept alive .
all the realm shall be in common , and in cheapside shall my palfrey go to grass .
gentleman , tickling commodity , commodity , the bias of the world- the world , who of itself is peised
a little fire is quickly trodden out , which , being suffer ' d , rivers cannot quench .
yield your dead , till death be uttered heavily , heavily .
[aside] i know ye well enough .
alas , good cassius , do not think of him .
by my hand , i had thought to have strucken him with a cudgel ; and yet my mind gave
the more shame for you , judas !
so be it !
you hear what he hath said which was sometime his general , who lov ' d him in a most
her hair , nor loose nor tied in formal plat , proclaimed in her a careless hand of pride ;
then she is well , and nothing can be ill .
and write happy when th ' hast done .
" and what was he ?
not honest- honourable .
this thou wouldst say : ' your son did thus and thus ; your brother thus ; so fought the
exit flute .
urge thy oath .
give me my robe , put on my crown ; i have immortal longings in me .
how comes it then , fal .
come , come ; sans compliment , what news abroad ?
; and i have a rheum in mine eyes too , and such an ache in my bones that unless
in your condemned seconds .
so , get you gone .
i miss ' d the meteor once , and hit that woman , who cried out ' clubs !
back do i toss those treasons to thy head ; with the hell-hated lie o ' erwhelm thy heart ;
to them both .
she did approach my cabin where i lay ; thrice bow ' d before me ; and , gasping to
approved warriors and my faithful friends , i have received letters from great rome which signifies what hate they bear
re-enter cassio .
i blame you not ; for , hearing this , i must perforce compound with mistful eyes , or they
yea , on his part i ' ll empty all these veins , and shed my dear blood drop by
the villainy you teach me i will execute ; and itshall go hard but i will better the instruction .
lucilius .
o- as true as truest horse , that y et would never tire .
a stirring dwarf we do allowance give before a sleeping giant .
tapers .
no , i protest , i know not the contents ; phebe did write it .
king , thy governor .
for i am all the subjects that you have , which first was mine own king ; and here you
cool with mortifying groans .
for me , my lords , i love him not , nor fear him-there ' s my creed ; as
note , while greasy joan doth keel the pot .
a good varlet , a good varlet , a very good varlet , sir john .
' d a master , but for these instances : the specialty of rule hath been neglected ; page _num_
here comes lean jack ; here comes bare-bone .
yonder comes a poet and a painter .
enter a messenger thy news ?
and montague our top-mast ; what of him ?
] my lord , i would i might entreat your honor to scan this thing no further ; leave it
i go ; and if you plead as well for them as i can say nay to thee for myself
thieves !
txt of a despised life , clos ' d in my breast , by some vile forfeit of untimely death
nay , not , as one would say , healthy ; but so sound as things that are hollow :
confess yourself freely to her ; importune her help to put you in your place again .
[aside to ariel] my tricksy spirit !
, between thy teeth .
[exit fenton] a kind heart he hath ; a woman would run through fire and water for such a kind
that i have , lady .
[aside to pompey] if for the sake of merit thou wilt hear me , rise from thy stool .
were you made the messenger ?
this was the noblest roman of them all .
one of my fellows had the speed of him , who , almost dead for breath , had scarcely more
i am not to you known , though in your state of honor i am perfect .
madam .
what his happier affairs may be are to me unknown ; but i have missingly noted he is of late
alas , sweet lady , what imports this song ?
i would thou could ' st stammer , that thou mightst pour this conceal ' d man out of thy
my natural taste , now i do wish it , love it , long for it , and will for
your stomachs are too young , and abstinence engenders maladies .
go hide thee behind the arras .
camp ; i warrant you , you shall find the ceremonies of the wars , and the cares of it
i can discover all the unlucky manage of this fatal brawl .
banditti .
which break from me perforce , should make thee worth them .
the more my prayer , the lesser is my grace .
uncle , how now !
look to thyself , thou art in jeopardy .
articles are borrowed of the pronoun , and be thus declined : singulariter , nominativo ; hic , haec ,
sir robert ' s son !
ay , but why ?
that stops my way in padua .
but this good comfort bring i to your highness- the britaine navy is dispers ' d by tempest .
and guildenstern are dead .
tell us where ' tis , that we may take it thence and bear it to the chapel .
dead bodies !
what thou wouldst do is done unto thy hand .
how have mine eyes out of their spheres been fitted in the distraction of this madding fever !
fill till the cup be hid .
well , masters , good night .
now , this no more dishonours you at all than to take in a town with gentle words , which
will this content you , kate , ?
these nice sharp quillets of the law , good faith , i am no wiser than a daw .
ev ' n as your horse bears your praises , who would trot as well were some of your brags
which of the vizards was it that you wore ?
; therefore , change favours ; and , when they repair , blow like sweet roses in this summer air
and in my mind , very wise .
here , here , here be my keys ; ascend my chambers , search , seek , find out .
my master and his man are both broke loose , beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor , whose
txt i ' ll give thee fairies to attend on thee ; and they shall fetch thee jewels from the
had i this cheek to bathe my lips upon ; this hand , whose touch , whose every touch ,
it were an honest action to say so to the moor .
i praise god for you .
true swains in love shall in the world to come approve their truth by troilus , when their rhymes ,
nimble mischance , that art so light of foot , doth not thy embassage belong to me , and am
trust not the physician ; his antidotes are poison , and he slays moe than you rob .
think you to walk forth ?
and every jest but a word .
our sport shall be to take what they mistake ; and what poor duty cannot do , noble respect takes
of their shining nights than those that walk and wot not what they are .
[dies] exton .
txt now will i go to take some privy order to draw the brats of clarence out of sight ,
patience unmov ' d !
most veritable ; therefore look to ' t well .
what say ' st thou to me ?
what , fifty followers ?
if the law would allow it , sir .
dastards !
cleopatra ' s palace enter antony with attendants antony .
second huntsman .
not he that sets his foot upon her back , the smallest worm will turn , being trodden on ,
and what time your majesty shall please .
you page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
their endeavour .
[they converse apart] camillo .
come , sir , away .
for youth is bought more oft than begg ' d or borrow ' d .
who play they to ?
she prais ' d his complexion above paris .
this same place , to this same monument .
breathe his bloodied horse .
' silvius .
so the gods keep you , and make the hearts of romans serve your ends !
he would not stay at your petitions ; made his business more material .
but hear me this : since you to non-regardance cast my faith , and that i partly know the instrument
txt harshly o ' th ' trumpet ' s sound ; we shall to ' t presently .
trib , trib , fairies ; come ; and remember your parts .
lavinia , though you left me like a churl , i found a friend ; and sure as death i
mark the encounter .
exeunt epilogue epilogue .
romans .
thy father !
shall be rich , and very rich ; but th ' art too much my friend , and i '
[aside] the lord increase this business !
" some wine , boys !
must withdraw and weep upon the spot of this enforced cause- to grace the gentry of a land remote and
ll withdraw me and my bloody power ; but if you frown upon this proffer ' d peace , you
that ' s not so , sir ; we are your enemies .
how now , sweet frank , why art thou melancholy ?
revenge it , as you love your mother ' s life , or be ye not henceforth call ' d
speak of it !
down , king !
what think you , coz , of this young percy ' s pride ?
the king !
and spirit , do give thee five-fold blazon .
two may keep counsel when the third ' s away : go to the empress , tell her this i
grievous ling ' ring death .
why , how now , monsieur !
well , we may meet again .
use our commission in his utmost force .
her wagoner , a small grey-coated gnat , not half so big as a round little worm prick ' d
yes , he is dead .
but come , away !
[they sing] juno .
sir , this i hear : the king is come to his daughter , with others whom the rigour of
confusion fall- chiron .
this is the gentleman i told your ladyship had come along with me but that his mistresss did hold his
will ' t please you taste of what is here ?
the fairies sing first fairy .
who ' s at home ?
go we to council .
txt is spied in populous cities .
would thee do , were all thy children kind and natural !
i was with hercules and cadmus once when in a wood of crete they bay ' d the bear with
five year !
in thirteen battles salisbury o ' ercame ; henry the fifth he first train ' d to the wars ;
bring forth the body of old salisbury and here advance it in the market-place , the middle centre of this
express ' d and not express ' d .
to do my benevolence , to make atonements and compremises between you .
txt enter sir oliver martext sir oliver martext , you are well met .
he is a kinsman to the montague ; affection makes him false , he speaks not true .
but it was a strong composure a fool could disunite !
but howsoe ' er , no simple man that sees this jarring discord of nobility , this shouldering of each
thou naughty knave , what trade ?
exeunt all but richmond o thou , whose captain i account myself , look on my forces with a gracious
hold , wart .
lord hastings , you and he are near in love .
under the dauphin .
what say you ?
arm , and , with his other hand thus o ' er his brow , he falls to such perusal
what will ensue hereof there ' s none can tell ; but by bad courses may be understood that their
pandars ; let all constant men be troiluses , all false women cressids , and all brokers between pandars .
you speak all your part at once , cues , and all .
we ' ll no defence !
nature .
, and wilt not come ?
the palace enter queen elizabeth , lord rivers , and lord grey rivers .
do now i behold thy lively body so ?
queen of troy with opportunity of sharp revenge upon the thracian tyrant in his tent may favour tamora , the
priam , there is no lady of more softer bowels , more spongy to suck in the sense of fear
we fear not what can from italy annoy us ; but we grieve at chances here .
a little from her hand , like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves , and with a silk thread
not arm to-day ; whereupon the grecians begin to proclaim barbarism , and policy grows into an ill opinion .
like mine .
daughter to leontes and hermione paulina , wife to antigonus emilia , a lady attending on the queen mopsa ,
foul speeches and to detract .
i little thought you would have followed .
by heaven , i ' ll hate him everlastingly that bids me be of comfort any more .
bay me .
would ' twere so !
exeunt all but the prince why doth the crown lie there upon his pillow , being so troublesome a bedfellow
who shall hinder me ?
lord cardinal , to you i speak .
enter a carrier with a lantern in his hand .
sure , the gods do this year connive at us , and we may do anything extempore .
you had a bastard by polixenes , and i but dream ' d it .
[enter francis .
they have not so little grace , i hope-that were a trick indeed !
the gentleman is half flay ' d already .
and what art thou , thou idol ceremony ?
that your niece beatrice was in love with signior benedick ?
, and inhuman creature ?
it may be so , for it is not mine own .
angelo ; even so may angelo , in all his dressings , characts , titles , forms , be an
art not one ?
i mean , the matter that you read , my lord .
, scorn ' d at me .
lady percy .
my lords , an please you , ' tis not so ; i did beget her , all the parish
mouldy .
to-night i ' ll mourn with hero .
i ' ll lie .
i know thou dost ; and , sweet revenge , farewell .
her success , or more than common fear of clifford ' s rigour , who thunders to his captives blood
, which some call nature ' s bastards .
even with you .
now let the general trumpet blow his blast , particularities and petty sounds to cease !
away , i say , and bring them hither straight .
- but thou art deeper read and better skill ' d ; come and take choice of all my library
but in the beaten way of friendship , what make you at elsinore ?
she is a virtuous and a reverend lady ; it cannot be that she hath done thee wrong .
' tis truly so .
i pray thee cease thy counsel , which falls into mine ears as profitless as water in a sieve .
why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady ?
go , count thy way with sighs ; i mine with groans .
cadwal and i will play the cook and servant ; ' tis our match .
to-morrow morning come you to my house , and since you could not be my son-in-law , be yet my
shall we have incision ?
there is no hiding you in the house .
thou know ' st that banquo and his fleance lives .
sir , ' tis my occupation to be plain .
- read here , young arthur .
] enter falstaff .
house , and say you would present her at the leet , because she brought stone jugs and no seal
' loo , paris , ' loo !
my tears shall wipe away these bloody marks ; and no more words till they have flow ' d their
txt turning past evils to advantages .
chop off his head-something we will determine .
richer- a still-soliciting eye , and such a tongue as i am glad i have not , though not to
certain french ; who , holding in disdain the german women for some dishonest manners of their life , establish
there will i leave you too , for here comes one in haste .
but in the mean time he wants less , my lord .
they stand , and would have parley .
what sadness lengthens romeo ' s hours ?
you , polydore , have prov ' d best woodman and are master of the feast .
conduct me to the king ; i doubt he will be dead or ere i come .
knowing my mind , you wrong me , master fenton .
i saw young harry with his beaver on his cushes on his thighs , gallantly arm ' d , rise
won .
shame not these woods by putting on the cunning of a carper .
cancel these cold bonds .
why , it cannot choose but be a noble plot .
he poisons him i ' th ' garden for ' s estate .
sup any women with him ?
that dissembling abominable varlet , diomed , has got that same scurvy doting foolish young knave ' s sleeve of
; for he seems proud and disdainful , harping on what i am , not what he knew i was
this bottle makes an angel .
here , pistol , i charge you with a cup of sack ; do you discharge upon mine hostess .
you ' re a made old man ; if the sins of your youth are forgiven you , you '
gloves as sweet as damask roses ; masks for faces and for noses ; bugle bracelet , necklace amber ,
brain .
long die thy happy days before thy death ; and , after many length ' ned hours of grief ,
nay , gentlemen , prepare not to be gone ; we have a trifling foolish banquet towards .
mercies more than i dare make faults .
is the queen deliver ' d ?
polixenes is slain ; amphimacus and thoas deadly hurt ; patroclus ta ' en , or slain ; and palamedes
all ' s but nought ; patience is sottish , and impatience does become a dog that ' s mad
egeus , i will overbear your will ; for in the temple , by and by , with us page
her hostess of the boar ' s head , eastcheap ; formerly mrs .
you would all this time have prov ' d there is no time for all things .
i ' ll look you out a good turn , servilius .
he is coming , sir , he is coming ; i hear his straw rustle .
i never do him wrong but he does buy my injuries , to be friends ; pays dear for my
god and the rope-maker bear me witness that i was sent for nothing but a rope !
fifth hour of the sun , will with a trumpet ' twixt our tents and troy , to-morrow morning ,
when you do take the means whereby i live .
i will do so .
cassio ?
his stubborn buckles , with these your white enchanting fingers touch ' d , shall more obey than to the
wealthy as an english yeoman .
did banquo .
oyster .
o gross and miserable ignorance !
cham .
well were to know himself .
a trumpet sounds] sirrah , go see what trumpet ' tis that sounds- exit servant belike some noble gentleman that
txt nurse .
capt .
exeunt all but enobarbus and menas menas .
gains .
this is the sergeant who like a good and hardy soldier fought ' gainst my captivity .
go , hence with diligence !
this time is ?
, for here ' s a young and sweating devil here that commonly rebels .
alack , poor soul !
so tell him , with th ' occurrents , more and less , which have solicited- the rest is silence
and neglect the creeping hours of time ; if ever you have look ' d on better days , if
none human- to try the vigour of them , and apply allayments to their act , and by them gather
an you will not be answer ' d with reason , i must die .
that chain will i bestow- be it for nothing but to spite my wife- upon mine hostess there ; good
the palace enter aaron , demetrius and chiron , at one door ; and at the other door , young
this man may help me to his majesty ' s ear , if he would spend his power .
when the wind is southerly i know a hawk from a handsaw .
caesar , thy thoughts touch their effects in this .
thanks , gentle duke .
unworthy though thou art , i ' ll cope with thee , and do some service to duke humphrey '
i can call spirits from the vasty deep .
i do not like this news .
and the fair sister to her unhappy brother claudio ?
shall we not ?
than to hear you .
not so , sweet lady ; but too mean a servant to have a look of such a worthy mistress
bear th ' addition nobly ever !
the jewels you have had from me to deliver to desdemona page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
mistress overdone .
thou hast thy fill of blood and death !
where is this daughter ?
none of mine ; they are the issue of your loins , my liege , and blood of your begetting
be as humours and conceits shall govern .
how is the king employ ' d ?
s , be plac ' d in contempt !
why , it is my maid ' s aunt of brainford .
your state will use you nobly and your followers .
and if to-morrow our navy thrive , i have an absolute hope our landmen will stand up .
low ' ring , does become the opposite of itself .
whereby hangs a tale , sir ?
wherein hath caesar thus deserved your loves ?
yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears .
i durst not ?
have his will .
of nobility .
hast any of thy late master ' s garments in thy possession ?
well , bawd i ' ll turn , and something lean to cutpurse of quick hand .
and then we mask ' d .
passion !
; therefore , since law itself is perfect wrong , how can the law forbid my tongue to curse ?
be employ ' d in danger , i faintly broke with thee of arthur ' s death ; and thou
how do you , man ?
your highness , lately sending into france , did claim some certain dukedoms in the right of your great predecessor
exit fight .
away , away , good william de la pole !
why , no ; for she hath broke the lute to me .
some say the lark makes sweet division ; this doth not so , for she divideth us .
his rudeness so with his authorized youth did livery falseness in a pride of truth .
four legs and two voices ; a most delicate monster !
balthasar , servant to romeo .
, i think , not mov ' d by antony .
exit cloten pisanio , thou that stand ' st so for posthumus !
you spoke not with her since ?
they are generally fools and cowards-which some of us should be too , but for inflammation .
' red hither to an obscure plot , accompanied but with a barbarous moor , if foul desire had not
six fashions , which is four terms , or two actions ; and ' a shall laugh without intervallums .
by all description this should be the place .
hang him , mechanical salt-butter rogue !
i am heartily sorry that he ' ll be glad of this .
to have his pomp , and all what state compounds , but only painted , like his varnish ' d
not he that himself is not so ; which is mark antony .
[aside to boyet] he may not by the yard .
go to !
it must be a personating of himself ; a satire against the softness of prosperity , with a discovery of
potations and to addict themselves to sack .
what kind of catechising call you this ?
keep this man safe , give him all kindness ; i had rather have page _num_ complete works of william
ye turn me into nothing .
let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart ?
- both to defend my loyalty and truth to god , my king , and my succeeding issue , against
txt arm ' s end .
that it may please you leave these sad designs to him that hath most cause to be a mourner ,
and , sheriff , i will engage my word to thee that i will by to-morrow dinner time send him
let our officers page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
, in the name of god , take heed ; for never two such kingdoms did contend without much fall
isidore ' s servant .
; thou hast by moonlight at her window sung , with feigning voice , verses of feigning love , and
i ' ll give thee armour to keep off that word ; adversity ' s sweet milk , philosophy ,
it is not so ; for how can this be true , that you stand forfeit , being those that
my lord , i will be thankful to any happy messenger from thence .
but that my heart ' s on future mischief set , i would speak blasphemy ere bid you fly ;
marry , sir , lullaby to your bounty till i come again .
you must begin ' will you , orlando ' - celia .
if york , with all his far-fet policy , had been the regent there instead of me , he never
a command to tend you ?
much upon this riddle runs the wisdom of the world .
hath given them in wit .
do you understand me ?
when spake i such a word ?
thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers .
but , good pisanio , when shall we hear from him ?
exit eros i will o ' ertake thee , cleopatra , and weep for my pardon .
into a waggish courage ; ready in gibes , quick-answer ' d , saucy , and as quarrelous as the
a judas !
o , that i knew thy heart , and knew the beast , that i might rail at him to
let me have a dram of poison , such soon-speeding gear as will disperse itself through all the veins that
but first of all , how we may steal from hence ; and for the gap that we shall make
come your ways .
had our prince , jewel of children , seen this hour , he had pair ' d well with this
when that the general is not like the hive , to whom the foragers shall all repair , what honey
cannot put off my opinion so easily .
to fright you thus , methinks i am too savage ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
bonds of death !
all of her .
la pucelle and york fight hand to hand ; la pucelle is taken .
before the tent of achilles enter thersites , solus thersites .
from gallia i cross ' d the seas on purpose and on promise to see your grace .
_num_ as fast as thou shalt wane so fast thou grow ' st , in one of thine , from
a plague of sighing and grief !
ay , springes to catch woodcocks !
and what ' s in prayer but this twofold force , to be forestalled ere we come to fall ,
beshrew the winners , for they play ' d me false !
some report a sea-maid spawn ' d him ; some , that he was begot between two stock-fishes .
a flatterer ' s would not , though they do appear as huge as high olympus .
servant of the prince .
first giver .
but that your royal pleasure must be done , this act is as an ancient tale new told page _num_
stand farther .
there is a river in macedon ; and there is also moreover a river at monmouth ; it is call
, i warrant you , no tell-tale nor no breed-bate ; his worst fault is that he is given to
as it seems , make thee .
we breathe too long .
enter artemidorus , reading paper .
now , great thetis ' son !
txt i thank my memory i yet remember some of these articles ; and out they shall .
down and insert in ' t , could you not ?
call for the music in the other room .
what makes this change ?
what do you spy ?
give me your hand ; i ' ll privily away .
no , no , my lord .
hold up thy head , vile scot , or thou art like never to hold it up again !
go to ; i say he shall have no wrong .
o loving hate !
so caesar may ; then , lest he may , prevent .
you to buy them , along as you pass ' d .
fools on both sides !
well , i will find you twenty lascivious turtles ere one chaste man .
the only soil of his fair virtue ' s gloss , if virtue ' s gloss will stain with any
get , where you are lov ' d , and where this breach now in our fortunes made may readily
and y ' are welcome all .
by cock and pie , sir , you shall not away to-night .
this is the right fencing grace , my lord ; tap for tap , and so part fair .
peace yet again !
i never saw him sad .
now , pray you , let me see it ; for mine eye , while i was speaking , oft
suffolk .
poins , and be hang ' d !
, in resolution as i swore before .
shall we go draw our numbers , and set on ?
not all these lords do vex me half so much as that proud dame , the lord protector ' s
fare you well , good father .
like to hear for this play at this time is only in the merciful construction of good women ; for
when you do dance , i wish you a wave o ' th ' sea , that you might ever
pray you , sir , stand up ; i am sure you are not launcelot my boy .
heart , and call ' d them blind and dusky spectacles for losing ken of albion ' s wished coast
brother , thou shalt to london presently and whet on warwick to this enterprise .
] fool .
dead , if you will ; but not to be his wife , that is another ' s lawful promis
it draws blood no cataplasm so rare , collected from all simples that have virtue under the moon , can
the old priest at saint luke ' s church is at your command at all hours .
txt enter goneril and [her] steward [oswald] .
rout is coming .
fight who shall be king of it ?
o , there be players that i have seen play , and heard others praise , and that highly (not
to this effect , he wrought upon her .
in which array , brave soldier , doth he lie larding the plain ; and by his bloody side ,
old signior , walk aside with me .
, dismiss the controversy bleeding , the more entangled by your hearing .
now is this golden crown like a deep well that owes two buckets , filling one another ; the emptier
treachers by spherical pre-dominance ; drunkards , liars , and adulterers by an enforc ' d obedience of planetary influence
you corrupt the song , sirrah .
ay , and greater wonders than that .
therefore away , and leave her bravely ; go .
[a shout and flourish] hark !
o , we have made a vow to study , lords , and in that vow we have forsworn our
yet affected eminence , wealth , sovereignty ; which , to say sooth , are blessings ; and which gifts
or you stol ' n his ?
this has been some stair-work , some trunk-work , some behind-door-work ; they were warmer that got this than the
(hung in ghastly night) makes black night beauteous , and her old face new .
ay , good my lord ; for purposely therefore left i the court , to see this quarrel tried .
when you are hearing a matter page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter french soldier , pistol , and boy pistol .
a confirm ' d countenance !
as black as vulcan in the smoke of war .
how the rogue roar ' d !
come , wait upon him ; lead him to my bower .
tyrannous heart can think ?
i had a father , mistress anne ; my uncle can tell you good jests of him .
here sound retreat and cease our hot pursuit .
there they always use to discharge their birding-pieces .
your ships already are in readiness .
exeunt wolsey and his train buckingham .
will know , by moonshine did these lovers think no scorn to meet at ninus ' tomb , there ,
[aside] i know not what impediment this complaint may be to the flight of my master .
, a wretched ragged man , o ' ergrown with hair , lay sleeping on his back .
let him that thinks of me so abjectly know that this gold must coin a stratagem , which , cunningly
sir william stanley sir john montgomery sir john somerville tutor , to rutland mayor of york lieutenant of the tower
how much i had to do to calm his rage i now fear i this will give it start again
now he is gone , my lord , you need not fear .
i ' ll tell you straight .
ay , my good lord , your royal preparation makes us hear something .
hath trod my title down and with dishonour laid me on the ground , where i must take like seat
be of good comfort , prince ; for you are born to set a form upon that indigest which he
to whom should this be ?
sure i shall never marry like my sisters , to love my father all .
and i for such-like petty crimes as these .
what hands are here ?
mistress minion you , thank me no thankings , nor proud me no prouds , but fettle your fine joints
be liars .
not i , believe me .
you show ' d your teeth like apes , and fawn ' d like hounds , and bow ' d
i remember , when i was in love , i broke my sword upon a stone , and bid him
txt sharp misery had worn him to the bones ; and in his needy shop a tortoise hung , an
i cannot make you what amends i would , therefore accept such kindness as i can .
that the strong statutes stand like the forfeits in a barber ' s shop , as much in mock as
a lady , sir , though it was said she much resembled me , was yet of many accounted beautiful
would you not have me honest ?
this way .
your purpos ' d low correction is such as basest and contemn ' dest wretches for pilf ' rings and
if you can penetrate her with your fingering , so .
some there be that shadows kiss , such have but a shadow ' s bliss .
weep , whilst man and master laughs my woes to scorn .
admits .
this day , great duke , she shut the doors upon me , while she with harlots feasted in my
pray you , sir , how much carnation ribbon may a man buy for a remuneration ?
you have an unspeakable comfort of your young prince mamillius ; it is a gentleman of the greatest promise that
; witchcraft celebrates pale hecate ' s offerings ; and wither ' d murther , alarum ' d by his
' tis not a mile ; briefly we heard their drums .
txt respect it is in the fields , it pleaseth me well ; but in respect it is not in
where is my brother hector ?
my love , give me thy lips .
poor fool and knave , i have one part in my heart that ' s sorry yet for thee .
i will grind your bones to dust , and with your blood and it i ' ll make a paste
ay .
still .
so our leader ' s led , and we are women ' s men .
be more abstemious , or else good night your vow !
incontinent , or else be incontinent before marriage .
i see him rouse himself to praise my noble act .
art thou wise ?
' d him .
he came to me , and i deliver ' d it .
o my wolsey , the quiet of my wounded conscience , thou art a cure fit for a king .
i had rather be a beggar ' s dog than apemantus .
this proves me base .
the earth is firm that falstaff is there .
bereft and gelded of his patrimony .
that i am come to tell you of !
txt the captainship , thou shalt be met with thanks , allow ' d with absolute power , and thy
i have reconcil ' d your friends and you .
unto my fortune , and to my humble seat conform myself .
a mother ' s care .
the trust i have is in mine innocence , and therefore am i bold and resolute .
d as he that sleeps here swims .
, henry , and his son young edward , and all the unlook ' d for issue of their bodies
enter paulina , with a child first lord .
what news on the rialto ?
eyes , which i may call the sea , do ebb and flow with tears ; the bark thy body
do love thee ; therefore , go with me .
the more it is wasted , the sooner it wears .
if they can find in their hearts the poor unvirtuous fat knight shall be any further afflicted , we two
comparisons are odorous .
she hath no exchequer now but his , and proud of many , lives upon his gains ?
marquis dorset , bearing a sceptre of gold , on his head a demi-coronal of gold .
d salt-sea shark , root of hemlock digg ' d i ' the dark , liver of blaspheming jew ,
o me , the word ' choose ' !
not easily , i think .
' i see thing ' s may serve long , but not serve ever .
shall i have justice ?
eyes look after him , and cannot do him good , so mighty are his vowed enemies .
on me , that cropp ' d the golden prime of this sweet prince and made her widow to a
tears by number into hours of happiness .
first will i see the coronation ; and then to brittany i ' ll cross the sea to effect this
you ' ll leave his lecture when i am in tune ?
o , i am slain !
your royal presences be rul ' d by me : do like the mutines of jerusalem , be friends awhile
but , sir , be you ruled by me .
most cruelly didst thou , alonso , use me and my daughter ; thy brother was a furtherer in the
own proper cost and charges , without having any dowry .
i have not yet enter ' d my house .
measure his woe the length and breadth of mine , and let it answer every strain for strain , as
true to tell thee , the grief hath craz ' d my wits .
give me your hands all over , one by one .
action and accent did they teach him there : ' thus must thou speak ' and ' thus thy body
warwick and clarence , give me both your hands .
txt therefore be out of hope , of question , of doubt ; be certain , nothing truer ; '
for living murmurers there ' s places of rebuke .
but doth he know that i am in this forest , and in man ' s apparel ?
know ' st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile ?
my shame will not be shifted with my sheet .
it an altar , and thy brother troilus a priest , there off ' ring to it his own heart
sorry i am my noble cousin should suspect me that i mean no good to him .
have shunn ' d , i gave him gentle looks , thereby to find that which thyself hast now disclos
well are you fitted , had you but a moor .
why did you bring these daggers from the place ?
such is his noble purpose ; and , believe ' t , the duke will lay upon him all the
i prithee , pretty york , who told thee this ?
that i love her , i feel .
but since thou lov ' st , love still , and thrive therein , even as i would , when
txt but here they live to end .
we all stand up against the spirit of caesar , and in the spirit of men there is no blood
s tear , tamer than sleep , fonder than ignorance , less valiant than the virgin in the night ,
i am made to understand that you have lent him visitation .
' tis marvel- but that you are but newly come , you might have heard it else proclaim ' d
kate of my consolation- hearing thy mildness prais ' d in every town , thy virtues spoke of , and
where is the gold i gave in charge to thee ?
or say to them thou art their soldier and , being bred in broils , hast not the soft way
why let it strike ?
states , the athenian lords , ventidius , which timon redeem ' d from prison .
stand back ; room , bear back !
lady , you have .
you are too indulgent .
for she will score your fault upon my pate .
stop my mouth .
who must hang them ?
what , what ?
so shall i evermore be bound to thee ; besides , i ' ll make a present recompense .
enter william touchstone .
[aside] ay , widow ?
of them i have much to tell thee .
thawing cold fear , that mean and gentle all behold , as may unworthiness define , page _num_ complete works
have i not here the best cards for the game to will this easy match , play ' d for
where have you hid yourself ?
i , daedalus ; my poor boy , icarus ; thy father , minos , that denied our course ;
a great banquet serv ' d in ; flavius and others attending ; and then enter lord timon , the
his whole kingdom into desolation .
my galen ?
how now , ulysses !
let me have your good will .
my love and stol ' st away the ladies ' hearts of france , i thought king henry had resembled
come , talk not of her .
or else his dromio of syracuse .
labour on the bosom of this sphere to propagate their states .
go , my dread lord , to your great-grandsire ' s tomb , from whom you claim ; invoke his
i would the fool were married to her grave !
txt an orchard before leonato ' s house .
i do not know , my lord , what i should think , pol .
then , if you can , [shows the bracelet] be pale .
i believe , not any .
absolute sir , if thou wilt have the leading of thine own revenges , take th ' one half of
i ' ll steal away .
clerk , draw a deed of gift .
and therefore apt , because quick .
i muse your majesty doth seem so cold , when such profound respects do pull you on .
unless for that , my liege , i cannot guess .
the dead body is carried away .
away with him , away with him ; better shame than murder .
none but libertines delight in him ; and the commendation is not in his wit , but in his villany
well demanded , wench !
i am a subject fit to jest withal , but far unfit to be a sovereign .
you came not of one mother then , it seems .
ay , sir , there are a crew of wretched souls that stay his cure .
alas , he is betray ' d , and i undone !
, fighting- [horns] hark you now !
is talbot slain ?
abroad ; pray you , look in .
the sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears , thy old groans ring yet in mine ancient ears .
txt lucius ' servant .
that my master was ?
>> scene : venice and cyprus act i .
hold off your hands !
but that my admirable dexterity of wit , my counterfeiting the action of an old woman , deliver ' d
i was sent for to the king ; but why , i know not .
piece out our imperfections with your thoughts : into a thousand parts divide one man , and make imaginary puissance
mended again .
see thyself , devil !
tell him i am prompt to lay my crown at ' s feet , and there to kneel .
and why , indeed , ' naso ' but for smelling out the odoriferous flowers of fancy , the jerks
not ; you are yet unsworn ; when you have vow ' d , you must not speak with men
dear friend dead , else nothing in the world could turn so much the constitution of any constant man .
this is the deadly spite that angers me- my wife can speak no english , i no welsh .
those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour ' d when others are more wicked ; not being the worst stands
these letters come from your father .
but of force must yield to such inevitable shame as to offend , himself being offended ; so can i
and so , great pow ' rs , if you will take this audit , take this life , and
all that you speak shows fair .
thou mayst be valiant in a better cause , but now thou seem ' st a coward .
in your lord ' s scale is nothing but himself , and some few vanities that make him light ;
the human mortals want their winter here ; no night is now with hymn or carol blest ; therefore the
or shall we cut away our hands like thine ?
by fair or foul means we must enter in , for hither will our friends repair to us .
hie , good sir michael ; bear this sealed brief with winged haste to the lord marshal ; this to
duke of venice .
but , francis , darest thou be so valiant as to play the coward with thy indenture and show it
t ' illume that part of heaven where now it burns , marcellus and myself , the bell then beating
[tears the supplications] away , base cullions !
the rank of osiers by the murmuring stream left on your right hand brings you to the place .
his ear .
ha , ha , ha !
will avouch it , yet i must not , for certain friends that are both his and mine , whose
sir , i can nothing say but that i am your most obedient servant .
this is true , on mine honour ; and so , i pray , go with us .
brabantio .
>> _num_ king richard the second by william shakespeare dramatis personae king richard the second john of gaunt , duke
o constancy , be strong upon my side !
that will be ere the set of sun .
be thou asham ' d that i have took upon me such an immodest raiment- if shame live in a
then think you right : i am not what i am .
deceitful warwick , it was thy device by this alliance to make void my suit .
what do you think page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
txt ant .
and let the subject see , to make them know that outward courtesies would fain proclaim favours that keep within
i am very glad to see you , signior ; welcome to cyprus .
me forswear .
you are grandjurors , are ye ?
is she not a modest young lady ?
more , to bring thee to the gallows , not to the font .
most grave brabantio , in simple and pure soul i come to you .
if thou didst ever thy dear father love- ham .
i would not have such a heart in my bosom for the dignity of the whole body .
be call ' d purgers , not murderers .
art any more than a steward ?
o , help me , help me !
my great power thereof may give thee sense , since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red after the danish
and cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here , bed , chamber , pander , to provide this gear !
the moor .
mark me with what violence she first loved the moor , but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies .
exit first stranger .
come therefore , and to thasos send his body ; his funerals shall not be in our camp , lest
and ravish ' d thee .
to the laundress , forsooth .
come , my captain knows you not .
bid him repair to me , and bring with him some of the chiefest princes of the goths ; bid
how canst thou try them so ?
no , no , he is dead ; go to thy deathbed ; he never will come again .
left alone , now , by mine honour which is yet mine own , i ' ll have that doctor
txt brabantio .
whether there , or there , or there ?
hence shall we see , if power change purpose , what our seemers be .
[kneels] coriolanus .
there is my hand , and let it feel your ear .
maria .
were he not warm ' d with ale , this were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly .
wilt break my heart ?
have preserv ' d myself to see the issue .
pinch .
i found it thrown in at the casement of my closet .
wand , as high steward .
lucullus .
hail , most dear caesar !
come , go with us ; we ' ll bring thee to our crews , and show thee all the
give him such an unaccustom ' d dram that he shall soon keep tybalt company ; and then i hope
so follow ' d my banishment , and this twenty years this rock and these demesnes have been my world
give her an hundred marks .
o imogen , thou hast lost by this a kingdom .
striving to better , oft we mar what ' s well .
at this hour lies at my mercy all mine enemies .
o , take this warm kiss on thy pale cold lips .
receive the money for the same .
i ' ll write upon thy burgonet , might i but know thee by thy household badge .
the commons hath he pill ' d with grievous taxes ; and quite lost their hearts ; the nobles hath
moon and stars !
now part them again , lest they consult about the giving up of some more towns in france .
have at you , then , affection ' s men-at-arms .
i dare lay mine honour he will remain so .
' tis almost morning .
me water with berries in ' t , and teach me how to name the bigger light , and how
if you use them , margaret , you must put in the pikes with a vice , and they are
great agamemnon comes to meet us here .
ay , forsooth , to desire her to- quickly .
as for my country i have shed my blood , not fearing outward force , so shall my lungs coin
why , with my lord , madam .
are friends to us , this happy night the frenchmen are secure , having all day carous ' d and
that which i gave you .
exit re-enter malvolio malvolio .
why , villain , art not thou the carrier ?
shall see this very night .
my lord sandys , i am beholding to you .
you good gods , let what is here contain ' d relish of love , of my lord ' s
the field .
txt proclaim them traitors that are up with cade ; that those which fly before the battle ends may ,
' tis most like he will .
and thus i search it with a sovereign kiss .
that i distrust you .
why do you send so thick ?
i warrant you , he ' s the man should fight with him .
[aside to celia] i will speak to him like a saucy lackey , and under that habit play the knave
thrice within this hour i saw him down ; thrice up again , and fighting ; from helmet to the
it is the cause .
o my fair warrior !
what , not between troilus and hector ?
devise , wit ; write , pen ; for i am for whole volumes in folio .
king henry , be thy title right or wrong , lord clifford vows to fight in thy defence .
at sixteen years , when tarquin made a head for rome , he fought beyond the mark of others ;
; the very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bow-boy ' s butt-shaft ; and is he a
arise my knights o ' th ' battle ; i create you companions to our person , and will fit
no , he hath enjoy ' d her .
where i could not be honest , i never yet was valiant .
me , an ' t shall please you ; i am antony dull .
a scale page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
evermore show ' ring ?
you forget that we are those which chas ' d you from the field , and slew your fathers ,
why , sadness is one and the self-same thing , dear imp .
lesser villain than myself , a sacrilegious thief , to do ' t .
slept in peace .
rank .
you are such another !
never come to make my heart her vassal .
by my life , they are a sweet society of fair ones .
who cannot condemn rashness in cold blood ?
antonio .
here , take her hand , proud scornful boy , unworthy this good gift , that dost in vile misprision
most noble sir , if you do hold the same intent wherein you wish ' d us parties , we
you granting of my suit , if that be sin , i ' ll make it my morn prayer to
you have done our pleasures much grace , fair ladies , set a fair fashion on our entertainment , which
fair weather after you !
with him , we may .
say no , from shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck , as good to chide the waves as
sirrah , iras , go .
put thyself into a haviour of less fear , ere wildness vanquish my staider senses .
but he , as loving his own pride and purposes , evades them , with a bumbast circumstance horribly stuff
they whisper .
of that there ' s none , or little .
may never have you in suspect .
i would not thy good deeds should from my lips pluck a hard sentence .
so , so , so , so .
not till god make men of some other metal than earth .
good friend , thou hast no cause to say so yet , but thou shalt have ; and creep time
[aside] the duke of milan and his more braver daughter could control thee , if now ' twere fit to
; consider little what dangers , by his highness ' fail of issue , may drop upon his kingdom and
thou hast no weapon , and perforce must suffer .
will be given to th ' loud of noise we make .
" it doth abhor me now i speak the word ; to do the act that might the addition earn
you find not the apostrophas , and so miss the accent : let me supervise the canzonet .
so please you , it is true ; our thane is coming .
' d with that remorse as mine is to him ?
sorry am i that our good will effects bianca ' s grief .
' the other cries .
my lord- chief justice .
he , being remiss , most generous , and free from all contriving , will not peruse the foils ;
your private grudge , my lord of york , will out , though ne ' er so cunningly you smother
, like one that had the pestilence ; to sigh , like a school-boy that had lost his a b
' s habits- put my sick cause into his hands that hates me ?
vantage , as demetrius ' ; and , which is more than all these boasts can be , i am
cowardice whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this !
no , nor you shall not .
thou art rash as fire , to say that she was false .
txt but i go away with two .
i charge you , go with me .
it did move him to passion , and therefore let ' s hear it .
ay , go your ways , go your ways .
worthy fellows ; and like to prove most sinewy sword-men .
from naples can have no note , unless the sun were post , the man i ' th ' moon
en for you !
this is her question .
to her , and wherefore i am fled ; write to the king that which i durst not speak .
thy crystal window ope ; look out ; no longer exercise upon a valiant race thy harsh and potent injuries
exit bolingbroke .
elbow , and officers with pompey elbow .
let me excuse me , and believe me so , my mirth it much displeas ' d , but pleas
treason , lurking in our way to hinder our beginnings ; we doubt not now but every rub is smoothed
madam , i am not well .
he answers with a groan , more sharp to me than spurring to his side , for that same groan
you need not fear it , sir .
my cap would buy a halter .
ay me , poor man , how pale and wan he looks !
no , precious creature ; i had rather crack my sinews , break my back , than you should such
this , my lord .
it is an old coat .
at my tent the douglas is , and i beseech your grace i may dispose of him .
measure .
you know the lady ; she is fast my wife , save that we do the denunciation lack of outward
i have heard of riding wagers where horses have been nimbler than the sands that run i ' th '
- to cease thy suit and leave me to my grief .
she weeps , and says her henry is depos ' d : he smiles , and says his edward is
at others .
not mad , but bound more than a madman is ; shut up in prison , kept without my food
spake you not these words plain : ' sirrah knock me here , rap me here , knock me well
tedious and brief !
had our great palace the capacity to camp this host , we all would sup together , and drink carouses
yet stand close .
you speak too bitterly .
in the jew .
txt and where i did begin , there shall i end ; my life is run his compass .
enter lorenzo salerio .
if thou hadst been dromio to-day in my place , thou wouldst have chang ' d thy face for a
be mercury , set feathers to thy heels , and fly like thought from them to me again .
o thou damnable fellow !
ay me !
seek out king john , and fall before his feet ; for if the french be lords of this loud
attorney ' d at your service .
cannot a plain man live and think no harm but thus his simple truth must be abus ' d with
i come to speak with paris from the prince troilus ; i will make a complimental assault upon him ,
skin , weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in ; and with the juice of this i ' ll
being once subdu ' d in armed trail , sweet honey and sweet notes together fail .
why shall the people give one that speaks thus their voice ?
what mean ' st thou by that , malvolio ?
i think thou wast created for men to breathe themselves upon thee .
yours , for this !
enter charles , alencon , bastard , reignier , and others page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
gloucester and hastings fly over the stage somerset .
their cloaks , that by no means i may discover them by any mark of favor .
' t has been done : men shut their doors against a setting sun .
[throws a stone at him] apemantus .
i am glad to see you , by my troth , master shallow .
do a good turn for them .
[taking the red rose from his hat and throwing it at warwick] father of warwick , know you what this
o , now i need the priest that spake to me !
there could i have him now- and there- and there again- and there !
nor i neither by this heavenly light ; i might do ' t as well i ' the dark .
ay , when my father was in rome she did .
right noble burgundy , when she was dear to us , we did hold her so ; but now her
tut , these are petty faults to faults unknown which time will bring to light in smooth duke humphrey .
if any come , hector shall honour him ; if none , he ' ll say in troy , when
of bastard hope , neither .
to disfigure you .
never saw i figures so likely to report themselves .
now , roderigo , where didst thou see her ?
with cowardice- an honour in him which buys out his fault- but with a noble fury and fair spirit ,
is most unmeet of any man .
' and away .
, doing annoyance to the treacherous feet which with usurping steps do trample thee ; yield stinging nettles to mine
god speak this amen !
his wise mother wrought in his behalf , the third possessor ; ay , he was the third- antonio .
' the letter , as i live , with all the business i writ to ' s holiness .
of love .
is not yond diomed , with calchas ' daughter ?
yet sit and see , minding true things by what their mock ' ries be .
how now , kate ?
his great limb or joint , shall pass pompey the great ; the page , hercules .
and , brother york , thy acts in ireland , in bringing them to civil discipline , thy late exploits
she gave me none except an angry word .
heigh-ho !
neither rhyme nor reason can express how much .
with what i get , i mean ; and so do they .
come , come , open the matter ; in brief , what said she ?
you as gently as any sucking dove ; i will roar you an ' twere any nightingale .
i think he ' ll be to rome as is the osprey to the fish , who takes it by
_num_ no more be grieved at that which thou hast done , roses have thorns , and silver fountains mud
why , antony .
if you thrive well , bring them to baynard ' s castle ; where you shall find me well accompanied
thou speak ' st it well .
thither- [stabs him again] i , that have neither pity , love , nor fear .
i go , i go .
what will this do ?
one of lord timon ' s men .
and in the morn i ' ll bring you to your ship , and so to naples , where i
chastity , enough in language without offence to utter them .
again with more .
ink and paper , charmian .
in peace and honour live lord titus long ; my noble lord and father , live in fame !
by .
you beg a single penny more ; come , you shall ha ' t ; save your word .
on mine own accord i ' ll off ; but first i ' ll do my errand .
txt ten thousand swelling toads , as many urchins , would make such fearful and confused cries as any mortal
the like attempts .
i am thane of cawdor .
txt hymen .
heart .
die , damned wretch , the curse of her that bare thee !
thou liest , thou jesting monkey , thou ; i would my valiant master would destroy thee .
they beat to follow faster , as amorous of their strokes .
thus : [reads .
, and with brawling fed ; and that which spites me more than all these wants- he does it under
let me say amen betimes , lest the devil cross my prayer , for here he comes in the likeness
go with him , provost .
which of your hips has the most profound sciatica ?
no , percy , thou art dust , and food for- [dies .
and signs , abortives , presages , and tongues of heaven , plainly denouncing vengeance upon john .
but this is trifling ; and all the more it seeks to hide itself , the bigger bulk it shows
for it cannot be but i am pigeon-liver ' d and lack gall to make oppression bitter , or ere
let ' s have some merry ones .
well , daughter , and you gentlewomen all , withdraw into a chamber by yourselves , and when i send
thou hast done a deed- i care not for thy sword ; i ' ll make thee known , though
what is the city but the people ?
' but do you remember- ' madam , why laugh you at such a barren rascal ?
away with him .
fly hence and leave me .
my name ' s macbeth .
by this kind of chase i should hate him , for my father hated his father dearly ; yet i
and he that will not fight for such a hope , go home to bed and , like the owl
txt drunkards .
he rests not in this tomb .
>> scene : verona ; milan ; the frontiers of mantua act i .
but will the king digest this letter of the cardinal ' s ?
match ' d ; and , if you please to like no worse than i , upon some agreement me
but mistress page would desire you to send her your little page of all loves .
a goodly one ; in which there are many confines , wards , and dungeons , denmark being one o
do , do .
a better soldier than rashness .
or sleep i now , and think i hear all this ?
enter duke silvia .
' surrey .
meantime , forget this new-fall ' n dignity , and fall into our rustic revelry .
take him on the costard with the hilts of thy sword , and then chop him in the malmsey-butt in
o , how full of briers is this working-day world !
you throw a strange regard upon me , and by that i do perceive it hath offended you .
i am not merry , but i do beguile the thing i am by seeming otherwise .
we have none such , sir .
these violent delights have violent ends and in their triumph die , like fire and powder , which , as
signior , is all your family within ?
call in the powers , good cousin westmoreland .
if there be breadth enough in the world , i will hold a long distance .
exeunt [capulet and paris] .
my master and my lord !
money by me !
come before my father .
i have a young conception in my brain ; be you my time to bring it to some shape .
ay , and a shrewd unhappy gallows too .
thou pine within and suffer dearth painting thy outward walls so costly gay ?
o that i were a man !
egeus .
she is serv ' d as i would serve a rat .
emilia , come .
to the king ' s party there ' s no going .
the morning comes upon ' s .
] what are you there ?
doubt , as i will watch the aim , or to find both , or bring your latter hazard back
a plot upon her virtuous husband ' s life , and the exchange my brother !
the king hath sent to know the nature of your griefs ; and whereupon you conjure from the breast of
warwick and talbot , salisbury and gloucester- be in their flowing cups freshly rememb ' red .
art thou his father ?
in windsor , she is one .
zounds , an i were now by this rascal , i could brain him with his lady ' s fan
by the mass , i have drunk too much sack at supper .
well then , colville is your name , a knight is your degree , and your place the dale .
of our slain kings .
o thou dissembling cub !
pardon me , madam , for i meant not so .
montague , montague , for lancaster !
go , sir , rub your chain with crumbs .
in respect of the love he bears our house !
you are a good archer , marcus .
that part thou , pisanio , must act for me , if thy faith be not tainted with the breach
about .
peace , sirrah !
we should hold day with the antipodes , if you would walk in absence of the sun .
procures she still , ha ?
will ' t please your highness walk ?
caitiff , in pieces shake that under covert and convenient seeming hast practis ' d on man ' s life
you are deceiv ' d ; for what i mean to do see here in bloody lines i have set
second apparition : a bloody child .
shall bereave yourself page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
- and yet i know not how conceit may rob the treasury of life when life itself yields to the
let achilles sleep .
txt stronger than it was at that time ; and , as i said , there is no moe such
do you see nothing there ?
txt let me thy servant and not sovereign be .
why , man , she is mine own ; and i as rich in having such a jewel page _num_
pray you avoid .
there lies your way , due west .
[to orlando] i will satisfy you if ever i satisfied man , and you shall be married to-morrow .
go your ways , and ask of doctor caius ' house which is the way ; and there dwells one
speak , brave hector ; we are much delighted .
which i wonder ' d could be so rarely and exactly wrought , since the true life on ' t
i do repent .
o , the world hath not a sweeter creature .
, this tongue that runs so roundly in thy head should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders .
what do you see ?
txt by william shakespeare from off a hill whose concave womb reworded a plaintful story from a sist ' ring
the frame and huge foundation of the earth shak ' d like a coward .
servilius , now before the gods , i am not able to do- the more beast , i say !
well could i bear that england had this praise , so we could find some pattern of our shame .
for a great favour .
can distinguish ' twixt page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
hear my soul speak : the very instant that i saw you , did my heart fly to your service
where ' s achilles ?
shall i be your ostler ?
have i commandment on the pulse of life ?
enough to make a whore forswear her trade , and to make whores a bawd .
why , i am past my gamut long ago .
take thou this note [gives a paper] .
i have forgot your name ; but , sure , that part was aptly fitted and naturally perform ' d
re-enter buckingham and the rest cousin of buckingham , and sage grave men , page _num_ complete works of william
o good sir , my master charg ' d me to deliver a ring to madam silvia , which ,
still denied ; but this antenor , i know , is such a wrest in their affairs that their negotiations
stay , sir ; stay awhile .
no , sir , she shall not , though you take her part .
thou must be gone , wench , thou must be gone ; thou art chang ' d for antenor ;
, make their ministers of us and those that love you .
the quality and hair of our attempt brooks no division .
i lov ' d you ever .
if any man doubt that , let him put me to my purgation .
whither are you bound ?
for you .
in their mouths ; and when they talk of him , they shake their heads , and whisper one another
i was sending to use lord timon myself , these gentlemen can witness ; but i would not for the
re-enter the bastard of orleans with joan la pucelle reignier .
first , for this woman- to justify this worthy nobleman , so vulgarly and personally accus ' d- her shall
txt hippolyta .
i have heard i am a strumpet , and mine ear , therein false struck , can take no greater
then it will be the earliest fruit i ' th ' country ; for you ' ll be rotten ere
' with that , methoughts , a legion of foul fiends environ ' d me , and howled in mine
what hath then befall ' n , or what hath this bold enterprise brought forth more than that being which
the clerk of chatham .
thy daughters !
quoth my master .
o- desdemona- desdemona .
[they sit down] a flourish of trumpets announces the play <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare
there let him sink , and be the seas on him !
therefore , precisely , can you carry your good will to the maid ?
a street enter launce , leading a dog launce .
there ' s nothing in this world can make me joy .
txt quickly .
you have a daughter call ' d elizabeth .
let him be so entertained amongst you as suits with gentlemen of your knowing to a stranger of his quality
' ah , dear juliet , why art thou yet so fair ?
corner .
plucking the entrails of an offering forth , they could not find a heart within the beast .
exeunt all but somerset , richmond , and oxford somerset .
of lord angelo , came not to an undoubted proof .
can this be true ?
once more , adieu ; the rest let sorrow say .
brief and plain conveniency let me have judgment , and the jew his will .
as wholesome as sweet , and by very much more handsome than fine .
txt the park enter armado and moth armado .
had my lips that power , thus would i wear them out .
well , uncle , what folly i commit , i dedicate to you .
you know he does .
in your own kingdom , sir .
whate ' er i forge to feed his brain-sick humours , do you uphold and maintain in your speeches ,
born where ' t grows , but worn a bait for ladies .
[sings] it was the friar of orders grey , as he forth walked on his way- out , you rogue
what news , borachio ?
[aside] o excellent motion !
advance thy halberd higher than my breast , or , by saint paul , i ' ll strike thee to
upon thy sight my worldly business makes a period .
he is not the flower of courtesy , but , i ' ll warrant him , as gentle as a
rescu ' d , i have seen him caper upright like a wild morisco , shaking the bloody darts as
there ' s time enough for that , lest they desire upon this push to trouble your joys with like
his daughter ; keep your word , phebe , that you ' ll marry me , or else , refusing
thy wife hath dreamt ; thy mother hath had visions ; cassandra doth foresee ; and i myself am like
be loud weather ; besides , this place is famous for the creatures of prey that keep upon ' t
of may next ensuing .
there is none worthy , respecting her that ' s gone .
i am something curious , being strange , to have them in safe stowage .
sir valentine , i care not for her , i ; i hold him but a fool that will endanger
our countrymen are gone and fled , as well assur ' d richard their king is dead .
exceeding pleasant ; none a stranger there so merry and so gamesome .
' d with rank fumiter and furrow weeds , with hardocks , hemlock , nettles , cuckoo flow ' rs
[aside to clarence] nay , then whip me ; he ' ll rather give her two .
i ' ll to my truckle-bed ; this field-bed is too cold for me to sleep .
no might nor greatness in mortality can censure scape ; back-wounding calumny the whitest virtue strikes .
, and in time may make some stronger head- the which he hearing , as it is like him ,
arch , reverb ' rate the voice again ; or , like a gate of steel fronting the sun ,
more dazzled and drove back his enemies than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces .
lo , by thy side where rape and murder stands ; now give some surance that thou art revenge- stab
i am your neighbour , and was suitor first .
but look to it : find out thy brother wheresoe ' er he is ; seek him with candle ;
enter king henry , clarence , warwick , somerset , young henry , earl of richmond , oxford , montague
at what was all this laughing ?
so do i his .
hortensio .
set on .
i do forswear them ; and i here protest , by this white glove- how white the hand , god
; the weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter , that seem ' d in eating him to hold him
arms , arms !
doth it not flow as hugely as the sea , till that the wearer ' s very means do ebb
enter barnardine abhorson .
to one of your receiving enough is shown : a cypress , not a bosom , hides my heart .
ay , and mine , that brought you forth this boy to keep your name living to time .
txt good wombs have borne bad sons .
i see them !
come , go along ; my wife is coming yonder .
i hear it sing i ' th ' wind .
obedient- for so your father charg ' d me at our parting : ' be serviceable to my son '
god be with my old master !
make me a willow cabin at your gate , and call upon my soul within the house ; write loyal
you are lions too , you ran away upon instinct , you will not touch the true prince ; no-
what did thy song bode , lady ?
even with the vail and dark ' ning of the sun , to close the day up , hector '
the castle .
soundly , my lord .
pervert your course .
you are abus ' d , and by some putter-on that will be damn ' d for ' t .
god bless the prince from all the pack of you !
peace , cousin , say no more ; and now , i will unclasp a secret book , and to
by welkin and her star !
the tower-walls enter gloucester and buckingham in rotten armour , marvellous ill-favoured gloucester .
i will be hang ' d , if some eternal villain , some busy and insinuating rogue , some cogging
if a throstle sing he falls straight a-cap ' ring ; he will fence with his own shadow ; if
it ' s sign she hath been liberal and free .
dost thou not know ?
here comes the lady .
my love-suit sweet fulfil .
, wise , would from a paddock , from a bat , a gib such dear concernings hide ?
though it be pity to see such a sight , it well becomes the ground .
hie thee , captain .
to find out them ; had my desire , finger ' d their packet , and in fine withdrew to
know ye don antonio , your countryman ?
what mutter you ?
bones .
heaven bless him !
' red foul play in a state .
, before him and underneath that consecrated roof , plight me the fun assurance of your faith , that my
marcus , unknit that sorrow-wreathen knot ; thy niece and i , poor creatures , want our hands , and
speak thou for me , and tell them what i did .
me , their tribune and their trust , this par]iament of white and spotless hue ; and name thee in
, is turned into a justice-like serving-man .
my sword .
exit salisbury queen .
bloods , excludes all pity from our threat ' ning looks .
banished fair england ' s territories , they will by violence tear him from your palace and torture him with
what should i do i do not ?
go to kennel , pompey , go .
ay , that i will ; and i ' ll be wise hereafter , and seek for grace .
you were best say these robes are not gentlemen born .
' ay me !
exeunt enter puck with a broom page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
on th ' market-place i know they do attend us .
, for the better compass of his salt and most hidden loose affection ?
alack , sir , he is mad !
fetch me a better answer .
diverted their poor balls are tied to th ' orbed earth ; sometimes they do extend their view right on
thou lov ' st me not ; for , brother , if thou didst , thy tears would wash this
wrong i mine enemies ?
approach ; here dwells my father jew .
every villain be call ' d posthumus leonatus , and be villainy less than ' twas !
why , did you take her in green ?
with libbard ' s head on knee .
humphrey stafford william stafford , his brother sir john stanley vaux matthew goffe a lieutenant , a shipmaster , a
we four indeed confronted were with four in russian habit ; here they stayed an hour and talk ' d
hog , a headless bear , sometime a fire ; and neigh , and bark , and grunt , and
i am assur ' d , if i be measur ' d rightly , your majesty hath no just cause
_num_ that god forbid , that made me first your slave , i should in thought control your times of
first mend my company : take away thyself .
pray you , sir , a word ; and , as i told you , my young lady bid me
shapes ; for there is boundless theft in limited professions .
i should be still plucking the grass to know where sits the wind , peering in maps for ports ,
mistress kate keepdown was with child by him in the duke ' s time ; he promis ' d her
could you not have told him- as you were lesson ' d- when he had no power but was a
in god ' s name and the king ' s , say who thou art , and why thou comest
assemble presently the people hither ; and when they hear me say ' it shall be so i ' th
o brave sir !
[lifts up the arras and sees polonius .
thou art a fool ; if echo were as fleet , i would esteem him worth a dozen such .
now they are .
you need but plead your honourable privilege .
i know a bank where the wild thyme blows , where oxlips and the nodding violet grows , quite over-canopied
venom steep ' d ' gainst fortune ' s state would treason have pronounc ' d .
didst ever hear a man so penitent ?
this yellow iachimo in an hour- was ' t not ?
well ; the matter ?
hadst been still with me , i could have taught my love to take thy father for mine ; so
yon ribaudred nag of egypt- whom leprosy o ' ertake !
i know her father , though i know not her ; and he knew my deceased father well .
give me leave to tell you once again that at my birth the front of heaven was full of fiery
lucetta , as thou lov ' st me , let me have what thou think ' st meet , and
port expect you .
liest .
blind is his love and best befits the dark .
and who durst smile when warwick bent his brow ?
where doth the world thrust forth a vanity- so it be new , there ' s no respect how vile-
soothsayer !
txt an affable and courteous gentleman ; her name is katherina minola , renown ' d in padua for her
in god ' s name , the which he hath us ' d so long and never paid that now
may i never to this good purpose , that so fairly shows , dream of impediment !
] ' in her excellent white bosom , these , &c .
nay , do not fright us with an angry look .
third witch .
and patricians love him too .
why , now you speak like a good child and a true gentleman .
when was ' t before ?
' northumberland , thou ladder by the which my cousin bolingbroke ascends my throne ' - though then , god
upon the sharp wind of the north , to do me business in the veins o ' th ' earth
car , confessor to him , with that devil-monk , hopkins , that made this mischief .
if thou follow him , thou must needs wear my coxcomb .
land fetch from false mowbray their first head and spring .
, prince of wales , his son lewis xi , king of france duke of somerset duke of exeter earl
my next is ' most fair pyramus .
to wrangling ; for thy loving voyage is but for two months victuall ' d .
, and that hath taught me to say this : ' love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues
stars , my lord .
i ' ll send her straight away .
txt as twenty seas , if all their sand were pearl , the water nectar , and the rocks pure
i once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus : ' wonder of nature ' - orleans .
captain dumain : you have answer ' d to his reputation with the duke , and to his valour ;
my power , alas , i doubt !
beseech you call a virtuous sin , makes me afeard .
' tis told me he hath very oft of late given private time to you , and you yourself have
meanwhile , sir , with the little skill i have , full well shalt thou perceive how much i dare
thou ow ' st , nor shall death brag thou wand ' rest in his shade , when in eternal
of thee .
' tis in my memory lock ' d , and you yourself shall keep the key of it .
pardon , my lord .
history , report , or his own proof , what woman is , yea , what she cannot choose but
] if chance will have me king , why , chance may crown me without my stir .
come , my lord , i ' ll lead you to your tent .
i take thy hand- this hand , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
your if is the only peace-maker ; much virtue in if .
and let them die that age and sullens have ; for both hast thou , and both become the grave
all this is comfort ; wherefore weep i then ?
it had a dying fall ; o , it came o ' er my ear like the sweet sound that
howl , howl , howl , howl !
hautboys .
peace , villain , peace !
there ' s no news at the court , sir , but the old news ; that is , the
not so much warrant , as despair that frosts will bite them .
it is too rough , too rude , too boist ' rous , and it pricks like thorn .
but peace , aeneas , peace , troyan ; lay thy finger on thy lips .
heaven i shall not know him .
but sure , if you would be your country ' s pleader , your good tongue , more than the
peter simple you say your name is ?
more , domitius : my lord desires you presently ; my news i might have told hereafter .
good queen !
god help thee , shallow man !
s malice and his potency together ; to consider further , that what his high hatred would effect wants not
through itself to that full issue for which i raz ' d my likeness .
at ; that men would tell their children , ' this is he !
[to polixenes] sir , welcome .
if you will see a pageant truly play ' d between the pale complexion of true love and the red
intends unto his holiness .
naked in bed , iago , and not mean harm !
by this time i know your back will bear a duchess .
' tis such as you , that creep like shadows by him , and do sigh at each his needless
sleep awhile .
deal of heartbreak .
thy drugs are quick .
both take and give .
my lord , i shall reply amazedly , half sleep , half waking ; but as yet , i swear
why , what ' s a moveable ?
our just-borne arms , we ' ll put thee down , ' gainst whom these arms we bear , or
give me the paper ; let me read the same ; and to the strictest decrees i ' ll write
from my lord berowne , a good master of mine , to a lady of france that he call '
it seems then that the tidings of this broil brake off our business for the holy land .
in the instant came the fiery tybalt , with his sword prepar ' d ; which , as he breath
and julia herself did give it me ; and julia herself have brought it hither .
txt to cudgel you and make you take the hatch , to dive like buckets in concealed wells , to
o , he ' s drunk , sir toby , an hour agone ; his eyes were set at eight
much better she ne ' er had known pomp ; though ' t be temporal , yet , if that
i never did thee harm .
his page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
roderigo .
first , noble friend , let me embrace thine age , whose honour cannot be measur ' d or confin
orsino , noble sir , be pleas ' d that i shake off these names you give me : antonio
is the day so young ?
written troubles of the brain , and with some sweet oblivious antidote cleanse the stuff ' d bosom of that
gracious lord , stand for your own , unwind your bloody flag , look back into your mighty ancestors .
[exeunt page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
why , you speak truth .
i shall , my liege .
go , tell the prince ; run to the capulets ; raise up the montagues ; some others search .
dwelling .
dispatch , i prithee .
nobody cares .
breaking in .
[swoons] proteus .
i have a kind of self resides with you ; but an unkind self , that itself will leave to
now his friends are dead , doors that were ne ' er acquainted with their wards many a bounteous year
nicanor ?
or i will subscribe him a coward .
it should seem , fellow , that thou hast not seen the lady cressida .
what say ' st thou to this tune , matter , and method ?
faith , i ran when i saw others run .
on my christian conscience , this one christening will beget a thousand : here will be father , godfather ,
trial if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer .
with honour .
much he spoke , and learnedly , for life ; but all was either pitied in him or forgotten .
hold your tongue , good prudence .
no , by my troth , i have no moral meaning ; i meant plain holy thistle .
and others , all being servants of timon ' s creditors , to wait for his coming out .
, inhabits there .
third groom .
behold thy fill .
not this hour , lieutenant ; ' tis not yet ten o ' the clock .
rivers and dorset , you were standers by , and so wast thou , lord hastings , when my son
spoke he of me ?
[to attendants .
' d to discover him .
take her away .
s lost .
of the ptolemies for her heirs , now hazarded to thy grace .
they have travell ' d all the night ?
with old menenius , and those senators that always favour ' d him .
but that i am forbid to tell the secrets of my prison house , i could a tale unfold whose
when in the world i liv ' d , i was the world ' s commander ; by east ,
now , york , or never , steel thy fearful thoughts and change misdoubt to resolution ; be that thou
the other lords , like lions wanting food , do rush upon us as their hungry prey .
in earnest , it ' s true ; i heard a senator speak it .
take your time .
[to varro .
we talk with goblins , owls , and sprites .
i may but call her mine .
o god of love !
ay , madam , but returns again tonight .
and who declines ; side factions , and give out conjectural marriages , making parties strong , and feebling such
it pleases him to call you so ; but he hath a rosalind of a better leer than you .
it is a creature that dotes on cassio , as ' tis the strumpet ' s plague to beguile many
canst thou tell if claudio die to-morrow or no ?
health and fair greeting from our general , the prince , lord john and duke of lancaster .
world ' s new fashion planted , that hath a mint of phrases in his brain ; one who the
myself am one made privy to the plot .
but like a pleasant slumber in thy lap ?
my lord of suffolk , within fourteen days at bristol i expect my soldiers ; for there i ' ll
good morrow , neighbour baptista .
he is too picked , too spruce , too affected , too odd , as it were , too peregrinate
paid .
enter lorenzo , jessica , and salerio , a messenger from venice bassanio .
my cherry lips have often kiss ' d thy stones , thy stones with lime and hair knit up in
who does me this , ha ?
d league ; win you this city without stroke or wound ; rescue those breathing lives to die in beds
only for praise ; and praise we may afford to any lady that subdues a lord .
, in sky .
o , lay me by my mistress ' side .
a puny subject strikes at thy great glory .
hidden pow ' r than let him so be lost .
tell me , heavenly bow , if venus or her son , as thou dost know , do now attend
what would you with the princess ?
age , a dearer birth than this his love had brought to march in ranks of better equipage : page
' er , but falls into abatement and low price even in a minute .
god shall forgive you coeur-de-lion ' s death the rather that you give his offspring life , shadowing their right
txt daring th ' event to th ' teeth , are all in uproar , and danger serves among them
' fore god , they have given me a rouse already .
in words , but find supply immediate .
i needs must use ; and then i ' ll presently attend you .
my appliance , with all bound humbleness .
exit isabella duke .
this mad-bred flaw .
mine armour , eros !
plague all , that your activity may defeat and quell the source of all erection .
re-enter thisby thisby .
the odds for high and low ' s alike .
enter alcibiades with his powers before athens alcibiades .
against the butchers of his life !
threat you me with telling of the king ?
the rose i wear , saying the sanguine colour of the leaves did represent my master ' s blushing cheeks
behold , there stand the caskets , noble prince .
they are gone but to meet the duke , villain ; do not say they be fled .
well , a horn for my money , when all ' s done .
she shall not see me ; i will ensconce me behind the arras .
time , deliver ' d .
at thy choice , then .
purpose is but the slave to memory , of violent birth , but poor validity ; which now , like
not but to do myself much right or you much shame .
prey .
, lords , gentlemen-indeed , of all .
shall the elephant ajax carry it thus ?
they say ' there ' s some of the king ' s blood spilt .
come , you are pleasant .
bring me unto my trial when you will .
o faithless coward !
mother aught .
most wisely hath ulysses here discover ' d the fever whereof all our power is sick .
which works on leases of short-numbered hours , but all alone stands hugely politic , that it nor grows with
how now , my charge !
' tis not to save labour , nor that i want love .
txt me whether one launcelot , that dwells with him , dwell with him or no ?
pray ye , pacify yourself , sir john ; there comes no swaggerers here .
three year .
he tells you rightly .
why , here ' s he that was wont to thwack our general- caius marcius .
lucilius !
and beauty shall together thrive if from thy self , to store thou wouldst convert : or else of thee
upon a sudden , as falstaff , she , and i , are newly met , let them from forth
lord timon ' s mad .
about the ninth hour , lady .
what fashion will you wear the garland of ?
you were best meddle with buck-washing .
wherefore did you so ?
see , there she lies , flower as she was , deflowered by him .
master , be wise ; an if you give it her , the devil will shake her chain , and
exit silvia speed .
bear were at his heels .
bianca .
- tell me , sweet kate , and tell me truly too , hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman ?
foot to england ' s throne .
, than i will wrong such honorable men .
exeunt act_ _num_ |sc_ _num_ scene vi .
therefore i ' ll none of it .
well , ' tis not so , my lord high constable ; but though we think it so , it
who hath sent thee now ?
give me your hand before this holy friar .
when didst thou sleep when such a deed was done ?
thou dost evil .
for indeed i promised to eat all of his killing .
follow us to the court .
thou bitch-wolf ' s son , canst thou not hear ?
try their fortune there ; some to discover islands far away ; some to the studious universities .
i am gone , though i am here .
gentlemen , the penance lies on you if these fair ladies pass away frowning .
of heaven .
as we were sharing , some six or seven fresh men sea upon us- fal .
but , hold thee , take this garland on thy brow ; thy brutus bid me give it thee ,
txt the present death of hamlet .
speak your office .
i was hurt under your arm .
if thou read this , o caesar , thou mayest live ; if not , the fates with traitors do
and , good master corporal captain , for my old dame ' s sake , stand my friend .
cousin of buckingham , a word with you .
the people in the street cry ' romeo , ' some ' juliet , ' and some ' paris '
to hate me .
because he hath a half-face , like my father .
and what a beard of the general ' s cut and a horrid suit of the camp will do among
go call the abbess hither .
master , if ever i said loose-bodied gown , sew me in the skirts of it and beat me to
and so say i .
ay , sir , it is too true ; god help the while !
i will toss the rogue in a blanket .
hard by , at street end ; he will be here anon .
tale , ere long espied a fickle maid full pale , tearing of papers , breaking rings atwain , storming
seleucus .
nay , then a shame take all !
come , no more words of it .
, a moral fool , sit ' st still , and criest ' alack , why does he so ?
truly , sir , i would desire you to clap into your prayers ; for , look you , the
a prey for carrion kites and crows even of the bonny beast he lov ' d so well .
why then , good night indeed .
therefore i shall beseech you , if you please to greet your lord with writing , do ' t to-night
with his own right hand , because she was enforc ' d , stain ' d , and deflower '
when have i injur ' d thee ?
good husband , let us every one go home , and laugh this sport o ' er by a country
o rare instinct !
but wherefore do you droop ?
it ' s heaven ' s will ; some spirit put this paper in the packet to bless your eye
lights the lower world , then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen in murders and in outrage boldly here ;
well said ; th ' art a good fellow .
which of them shall i take ?
exeunt polixenes , hermione , and attendants gone already !
sweet now , make haste .
thou teachest like a fool- the way to lose him .
so please you , madam , to put apart these your attendants , shall bring emilia forth .
honour hath no skill in surgery then ?
txt exit horatio .
the knave is mine honest friend , sir ; therefore , i beseech you , let him be countenanc '
that ' s two of his weapons- but well .
exeunt queen and ladies pisanio .
gutter ' d rocks , and congregated sands , traitors ensteep ' d to clog the guiltless keel , as
o treason of the blood !
prithee , if thou lov ' st me , tell me .
i cannot joy until i be resolv ' d where our right valiant father is become .
they say , my lords , ira furor brevis est ; but yond man is ever angry .
ingratitude , thou marble-hearted fiend , more hideous when thou show ' st thee in a child than the sea-monster
he that would vouch it in any place but here .
that ' s a question ; how shall we try it ?
what , curio ?
let helen go .
what consul ?
we attend .
no ; i will to ireland to his majesty .
i like this well ; he will return again .
the tower enter clarence and keeper keeper .
yet call th ' ambassadors , and , as you please , so let them have their answers every one
[aside to cleopatra] ' tis one of those odd tricks which sorrow shoots out of the mind .
i must have liberty withal , as large a charter as the wind , to blow on whom i please
enter as messenger , monsieur marcade marcade .
not disturb ' d with my infirmity .
chosen andronicus , surnamed pius for many good and great deserts to rome .
command , though i with death and with reward did threaten and encourage him , not doing it and being
god pardon all oaths that are broke to me !
this two days buried .
txt when he had done , some followers of mine own at lower end of the hall hurl ' d
] how now ?
throng our large temples with the shows of peace , and not our streets with war !
, and cruel death hath catch ' d it from my sight !
it becomes thy oath full well thou to me thy secrets tell .
good rapine , stab him ; he is a ravisher .
' you shall demand of him whether one captain dumain be i ' th ' camp , a frenchman ;
near ' st of kin cry fie upon my grave !
my sword upon thee shall approve , and plead my passions for lavinia ' s love .
the king was weeping-ripe for a good word .
my thoughts aim at a further matter ; i stay not for the love of edward but the crown .
go thither ; so indeed all disquiet , horror , and perturbation follows her .
will still be the ministers .
touch it .
please you , gentlemen , the time is unagreeable to this business .
[within] whoe ' er he be , you may not be let in .
lords , use her honourably .
duteous citizens with all your just proceedings in this cause .
i have scap ' d by miracle .
cold or careless of his will ; for he is gracious if he be observ ' d .
fill ' d with blood , were lik ' ned oft to kingly sepulchres ; for who liv ' d
his soldiers lurking in the towns about , and but attended by a simple guard , we may surprise and
ground shrinks before his treading .
do , with like timorous accent and dire yell as when , by night and negligence , the fire page
times , but learn my lessons as i please myself .
where have you lurk ' d , that you make doubt of it ?
were not his sister .
ay , every inch a king !
i would fain know what you have to say .
cousin of buckingham , though humphrey ' s pride and greatness of his place be grief to us , yet
, nor curstness grow to th ' matter .
thou wrong ' st it more than tears with that report .
yet , if this servile usage once offend , go and be free again as suffolk ' s friend .
i do not doubt but that my noble master will appear such as he is , full of regard and
holofernes .
txt who , all as hot , turns deadly point to point , and , with a martial scorn ,
crimes , that i may minister to them accordingly .
are you native of this place ?
you look but on the outside of this work .
i cannot do ' t without counters .
who was it ?
but , o , how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man ' s eyes
how many women saw this child of his ?
o , my lord , wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body , we have ten proofs to
beam of her view gilded my foot , sometimes my portly belly .
it is said mark antony ' s was by caesar .
in faith , for little england you ' d venture an emballing .
my nephew mutius ' deeds do plead for him ; he must be buried with his bretheren .
[to dull] sir , i do invite you too ; you shall not say me nay : pauca verba .
here ' s a night pities nether wise men nor fools .
and him-which was too far- offers , as i do , in a sign of peace , his service and
you- i mean in this which you accuse her .
that your fortune achiev ' d her mistress .
she ' s e ' en setting on water to scald such chickens as you are .
o , thy letter , thy letter !
o blame me not if i no more can write !
face ; but if i thrive , the gain of my attempt the least of you shall share his part
it seems she hangs upon the cheek of night like a rich jewel in an ethiop ' s ear- beauty
yond gull malvolio is turned heathen , a very renegado ; for there is no christian that means to be
the princely warwick , and the nevils all , whose dreadful swords were never drawn in vain , as hating
' when i might see from far some forty truncheoners draw to her succour , which were the hope o
i am much bound to you .
sir , i do know you , and dare upon the warrant of my note commend a dear thing to
i think there ' s one at home for you .
she was in his company at page ' s house , and what they made there i know not .
' tis well done .
there ' s a man , niece .
wholly , sir .
either to die the death , or to abjure for ever the society of men .
and , noble uncle , i beseech your grace look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye .
i will physic your rankness , and yet give no thousand crowns neither .
' tis the lord hastings , the king ' s chiefest friend .
or wrong .
some dozen romans of us , and your lord- the best feather of our wing- have mingled sums to buy
why then the mustard without the beef .
common mouth .
it was but an effect of humor , which sometime hath his hour with every man .
swear by this sword thou wilt perform my bidding .
as if time were in debt !
the grieved commons hardly conceive of me-let it be nois ' d that through our intercession this revokement and pardon
i beseech you , peace !
this dear expedience .
know thou , sad man , i am not tamora : she is thy enemy and i thy friend .
there ' tis , boy .
txt to the indies ; i understand , moreover , upon the rialto , he hath a third at mexico
you dare not .
sour herb of grace .
he hath indeed , almost natural ; for , besides that he ' s a fool , he ' s
what is he more than another ?
o time most accurst !
and why , my lady wisdom ?
one of them thought but of an if , as : ' if you said so , then i said
and i say the polusion holds in the exchange ; for the moon is never but a month old ;
come , you are too severe a moraler .
, that would suffer her poor knight surpris ' d without rescue in the first assault , or ransom afterward
hope she will deserve well-and a little to love her for her mother ' s sake , that lov '
a cur , sir .
and yet thou wilt , for i being pent in thee , perforce am thine and all that is in
how now , horatio ?
would it not grieve a woman to be overmaster ' d with a piece of valiant dust ?
your gallery have we pass ' d through , not without much content in many singularities ; but we saw
give us kind keepers , heavens !
good diomed , furnish you fairly for this interchange ; withal , bring word if hector will to-morrow be answer
why , thou mars , i tell the we have a power on foot , and i had purpose once
o general , here is the steed , we the caparison .
and thence it is that i to your assistance do make love , masking the business from the common eye
let me go and try .
pardon me , good lady ; for by these blessed candles of the night , had you been there ,
if this were so , so were it utt ' red .
where is the post that came from valiant oxford ?
i am content .
sing , &c .
is that a ton of moys ?
your highness bade me ask for it to-day .
ay , or else i would i might be hang ' d , la !
were you not sent for ?
i will be his conduct .
i have great comfort from this fellow .
, - o base and obscure vulgar !
a street enter solanio and salerio solanio .
is he not a most profane and liberal counselor ?
as many and as well-born bloods as those- bastard .
saddle white surrey for the field to-morrow .
will you go , sister ?
what , shall i come ?
therefore use thy discretion : i had as lief thou didst break his neck as his finger .
' body , idle and unactive , still cupboarding the viand , never bearing like labour with the rest ;
ah , warwick , warwick !
if not , assure yourself i will seek satisfaction of you .
you know the character , i doubt not ; and the signet is not strange to you .
of these dilated articles allow .
not so happy , yet much happier .
[kissing her] you have witchcraft in your lips , kate : there is more eloquence in a sugar touch of
has here writ a letter to you ; i should have given ' t you to-day morning , but as
weapons , weapons , weapons !
my ever gentle cousin , welcome hither .
what wisdom stirs amongst you ?
i do not bid thee beg my life , good lad , and yet i know thou wilt .
and master ?
my traffic is sheets ; when the kite builds , look to lesser linen .
be it as it is .
to time .
own face .
how now , ambitious humphry !
i have receiv ' d not only greetings , but with them change of honours .
man ever saw .
sweet sister , let me live .
now , licio , to you .
a liberal villain , confess ' d the vile encounters they have had a thousand times in secret .
they say there ' s but five upon this isle : we are three of them ; if th '
' s enough .
capulet ' s house .
i ' ll eat nothing , i thank you , sir .
they know what beauty is , see where it lies , yet what the best is , take the worst
the prince and count claudio , walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine orchard , were thus much overheard by
this secret is so weighty , ' twill require a strong faith to conceal it .
' mongst pursuivants , pages , and footboys .
do , most dear queen .
there ; instead whereof let this supply the room .
what should i say to him ?
the lord of stafford dear to-day hath bought thy likeness ; for instead of thee , king harry , this
away with it .
ay , if i be alive , and your mind hold , and your dinner worth the eating .
then tell me whither were i best to send him .
to see such lovers , thurio , as yourself ; upon a homely object love can wink .
my heart assures me that the earl of warwick shall one day make the duke of york a king .
is ' t not hortensio ?
but not a courtier , although they wear their faces to the bent of the king ' s looks ,
the duchess , by his subornation , upon my life , began her devilish practices ; or if he were
i do follow here in the chase , not like a hound that hunts , but one that fills up
is there no offence in ' t ?
but hast thou done thy errand to baptista ?
so farewell , noble lucius .
farewell , my masters ; to my task will i ; bonfires in france forthwith i am to make to
tush , man , abodements must not now affright us .
we shall have a rare letter from him ; but you ' ll not deliver ' t ?
our tarquin thus did softly press the rushes ere he waken ' d the chastity he wounded .
my good lord cardinal ?
long live she so !
ay , good youth ; and rather father thee than master thee .
so they do nothing , ' tis a venial slip .
for though the camomile , the more it is trodden on , the faster it grows , yet youth ,
wherefore to dover , sir ?
, they were but sweet , but figures of delight : drawn after you , you pattern of all those
here is everything advantageous to life .
when my dimensions are as well compact , my mind as generous , and my shape as true , as
the thane of cawdor lives .
nestor] and , thou most reverend , for thy stretch ' d-out life , i give to both your speeches-
ay me , unhappy !
your knees to me , to your corrected son ?
[unveiling] this is that face , thou cruel angelo , which once thou swor ' st was worth the looking
what man is there so much unreasonable , if you had pleas ' d to have defended it with any
there a patch set on learning , to see him in a school .
enter euphronius , the ambassador ; with antony antony .
all , winnows the light away ; and what hath mass or matter by itself lies rich in virtue and
is there no respect of place , persons , nor time , in you ?
i will be proud , i will read politic authors , i will baffle sir toby , i will wash
a hundred then .
that wise prince , henry the fifth , who by his prowess conquered all france .
as i .
what feats he did that day .
what wouldst thou have us do , andronicus ?
, and beast ; for it hath tam ' d my old master , and my new mistress , and
casca , be sudden , for we fear prevention .
of large pay .
, for bearing , argument , and valour , goes foremost in report through italy .
this parting strikes poor lovers dumb .
this do i drink to thee .
it is ; but , like a timorous thief , most fain would steal what law does vouch mine own
gaudy ; for the apparel oft proclaims the man , and they in france of the best rank and station
two crowns of the egg .
where is john talbot ?
troilus !
all for use of that which is mine own .
the sceptre , learning , physic , must all follow this and come to dust .
what ' s she ?
a man that had a wife with such a wit , he might say ' wit , whither wilt ?
there ' s your press money .
or call it winter , which being full of care , makes summer ' s welcome , thrice more wished
after i have done what i promised ?
madam , with all my heart i shall obey you in an fair commands .
the time and my intents are savage-wild , more fierce and more inexorable far page _num_ complete works of william
thanks , uncle winchester , gloucester , york , buckingham , somerset , salisbury , and warwick ; we thank
sir , my liege , your eye hath too much youth in ' t .
have patience , gentle julia .
so shall it thee , unless thou yield thee as my prisoner .
if guilty dread have left thee so much strength as to take up mine honour ' s pawn , then
he shall well know the noble tribunes are the people ' s mouths , and we their hands .
play ' d the part my father meant to act upon th ' usurper richard ; who , being at
the very all of all is- but , sweet heart , i do implore secrecy- that the king would have
grace which shallow laughing hearers give to fools .
as she could with haste dispatch , she ' ld come again , and with a greedy ear devour up
the quarrel is between our masters and us their men .
be reported .
ten years are spent since first he undertook this cause of rome , and chastised with arms our enemies '
discover how , and thou shalt find me just .
let me ask the rather , for i now must make you know i am that isabella , and his
you shall .
there is no bar to make against your highness ' claim to france but this , which they produce from
how found you him ?
re-enter lucius , quintus , martius , and mutius , the sons of andronicus , with their swords bloody lucius
my lord is fall ' n into an epilepsy .
with thy brave bearing should i be in love but that thou art so fast mine enemy .
so do all thoughts ; they are wing ' d .
he will not fight with me , domitius ?
throw the quean in the channel .
' tis thou and those that have dishonoured me .
edgar- enter edgar .
thou no art .
now , afore god , this reverend holy friar , all our whole city is much bound to him .
well , come what will , i ' ll tarry at home .
is it sport ?
young one , inform us of thy fortunes ; for it seems they crave to be demanded .
be not fond to think that caesar bears such rebel blood page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you shall not find it so .
i will put on his presence .
return to her , and fifty men dismiss ' d ?
adieu , brave moor , use desdemona well .
more miserable by the life of thee than thou hast made me by my dear lord ' s death .
then know that i have little wealth to lose ; a man i am cross ' d with adversity ;
masters , i am to discourse wonders ; but ask me not what ; for if i tell you ,
o austria !
helenus !
with welcome .
we may do it as secure as sleep .
by thee anjou and maine were sold to france ; the false revolting normans thorough thee disdain to call us
my lord , in heart !
their woes are parcell ' d , mine is general .
having scap ' d a tempest , is straightway calm ' d , and boarded with a pirate ; but
swiftness , will , too late , tie leaden pounds to ' s heels .
thanks to your majesty .
not with better heart .
in duty gives us more palm in beauty than we have , yea , overshines ourself .
speak , gentle sister , who hath martyr ' d thee ?
enter malcolm and donalbain .
what , wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard ?
ay , ay ; i care not for good life .
silence , good mother ; hear the embassy .
fetch me a dozen crab-tree staves , and strong ones ; these are but switches to ' em .
wife , and he whose wife is most obedient , to come at first when he doth send for her
nothing but my fortune .
take heed , sirrah- the whip .
' tis thought that marcius shall be consul .
are you bound thither ?
hath no man ' s dagger here a point for me ?
being ask ' d , as free as words to little purpose .
eternal darkness folded up .
when every private widow well may keep , by children ' s eyes , her husband ' s shape in
but so much was our love we would not understand what was most fit , but , like the owner
i scorn thy meat ; ' t ' would choke me , for i should ne ' er flatter thee
cardinal beaufort ' s means .
o silius , silius , i have done enough .
a body fill ' d and vacant mind , gets him to rest , cramm ' d with distressful bread
when he lies along , after your way his tale pronounc ' d shall bury his reasons with his body
thy party wear this rose ; and here i prophesy : this brawl to-day , grown to this faction in
welcome , mark antony .
cuttle with me .
please it your grace , there is a messenger that stays to bear my letters to my friends , and
and a little more wit , return again to venice .
discomfort guides my tongue , and bids me speak of nothing but despair .
sirrah naked fellow- edg .
well god mend him !
greatness whereof i cannot enough commend- comes with him at my importunity to fill up your grace ' s request
we have cause to be glad that matters are so well digested .
my lord- king richard .
of mere compassion and of lenity , to ease your country of distressful war , an suffer you to breathe
nor his ?
and must she die for this ?
wherefore art thou romeo ?
the nature of our people , our city ' s institutions , and the terms for common justice , y
but there is no such man ; for , brother , men can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
; drunk many times a day , if not many days entirely drunk .
my lord , you shall o ' errule my mind for once .
and i another so weary with disasters , tugg ' d with fortune , that i would set my life
romeo ?
what willing ransom he will give .
bring us to this sight , and you shall say i ' ll prove a busy actor in their play
the forest a table set out .
should not drop in his porridge .
all the hairs above thee , were they all made such men .
; and you shall hear the legions now in gallia sooner landed in our not-fearing britain than have tidings of
alive in triumph , and mercutio slain ?
the troop pass once about the stage , and garter speaks garter .
if in her marriage my consent be missing , i call the gods to witness i will choose mine heir
but there is two hard things- that is , to bring the moonlight into a chamber ; for , you
marry , she says your dog was a cur , and tells you currish thanks is good enough for such
she soon shall know of us , by some of ours , how honourable and how kindly we determine for
o , you shall see him laugh till his face be like a wet cloak ill laid up !
ho , lucilius !
with portia , nerissa , and train prince of morocco .
a gait , a state , a brow , a breast , a waist , a leg , a limb-
to be a spokesman from madam silvia ?
for my service but blows .
txt even till destruction sicken , answer me to what i ask you .
come hither , knight ; come hither , fabian ; we ' ll whisper o ' er a couplet or
i am not so well as i should be , but i ' ll ne ' er out .
sir , in cambria are we born , and gentlemen ; further to boast were neither true nor modest ,
stafford , take her to thee .
let ' s have that , good sir .
dost thou hear , my honest friend ?
peace !
by swift impress .
let us bear him to th ' court of guard ; he is of note .
yet give us our dispatch .
txt that many have and others must sit there ; and in this thought they find a kind of ease
ay , by my beard , will we ; for he is a proper man .
pah , pah !
and he of these that can do most of all cannot do more in england than the nevils ; salisbury
mustardseed .
o , be not like your mistress !
let all the rest give place .
you in your ear , i would have no words of it-my master himself is in love with mistress anne
dear princess , were not his requests so far from reason ' s yielding , your fair self should make
say that king edward take thee for his queen ?
she said so ; i must needs report the truth .
alas , how should you govern any kingdom that know not how to use ambassadors , nor how to be
i am withered like an old apple john .
she is fool ' d with a most false effect ; and i the truer so to be false with
txt shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library , inc .
what , you will not ?
, and wonder , when one but of my ordinance stood up to speak of peace or war .
, and the examples of every minute ' s instance , present now , hath put us in these ill-beseeming
here comes the man we went to seek .
i had a brother , then .
to tell thee plain , i aim to lie with thee .
god-den to your worship , good captain james .
ay , a token from troilus .
enter scroop scroop .
pray heaven it be not so that you have such a man here ; but ' tis most certain your
what , will the line stretch out to the crack of doom ?
i mock you ?
why , then are you no maiden .
hang him , dishonest varlet !
surely a princely testimony , a goodly count , count comfect , a sweet gallant surely !
if thou would have such a one , take me ; and take me , take a soldier ; take
his outsides , to wear them like his raiment , carelessly , and ne ' er prefer his injuries to
d , yet the incessant weepings of my wife , weeping before for what she saw must come , and
for fear of which , hear this thou age unbred , ere you were born was beauty ' s summer
' olivia .
but what the repining enemy commends , that breath fame blows ; that praise , sole pure , transcends .
since this fortune falls to you , be content and seek no new .
and , madam , i must be present at your conference .
may your grace speak of it ?
do ' t , and to bed then .
now have you heard the truth : what say you , romans ?
fetch us in fuel .
' so that my errand , due unto my tongue , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
exeunt titus , lavinia , and young lucius marcus .
hell and treason hold their promises , ere he take ship for france- and in southampton .
ay , marry , are they , sir .
' d along .
yourself shall feast with us before you go , and find the welcome of a noble foe .
enter adriana and luciana adriana .
exeunt bertram and lords first soldier .
i am glad to see you .
exeunt falstaff and robin pistol .
god make incision in thee !
' tis almost five o ' clock , cousin ; ' tis time you were ready .
defiance , traitors , hurl we in your teeth .
boy , what say you ?
he that flies so will ne ' er return again .
and so had mine .
sir , my lord the duke of buckingham , and earl of hereford , stafford , and northampton , i
enter westmoreland archbishop .
them shalt thou ease thy angry heart .
- ah , you kite !
>> scene : england king richard the third act i .
we must bear all .
; the which if he can prove , ' a pops me out at least from fair five hundred pound
if thou wert any way given to virtue , i would swear by thy face ; my oath should be
thou hast brav ' d many men ; brave not me .
romeo , arise ; thou wilt be taken .
night , when i behold the violet past prime , and sable curls all silvered o ' er with white
i thank your lordship , it is very hot .
where is thy power then , to beat him back ?
' god bless thee , lady !
if we do meet again , why , we shall smile ; if not , why then this parting was
come , lady , die to live .
my master loves her dearly , and i , poor monster , fond as much on him ; and she
what is it carries you away ?
evil for your good .
done in the heart of france when thou wert regent for our sovereign , have made thee fear ' d
stand all apart , and show fair duty to his majesty .
goddild you for your last company .
do not fear our person .
no , my good lord ; nor wish ' d to hold my peace .
wolsey .
commons made a shower and thunder with their caps and shouts .
portia is dead .
- and telling me the sovereignest thing on earth was parmacity for an inward bruise ; and that it was
one troth .
that it should come to this !
for him , i think not on him ; for his thoughts , would they were blanks rather than fill
[to the fool] in , boy ; go first .
like a feast and won by rareness such solemnity .
guard with halberds .
call yonder fellow hither .
sure you know me ?
lucullus ' house flaminius waiting to speak with lucullus .
nothing at this time but my visitation ; only i will promise him an excellent piece .
by his command have i here touch ' d sicilia , and from him give you all greetings that a
and what is edward but a ruthless sea ?
love and bid her (mark you me ?
you have beguil ' d me with a counterfeit resembling majesty , which , being touch ' d and tried
i will drop in his way some obscure epistles of love ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
not long before your highness sped to france , the duke being at the rose , within the parish saint
much profane) should do it wronk : and haply of our old acquaintance tell .
rousillon a page , servant to the countess of rousillon countess of rousillon , mother to bertram helena , a
therefore he that cannot lick his fingers goes not with me .
here do you keep a hundred knights and squires ; men so disorder ' d , so debosh ' d
and i mine too , .
txt agamemnon .
beside , his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower ; where reignier sooner will receive than give .
here is the number of the slaught ' red french .
aumerle that was but that is lost for being richard ' s friend , and madam , you must call
i did so , and went further , which is now our point of second meeting .
tell me else , could such inordinate and low desires , such poor , such bare , such lewd ,
th ' tower .
thy head is as full of quarrels as an egg is full of meat ; and yet thy head hath
and by despairing shalt thou stand excused for doing worthy vengeance on thyself that didst unworthy slaughter upon others .
with news the time ' s with labour and throes forth each minute some .
[aside] i smell the trick on ' t .
is my report to his great worthiness .
, thou thing of no bowels , thou !
false king , why hast thou broken faith with me , knowing how hardly i can brook abuse ?
let him on .
well , let my deeds be witness of my worth .
for the dearth , the gods , not the patricians , make it , and your knees to them ,
scarus .
[to valeria] o my sweet lady , pardon .
peel ' d priest , dost thou command me to be shut out ?
, that i am troubled withal .
for an end , we must suggest the people in what hatred he still hath held them ; that to
sirrah , here will be the prince and master poins anon ; and they will put on two of our
of my mystery ; you would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass ; and
master , you look ' d so longly on the maid .
which way should he go ?
you may say it , but not swear it .
saw ' st sink .
of what condition are you , and of what place , i pray ?
some say the bee stings ; but i say ' tis the bee ' s wax ; for i did
they ' ll fill a pit as well as better .
hamlet , this deed , for thine especial safety , - which we do tender as we dearly grieve for
come thy ways , signior fabian .
no , sir , i live by the church .
sir proteus , what says silvia to my suit ?
love they to live that love and honour have .
if he do , the rich shall have more .
where is thy master , dromio ?
but shall it be that you , that set the crown upon the head of this forgetful man , and
but now a king-now thus .
a joyful resurrections !
aught till he behold them formed in th ' applause where th ' are extended ; who , like an
goes- mark you that .
then spare that time .
go you down that way towards the capitol ; this way will i .
your last service was suff ' rance ; ' twas not voluntary .
and , as thou bad ' st me , in troops i have dispers ' d them ' bout the
txt thou fishified !
give him heedful note ; for i mine eyes will rivet to his face , and after we will both
enter edward and richard plantagenet see where they come : i ' ll warrant they ' ll make it good
i will have it no lay .
wouldst thou have thy head broken ?
brother , take you my land , i ' ll take my chance .
gardener .
for warwick and his friends , god and saint george !
guil .
" exeunt murtherers , following her .
' sleep till i wak ' d him , you should enjoy half his revenue .
cicero .
now for our irish wars .
[ within ] peace , ho , be here !
, bishop of winchester , and afterwards cardinal john beaufort , earl of somerset , afterwards duke richard plantagenet ,
' cressida .
ay , by my faith , for a poor earl to give .
but since he hath serv ' d well for rome- coriolanus .
caesar ' s house enter caesar , agrippa , and maecenas caesar .
virtue ?
service , you will be considered .
[pistol draws] bardolph .
but that ' s no welcome .
i dare thereupon pawn the moiety of my estate to your ring , which , in my opinion , o
for the fair devil .
this world ' s eternity .
bosom , nor entreat the north to make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips and comfort me with cold
marry , once before he won it of me with false dice ; therefore your grace may well say i
go get thee from me , cromwell ; i am a poor fall ' n man , unworthy now to
thou ' lt come no more , never , never , never , never , never !
your enemies are many , and not small ; their practices must bear the same proportion ; and not ever
if thou hast nature in thee , bear it not .
but i ' d say he had not , and i ' ll be sworn you would believe my saying
tucket within .
uncertain way of gain !
dost thou speak seriously , servilius ?
and cassius too .
disobedient wretch !
another part of the field enter fluellen and gower fluellen .
to be furious is to be frighted out of fear , and in that mood page _num_ complete works of
we have th ' advantage of the ground ; the lane is guarded ; nothing routs us but the villainy
still thou mistak ' st , or else committ ' st thy knaveries wilfully .
that do buy it with much care .
how with a sportful malice it was follow ' d may rather pluck on laughter than revenge , if that
therefore to horse ; and let us not be dainty of leave-taking , but shift away .
so much as in a thought unborn did i offend your highness .
[to the senators] let me desire your company ; he must come , or what is worst will follow .
i ' ll not be long before i call upon thee .
will you hence , before the tag return ?
turn his sleep to wake .
is this the honour they do one another ?
you have lost no reputation at all , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
i have sounded the very bass-string of humility .
the higher pow ' rs forbid !
make battery to our ears with the loud music , the while i ' ll place you ; then the
which , of he or adrian , for a good wager , first begins to crow ?
well , may you see things well done there .
sorrow .
quick comedians extemporally will stage us , and present our alexandrian revels ; antony shall be brought drunken forth ,
were we before our arinies , and to fight , i should do thus .
what ever have been thought on in this state that could be brought to bodily act ere rome had circumvention
- he wakes .
i have had a most rare vision .
my accuser is my prentice ; and when i did correct him for his fault the other day , he
[reads] ' shall find time from this enormous state , seeking to give losses their remedies ' - all weary
i pray you , sir , then set your knighthood and your soldiership aside ; and give me leave to
come , with a thought .
' tis yours because you lik ' d it .
god save you , sir !
ay , but you must confine yourself within the modest limits of order .
up fish street !
threat to-morrow ' s vengeance on the head of richard .
such and so finely bolted didst thou seem ; and thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot to
i will not say so , for fear i should be fac ' d out of my way ; but
a gallant lady !
he is wit ' s pedlar , and retails his wares at wakes , and wassails , meetings , markets
play , music ; and you brides and bridegrooms all , with measure heap ' d in joy , to
i seek not to wax great by others ' waning or gather wealth i care not with what envy ;
king against the duke my brother .
observe his inclination in yourself .
therefore we marvel much our cousin france would in so just a business shut his bosom against our borrowing prayers
by this sun that shines , i ' ll thither .
i prithee lend me thy sword .
this must crave- an if this be at all-a most strange story .
t writ in your revenge that swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe , winner and loser ?
] pitiful sight !
was ' t you that revell ' d in our parliament and made a preachment of your high descent ?
no doubt , my liege , if each man do his best .
] draw , you rogue !
i ' ll wait upon them .
as in war ; since that to both it stands in like request ?
didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand ?
pucelle is ent ' red into orleans in spite of us or aught that we could do .
this wind you talk of blows us from ourselves .
lady mine , proceed .
i see two husbands , or mine eyes deceive me .
o , what portents are these ?
hath he any eyes ?
' charmian .
i will return perfect courtier ; in the which my instruction shall serve to naturalize thee , so thou wilt
where is thy blush ?
and in th ' administration of his law , whiles i was busy for the commonwealth , your highness pleased
enter the bastard of orleans page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
why , then the world and all that ' s in ' t is nothing ; the covering sky is
the gods make this a happy day to antony !
come , but one verse .
o , break , my heart !
forsworn , all naught , all dissemblers .
of the french ; and in that sea of blood my boy did drench his overmounting spirit ; and there
luce .
the west yet glimmers with some streaks of day ; now spurs the lated traveler apace to gain the timely
o ' both sides the leaf , margent and all , that he was fain to seal on cupid '
you have scarce time to steal from spiritual leisure a brief span to keep your earthly audit ; sure ,
- what letters hast thou there ?
[aside] shall i hear more , or shall i speak at this ?
exit buckingham .
how bloodily the sun begins to peer above yon busky hill !
for love , for league , and good to rome .
txt of your chaste daughter the wide difference ' twixt amorous and villainous .
exit denny lovell .
speak , for my heart is full .
honour precise .
there ' s the moral .
my brother killed no man-his fault was thought , and yet his punishment was bitter death .
i think i can discover him , if you please to get good guard and go along with me .
be near at hand ; i may miscarry in ' t .
well , go your way to her , for i see love hath made thee tame snake , and say
if he be not in love with some woman , there is no believing old signs .
now , by my sceptre , and my soul to boot , he hath more worthy interest to the state
hap what hap may , i ' ll roundly go about her ; it shall go hard if cambio go
my mistress is one , and i am her fool .
where ' s the fool now ?
she came to him th ' other day into the compass ' d window-and you know he has not past
but man , proud man , dress ' d in a little brief authority , most ignorant of what he
monster , lay-to your fingers ; help to bear this away where my hogshead of wine is , or i
o , do not slander him , for he is kind .
elected deer before thee ?
how doth the prince ?
good morning to you , fair and gracious daughter .
ten and eleven .
in his wisdom hastes our marriage to stop the inundation of her tears , which , too much minded by
i am not i , if there be such an ' i ' ; or those eyes shut that make
without any mitigation or remorse of voice ?
i am not of many words , but i thank you .
wear thy good rapier bare , and put it home .
the shame itself doth speak for instant remedy .
i promised your grace a hunter ' s peal .
it poison ' d me .
better burn it now than curse it then .
this can sack and drinking do .
thy master is shipp ' d , and thou art to post after with oars .
exit with the child leontes .
, confederates all thus to dishonour me .
which now you wear so openly .
o , how fit a word is that vile name to perish on my sword !
my lov ' d lord , though you hear now- too late !
if he slay me , he does fair justice : if he give me way , i ' ll do
great dunsinane he strongly fortifies .
ulysses , enter you .
quite chap- fall ' n ?
[beating him] courtezan .
let us know .
lead forth and bring you back in happiness !
we ' ll both attend upon your ladyship .
save him , save him !
and reason too : who should succeed the father but the son ?
therefore , go speak- the duke will hear thy voice ; and let not bardolph ' s vital thread be
my other self , my counsel ' s consistory , my oracle , my prophet , my dear cousin ,
who hath measur ' d the ground ?
je pense que vous etes le gentilhomme de bonne qualite .
i learn in this letter that don pedro of arragon comes this night to messina .
thus men may grow wiser every day .
nay , that follows not .
' tis seldom when the bee doth leave her comb in the dead carrion .
that can i .
banish ' d the new-made bridegroom from this city ; for whom , and not for tybalt , juliet pin
to frown upon th ' enrag ' d northumberland !
our very loving sister , well bemet .
the head of cade !
the hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds of wide arabia are as throughfares now for princes to come view fair
it would cost you a groaning to take off my edge .
how this lord is followed !
i do beseech you , pardon me ; i may not show it .
my lord , i will use them according to their desert .
marry , thus : when it stands well with him , it stands well with her .
what he is , and steal out of your company .
some haste , my lord !
titus andronicus , the people of rome , whose friend in justice thou hast ever been , send thee by
why , have you any discretion ?
away , my lord , away !
farewell , my cousin ; farewell , gentle friends .
to thee and thine hereditary ever remain this ample third of our fair kingdom , no less in space ,
madam , i ' ll sing .
i must be gone and live , or stay and die .
[they kill him] smith .
chide as loud as thunder when the clouds in autumn crack .
and let heaven witness how dear i hold this confirmation .
still so constant , lord .
txt but men may construe things after their fashion , clean from the purpose of the things themselves .
i dallied with hath turn ' d my feigned prayer on my head and given in earnest what i begg
nor for yours neither .
o , untimely death !
and now the battle ' s ended , if friend or foe , let him be gently used .
whose apprehensive senses all but new things disdain ; whose judgments are mere fathers of their garments ; whose constancies
--a good epithet .
nay , i prithee now , with most petitionary vehemence , tell me who it is .
such shame .
words that aged ears play truant at his tales , and younger hearings are quite ravished ; so sweet and
i say the earth did shake when i was born .
know , my hearts , i hope well of to-morrow , and will lead you where rather i ' ll
ay , in the catalogue ye go for men , as hounds and greyhounds , mongrels , spaniels , curs
nick bottom , the weaver .
you gods , look down , and from your sacred vials pour your graces upon my daughter ' s head
here comes the general .
therefore be gone ; solicit me no more .
reverend sirs , for you there ' s rosemary and rue ; these keep seeming and savour all the winter
for your expenses and sufficient charge , among the people gather up a tenth .
my lord , ' tis but begun .
were compell ' d to kiss- ' the time shall come ' - thus did he follow it- ' the
o lord , sir , it were pity you should get your living by reck ' ning , sir .
what a life is this , that your poor friends must woo your company ?
freely , good father .
i do not set my life at a pin ' s fee ; and for my soul , what can
her a prayer of earnest heart that i would all my pilgrimage dilate , whereof by parcels she had something
the beards of hercules and frowning mars ; who , inward search ' d , have livers white as milk
recover ' d is the town of orleans .
make her chronicle as rich with praise page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my husband lives , that tybalt would have slain ; and tybalt ' s dead , that would have slain
that ' s my master , master doctor .
to the parliament king henry .
it is not so express ' d , but what of that ?
and more , much more than in my verse can sit , your own glass shows you , when you
are you fair ?
exit , guarded york .
hard lodging and thin weeds , nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love , but that it bear this
ajax is ready .
in wisdom i should ask thy name ; but since thy outside looks so fair and warlike , and that
think on thy proteus , when thou haply seest some rare noteworthy object in thy travel .
you have forgot the will i told you of .
[aside to caius] pray you , let us not be laughing-stocks to other men ' s humours ; i desire
kind keepers of my weak decaying age , let dying mortimer here rest himself .
kill and knock down !
to wet , or monarchs ' hands that lets not bounty fall where want cries some , but where excess
to cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there .
tubal , a wealthy hebrew of my tribe , will furnish me .
into taint ; which to believe of her must be a faith that reason without miracle should never plant in
i ' th ' last night ' s storm i such a fellow saw , which made me think a
shepherdess- a fair one are you- well you fit our ages with flow ' rs of winter .
ay , cousin slender , and custalorum .
music .
ah , what a fault were this !
s shadow .
his son was but a ward two years ago .
first attendant .
wish chastely and love dearly that your dian was both herself and love ; o , then , give pity
enter gloucester and edmund .
i have drugg ' d their possets that death and nature do contend about them , whether they live or
fairy king , attend and mark ; i do hear the morning lark .
s sake ; and never dare misfortune cross her foot , unless she do it under this excuse , that
to be acknowledg ' d- thou a sceptre ' s heir , that thus affects a sheep-hook !
a banquet prepared .
northumberland , then present , wept to see it .
o , that that earth which kept the world in awe should patch a wall t ' expel the winter
cushions , leaden spoons , irons of a doit , doublets that hangmen would bury with those that wore them
, since what i well intend , i ' ll do ' t before i speak- that you make known
enter in cardinal ' s habit beaufort , the papal legate , and two ambassadors exeter .
what it is , my caius , i shall unfold to thee , as we are going to whom it
highest queen of state , great juno , comes ; i know her by her gait .
his son lennox , nobleman of scotland ross , nobleman of scotland menteith nobleman of scotland angus , nobleman of
to hide in this true breast and let the soul forth that adoreth thee , i lay it naked to
fellows , whom to leave is only bitter to him , only dying , go with me like good angels
or , a gout of this pox !
and kiss me , kate ; we will be married a sunday .
not to his father ' s .
exit brutus .
nay , but i bar to-night ; you shall not gauge me by what we do to-night .
i ' ll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience , and try your penitence , if it be
know of the duke if his last purpose hold , or whether since he is advis ' d by aught
his hour is almost past .
meals ?
my words are as full of peace as matter .
enter glendower with the ladies .
her fortune conquered ; there shall we consummate our spousal rites .
sith ' twas my fault to give the people scope , ' twould be my tyranny to strike and gall
o , ' tis a foul thing when a cur cannot keep himself in all companies !
there , hold !
' farewell , my lord .
well , say , sir .
by jupiter , i swear no !
thus honest fools lay out their wealth on curtsies .
, with the waters that you lose , to temper clay .
is , to live and study here three years .
you have seen nothing , then ?
he seeks my life ; his reason well i know : i oft deliver ' d from his forfeitures many
only get the learned writer to set down our excommunication , and meet me at the jail .
i beseech you , good sir john , let me have five hundred of my thousand .
at any hand ; and see you read no other lectures to her .
and i have lost the wager .
wolf , so doubly seconded with will and power , must make perforce an universal prey , and last eat
and so do i , yet did she call me so ; and this fair gentlewoman , her sister here
office .
curtis .
he may have mercy upon mine ; but my hope is better , and so look to thyself .
of me .
[exit antonio .
exit murtherer .
if none appear to prove upon thy person thy heinous , manifest , and many treasons , there is my
txt act iii .
your company for speedy counsel .
the fardel there ?
to be his paramour ?
' wilt thou not , jule ?
if i speak like myself in this , let him be whipp ' d that first finds it so .
lord ; and picardy hath slain their governors , surpris ' d our forts , and sent the ragged soldiers
river .
princely care , foreseeing those fell mischiefs our reasons laid before him-hath commanded to-morrow morning to the council board he
here is a gentleman whom by chance i met , upon agreement from us to his liking , will undertake
bite , i pray you , it is good for your green wound and your ploody coxcomb .
but , host , doth this sir proteus , that we talk on , often resort unto this gentlewoman ?
cranny shall pyramus and thisby whisper .
sweet .
resign to thee .
have you no more to say ?
i swear- queen elizabeth .
, i give heaven praise .
exeunt volumnia and virgilia page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
you cannot feed capons so .
hence his ambition growing- dost thou hear ?
plots have i laid , inductions dangerous , by drunken prophecies , libels , and dreams , to set my
thing divine !
what man dost thou dig it for ?
there was the weight that pull ' d me down .
i would have her learn , my fair cousin , how perfectly i love her ; and that is good
' tis a noble lepidus .
and now prepare your throats .
before harfleur alarum .
why i do trifle thus with his despair is done to cure it .
i task the earth to the like , forsworn aumerle ; and spur thee on with fun as many lies
why , what tumultuous clamour have we here ?
' aguecheek .
by my heel , i care not .
and to the head of angelo accuse him home and home .
[stabs herself] and farewell , friends ; thus thisby ends ; adieu , adieu , adieu .
both your pardons , that e ' er i put between your holy looks my ill suspicion .
out of itself .
and i here , at the bulwark of the bridge .
he swears she ' s a witch , forbade her my house , and hath threat ' ned to beat
of all , shall pay for all .
enfranchis ' d- not a party to the anger of the king , nor guilty of , if any be
alas , my lord , what may you mean by that ?
fall between us .
enquire you out .
he was to imagine me his love , his mistress ; and i set him every day to woo me
in that he spake too far .
come , musicians , play .
horns within .
my lord , will you .
pharamond : ' in terram salicam mulieres ne succedant ' - ' no woman shall succeed in salique land '
' i will assume desert .
; for he both pleases men and angers them , and then they laugh at him and beat him .
fair , the ornament of beauty is suspect , a crow that flies in heaven ' s sweetest air .
fight , bold yeomen !
of all the wonders that i yet have heard , it seems to me most strange that men should fear
, shall never melt mine honour into lust , to take away the edge of that day ' s celebration
pours down mischief .
eight and nine is the hour , master brook .
most dearly welcome to the greeks , sweet lady .
now thou wouldst eat thy dead vomit up , and howl ' st to find it .
txt unto a poor but worthy gentleman .
i must a dozen mile to-night .
is he so much ?
i was of late as petty to his ends as is the morn-dew on the myrtle leaf to his grand
what should i do ?
in pity of the challenger ' s youth i would fain dissuade him , but he will not be entreated
let me live , sir , in a dungeon , i ' th ' stocks , or anywhere , so
farewell , [sings] lady , lady , lady .
chaf ' d , he cannot be rein ' d again to temperance ; then he speaks what ' s
enter adriana , luciana , the courtezan , and a schoolmaster call ' d pinch antipholus of ephesus .
exit curio .
eyes to th ' contrary and falling a lip of much contempt , speeds from me ; so leaves me
, and put away these dispositions that of late transform you from what you rightly are .
the mayor and all his brethren in best sort- like to the senators of th ' antique rome , with
ay me , he ' ll find the young man there , and be mad !
thieves for their robbery have authority when judges steal themselves .
as loud as thine , rattle the welkin ' s ear and mock the deep-mouth ' d thunder ; for
cheerly , my lord .
nothing , good mounsieur , but to help cavalery cobweb to scratch .
all o ' erjoy ' d save these in bonds .
sir toby , my lady prays you to have a care of him .
the bishop hath a kindly gird .
of breath , prompt us to have mercy on him ; at which time we will bring the device to
' warwick .
for us , you know whose he is we are , and that is caesar ' s .
enter , with drum and colours , albany , goneril , soldiers .
though to have her and death were both one thing .
and be all traitors that do so ?
vernon , basset , and others .
thus answer i in name of benedick but hear these ill news with the ears of claudio .
come , antonio .
; besides , i like you not .
enter parolles second lord .
sir , i thank you .
very rebel to my will , may hang no longer on me .
lost and recovered in a day again !
hard-hearted clifford , take me from the world ; my soul to heaven , my blood upon your heads !
taurus !
where ' s that mongrel ?
my friends and brethren in these great affairs , i must acquaint you that i have receiv ' d new-dated
i wonder if the lion be to speak .
come , my queen , take hands with me , [music] and rock the ground whereon these sleepers be .
patience is stale , and i am weary of it .
yet , ne ' er the less , my spritely brethren , i propend to you in resolution to keep
fear not , my lord ; we can contain ourselves , were he the veriest antic in the world .
and so i hear he doth account me too .
if thou be he , then art thou prisoner .
sir , i have seen you in the court of france .
and not the very king .
i thank thee with all my heart , kind master bardolph .
it is , and wants but nomination .
if you do love my brother , hate not me ; i am his brother , and i love him
txt the dove will peck the estridge ; and i see still a diminution in our captain ' s brain
a street enter shylock , solanio , antonio , and gaoler shylock .
the garden before portia ' s house enter lorenzo and jessica lorenzo .
signior fabian , stay you by this gentleman till my return .
we will not fly but to our enemies ' throats .
; and , i warrant , a virtuous- where is your mother ?
baynard ' s castle enter gloucester and buckingham , at several doors gloucester .
debts wherein my time , something too prodigal , hath left me gag ' d .
as faithfully as i deny the devil .
sir , it was i .
, it ' s humble , and waits upon the judgment ; and what judgment would step from this to
protection of his son , her brother , who shortly also died ; for whose dear love , page _num_
i thought thou hadst been resolute .
, when bolingbroke rode on roan barbary- that horse that thou so often hast bestrid , that horse that i
to make midnight mushrooms , that rejoice to hear the solemn curfew ; by whose aid- weak masters though ye
i would my son were in arabia , and thy tribe before him , his good sword in his hand
bear away that child , and follow me with speed .
stay your thanks a while , and pay them when you part .
that now i will have ; that ' s the humour of it .
by commission , and main power , took ' em from me , with this reason : his master would
come , fool , come ; try me in thy paper .
enter the king , duke humphrey of gloucester , salisbury , warwick , and cardinal beaufort , on the one
the gallows-maker ; for that frame outlives a thousand tenants .
with this field-dew consecrate , every fairy take his gait , and each several chamber bless , through this palace
hapless male to one sweet bird , have now the fatal object in my eye where my poor young was
dissolves to water and doth lose his form .
honour , health , and compassion , to the senate !
and occidental damp moist hesperus hath quench ' d his sleepy lamp , or four and twenty times the pilot
it well appears .
as i am a gentleman !
a pen , and ' a babbl ' d of green fields .
if none will do , let her remain ; but i ' ll never give o ' er .
well , she laments , sir , for it , that it would yearn your heart to see it .
your plantain leaf is excellent for that .
why , what are you ?
my lord , you give me most egregious indignity .
look , on the sheets his hair , you see , is sticking ; his well-proportion ' d beard made
re-enter fabian and viola [to fabian] i have his horse to take up the quarrel ; i have persuaded him
mangled it ?
i ' ll cheer up my discontented troops , and lay for hearts .
go ; thou wast page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my wife !
did vow upon his knees he would be even with me .
with dew .
us ' d , and , contrary to the king , his crown , and dignity , thou hast built
ravish ' d list ' ning , could not find his hour of speech a minute-he , my lady ,
the elder of them being put to nurse , was by a beggar-woman stol ' n away , and ,
wounded home .
my cue is villainous melancholy , with a sigh like tom o ' bedlam .
my fan , peter .
la , la , la , la !
speak , gentle niece .
ay , do you fear it ?
profane fellow !
shall give a scantling of good or bad unto the general ; and in such indexes , although small pricks
she loves me , sure : the cunning of her passion invites me in this churlish messenger .
they say i will bear myself proudly if i perceive the love come from her .
there comes the ruin , there begins confusion .
by one she in a river threw , upon whose weeping margent she was set ; like usury applying wet
if you do stir abroad , go arm ' d .
before your gates , to save unscratch ' d your city ' s threat ' ned cheekspage _num_ complete works
bowsprit , would i flame distinctly , then meet and join jove ' s lightning , the precursors o '
; gone between and between , but small thanks for my labour .
wilt thou , after the expense of so much money , be now a gainer ?
, death ; o amiable lovely death !
where , he shall see , the boar will use us kindly .
' are your supplications to his lordship ?
was his own .
i have heard it said so .
my old friend grumio and my page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
and think not on their sins , pinch them , arms , legs , backs , shoulders , sides ,
earl of essex earl of salisbury lord bigot hubert de burgh robert faulconbridge , son to sir robert faulconbridge philip
of what is in her chamber nothing saves the wager you have laid .
then there would come some matter from him ; i see none now .
i shall find time , cassius , i shall find time .
gentlemen , forward to the bridal dinner .
think that his contempt shall not be bruising to you when he hath power to crush ?
what , the fair ophelia ?
and the scottish bower , as is appointed us , at shrewsbury .
thousand .
love to come again to carthage .
thus policy in love t ' anticipate the ills that were not , grew to faults assured , and brought
should she fancy , it should be one of my complexion .
see him .
[burden dispersedly : bow-wow .
thou , king , send out for torturers ingenious .
won ; you cannot revel into dukedoms there .
aaron , a thousand deaths would i propose to achieve her whom i love .
talk not of france , sith thou hast lost it all .
the fierce polydamus hath beat down enon ; bastard margarelon hath doreus prisoner , and stands colossus-wise , waving his
txt volumnia .
or daphne roaming through a thorny wood , scratching her legs , that one shall swear she bleeds and at
but is all this for your father ?
let him come near .
there have i made my promise upon the heavy middle of the night to call upon him .
a love-song , a love-song .
he please .
i envy those jacks that nimble leap , to kiss the tender inward of thy hand , whilst my poor
he is so shak ' d of a burning quotidian tertian that it is most lamentable to behold .
when i have chased all thy foes from hence , then will i think upon a recompense .
what say ' st thou , biondello ?
duke of burgundy ; and edward duke of bar .
mad let us grant him then .
where be these knaves ?
god ' s peace !
for all the world , as thou art to this hour , was richard then when i from france set
belike your lordship takes us then for fools , to try if that our own be ours or no .
thought or actual deed , or that mine eyes , mine ears , or any sense , delighted them in
not cassio kill ' d !
we cannot be here and there too .
none , but to desire your good company .
' d have seen him damn ' d ere i ' d have challeng ' d him .
beside , my lord , the sooner to effect and surer bind this knot of amity , the earl of
i have another weapon in this chamber ; it is a sword of spain , the ice-brook ' s temper-
i give it you .
farewell till then .
exeunt gloucester and buckingham derby .
exeunt lucentio , bianca , and biondello gremio .
thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason even with the dearest blood your bodies bear .
but come at once , for the close night doth play the runaway , and we are stay ' d
now , sir , what news ?
exeunt citizens sicinius .
the archdeacon ' s house .
god of my idolatry , and i ' ll believe thee .
enter juliet look , here comes one ; a gentlewoman of mine , who , falling in the flaws of
fancy , as you would have it appear he is .
s mule , if you prattle me into these perils .
txt and thrift is blessing , if men steal it not .
yes , jack , upon instinct .
this night you shall behold him at our feast .
ay , my mother , with all my heart i thank thee for my father !
alas , what need you be so boist ' rous rough ?
and delivered over to the king her father , and she sent over of the king of england ' s
what , warwick , wilt thou leave die town and fight ?
two o ' clock is your hour ?
and so thrive richard as thy foes may fall !
cymbeline ' s palace .
so , so , so .
i warrant he hath a thousand of these letters , writ with blank space for different names-sure , more !
your master , pindarus , in his own change , or by ill officers , hath given me some worthy
thou dost not mark me .
jove forbid there should be done amongst us such things as might offend the weakest spleen to fight for and
courses , the rude scene may end and darkness be the burier of the dead !
my lord , when last i went to visit her , she pray ' d me to excuse her keeping
shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between the effect and it !
exit jessica .
o worthiness of nature !
enough ; so shall you be still colville of the dale .
away , thou issue of a mangy dog !
enter lucius .
give me your pardon , sir .
o , if to fight for king and commonweal were piety in thine , it is in these .
twice-sod simplicity , bis coctus !
to tell of good , or evil luck , of plagues , of dearths , or seasons ' quality ,
ay ; so i say .
why , that ' s my spirit !
and many other of great name and worth ; and towards london do they bend their power , if by
i have advertis ' d him by secret means that if about this hour he make this way , under
may it please you , lords , to grant the commons ' suit ?
ring bells aloud , burn bonfires clear and bright , to entertain great england ' s lawful king .
beard ; he has no more directions in the true disciplines of the wars , look you , of the
what have i kept back ?
[aside] she speaks , and ' tis such sense that my sense breeds with it .
, henceforth carry your letters yourself ; and so , sir , i ' ll commend you to my master
him a knave and myself an honest man ; and touching the duke of york , i will take my
exeunt all but brutus and cassius .
do you sing it , and i ' ll dance it .
scene _num_ before the house of antipholus of ephesus enter antipholus of ephesus , dromio of ephesus , angelo ,
for thou hast given me in this beauteous face a world of earthly blessings to my soul , if sympathy
_num_ so is it not with me as with that muse , stirred by a painted beauty to his verse
ah , my sour husband , my hard-hearted lord , that sets the word itself against the word !
name what part i am for , and proceed .
if he be slain , say so : page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
txt if you will presently take horse with him and with all speed post with him toward the north to
i am going to deliver them .
i ' ll warrant she ' ll tax him home ; and , as you said , and wisely was
a witch wife to simpcox lords , ladies , and attendants ; petitioners , aldermen , a herald , a
nominativo , hig , hag , hog ; pray you , mark : genitivo , hujus .
i ' ll put ' t in proof , and when i have stol ' n upon these sons-in-law ,
come , then ; for with a wound i must be cur ' d .
; if she remain unseduc ' d , you not making it appear otherwise , for your ill opinion and
i do see the bottom of justice shallow .
duke humphrey has done a miracle to-day .
climb .
i came not to hear this .
valiantly he took when on the gentle severn ' s sedgy bank , in single opposition hand to hand ,
the smallest article of it , neither in time , matter , or other circumstance .
[aside] i think i shall drink in pipe-wine first with him .
each naked curtle-axe a stain page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
if thou consider rightly of the matter , caesar has had great wrong .
heir o ' th ' world , should not be gladded in ' t by me .
think we king harry strong ; and , princes , look you strongly arm to meet him .
] what warlike noise is this ?
' this might be my lord such-a-one , that prais ' d my lord such-a-one ' s horse when he
nay , ' twill be this hour ere i have done weeping ; all the kind of the launces have
the trait ' rous warwick , with the men of bury , set all upon me , mighty sovereign .
here feel we not the penalty of adam , the seasons ' difference ; as the icy fang and churlish
rebels it at these years ?
a bloody deed , and desperately dispatch ' d !
) you are my mother .
go and tell him we come to speak with him ; and you shall not sin if you do say
am i myself ?
yes , they have .
o brave spirit !
his countenance likes me not .
sure , they sleep ; he hath no use of them .
peace , i say .
therefore , i beseech you , in sign of what you are , not to reward what you have done
let me see- full merrily the humble-bee doth sing till he hath lost his honey and his sting ; and
sweet york , begin ; and if thy claim be good , the nevils are thy subjects to command .
by me , thine own true knight , by day or night , or any kind of light , with
till further day ; meanwhile must be an earnest motion made to the queen to call back her appeal she
- salerio .
i am about it , but indeed my invention comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze ; it
farewell at once-for once , for all , and ever .
spade , and pierce the inmost centre of the earth ; then , when you come to pluto ' s
what , dost thou weep ?
txt would half have corrupted a votarist .
drum and colors .
[one knocks] who ' s that at door ?
a red rose from off this thorn with me .
where is the county ' s page that rais ' d the watch ?
by my troth and maidenhead , i would not be a queen .
may i not go out ere he come ?
he said he would not ransom mortimer , forbade my tongue to speak of mortimer , page _num_ complete works
two hundred ducats .
you do surely bar the door upon your own liberty , if you deny your griefs to your friend .
my tongue is weary ; when my legs are too , i will bid you good night .
captain macmorris , i beseech you now , will you voutsafe me , look you , a few disputations with
, brim full of sorrow and dismay ; but chiefly him you term ' d , sir , ' the
what ' s open made to justice , that justice seizes .
bid my trumpet sound .
your gentleness shall force more than your force move us to gentleness .
be not amaz ' d ; right noble is his blood .
fortune speed us !
anything i know , falstaff shall die of a sweat , unless already ' a be killed with your hard
o treacherous villains !
the stone ' s too hard to come by .
i do beseech your majesty impute his words to wayward sickliness and age in him .
, officers , and citizens duke .
edmund duke of somerset and william de la pole , first duke of suffolk .
exit viola .
were such things here as we do speak about ?
loved her that she did pity them .
if it were now to die , ' twere now to be most happy ; for i fear page _num_
here will i lie to-night ; [soldiers begin to set up the king ' s tent] but where to-morrow ?
shall .
the palace enter duke frederick , oliver , and lords frederick .
hath my sword therefore broke through london gates , that you should leave me at the white hart in southwark
is there division ' twixt my lord and cassio ?
which harm within itself so heinous is as it makes harmful all that speak of it .
i blame you not for praising caesar so ; but what compact mean you to have with us ?
betray thee ?
, he stuck them up before the fulsome ewes , who , then conceiving , did in eaning time fall
now that is your grace ' s part .
no , gentle madam ; i unworthy am to woo so fair a dame to be his wife and have
alack , bareheaded ?
so will you wish on me when the rash mood is on .
the neglecting it may do much danger .
good my lord of rome , call forth your soothsayer .
went they not quickly , i should die with laughing .
commend me to lord william .
thee still .
thou art not noble ; for all th ' accommodations that thou bear ' st are nurs ' d by
who would be jealous then of such a one ?
nay , he must bear you company .
smokes about the burning crest of the old , feeble , and day-wearied sun , even this ill night ,
carry me to the gaol !
ceres , most bounteous lady , thy rich leas of wheat , rye , barley , vetches , oats ,
o , confound the rest !
posthumus , thy head , which now is growing upon thy shoulders , shall within this hour be off ;
my more particular , and that which most with you should safe my going , is fulvia ' s death
but how should prospero be living and be here ?
it , that she is turning , and inconstant , and mutability , and variation ; and her foot ,
as for the rest appeal ' d , it issues from the rancour of a villain , a recreant and
my brow , but out alack , he was but one hour mine , the region cloud hath masked him
hath starv ' d the roses in her cheeks and pinch ' d the lily-tincture of her face , that
may be she pluck ' d it of to send it me .
vat is dat ?
so may he ever do !
i am better than thou art now : i am a fool , thou art nothing .
i ' ll write unto them , and entreat them fair ; come , cousin , you shall be the
this forwardness makes our hopes fair .
a street leading to the park enter mistress page , mistress ford , and doctor caius mrs .
seeking a way and straying from the way not knowing how to find the open air , but toiling desperately
she is the fairies ' midwife , and she comes in shape no bigger than an agate stone on the
and richard but a ragged fatal rock ?
- good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother .
my lord chief justice , speak to that vain man .
i have , since i was three year old , convers ' d with a magician , most profound in
my lord , what i have done , as best i may , answer i must , and shall do
my friendspage _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
would it were otherwise : that i could beat him , whilst he rail ' d at me !
so i have .
a daughter , who married edmund mortimer , earl of march ; edmund had issue , roger earl of march
cunning gild their copper crowns , with truth and plainness i do wear mine bare .
when we have match ' d our rackets to these balls , we will in france , by god '
thee thereby of ten thousand shames , and that my sovereign ' s presence makes me mild , i would
he did , my lord , four days ere i set forth , and at the time of my departure
parting is such sweet sorrow , that i shall say good night till it be morrow .
o ' erstep not the modesty of nature : for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing ,
labouring for nine .
the word of a tapster ; they are both the confirmer of false reckonings .
king of france .
this same should be the voice of friar john .
you are three men of sin , whom destiny , that hath to instrument this lower world and what is
majesty .
meantime , but think how i may do thee good and be inheritor of thy desire .
he has everything that an honest man should not have ; what an honest man should have he has nothing
what will you give us ?
sent by the king your father to greet him and to give him comforts .
illo , ho , ho , my lord !
it will show honestly in us , and is very likely to load our purposes with what they travail for
ay , no ; no , ay ; for i must nothing be ; therefore no no , for i
for your dwelling , briefly .
our foot , is worthy praise ; but shall i speak my conscience ?
he sends to know if your pleasure hold to play with laertes , or that you will take longer time
would most resemble sweet instruments hung up in cases , that keep their sounds to themselves .
txt scene vii .
exit boy .
it cannot be but he was murd ' red here : page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
go thy ways , i begin to be aweary of thee ; and i tell thee so before , because
open wide and eat him quick , as thou dost swallow up this good king ' s blood , which
exchange forgiveness with me , noble hamlet .
the guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour , but neither my good word nor princely favour ; with
here , madam : ' hic ibat simois , hic est sigeia tellus , hic steterat priami regia celsa senis
; roger had issue , edmund , anne , and eleanor .
and godlike reason to fust in us unus ' d .
therefore be cheer ' d ; make not your thoughts your prisons .
and , were these inward wars once out of hand , we would , dear lords , unto the holy
txt we never yet made doubt but rome was ready to answer us .
so far my son- this lady ' s husband here , this , do you see ?
let it sound no more ; for though it have holp madmen to their wits , in me it seems
come , march forward .
painting , sir , i have heard say , is a mystery ; and your whores , sir , being
page is an ass , a secure ass ; he will trust his wife ; he will not be jealous
this was an ill beginning of the night .
the child richly habited in a mantle , etc .
will ye , like soldiers , come and fight it out ?
let desert in pure election shine ; and , romans , fight for freedom in your choice .
' tis since the earthquake now eleven years ; and she was wean ' d (i never shall forget it)
then have at you with my wit !
turn thy complexion there , patience , thou young and rose-lipp ' d cherubin , ay , there , look
erpingham .
what comfortable hour canst thou name that ever grac ' d me with thy company ?
no marvel though she pause : they can be meek that have no other cause .
thither .
one door , and the british army at another , leonatus posthumus following like a poor soldier .
tell him it is for justice and for aid , and that it comes from old andronicus , shaken with
he hath commanded me to go to bed , and bade me to dismiss you .
, her waiting-maid jessica , daughter to shylock magnificoes of venice , officers of the court of justice , gaoler
i will be bold to take my leave of you .
pleaseth your grace to answer them directly how far forth you do like their articles .
enter imogen i am ignorant in what i am commanded .
wilderness , and spit upon him whilst i say he lies , and lies , and lies .
peace , both , and hear me speak .
and then , of so gentle a condition !
never a man ' s thought in the world keeps the road-way better than thine .
marry , our play is ' the most lamentable comedy and most cruel death of pyramus and thisby .
st in smiling , and in such forms which here were presuppos ' d upon thee in the letter .
- i will come by-and-by .
my love to you , i came hither to acquaint you withal , that either you might stay him from
i dare lay any money ' twill be nothing yet .
to death .
and set a precious crown upon thy head , if thou wilt condescend to be my- margaret .
please it this matron and this gentle maid to eat with us to-night ; the charge and thanking shall be
txt stoop low within those bounds we have o ' erlook ' d , and calmly run on in obedience
, being ta ' en would cease page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
enter prince and poins .
exeunt all but buckingham buckingham .
glory to this day ; but when he took a beggar to his bed and grac ' d thy poor
i have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed .
if i find not what i seek , show no colour for my extremity ; let me for ever be
have ; but in their stead , curses , not loud but deep , mouth-honor , breath , which the
be pleas ' d to tell us- for this is from the present- how you take the offers we have
make her amends ; she weeps .
richard plantagenet , and others .
yes , and shall do , till the pangs of death shake him .
although it seems , and so he thinks , and is no less apparent to th ' vulgar eye ,
i thought upon antonio when he told me , and wish ' d in silence that it were not his
god and your arms be prais ' d , victorious friends ; the day is ours , the bloody dog
i have thee not , and yet i see thee still .
if thy unworthiness raised love in me , more worthy i to be beloved of thee .
not unlike , sir ; that may be .
i have heard in some sort of thy miseries .
edward and richard , you shall stay with me ; my brother montague shall post to london .
king lear hath lost , he and his daughter ta ' en .
my lord- second varro ' s servant .
no matter ; his heels have deserv ' d it , in usurping his spurs so long .
thou hast hit it ; for there ' s no better sign of a brave mind than a hard hand
for fear of that i still will stay with thee page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
this is the monstruosity in love , lady , that the will is infinite , and the execution confin '
not to them all .
know they not achilles ?
hear the truth of it .
lucullius .
for th ' other- i owe her money ; and whether she be damn ' d for that , i
our leisure would not let us hear , against the duke of norfolk , thomas mowbray ?
bid ' em send o ' th ' instant a thousand talents to me .
alas , i should be a pitiful lady .
to your fortune and be gone to keep them back that come to succour you .
, and call ' d himself a king .
i wonder if titania be awak ' d ; then , what it was that next came in her eye
of a king , sans check , to good and bad .
what , wouldst thou have me go and beg my food , or with a base and boist ' rous
why , every fault ' s condemn ' d ere it be done ; mine were the very cipher of
we are all undone .
- tell me , may not a king adopt an heir ?
like peasant foot-boys do they keep the walls , and dare not take up arms like gentlemen .
thy bones are hollow ; impiety has made a feast of thee .
) reveal ' d myself unto him until some half hour past , when i was arm ' d ,
courts .
why , here is the note of the fashion to testify .
o sir , such a life with such a wife were strange !
they .
the blessed gods purge all infection from our air whilst you do climate here !
but for because he hath not woo ' d me yet ; not that i have the power to clutch
but it is certain i am loved of all ladies , only you excepted ; and i would i could
where rode he the whilst ?
some wine , within there , and our viands !
i do retort the ' solus ' in thy bowels ; for i can take , and pistol ' s
what were you talking of when i came ?
the task he undertakes is numb ' ring sands and drinking oceans dry .
' tis said he gave unto his steward a mighty sum .
the lion will not touch the true prince .
, detested , and abominable .
' tis not so !
none here , he hopes , in all this noble bevy , has brought with her one care abroad ;
here is a friar that trembles , sighs , and weeps .
exeunt prospero .
he ' s sentenc ' d ; no more hearing .
now , by my troth , if i had been rememb ' red , i could have given my uncle
i may say so in this respect , for that he hath devoted and given up himself to the contemplation
he that hangs himself is a virgin ; virginity murders itself , and should be buried in highways , out
no ; as a wall ' d town is more worthier than a village , so is the forehead of
that is my rest , that is the rendezvous of it .
go thou , and eke an executioner cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays that look too lofty
what is the news from this good deputy ?
how malicious is my fortune that i must repent to be just !
what music is this ?
this is but a custom in your tongue ; you bear a graver purpose , i hope .
on him .
tempest and a blust ' ring day .
enter viola viola .
o , he is grown most kind of late .
you shall find that portia was the doctor , nerissa there her clerk .
nay but beatrice-- beat .
your image in some antique book , since mind at first in character was done .
it is the count rousillon , my good lord , young bertram .
there is a kind of merry war betwixt signior benedick and her .
macmorris .
the law i bear no malice for my death : ' t has done , upon the premises , but
why scorn ' st thou at sir robert ?
why , here in denmark .
pour in sow ' s blood that hath eaten her nine farrow ; grease that ' s sweaten from the
txt galliard and come home in a coranto ?
serv .
a seaport in cyprus .
the cause is in my will : i will not come , that is enough to satisfy the senate .
[aside] an he had been a dog that should have howl ' d thus , they would have hang '
dromio of syracuse .
and i have been all this day to avoid him .
from below your duke to beneath your constable , it will fit any question .
rain within doors , and none abroad !
s as sharp as yours .
quickly die , thought i thy spirits were stronger than thy shames , myself would on the rearward of reproaches
' d a part , whose issue will hiss me to my grave .
o earth , i will befriend thee more with rain that shall distil from these two ancient urns , than
varro and claudio lie down .
encounter guard .
demetrius , i will keep my word with thee .
i have , and i will hold , the quondam quickly for the only she ; and- pauca , there
as may be in the world , lady .
yea , or the drone of a lincolnshire bagpipe .
an if thou couldst , thou couldst not make him live .
methinks i see this hurly all on foot ; page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
ways- either to utter them or conceal them .
lo , as at english feasts , so i regreet the daintiest last , to make the end most sweet
list what work he makes amongst your cloven army .
who lives and dares but say thou didst not well when i was got , i ' ll send his
men born to renown by life or death .
but indeed words are very rascals since bonds disgrac ' d them .
come , i will bear thee to some shelter ; and thou shalt not die for lack of a dinner
why is he melancholy ?
rejoice , you men of angiers , ring your bells : king john , your king and england ' s
enter iago .
o ye gods !
i will call hall to so strict account that he shall render every glory up , page _num_ complete works
' shall i , ' says she , ' that have so oft encount ' red him with scorn ,
i err , who with wet cheeks were present when she finish ' d .
' tis better thee without than he within .
' hamlet .
if their singing answer your saying , by my faith you say honestly .
most humbly do i take my leave , my lord .
not so young , sir , to love a woman for singing , nor so old to dote on her
my eyes , my lord , can look as swift as yours : you saw the mistress , i beheld
i quak ' d for fear lest the lunatic knave would have search ' d it ; but fate ,
in sign whereof i pluck a white rose too .
i have no judgement in an honest face .
but hark you .
lords , i will meet him at saint edmundsbury ; it is our safety , and we must embrace this
you are mistaken : the one may be sold or given , if there were wealth enough for the purchase
nature ' s wit .
as certain as i know the sun is fire .
your lord will never more break faith advisedly .
excellent wretch !
is not that he ?
thou drunkard , thou , what didst thou mean by this ?
and here is part of my rhyme , and here my melancholy .
it was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there .
here are the angels that you sent for to deliver you .
i shall , assuredly .
o , put me in thy books !
marriage of your daughter , who is now queen .
' then ' is spoken .
i think he went not forth to-day .
, and realm .
i did not think you could have been so angry .
fate .
that ' s not my meaning .
talk no more .
but were you banish ' d for so small a fault ?
what became of his bark and his followers ?
and now what rests but that we spend the time with stately triumphs , mirthful comic shows , such as
' so , underneath the belly of their steeds , that stain ' d their fetlocks in his smoking blood
what would she have ?
power to leave the figure , or disfigure it .
this presence , i desire to reconcile me to his friendly peace : ' tis death to me to be
the field of battle .
what , ' unjust ' !
a voyage , he hath strange places cramm ' d with observation , the which he vents in mangled forms
d with buzzing night-flies to thy slumber , than in the perfum ' d chambers of the great , under
then , bolingbroke , as low as to thy heart , through the false passage of thy throat , thou
come , cousin , let us tell the queen these news .
ay , defil ' d land , my lord .
some aim .
tell me in sadness , who is that you love ?
merry men be we .
bequeath to death your numbness , for from him dear life redeems you .
for i presume brave hector would not lose so rich advantage of a promis ' d glory as smiles upon
we fail ?
voluntary .
my lord , here is a note of certain dues .
but not for love .
uncle , for god ' s sake , speak comfortable words .
that will i show you presently .
triumphantly , and bless it to all fair prosperity .
you may do with sterling money , and the other with current repentance .
whom should we match with henry , being a king , but margaret , that is daughter to a king
exeunt norfolk and suffolk wolsey .
hear us , great kings : vouchsafe awhile to stay , and i shall show you peace and fair-fac '
no , trust me , sir , nor i .
euriphile , thou wast their nurse ; they took thee for their mother , and every day do honour to
i promise you , but for your company , i would have been abed an hour ago .
open the gates unto the lord protector , or we ' ll burst them open , if that you come
well , girl , thou weep ' st not so much for his death as that the villain lives which
let us revenge this with our pikes ere we become rakes ; for the gods know i speak this in
shame of ladies !
txt what ' s done i ' th ' capitol , who ' s like to rise , who thrives
so i to her , and so she yields to me ; for i am rough , and woo not
no , when light-wing ' d toys of feather ' d cupid seel with wanton dullness my speculative and officed
be false persuaded i had daughters .
then give me welcome , next my heaven the best , even to thy pure and most most loving breast
is she of the wicked ?
to pray for her !
death and destruction dogs thee at thy heels ; thy mother ' s name is ominous to children .
infect her beauty , you fen-suck ' d fogs , drawn by the pow ' rful sun , to fall
not so , i do beseech your majesty .
if thou hadst hands to help thee knit the cord .
back , under the correction of bragging be it spoken , i should quickly leap into wife .
how best to bear it .
, servant to cressida servant to troilus servant to paris servant to diomedes page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare
all hope is gone , unless you have the grace by your fair prayer to soften angelo .
is it possible disdain should die while she hath such meet food to feed it as signior benedick ?
she might lie by an emperor ' s side , and command him tasks .
the percies of the north , finding his usurpation most unjust , endeavour ' d my advancement to the throne
good clarence , do ; sweet clarence , do thou do it .
i prithee come .
what maintenance he from his friends receives , like exhibition thou shalt have from me .
re-enter macduff , with macbeth ' s head .
hast , and with it joy thy life ; so as thou liv ' st in peace , die free
the tenth of august last this dreadful lord , retiring from the siege of orleans , having full scarce six
canst thou so daff me ?
we thank you , maiden ; but may not be so credulous of cure , when our most learned doctors
unhappy claudio !
endeavour of your wit , to enforce the pained impotent to smile .
alack , there ' s other work in hand .
the injuries of a wanton time , the seeming sufferances that you had borne , and the contrarious winds that
say to me , when saw ' st thou the prince florizel , my son ?
cry against you woe .
i beseech you read it .
have you not heard speak of mariana , the sister of frederick , the great soldier who miscarried at sea
now , noble charmian , we ' ll dispatch indeed ; and when thou hast done this chare , i
by this account , then , margaret may win him ; for she ' s a woman to be pitied
the brain may devise laws for the blood , but a hot temper leaps o ' er a cold decree
o , a brave man !
prepare me , or they shall beat out my brains with billets .
o , sir , the conceit is deeper than you think for .
truly , lady , no .
why do you bend such solemn brows on me ?
give us the foils .
[enter boy .
first musician .
o that i were a fool !
txt old man .
sure , these are but imaginary wiles , and lapland sorcerers inhabit here .
will not the mayor then and his brethren come ?
o , ' tis fair play !
gentlemen , this marvel to you .
enter the bastard bastard .
' luciana .
though with their high wrongs i am struck to th ' quick , yet with my nobler reason ' gainst
even now , sir ; on a moderate pace i have since arriv ' d but hither .
now the hot-blooded gods assist me !
mock ' d than fear ' d ; so our decrees , dead to infliction , to themselves are dead
in any case , let thisby have clean linen ; and let not him that plays the lion pare his
speak , nephew , were you by when it began ?
bad causes swear such creatures as men doubt ; but do not stain the even virtue of our enterprise ,
enter , behind , prince henry and poins disguised as drawers falstaff .
yes ; here i tender it for him in the court ; yea , twice the sum ; if that
make it no wonder ; if you knew my business , you would entreat me rather go than stay .
one ' s junius brutus- sicinius velutus , and i know not .
they do square , that all their elves for fear creep into acorn cups and hide them there .
to have done is to hang quite out of fashion , like a rusty mail in monumental mock ' ry
gardiner .
thy grace shall have it .
enter othello and iago .
i have heard you say honour and policy , like unsever ' d friends , i ' th ' war
this suit of mine , that thou declare what incidency thou dost guess of harm is creeping toward me ;
marry , then- mouldy , bullcalf , feeble , and shadow .
the french leap o ' er the walls in their shirts .
our english troops retire , i cannot stay them ; a woman clad in armour chaseth them .
d them .
o , do not learn her wrath- she taught it thee ; the milk thou suck ' dst from her
what , shall i groan and tell thee ?
this letter doth make good the friar ' s words , their course of love , the tidings of her
part of your cares you give me with your crown .
russians !
and henry is my king , warwick his subject .
he never did fall off , my sovereign liege , but by the chance of war .
but we are spirits of another sort : i with the morning ' s love have oft made sport ;
o life !
will be , not what i have been ; not my deserts , but what i will deserve .
and secretly to greet the empress ' friends .
i had thought , sir , to have held my peace until you had drawn oaths from him not to
i shall lack voice ; the deeds of coriolanus should not be utter ' d feebly .
go you and call my fool hither .
are we betrayed thus to thy over-view ?
what means this scene of rude impatience ?
; for ' tis ill hap if they hold when their ladies bid ' em clap .
faithfully .
[sound a parley .
judgement collied , assays to lead the way .
one ?
i have a great dispositions to cry .
remember , as thou read ' st , thy promise pass ' d .
as roughly as my modesty would let me .
methoughts i saw a thousand fearful wrecks , a thousand men that fishes gnaw ' d upon , wedges of
as far as i see , all the good our english have got by the late voyage is but merely
, in sparta , nor in thessaly .
york not our old men spares ; no more will i their babes .
april ' s front .
edmund , i arrest thee on capital treason ; and , in thine attaint , this gilded serpent [points to
methinks your maw , like mine , should be your clock , and strike you home without a messenger .
_num_ they that have power to hurt , and will do none , that do not do the thing ,
sir robert never holp to make this leg .
no , misery makes sport to mock itself : since thou dost seek to kill my name in me ,
god keep lead out of me !
will you hear more ?
o ho !
his ear , at which he starts and wakes , and being thus frighted , swears a prayer or two
i am fain to dine and sup with water and bran ; i dare not for my head fill my
but , worthy hector , she is a theme of honour and renown , a spur to valiant and magnanimous
i am your shadow , my lord ; i ' ll follow you .
the time was once when thou unurg ' d wouldst vow that never words were music to thine ear ,
marcius .
pray , sir , to th ' army .
and so will i .
florence , it shall become to serve all hopes conceiv ' d , to deck his fortune with his virtuous
ay , but the feet were lame , and could not bear themselves without the verse , and therefore stood
i should kick , being kick ' d ; and being at that pass , you would keep from my
circled with her nymphs , shall rest in london till we come to him .
your will ?
by this .
enter robin robin .
have you perus ' d the letters from the pope , the emperor , and the earl of armagnac ?
txt therefore ' tis meet achilles meet not hector .
first citizen .
i weep myself , to think upon thy words .
good madonna , why mourn ' st thou ?
art thou bedlam ?
the king mine uncle is to blame for it .
in himself he is ; but , in this kind , wanting your father ' s voice , the other
hover about her ; say that right for right hath dimm ' d your infant morn to aged night .
lopp ' d , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
but there was such laughing !
why and wherein caesar was dangerous .
not to a rage .
so , like gross terms , the prince will , in the perfectness of time , cast off his followers
as in mockery , set .
is pronounc ' d .
s your will ?
i could interpret between you and your love , if i could see the puppets dallying .
she ' s not well married that lives married long , but she ' s best married that dies married
txt and , o , what better matter breeds for you than i have nam ' d !
o stephano , two neapolitans scap ' d !
i am in good name and fame with the very best .
be patient , lords , and give them leave to speak .
this the dauphin speaks .
your husband , being troubled with a shrew , measures my husband ' s sorrow by his woe ; and
yet- antonio .
this last day was a shrewd one to ' s .
no duty ?
wherein went he ?
hear antony , most noble antony !
untempering effect of my visage .
who , in the lusty stealth of nature , take more composition and fierce quality than doth , within a
her to thee ; and this addition more , full thirty thousand marks of english coin .
the soul with slander ' s venom ' d spear , the which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
[to silvius] i will content you if what pleases you contents you , and you shall be married to-morrow .
all lost !
for since patiently and constantly thou hast stuck to the bare fortune of that beggar posthumus , thou canst not
[advancing] come , sir , you blush ; as his , your case is such .
that seest a game play ' d home , the rich stake drawn , and tak ' st it all
s peace !
<exeunt antipholus of syracuse and dromio of syracuse courtezan .
did he receive you well ?
her bed is india ; there she lies , a pearl ; between our ilium and where she resides let
thus can the demigod authority make us pay down for our offence by weight the words of heaven : on
] enter benvolio with mercutio .
the duke of buckingham ' s surveyor ?
he ' s scarce awake .
mark .
observe how antony becomes his flaw , and what thou think ' st his very action speaks in every power
rhyme nor reason ?
fly , my lord , fly .
come to me , that of this i may speak more .
a goodly day not to keep house with such whose roof ' s as low as ours !
welcome , my good alexas .
knees we beg , as recompense of our dear services past and to come , that you do change this
go , i discharge thee of thy prisoner , and i thank thee .
be gar , nor i too ; there is no bodies .
great god of heaven , say amen to all !
for my part , i am so attir ' d in wonder , i know not what to say .
hence , broker-lackey .
are you up ?
what ' s your name , and what ' s the matter ?
he has the prettiest love-songs for maids ; so without bawdry , which is strange ; with such delicate burdens
- come , eros , eros !
what are you that fly me thus ?
let diomedes bear him , and bring us cressid hither .
poins .
o , my good lord , when i was like this maid , i found you wondrous kind .
the music ended , we ' ll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth .
lamb .
make him swear to keep for ever .
my horse !
_num_ th ' expense of spirit in a waste of shame is lust in action , and till action ,
wrought he not well that painted it ?
no , no , good friends , god wot ; for then this land was famously enrich ' d with
say i would die .
who are the rest ?
in all external grace you have some part , but you like none , none you for constant heart .
with liver burning hot .
you dear .
name the day of marriage , and god give thee joy !
so , so .
o , it is much that a lie with a slight oath , and a jest with a sad brow
i had thought they had parted so much honesty among ' em- at least good manners-as not thus to suffer
as a lion , and wondrous affable , and as bountiful as mines of india .
year ; whose father died at hallowmas- was ' t not at hallowmas , master froth ?
the fair ophelia !
makes welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn ' d , sung by a fair queen in a summer '
go , hop me over every kennel home , for you shall hop without my custom , sir .
exeunt scene _num_ another part of the island enter caliban , with a burden of wood .
sure , he ' ll come .
words , words , words .
padua affords this kindness , son petruchio .
i will make a prief of it in my note-book ; and we will afterwards ork upon the cause with
lo , who comes here ?
forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in ' s tunes .
ah , good father , thou seest the heavens , as troubled with man ' s act , threaten his
-please you , draw near .
now i want spirits to enforce , art to enchant ; and my ending is despair unless i be reliev
there ' s goodly catching of cold .
then get your husband ' s lands , to do them good .
and how like you this shepherd ' s life , master touchstone ?
- a note infallible page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
which dreams indeed are ambition ; for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream
he ' ll shake your rome about your ears .
thee , if thou stir abroad- to plague thee for thy foul misleading me .
old montague is come and flourishes his blade in spite of me .
no , indeed , did she not ; here have i brought him back again .
dere is some simples in my closet dat i vill not for the varld i shall leave behind .
cowards father cowards and base things sire base .
them , or tear them on thy chariot wheels ; and then i ' ll come and be thy waggoner
bear with him , brutus ; ' tis his fashion .
let me see one .
he bears the sentence well , that nothing bears but the free comfort which from thence he hears ; but
with what ?
some coiner with his tools made me a counterfeit ; yet my mother seem ' d the dian of that
i ' ll not be made a soft and dull-ey ' d fool , to shake the head , relent
and , gentle friends , let ' s kill him boldly , but not wrathfully ; let ' s carve
i am afraid he will chastise me .
my lord , i am more amaz ' d at his dishonour than at the strangeness of it .
what a deal of brine hath wash ' d thy sallow cheeks for rosaline !
o , break !
mad kings !
i am pale , charmian .
why , stand-under and under-stand is all one .
save you , fair queen !
what , old acquaintance ?
by all diana ' s waiting women yond , and by herself , i will not tell you whose .
let ' s see the penalty .
' tis a naughty night to swim in .
he woos both high and low , both rich and poor , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
' tis wondrous strange , the like yet never heard of .
now much beshrew my manners and my pride , if hermia meant to say lysander lied !
they will steal anything , and call it purchase .
i ' ll say as they say , and persever so , and in this mist at all adventures go
is our whole dissembly appear ' d ?
[to luciana] what i told you then , i hope i shall have leisure to make good ; if this
a holy day shall this be kept hereafter .
did pluck allegiance from men ' s hearts , loud shouts and salutations from their mouths even in the presence
the body follow .
honorable men !
but what ' s the matter ?
that time serves still .
a plague of opinion !
govern well .
i hope no less , yet needful ' tis to fear ; and , to prevent the worst , sir
come , sir john , which four will you have ?
learn of the wise , and perpend : civet is of a baser birth than tar- the very uncleanly flux
the worst is not so long as we can say ' this is the worst .
thou shouldst know there were a heart in egypt .
of your government .
look , look , a mouse !
here at the door ; i pray you , call them in .
thou shouldst have better pleas ' d me with this deed , hadst thou descended from another house .
of purposes mistook is to mistake again ; though indirect , yet indirection thereby grows direct , and falsehood cures
who calls on hamlet ?
to marriage .
are ye so content ?
my dear lord , you know the fiery quality of the duke , how unremovable and fix ' d he
why speaks my father so ungently ?
that ' s all one , our play is done , and we ' ll strive to please you every
do thy duty , and have thy duty , for my master and mistress are almost frozen to death .
they are return ' d , my lord , and give it out that he is march ' d to
not on ' t .
and thou redeem ' st thyself .
marry , this is our device- that falstaff at that oak shall meet with us , disguis ' d ,
enter borachio .
welcome , horatio .
for me , the gold of france did not seduce , although i did admit it as a motive the
for i have bills for money by exchange from florence , and must here deliver them .
ingener .
england shall double gild his treble guilt ; england shall give him office , honour , might ; for the
of fife , a nobleman of scotland lady macduff , his wife malcolm , elder son of duncan donalbain ,
if he , compact of jars , grow musical , we shall have shortly discord in the spheres .
us , bid them come down or void the field ; they do offend our sight .
of most allowed sufficiency , yet opinion , a sovereign mistress of effects , throws a more safer voice on
here ' s a letter come from yond poor girl .
song orpheus with his lute made trees , and the mountain tops that freeze , bow themselves when he did
of power you have to come into his presence .
our nest ; grew , by our feeding to so great a bulk that even our love thirst not come
[aside to suffolk] if it do , i ' ll venture one have-at-him .
txt conrade and borachio .
a merry heart lives long-a .
for shame , never stand ' you had rather ' and ' you had rather ' !
what do you esteem it at ?
for mine own part , i never tasted timon in my life , nor came any of his bounties over
dido once enjoyed , when with a happy storm they were surpris ' d , and curtain ' d with
thy daemon , that thy spirit which keeps thee , is noble , courageous , high , unmatchable , where
le col , de nick ; le menton , de sin .
this man , aufidius , was my belov ' d in rome ; yet thou behold ' st .
say , to fortuna de la guerra .
d not do ' t ; but since nor brass , nor stone , nor parchment , bears not one
tell me , how fares our loving mother ?
i dare no longer stay .
sennet .
when i burned in desire to question them further , they made themselves air , into which they vanished .
on , officer , to prison till it come .
here ' s to thee .
else , you must pardon me ; if you should die before him , where ' s her dower ?
a creature unprepar ' d , unmeet for death ; and to transport him in the mind he is were
here , stand behind this bulk ; straight will he come .
sounds with thy sweet fingers when thou gently sway ' st the wiry concord that mine ear confounds , do
fear it , ophelia , fear it , my dear sister , and keep you in the rear of your
now come i to my sister ; mark the moan she makes .
the which supply , admit me chorus to this history ; who prologue-like , your humble patience pray gently to
exit pompey .
therefore have i slept in your report , that you your self being extant well might show , how far
] enter sir john the bastard and conrade , his companion .
alas , what cry is that ?
bind up my wounds .
please it your grace lead on ?
thou know ' st i do ; i call ' d thee by thy name .
drunkard , utter all to thee .
how now , my lord chief justice ; whither away ?
what majesty is in her gait ?
and neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy .
- cannot be quiet searce a breathing while but you must trouble him with lewd complaints .
with blood remov ' d but little from her own ?
she may-ay , marry , may she- rivers .
is not this buckled well ?
where is the dauphin ?
o , rhymes are guards on wanton cupid ' s hose : disfigure not his slop .
very well , and could be content to give him good report for ' t but that he pays himself
, when he shall die , take him and cut him out in little stars , and he will make
as horns are odious , they are necessary .
i yield to the or to the meanest groom .
all my glories in that one woman i have lost for ever .
he ' s not past it yet ; and , i say to thee , he would mouth with a
we hope no otherwise from your majesty .
why , here he comes , swelling like a turkey-cock .
' twas yet some comfort when misery could beguile the tyrant ' s rage and frustrate his proud will .
my gracious father , by your kingly leave , i ' ll draw it as apparent to the crown ,
exit duke senior .
what , fifty of my followers at a clap ?
o for a muse of fire , that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention , a kingdom for a
i pray you now , good master slender ' s serving-man , and friend simple by your name , which
say that i said so .
fare ye well , sir ; i am for france too ; we shall speak of you there .
send thy man away .
the ice , or add another hue unto the rainbow , or with taper-light to seek the beauteous eye of
his wit ' s as thick as tewksbury mustard ; there ' s no more conceit in him than is
exit parolles .
horatio !
what manner o ' thing is your crocodile ?
wherein i am false i am honest ; not true , to be true .
to call my friend- i could be sad and sad indeed too .
but in short space it it rain ' d down fortune show ' ring on your head , and such
how cam ' st thou to be the siege of this moon-calf ?
his companion , and he steals it .
his incivility confirms no less .
so i lose none in seeking to augment it , but still keep my bosom franchised and allegiance clear ,
mistress , you must come away to your father .
to-morrow see again , and do not kill the spirit of love , with a perpetual dulness : let this
when did she cross thee with a bitter word ?
in love , the heavens themselves do guide the state ; money buys lands , and wives are sold by
sweet phebe .
if it please me , madam , what then ?
this is pisanio ' s deed , and cloten .
when i did name her brothers , then fresh tears stood on her cheeks , as doth the honey dew
in brief , sorrow would be a rarity most belov ' d , if all could so become it .
so awake when i am gone ; for i must now to oberon .
the florentines and senoys are by th ' ears ; have fought with equal fortune , and continue a braving
>> _num_ the first part of henry the sixth by william shakespeare dramatis personae king henry the sixth duke of
nay , forward , old man , do not break off so ; for we may pity , though not
this afternoon , sir ?
what trick , what device , what starting hole canst thou now find out to hide thee from this open
mortal paradise of such sweet flesh ?
not wrangle .
d with venus .
i saw othello ' s visage in his mind , and to his honors and his valiant parts did i
if the ground be overcharg ' d , you were best stick her .
' o father , what a hell of witchcraft lies in the small orb of one particular tear !
get that privilege of me .
but i have another messenger to your worship .
a wild kate to a kate conformable as other household kates .
famine is in thy cheeks , need and oppression starveth in thine eyes , contempt and beggary hangs upon thy
let th ' egyptians and the phoenicians go a-ducking ; we have us ' d to conquer standing on the
tie up my love ' s tongue , bring him silently .
the precious liquor spilt ; is hack ' d down , and his summer leaves all faded , by envy
high be our thoughts .
well , the beginning , that is dead and buried .
is ' t possible that my deserts to you can lack persuasion ?
enter sir toby olivia .
but i have , sir , a son by order of law , some year elder than this , who
these signs have mark ' d me extraordinary , and all the courses of my life do show i am
seyton , send out .
--thou naughty varlet !
away , boy , from the troops , and save thyself ; for friends kill friends , and the disorder
a softly-sprighted man , is he not ?
friar , a very scurvy fellow .
am i politic ?
that she ' s in love with him .
you have discharg ' d this honestly ; keep it to yourself .
what needs these hands ?
who says this is improvident jealousy ?
exit [friar] .
where remains he ?
how now , grumio !
our eyes , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
cymbeline ' s palace page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
why , then you mean not as i thought you did .
we look ' d not for mark antony here .
thy lips are scarce wip ' d since thou drunk ' st last .
like heme , with huge horns on his head .
and i choose clarence only for protector .
iago hath direction what to do ; but notwithstanding with my personal eye will i look to ' t .
master fang , have you ent ' red the action ?
who saw cesario , ho ?
[to brutus] will you be gone ?
that was in thy rage .
[gives him a paper .
he closes thus : ' i know the gentleman .
there ' s no true drop of blood in him to be truly touch ' d with love .
challenge me by these deserts ; and , by this virgin palm now kissing thine , i will be thine
come , sir , i know what i know .
; and tranio , as lucentio , with his boy , biondello , bearing a lute and books gremio .
not so , neither ; but if i had wit enough to get out of this wood , i have
- most dangerously you have with him prevail ' d , if not most mortal to him .
i would not be in some of your coats for two-pence .
every lane ' s end , every shop , church , session , hanging , yields a careful man work
walk into her house .
is the king dead , the empire unpossess ' d ?
i cry you gentle pardon ; these bloody accidents must excuse my manners , that so neglected you .
why should i play the roman fool and die on mine own sword ?
will not come today .
thou shouldst strike him .
but pray you tell me , is she sole child to th ' king ?
did not i pluck thee by the nose for thy speeches ?
what are you reading ?
we do it not alone , sir .
methinks i feel this youth ' s perfections with an invisible and subtle stealth to creep in at mine eyes
no , valentine .
, they are set here for examples .
which way would hector have it ?
enter olivia and priest olivia .
s yellow sands , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
go , knock and can ; he ' ll speak like an anthropophaginian unto thee .
when day ' s oppression is not eased by night , but day by night and night by day oppressed
he swore consent to your succession , his oath enrolled in the parliament ; and now to london all the
my life , in this fair rescue thou hast brought to me .
[aside to poins] ned , where are our disguises ?
caesar .
so again , good night .
heigh , my hearts !
look , who comes here .
sir john , i sent for you before your expedition to shrewsbury .
swiftness ad more feathers to our wings ; for , god before , we ' ll chide this dauphin at
the lists at coventry enter the lord marshal and the duke of aumerle marshal .
come , come , he must not .
i should- when all ' s spent , he ' d be cross ' d then , an he could
necessitied to help , that by this token i would relieve her .
once more to-day well met , distemper ' d lords !
you should for that have reprehended him .
we are such stuff as dreams are made on ; and our little life is rounded with a sleep .
what , have his daughters brought him to this pass ?
yet surely cassio , i believe , received from him that fled some strange indignity , which patience could not
perchance to-morrow you ' ll serve another master .
o , wither ' d is the garland of the war , the soldier ' s pole is fall '
she speaks much of her father ; says she hears there ' s tricks i ' th ' world ,
it is not so .
but that will never be .
you know neither me , yourselves , nor any thing .
deserve-- i mean in singing ; but in loving leander the good swimmer , troilus the first employer of panders
imitari is nothing : so doth the hound his master , the ape his keeper , the tired horse his
as springtime flowers .
be swallowed in this controversy .
my lord of warwick , here is- praised be god for it !
' tis not hereafter ; present mirth hath present laughter ; what ' s to come is still unsure .
a special virtue ; for then she need not be wash ' d and scour ' d .
what , ye knaves !
txt bardolph .
madam , my lord your father would speak with you .
th ' art i ' th ' right .
' tis pity of him .
consort ?
like madness is the glory of this life , as this pomp shows to a little oil and root .
him are under the line , they need no other penance .
o god , which this blood mad ' st , revenge his death !
where ' s his examination ?
[aside] mass , ' twill be sore law then ; for he was thrust in the mouth with a spear
first he did praise my beauty , then my speech .
now i ' ll tell you without asking .
what is ' t your worship ' s pleasure i shall do with this wicked caitiff ?
went it not so ?
heard you this , gonzalo ?
one hero died defil ' d ; but i do live , and surely as i live , i am
s ring .
my wits faint .
the numbers of our host , and make discovery err in report of us .
txt to rise and be put to death .
and stay there , dromio , till i come to thee .
yet i am richer than my base accusers that never knew what truth meant ; i now seal it ;
' th ' worst .
i am worse than e ' er i was .
night .
so i hope , i was not born to die on brutus ' sword .
court , as hard to leave as keep , whose top to climb is certain falling , or so slipp
name it .
enter elbow and officers with froth and pompey elbow .
your sleepy thoughts , which here we waken to our country ' s good , the noble isle doth want
pray , have you not a daughter call ' d katherina , fair and virtuous ?
my royal liege , he is not guilty of her coming hither .
swills your warm blood like wash , and makes his trough in your embowell ' d bosoms-this foul swine is
exeunt falstaff and bardolph hostess .
nay , bigger !
' and some have greatness thrust upon them .
i love and hate her ; for she ' s fair and royal , and that she hath all courtly
and is it thus ?
but wherefore do i tell these news to thee why , harry , do i tell thee of my foes
as the executioner ?
wings clip dead men ' s graves , and from their misty jaws breathe foul contagious darkness in the air
i forgive you the praise .
that way is dangerous , since i cannot yet find in my heart to repent .
good madam , hear me speak , and let no quarrel nor no brawl to come taint the condition of
ay , that is study ' s god-like recompense .
no , kate ?
, we bid good night ; and wound our tott ' ring colours clearly up , last in the field
[berowne reads the letter] where hadst thou it ?
i humbly thank you , sir .
i will wage against your gold , gold to it .
hugh capet ' s claim , king lewis his satisfaction , all appear to hold in right and tide of
or i ' ll cry a match .
go , bid thy master rise and come to me ; and we will both together to the tower ,
that codding spirit had they from their mother , as sure a card as ever won the set ; that
' heavens , ' have i said ' the bounty of this lord !
convey her to my tent .
thee thither in a whirlwind .
this mortal-breathing saint .
borrow cupid ' s wings and soar with them above a common bound .
calmly , good laertes .
i am thinking what i shall say i have provided for him .
come , come ; trib , trib .
will you sup with me tonight , casca ?
thy hopeful service perish too .
go , sir andrew ; scout me for him at the corner of the orchard , like a bum-baily ;
comfort , my sovereign !
had rather stay , or go to bed now , being two hours to day .
nothing remains but that i kindle the boy thither , which now i ' ll go about .
come , come , you answer with an idle tongue .
, to turn all beauty into thoughts of harm , and never shall it more be gracious .
one only daughter have i , no kin else , on whom i may confer what i have got .
fie , fie upon her !
knew you of this fair work ?
in this line some interest , which for memorial still with thee shall stay .
, that you divest yourself , and lay apart the borrowed glories that by gift of heaven , by law
' d by prayer , which pierces so that it assaults mercy itself , and frees all faults .
so she does any thing ; though i report it that should be silent .
indeed , to speak feelingly of him , he is the card or calendar of gentry ; for you shall
prithee , listen well .
no , god forbid that i should wish them sever ' d whom god hath join ' d together ;
force me to keep you as a prisoner , not like a guest ; so you shall pay your fees
out , gall !
why , for that too .
my lord , we have stood here observing him .
[kneeling] pardon , my lord , for me and for my tidings .
i should be sick but that my resolution helps me .
txt ' twill bring you gain , or perish on the seas .
long live our sovereign richard , england ' s king !
but let me see .
myself have calm ' d their spleenful mutiny until they hear the order of his death .
end his being .
what countryman , i pray ?
put them in , imagination to give them shape , or time to act them in .
faith , stay here this night ; they will surely do us no harm ; you saw they speak us
with roman swords , and my report was once first with the best of note .
i had as lief you would tell me of a mess of porridge .
rouse up thy youthful blood , be valiant , and live .
no , sir ; i say his horse comes with him on his back .
how quickly nature falls into revolt when gold becomes her object !
be motives weak , break off betimes , and every man hence to his idle bed ; so let high-sighted
; [to edgar and kent] you to your rights ; with boot , and such addition as your honours have
advance , brave titus .
' d villages with war and ostentation of despised arms ?
prepare you , lords ; summon a session , that we may arraign our most disloyal lady ; for ,
i know a trick worth two of that , i ' faith .
hie you , messala , and i will seek for pindarus the while .
; so by your companies to draw him on to pleasures , and to gather so much as from occasion
this is done .
on wednesday next we solemnly set down our coronation .
if i had a suit to master shallow , i would humour his men with the imputation of being near
normans , but bastard normans , norman bastards !
if it be not , then love doth well denote , love ' s eye is not so true as
and then it started , like a guilty thing upon a fearful summons .
be serv ' d .
thou shalt find me tractable to any honest reason .
on earth .
those lips away , that so sweetly were forsworn ; and those eyes , the break of day , lights
o peace , prince dauphin !
most bloody piece of work to know it further .
and why dost thou deny the bag of gold ?
murther !
then thus she says : your behaviour hath struck her into amazement and admiration .
sirrah biondello , now do your duty throughly , i advise you .
[retiring] dumain .
you must desire them to think upon you .
i ' ll be hang ' d first .
stopp ' d in , like a strong distillation , with stinking clothes that fretted in their own grease .
take thou some of it , and seek through this grove : page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
a most incomparable man ; breath ' d , as it were , to an untirable and continuate goodness .
despair !
own phrase-that had the whole theoric of war in the knot of his scarf , and the practice in the
lord , lord , how this world is given to lying !
let him depart ; his passport shall be made , and crowns for convoy put into his purse ; we
let ' s die in pride .
glendower ; and , dear coz , to you page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
him pardon .
i ' ll stay at home , and pray god ' s blessing into thy attempt .
therefore the dukes of berri and of britaine , of brabant and of orleans , shall make forth , and
sir , he made a chimney in my father ' s house , and the bricks are alive at this
exeunt severally scene _num_ .
i would not by my will have troubled you ; but since you make your pleasure of your pains ,
the day .
not nature , to whom all sores lay siege , can bear great fortune but by contempt of nature .
from sicyon , ho , the news !
do thou stand for my father and examine me upon the particulars of my life .
, melt itself into the sea ; and other times to see the beachy girdle of the ocean too wide
alas , sir , be patient .
yet benedick was such another , and now is he become a man .
it appears not in this confession .
an offer , uncle , that we will accept .
is the pearl that pleas ' d your empress ' eye ; and here ' s the base fruit of
come , let ' s do so , for every minute is expectancy of more arrivance .
what is thy name , young man ?
aweless throne .
madam , i am most apt t ' embrace your offer .
o heavy ignorance !
' tis often seen adoption strives with nature , and choice breeds a native slip to us from foreign seeds
suppose the singing birds musicians , the grass whereon thou tread ' st the presence strew ' d , the
synods been decreed , both by the syracusians and ourselves , to admit no traffic to our adverse towns ;
hark you , sir .
you never spoke what did become you less than this ; which to reiterate were sin as deep as that
true ; for he bears it not about him .
now for the love of love and her soft hours , let ' s not confound the time with conference
of them all to leave the dam .
and here i will expect thy coming .
the hatches ; the master and the boatswain being awake , enforce them to this place ; and presently ,
now if the help of norfolk and myself , with all the friends that thou , brave earl of march
you scarcely have the hearts to tell me so , and therefore cannot have the hearts to do it .
now welcome more , and ten times more belov ' d , than if thou never hadst deserv ' d
meet him at the door with it as they did last time .
is cade the son of henry the fifth , that thus you do exclaim you ' ll go with him
let the sky rain potatoes ; let it thunder to the tune of greensleeves , hail kissing-comfits , and snow
a churchyard .
still serve him with my life .
she is never sad but when she sleeps , and not ever sad then ; for i have heard my
he comes to kill my heart .
let him die .
darraign your battle , for they are at hand .
if i know how or which way to order these affairs thus disorderly thrust into my hands , never believe
, sometime puts forth .
past hope , and in despair ; that way past grace .
and that letter hath she deliver ' d , and there an end .
' enter portia for balthazar , dressed like a doctor of laws duke of venice .
wherefore didst thou this ?
and one to whom you are but as a form in wax , by him imprinted , and within his
him that thou magnifi ' st with all these tides , stinking and fly-blown lies here at our feet .
this man whom hand to hand i slew in fight may be possessed with some store of crowns ; and
sound .
what , is this so ?
let the garden door be shut , and leave me to my hearing .
such a man might be a copy to these younger times ; which , followed well , would demonstrate them
here is mine .
what , all unready so ?
here come our wives , and let us take our leave .
be mad ; that cures us both .
nay , nothing , master moth , but what they look upon .
or less !
never did base and rotten policy colour her working with such deadly wounds ; nor never could the noble mortimer
but , as i said , when it did taste the wormwood on the nipple of my dug and felt
come on , my son , in whom my house ' s name must be digested ; give a favour
ay , by any means , prove a tall fellow .
you awhile .
ay , silvia- for your sake .
vouchsafe , diffus ' d infection of a man , of these known evils but to give me leave by
but it .
- i do not know why yet i live to say ' this thing ' s to do , '
' twould anger him to raise a spirit in his mistress ' circle of some strange nature , letting it
' marg .
- sir .
cesario is your servant ' s name , fair princess .
michael cassio , that came awooing with you , and so many a time when i have spoke of you
and urchinfield , lord strange of blackmere , lord verdun of alton , lord cromwell of wingfield , lord furnival
follow me ; thou shalt serve me .
here are your reasons : you know an enemy intends you harm ; you know a sword employ ' d
books .
dost thou live by thy tabor ?
it is the cry of women , my good lord .
who ' s that ?
what manner of man ?
that which thou hast heard me speak to-night .
cradle for such little pretty ones .
madman , thou errest .
and now i do bethink me , it was she first told me thou wast mad ; then cam '
this act persuades me that this remotion of the duke and her is practice only .
if thou retire , the dauphin , well appointed , stands with the snares of war to tangle thee .
alas , a black ousel , cousin shallow !
inclination ; let him not leave out the colour of her hair .
now i see ' tis true ; for the blood-bolter ' d banquo smiles upon me , and points at
yorkshire .
how far off is our brother montague ?
take it in what sense thou wilt .
is ' t gone ?
whereof hath ever since kept hector fasting and waking .
jesu , jesu , dead !
' ervalues it something .
we heard it all .
i will not sleep , my lord , till i have delivered your letter .
i marvel thy master hath not eaten thee for a word , for thou are not so long by the
to be true .
the mighty dukes , gloucester and buckingham .
' tis but one cast away , and so , come death !
it hath been taught us from the primal state that he which is was wish ' d until he were
hamlet , thou hast thy father much offended .
mutius .
you talk of pride .
talk not of standing .
i ' ll put a girdle round about the earth in forty minutes .
no instrument of half that worth as those your swords , made rich with the most noble blood of all
but , lords , we hear this fearful tempest sing , yet seek no shelter to avoid the storm ;
venturous or desperate than this .
, fairs ; and we that sell by gross , the lord doth know , have not the grace to
i do adore thy sweet grace ' s slipper .
her father is baptista minola , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
[drum and trumpet .
so he serv ' d the second , and so the third .
are to be fear ' d .
rotten times that you shall look upon when i am sleeping with my ancestors .
how would he hang his slender gilded wings and buzz lamenting doings in the air !
usurp upon my wat ' ry eyes and make them blind with tributary tears .
yes , my good lord ; but never hope to know why i should marry her .
then , with your will , go on ; we ' ll along ourselves and meet them at philippi .
i am of your fear for that .
hold hook and line , say i .
if she , my liege , can make me know this clearly , i ' ll love her dearly ,
montague hath breath ' d his last ; and to the latest gasp cried out for warwick , and said
thou liest ; thou art not colted , thou art uncolted .
' tis now near night .
we ' ll to sutton co ' fil ' to-night .
you have said you will not grant us any thing- for we have nothing else to ask but that which
in winter ' s tedious nights sit by the fire with good old folks , and let them tell thee
but if thou dost break her virgin-knot before all sanctimonious ceremonies may with full and holy rite be minist '
upon ye .
captain , i thee beseech to do me favours .
will you give horns , chaste lady ?
but this is something odd .
i might love .
rude ragged nurse , old sullen playfellow for tender princes , use my babies well .
known !
naught to do with mistress shore !
why , is not this better now than groaning for love ?
he was but a fool that brought my answer back .
come , come , to th ' purpose .
virtues , the king ' s majesty commends his good opinion of you to you , and does purpose honour
berkeley .
i will so .
unto an enemy ' s triumph .
now , justice on the doers !
has he , masters ?
, and longing , as i said , for prunes ; and having but two in the dish , as
tut , tut !
first , i must tell thee this : desdemona is directly in love with him .
therefore is it most expedient for the wise , if don worm (his conscience) find no impediment to the contrary
good faith , i wish ' d myself a man , or that we women had men ' s privilege
both , both , my girl .
if you are sick at sea or stomach-qualm ' d at land , a dram of this will drive away
be kind and courteous to this gentleman ; hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes ; feed him
some good i mean to do , despite of mine own nature .
lady ask ' d for , the nurse curs ' d in the pantry , and everything in extremity .
thou canst not teach me to forget .
in faith , i will .
d justice , with his surly hum , delivering o ' er to executors pale the lazy yawning drone .
to me you cannot reach you play the spaniel , and think with wagging of your tongue to win me
lo , as the bark that hath discharg ' d her fraught returns with precious lading to the bay from
you alone .
by truth ?
, pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear , yea , mock the lion when ' a roars for
stay : where ' s your commission , lords ?
he was wont to come home wounded .
were i a tyrant , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
two months since here was a gentleman of normandy .
for nym , he hath heard that men of few words are the best men , and therefore he scorns
i fear me , love , if that i had been dead , thou wouldst not have mourn ' d
ay , there ' s the villainy .
i ' ll tarry no longer with you ; farewell , good signior love .
txt re-enter lords , with exeter and train french king .
i know you .
why dost thou cry ' alas ' ?
i pray thee , good mercutio , let ' s retire .
hold , there is forty ducats .
prithee , friend , pour out the pack of matter to mine ear , the good and bad together .
o my gentle hubert , we owe thee much !
confess it , th ' one to th ' other ; and thine eyes see it so grossly shown in
txt may equally determine .
all about the breast .
beshrew his hand , i scarce could understand it .
good counsels upon his passion .
whoe ' er ' a was , ' a show ' d a mounting mind .
txt king henry ' s peers and chief nobility destroy ' d themselves and lost the realm of france !
came not .
and money enough .
[exeunt all but olivia and viola] give me your hand , sir .
for each true word a blister , and each false be as a cauterizing to the root o ' th
hurts the king .
dost hate a medlar ?
he would not seem to know me .
some large jests he will make .
it doth impair the seeing sense , it pays the hearing double recompense .
cause , you will do aught- this shall you do for me : your oath i will not trust ;
margaret shall now be queen , and rule the king ; but i will rule both her , the king
you shall be more beloving than beloved .
d , and for these bitter tears , which now you see filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks ,
what say you , my niece ?
so is the equal poise of this fell war .
the messenger came on my guard , and at thy tent is now unloading of his mules .
an instant .
i have some wounds upon me , and they smart to hear themselves rememb ' red .
beam , upon the pashed corses of the kings epistrophus and cedius .
lady macduff .
i have a thousand spirits in one breast to answer twenty thousand such as you .
say ; and so i do , and with his gifts present your lordships , that , whenever you have
my mind hath been as big as one of yours , my heart as great , my reason haply more
] two truths are told , as happy prologues to the swelling act of the imperial theme-i thank you ,
he commands move only in command , nothing in love .
can sick men play so nicely with their names ?
in self-same key retorts to chiding fortune .
this thou perceiv ' st , which makes thy love more strong , to love that well , which thou
the posts come tiring on , and not a man of them brings other news than they have learnt of
visiting the sick , and finding him , the searchers of the town , suspecting that we both were in
be govern ' d by your knowledge , and proceed i ' th ' sway of your own will .
dead art thou , dead !
his to her .
d , fresh as a bridegroom ; and his chin new reap ' d show ' d like a stubble
strike .
even or odd , of all days in the year , come lammas eve at night shall she be fourteen
now present here together ; that ' s to say i meant to rectify my conscience , which i then
do you think there is truth in them ?
we ' ll meet them , and help the joy .
what , household stuff ?
do ; cuff him soundly , but never draw thy sword .
as every alien pen hath got my use , and under thee their poesy disperse .
what , amaz ' d at my misfortunes ?
ah , my poor princes !
why , thou knowest i am as valiant as hercules ; but beware instinct .
i was ; but i do find more pain in banishment than death can yield me here by my abode
enter pistol pistol .
athol , of murray , angus , and menteith .
she will be pleas ' d ; then wherefore should i doubt ?
eyne .
uncomfortable time , why cam ' st thou now to murther , murther our solemnity ?
macbeth ' s castle .
and in this covert will we make our stand , culling the principal of all the deer .
many arrows loosed several ways come to one mark , as many ways meet in one town , as many
this is the latest parle we will admit ; therefore to our best mercy give yourselves or , like to
die for love .
hath won the greatest favour of the commons , excepting none but good duke humphrey .
swallows the old rat and the ditch-dog , drinks the green mantle of the standing pool ; who is whipp
why , whose is it ?
how will this fadge ?
but , hark !
ay , and the approbation of those that weep this lamentable divorce under her colours are wonderfully to extend him
by nothing ; for this is no oath : thy george , profan ' d , hath lost his lordly
it a gaping wound issuing life-blood .
farewell , father .
they shall have my horses , but i ' ll make them pay ; i ' ll sauce them ;
with anger , with sickness , or with hunger , my lord ; not with love .
you are welcome , sir , to cyprus .
this shame , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
marry , that with no man here he is offended ; for , were he , he had shown it
ely .
trust me , i could do much- othello .
caphis , i say !
' tis new to thee .
, when waterdrops have worn the stones of troy , and blind oblivion swallow ' d cities up , and
so , when this loose behaviour i throw off and pay the debt i never promised , by how much
upon my life , she finds , although i cannot , myself to be a marv ' llous proper man
they will scarcely believe this without trial .
_num_ as an unperfect actor on the stage , who with his fear is put beside his part , or
make you a sword of me ?
by and leave you hindmost ; or , like a gallant horse fall ' n in first rank , lie
wine lov ' d i deeply , dice dearly ; and in woman out-paramour ' d the turk .
thou dost thy office fairly .
not in deed , madam ; for i can do nothing but what indeed is honest to be done .
ay , marry , is ' t .
no , truly , unless thou wert hard-favour ' d ; for honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey
of this ?
ay , and the time seems thirty unto me , being all this time abandon ' d from your bed
o , then it mov ' d her ?
wilt thou revenge ?
come , dally not , be gone .
txt to watch the night in storms , the day in cold , whilst thou liest warm at home ,
signior baptista , will you be so strange ?
there ' s enough to make us all .
ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb , let it no more bring out ingrateful man !
hazard for lead !
' d with as few good deeds ; for ' a never broke any man ' s head but his
thou art proud , apemantus .
(reads) ' if any man of quality or degree within the lists of the army will maintain upon edmund ,
' tis good ; though music oft hath such a charm to make bad good and good provoke to harm
most fortunately : he hath achieved a maid that paragons description and wild fame , page _num_ complete works of
help marcius , help , you that be noble ; help him , young and old .
it is too late ; i cannot send them now .
how blest am i in my just censure , in my true opinion !
alas , poor shepherd !
what , what , my lord !
i can be able to front this present time .
front of war , the arm of mine own body , and the heart where mine his thoughts did kindle-
ay ; would they serv ' d us !
the world is populous and here is not a creature but myself , i cannot do it .
do nothing but that ; move still , still so , and own no other function .
not where he eats , but where he is eaten .
come , gentlemen , let ' s all go visit him .
what mockery will it be to want the bridegroom when the priest attends to speak the ceremonial rites of marriage
will this hold , think you ?
speak , hands , for me !
and spite of spite needs must i rest awhile .
did feel full sick , and yet not well , by all the reverend fathers of the land and doctors
and niece to king john lady faulconbridge , widow of sir robert faulconbridge lords , citizens of angiers , sheriff
or war as thou affects .
[reads] ' " gamut " i am , the ground of all accord- " a re " to plead hortensio
that i ' ll try .
that neptune ' s arms , who clippeth thee about , would bear thee from the knowledge of thyself and
and doting .
sent he to macduff ?
of my face as he would draw it .
in such a night medea gathered the enchanted herbs that did renew old aeson .
when half to half the world oppos ' d , he being the mered question .
i ' ll take my leave .
he was a soldier good , but , by great mars , the captain of us all , never like
she ' s impudent , my lord , and was a common gamester to the camp .
saved by believing rightly can ever believe such impossible passages of page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
this ' tis to be married ; this ' tis to have linen and buck-baskets !
your lordship speaks most infallibly of him .
here comes the noble antony .
welcome , my lord , to this brave town of york .
good paulina , lead us from hence where we may leisurely each one demand and answer to his part perform
i shall desire you , sir , to give me leave to have free speech with you ; and it
i will retort the sum in equipage .
; but cardinal sins and hollow hearts i fear ye .
i did suppose it should be on constraint ; but , heaven be thank ' d , it is but
high-day , freedom !
why , then we kill all our women .
avaunt , you curs !
[sleeps] solemn music .
must i needs forgo so good , so noble , and so true a master ?
- ' tis the ninth hour o ' th ' morn .
tell him timon speaks it in pity of our aged and our youth- i cannot choose but tell him that
by my troth , i ' ll go with thee to the lane ' s end .
late , like a remorseful pardon slowly carried , to the great sender turns a sour offence , crying '
o , sir , lucentio slipp ' d me like his greyhound , which runs himself , and catches for
if he dote on her upon this , i will never trust my expectation .
i am like you , they say .
i do not like ' but yet .
of the poor world ' s peace !
let us our lives , our souls , our debts , our careful wives , our children , and our
her motion and her station are as one ; she shows a body rather than a life , a statue
my desp ' rate brains ?
at wid ' st to glut him .
this troyan scorns us , or the men of troy are ceremonious courtiers .
s scythe can make defence save breed to brave him , when he takes thee hence .
you have made shift to run into ' t , boots and spurs and all , like him that leapt
hide not thy poison with such sug ' red words ; lay not thy hands on me ; forbear ,
prov ' d so unnatural a father !
neither my husband nor the slave return ' d that in such haste i sent to seek his master !
is it not yours ?
i have observed thee always for a towardly prompt spirit , give thee thy due , and one that knows
fair be to you , my lord , and to all this fair company !
saunder simpcox , an if it please you , master .
your sister ' s drown ' d , laertes .
my master , sir , my master slender , sent to her , seeing her go thorough the streets ,
march away .
at whose request do these men play ?
surrey , thou liest .
hath pardon ' d them , and they are all about his majesty .
' i know ' quoth he ' no house , no wife , no mistress .
here comes another troop to seek for you .
caesar ' s ambition- which swell ' d so much that it did almost stretch the sides o ' th
thou dost advise me even so as i mine own course have set down .
hold , sir , here ' s my purse ; in the south suburbs , at the elephant , is
; quoth he ' thus misery doth part the flux of company .
your worship ' s friend , and launcelot , sir .
i durst , my lord , to wager she is honest , lay down my soul at stake .
and partly by his oaths , which first possess ' d them , partly by the dark night , which
o ' my word , and she knew him as well as i do , she would think scolding would
he would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse .
some say the genius so cries ' come ' to him that instantly must die .
prepare , the tidings comes that they are all arriv ' d .
and to see how many of my old acquaintance are dead !
nay , but ophelia- oph .
one turf shall serve as pillow for us both ; one heart , one bed , two bosoms , and
tell you what i say of him .
behold and see .
pass our accept and peremptory answer .
the town is beseech ' d , and the trumpet call us to the breach ; and we talk and
how were i then uplifted !
' lord ' quoth he !
it did , it did !
where helen is the subject .
make way to lay them by their brethren .
hector , i take my leave .
at all times will you have my power alike ?
, fair , and happy , so opposite to marriage that she shunn ' d the wealthy , curled darlings
tell him i have moved my lord on his behalf and hope all will be well .
shall kingly woe obey .
i am sent before to make a fire , and they are coming after to warm them .
you would be another penelope ; yet they say all the yarn she spun in ulysses ' absence did but
but how should this man , that makes me smile , make hector angry ?
no , not to be so odd , and from all fashions , as beatrice is , cannot be commendable
not to be found ; or if it were , it would neither serve for the writing nor the tune
, our part therein we banish with yourselves , to keep the oath that we administer : you never shall
true , true , we are four .
i she well shipp ' d ?
and there is such confusion in my powers page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
as gentle tell me of what honour was this cressida in troy ?
i cannot get him out o ' th ' house .
his horse is slain , and all on foot he fights , seeking for richmond in the throat of death
hence , heap of wrath , foul indigested lump , as crooked in thy manners as thy shape !
with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze .
save thee , friend , and thy music !
enter titus and marcus boy .
exeunt ladies now , master doctor , have you brought those drugs ?
being done unknown , i should have found it afterwards well done , but must condemn it now .
and , as i wooed for thee to obtain her , i will join with thee to disgrace her .
why , how now ?
' - the queen , the queen , the sweet ' st , dear ' st creature ' s dead
by my troth , most pleasant !
but there was a more temperate fire under the pot of her eyes .
come , come , be every one officious to make this banquet , which i wish may prove more stern
to the ports the discontents repair , and men ' s reports give him much wrong ' d .
good friend , be gone .
send thy token of reprieve .
verdict is determined the clear eye ' s moiety , and the dear heart ' s part .
i prithee , and i ' ll pay thee bounteously , conceal me what i am , and be my
perceive them thick .
i look through thee .
he comes down from the pulpit .
therefore pardon me , and not impute this yielding to light love , which the dark night hath so discovered
woman of less place might ask by law- scholars allow ' d freely to argue for her .
report is changeable .
but let thine inherit first , for , i protest , mine never shall .
' s dug between its lips ; where , from thy sight , i should be raging mad and cry
and , by my faith , this league that we have made will give her sadness very little cure .
why , sir , for my part , i say the gentleman had drunk himself out of his five sentences
what halloing and what stir is this to-day ?
ha !
a most wicked sir oliver , audrey , a most vile martext .
you do remember this stain upon her ?
i ' ll open them .
txt peace shall go sleep with turks and infidels , and in this seat of peace tumultuous wars shall kin
, hearing applause and universal shout , giddy in spirit , still gazing in a doubt whether those peals of
one according to the gift which bounteous nature hath in him closed , whereby he does receive particular addition ,
the arbitrement is like to be bloody .
this day is call ' d the feast of crispian .
death hath snatch ' d my husband from mine arms and pluck ' d two crutches from my feeble hands-
for aught i know , my lord , they do .
my conscience firm , you should find better dealing .
[kills himself antony .
i shall remember .
jew , his friend launcelot gobbo , a clown , servant to shylock old gobbo , father to launcelot leonardo
chicken from a hungry kite as place duke humphrey for the king ' s protector ?
haply despair hath seiz ' d her ; or , wing ' d with fervour of her love , she
then know that i as snug the joiner am a lion fell , nor else no lion ' s dam
come on then , horse and chariots let us have , and to our sport .
yet i have fac ' d it with a card of ten .
a proper jest , and never heard before , that suffolk should demand a whole fifteenth for costs and charges
stay yet , lord salisbury , i ' ll go with thee and find th ' inheritance of this poor
a good persuasion ; therefore , hear me , hermia .
here is the babe , as loathsome as a toad amongst the fair-fac ' d breeders of our clime ;
exeunt enter provost , claudio , juliet , and officers ; lucio following claudio .
so gross in his jealousy till now .
yet at the first i saw the treasons planted .
not a soul but felt a fever of the mad , and play ' d some tricks of desperation .
you know no centaur !
my father was no traitor .
you swore to us , and you did swear that oath at doncaster , that you did nothing purpose '
and this same progeny of evils comes from our debate , from our dissension ; we are their parents and
see you here , sir ?
fire answers fire , and through their paly flames each battle sees the other ' s umber ' d face
o , peace , peace , peace !
the spring , the summer , the childing autumn , angry winter , change their wonted liveries ; and the
by the lord , i knew ye as well as he that made ye .
another part of the same street , before the house of brutus .
so take her to thee , shepherd .
it is the prince of palfreys ; his neigh is like the bidding of a monarch , and his countenance
[aside] no , faith ; not so much as his patience .
sirrah , your father ' s dead .
' chiron .
an oak but with one green leaf on it would have answered her ; my very visor began to assume
hastings , and edward ' s children , grey , and rivers , holy king henry , and thy fair
quite to forget this quarrel and the cause .
under a compelling occasion , let women die .
alas , poor caitiff !
i think i had ; i never did deny it .
this tempest will not give me leave to ponder on things would hurt me more .
as kill a king ?
of this allow , if ever you have spent time worse ere now ; if never , yet that time
petticoat , and so peep ' d through .
; and such a want-wit sadness makes of me that i have much ado to know myself .
if judgment lie in them , then so do we , because we ever have been near the king .
are not my measure , all these i better in one general best .
would the fountain of your mind were clear again , that i might water an ass at it .
as this the world .
we have record that very well it can ; and three examples of the like hath been within my age
leave your prating ; since these good men are pleas ' d , let them come in ; but quickly
by jeshu , i am your majesty ' s countryman , care not who know it ; i will confess
a cry within , " help , help !
well chosen , ridden , and furnish ' d .
and him to pomfret , where , as all you know , harmless richard was murdered traitorously .
but rather reason thus with reason fetter : love sought is good , but given unsought is better .
nothing in his life became him like the leaving it ; he died as one that had been studied in
you villain !
here in absence of thy friend ; and i likewise will visit thee with mine .
the mean is drown ' d with your unruly bass .
corioli .
you had look ' d through the grate , like a geminy of baboons .
lo now my glory smear ' d in dust and blood !
word ' s death ; no words can that woe sound .
txt hot .
and , i beseech you , look into master froth here , sir , a man of fourscore pound a
recantation !
he was not taken well : he had not din ' d ; the veins unfill ' d , our
' then , being there alone , left and abandoned of his velvet friends : ' ' tis right '
dispatch , dispatch .
the sight whereof i think you had from me , from claudio , and the prince ; but what '
thoughts tending to content flatter themselves that they are not the first of fortune ' s slaves , nor shall
i shall- achilles .
you depend upon him , i mean ?
my lord , this argues conscience in your grace ; but the respects thereof are nice and trivial , all
; and though the devil lead the measure , such are to be followed .
you were us ' d page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
thy heart is big ; get thee apart and weep .
he spake it twice and urg ' d it twice together , did he not ?
com ' st ' thou to ' beard me in denmark ?
mock not , enobarbus .
what will become of this ?
, and that i see , in passages of proof , time qualifies the spark and fire of it .
and other strains of woe , which now seem woe , compared with loss of thee , will not seem
come , sir , i pray you go .
i shifted him away , and laid good ' scuse upon your ecstasy ; bade him anon return and here
o isabel , will you not lend a knee ?
how like a younker or a prodigal the scarfed bark puts from her native bay , hugg ' d and
my grandam told me he was murder ' d there .
be a heinous sin , yield at entreats , and then let me alone : i ' ll find a
' s face .
i ' ll claim that promise at your grace ' s hand .
i told him you were sick ; he takes on him to understand so much , and therefore comes to
make your best of it .
thou abominable damn ' d cheater , art thou not ashamed to be called captain ?
are a leader .
so ' a bade me lay more clothes on his feet ; i put my hand into the bed and
proud saturnine , interrupter of the good that noble-minded titus means to thee !
how foolish do your fears seem now , calpurnia !
' better a witty fool than a foolish wit .
but , warwick , thou and oxford , with five thousand men , shall cross the seas and bid false
for joyful mother , one that wails the name ; for one being su ' d to , one that
sir valentine , your father is in good health .
having sense of beauty , do omit their mortal natures , letting go safely by the divine desdemona .
tear him to pieces .
all , all !
of prisoners , hotspur took mordake earl of fife and eldest son to beaten douglas , and the earl of
you , you , sirrah , where ' s my daughter ?
i do repent me ; read not my name there ; my heart is not confederate with my hand .
order the trial , marshal , and begin .
and now remains that we find out the cause of this effect- or rather say , the cause of this
sick ?
not being tried and tutor ' d in the world : experience is by industry achiev ' d , and
what , i have watch ' d ere now all night for lesser cause , and ne ' er been
say that thou overheard ' st us ; and bid her steal into the pleached bower , where honeysuckles ,
launce .
for none abides with me .
a dog of that house shall move me to stand .
enter pisanio [aside] here comes a flattering rascal ; upon him will i first work .
you lie out on ' t , sir , and therefore ' tis not yours .
slain .
taurus ?
offence pardons itself .
you know not what you do .
- shows julia but a swarthy ethiope .
now is it rome indeed , and room enough , when there is in it but one only man .
o excellent !
you are a good member of the commonwealth .
and roaring waters , with sands that will not bear your enemies ' boats but suck them up to th
let him be , until a time may serve ; for present vengeance , take it on her .
though bassianus be the emperor ' s brother , better than he have worn vulcan ' s badge .
what day is that ?
no more yet of this ; for ' tis a chronicle of day by day , not a relation for
sweet friends , to bed .
i think it lacks of twelve .
complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world library , inc .
yes , a dozen , and as many to the vantage as would store the world they played for .
and so it is , truly ; and very notably discharg ' d .
appetite .
mind .
for us to levy power proportionable to the enemy is all unpossible .
change you , madam ?
why , go to then .
from troy .
ungrown warrior .
if i thought it were a piece of honesty to acquaint the king withal , i would not do '
o tamora , be call ' d a gentle queen , and with thine own hands kill me in this
call you me daughter ?
[ascends] sicilius .
of war , retir ' d himself to italy ; and there , at venice , gave his body to
let me embrace thee , good old chronicle , that hast so long walk ' d hand in hand with
a drop of allaying tiber in ' t ; said to be something imperfect in favouring the first complaint ,
je pense qu ' ils sont appeles de fingres ; oui , de fingres .
i bear no hatred , blessed man , for , lo , my intercession likewise steads my foe .
on whom i built an absolute trust .
why , so , brave lords !
but mark me : to be received plain , i ' ll speak more gross- your brother is to die
shall come .
i take my leave of you .
and hath all the good gifts of nature .
all yet seems well ; and if it end so meet , the bitter past , more welcome is the
o , how this discord doth afflict my soul !
ebb .
i wonder , doctor , thou ask ' st me such a question .
o , ' tis an accident that heaven provides !
single you thither then this dainty doe , and strike her home by force if not by words .
menas , i did not think this amorous surfeiter would have donn ' d his helm for such a petty
' tis he .
master parson , am master parson ; for what is ' that ' but that , and ' is '
my lord of burgundy , we first address toward you , who with this king hath rivall ' d for
and the business you have broach ' d here cannot be without you ; especially that of cleopatra ' s
him ?
i ' ll send the fool to ajax , and desire him t ' invite the troyan lords , after
to live .
shall we sparingly show you far of the dauphin ' s meaning and our embassy ?
i thank you , sir ; and pray you tell me this : which of the two was daughter of
here comes the man , sir , that did rescue me .
at the which let no man wonder .
now , my lord hastings and sir william stanley , leave off to wonder why i drew you hither into
bird hath done to her own nest .
glove which your majesty is take out of the helmet of alencon .
you gentle pass ; for , if we may , we ' ll not offend one stomach with our play
but what of that ?
kill me tomorrow ; let me live tonight !
' tis your noblest course .
, the appetite may sicken and so die .
these exactions , whereof my sovereign would have note , they are most pestilent to th ' hearing ; and
the monument enter cleopatra , charmian , iras , and mardian cleopatra .
but few , and those but mean .
enter jessica jessica .
we ' ll not be long away .
goodman verges , sir , speaks a little off the matter--an old man , sir , and his wits are
their spirits are so married in conjunction with the participation of society that they flock together in consent , like
husband ' s coming , with half windsor at his heels , to search for such a one .
your hand , my lord .
missing .
o rare one !
we see in ladies ' eyes , with ourselves .
quality there is no fellow in the firmament .
ay , but hearken , sir ; though the chameleon love can feed on page _num_ complete works of william
but go we in , i pray thee , jessica , and ceremoniously let us prepare some welcome for the
thou art a widow , and thou hast some children ; and , by god ' s mother , i
a sudden thus advanc ' d in rome ?
ay , and he ' ll tame her .
here is my bed ; sleep give thee all his rest !
in these fear ' d hopes i barely gratify your love ; they failing , i must die much your
here comes fair mistress anne .
red , thou showest the naked pathway to thy life , teaching stern murder how to butcher thee .
be-i have be-dimm ' d the noontide sun , call ' d forth the mutinous winds , and ' twixt
speak , breathe , discuss ; brief , short , quick , snap .
count rousillon ?
sirrah , thou know ' st how orleans is besieg ' d , and how the english have the suburbs
thou art taken , queen !
by hercules , i think i am i ' th ' right .
come hither , gentlemen , and lay your hands again upon my sword .
yes , he would give ' t thee , from this rank offence , so to offend him still .
give your dispositions the reins , and be angry at your pleasures- at the least , if you take it
if thou seest her before me , commend me .
survivor bound in filial obligation for some term to do obsequious sorrow .
' fie , fie , how wayward is this foolish love , that like a testy babe will scratch the
who ' s there , i say ?
spit white again .
look you , who comes here , a young man and an old in solemn talk .
least syllable of thy addition .
a beggar ' s book outworths a noble ' s blood .
if i cannot ward what i would not have hit , i can watch you for telling how i took
and as i thrust thy body in with my sword , so wish i , i might thrust thy soul
, sir knight , grey of northumberland , this same is yours .
' canst thou believe thy living is a life , so stinkingly depending ?
the fiend is strong within him .
but the next morn betimes , his purpose surfeiting , he sends a warrant for my poor brother ' s
what is thy soul of adoration ?
antium .
txt i doubt we should have been too young for them .
o , thou didst then never love so heartily !
carrier .
what stuff wilt have a kirtle of ?
shall he marry her ?
o thou untaught !
prig , for my life , prig !
exit armado king .
his faults , in him , seem as the spots of heaven , more fiery by night ' s blackness
is that the elder , and art thou the heir ?
[dies] demetrius .
well , i will hie and so bestow these papers as you bade me .
sir , you and i have lov ' d- but there ' s not it .
enter four or five players .
he something seems unsettled .
whilst you were here o ' erwhelmed with your grief- a passion most unsuiting such a man- cassio came hither
it out in length , to stay you from election .
where be these enemies ?
(sings) how should i your true-love know from another one ?
may i speak with antonio ?
it shall be speeded well .
wherefore shouldst thou pity her ?
the grecians keep our aunt .
treason !
look that you love your wife ; her worth worth yours .
well , let them practise and converse with spirits : god is our fortress , in whose conquering name let
by my troth , i am sick .
taste our dear ' st repute with their fin ' st palate ; and trust to me , ulysses ,
my lays , as philomel in summer ' s front doth sing , and stops her pipe in growth of
[to ariel] thou shalt be as free as mountain winds ; but then exactly do all points of my command
or air , th ' extravagant and erring spirit hies to his confine ; and of the truth herein this
if any hour meet a sergeant , ' a turns back for very fear .
know , if you kill me for my fault , i should have died had i not made it .
pray thee go down .
every man here ' s so .
have him .
madam , if your heart be so obdurate , vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love , the picture
thou hast mistaken quite , and laid the love-juice on some true-love ' s sight .
[pistol and nym draw] bardolph .
, nor his offenses enforced , for which he suffered death .
void it up again with poisonous spite and envy .
trust to thy single virtue ; for thy soldiers , all levied in my name , have in my name
justice hath liquor ' d her .
the boy shall lead our horses down the hill ; we ' ll walk afoot awhile and ease our legs
txt three dukes of somerset , threefold renown ' d for hardy and undoubted champions ; two cliffords , as
give me your pardon .
of beauteous freedom , to drench the capitol , but that they would have one man but a man ?
do you think i meant country matters ?
all his successors , gone before him , hath done ' t ; and all his ancestors , that come
txt alarum .
i do wonder , thou naughty gaoler , that thou art so fond to come abroad with him at his
unseal this letter soon ; there you shall find three of your argosies are richly come to harbour suddenly .
masters , the duke is coming from the temple ; and there is two or three lords and ladies more
enter a goth , leading aaron with his child in his arms second goth .
sorrow and grief of heart makes him speak fondly , like a frantic man ; yet he is come .
he ' ll lead me , then , in triumph ?
she that ' s a maid now , and laughs at my departure , shall not be a maid long
and yet i know not how to get the crown , for many lives stand between me and home ;
, yet the traitor stands in worse case of woe .
he must observe their mood on whom he jests , the quality of persons , and the time ; and
yes , that i will ; and wherefore will i do it ?
than both in blood and life , stands up for the main soldier ; whose quality , going on ,
a letter caesar .
enter host , caius , and rugby page .
wish ' d to fall by the false faith of him whom most i trusted ; this , this all-souls
the stronger part of it by her own letters , which makes her story true even to the point of
i well allow the occasion of our amis ; but gladly would be better satisfied how , in our means
not you by me , but i betrayed to you .
sir , if it please your honour , this is not so .
- sweet sovereign , leave us to ourselves , and make yourself some comfort out of your best advice .
the poor monster ' s my subject , and he shall not suffer indignity .
the roman emperor ' s letters , sent by a consul to me , should not sooner than thine own
ay , thou wast born to be a plague to men .
my poverty but not my will consents .
where is it ?
caliban .
; and their memory shall as a pattern or a measure live by which his grace must mete the lives
would lie were here , my lord !
, wherein necessity , of matter beggar ' d , will nothing stick our person to arraign in ear and
my spirits grow dull , and fain i would beguile the tedious day with sleep .
re-enter falstaff and the justices falstaff .
yet i live like a poor gentleman born .
one way or other , she is for a king ; and she shall be my love , or else
my mind was never yet more mercenary .
txt videlicet , a brothel , or so forth .
not for thy fairy kingdom .
come , masters , let ' s home .
[exit polonius .
farewell , good wenches .
[adam retires] oliver .
why , thou silly gentleman !
, make speed from hence .
i think this talbot be a fiend of hell .
or take off thine by wond ' ring how thou took ' st it .
have you read o ' er the letters that i sent you ?
element ; but long it could not be till that her garments , heavy with their drink , pull '
with this strange virtue he hath a heavenly gift of prophecy , and sundry blessings hang about his throne that
o , very mad , exceeding mad , in love too .
my dreams will , sure , prove ominous to the day .
him lie , and i will use him for my minstrelsy .
this is no witness for lord angelo .
txt rivers .
[aside] honest lord , thou hast said well ; for some of you there present are worse than devils .
say that he thrive , as ' tis great like he will , why , then from ireland come i
>> _num_ love ' s labour ' s lost by william shakespeare dramatis personae .
lord chatillon may from england bring that right in peace which here we urge in war , and then we
sweet recreation barr ' d , what doth ensue but moody and dull melancholy , kinsman to grim and comfortless
; but god is to be worshipp ' d ; all men are not alike , alas , good neighbour
[stands apart] king richard .
but i ' ll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle .
i ' ll be reveng ' d on the whole pack of you .
give me my principal , and let me go .
when she did think my master lov ' d her well , she , in my judgment , was as
heart out of thinking , that you are in love , or that you will be in love , or
proceed , good alexander .
>> _num_ twelfth night ; or , what you will page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
virginity being blown down , man will quicklier be blown up ; marry , in blowing him down again ,
swear ?
and my will one , in things of great receipt with case we prove , among a number one is
o , god forgive my sins and pardon thee !
and don armado shall be your keeper .
doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow .
now , who ' ll take it ?
my life , sir , in any case !
what ' s your dark meaning , mouse , of this light word ?
the aim and very flash of it .
this day is ours , as many more shall be .
every letter he hath writ hath disvouch ' d other .
nine- o , think what they have done , and then run mad indeed , stark mad ; for all
there be four of us here have ta ' en a thousand pound this day morning .
my brave spirit !
where i have come , great clerks have purposed to greet me with premeditated welcomes ; where i have seen
good time of day unto your royal grace !
let us hear him .
when from the first to last , betwixt us two , tears our recountments had most kindly bath ' d
that ornament to shape and love , misshapen in the conduct of them both , like powder in a skilless
you wrong your virtues with these weak women ' s fears .
i cannot draw a cart , nor eat dried oats ; if it be man ' s work , i
do not draw the curtain .
a good traveller is something at the latter end of a dinner ; but one that lies three-thirds and uses
i pray thee , do on them some violent death ; they have been violent to me and mine .
exeunt , leading katharine <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by
would you desire lime and hair to speak better ?
mercy o ' me , what a multitude are here !
he doth me wrong to feed me with delays .
and when you find him evenly deriv ' d from his most fam ' d of famous ancestors , edward
while these do labour for their own preferment , behoves it us to labour for the realm .
do not swear at all ; or if thou wilt , swear by thy gracious self , which is the
what would you have , you curs , that like nor peace nor war ?
the lark , that tirra-lirra chants , with heigh !
ay , he .
i see that men make ropes in such a scarre that we ' ll forsake ourselves .
come , you shall go with us .
what have you there ?
nature in you stands on the very verge of her confine .
all our followers .
to gild refined gold , to paint the lily , to throw a perfume on the violet , to smooth
by my troth , sweet lord , thou hast a fine forehead .
i am content ; provide me soldiers , lords , whiles i take order for mine own affairs .
this is the quondam king ; let ' s seize upon him .
now , a song .
gloucester , see here the tainture of thy nest ; and look thyself be faultless , thou wert best .
yes , but you will my noble grapes , an if my royal fox could reach them : i have
see how the ugly witch doth bend her brows as if , with circe , she would change my shape
an ' t please your lordship , i hear his majesty is return ' d with some discomfort from wales
be cast from possibility of all .
yes , that thou hast , whether thou art tainted or free .
i ' ll be sworn ' tis true ; he will weep you , and ' twere a man born
a trim reckoning !
ay ; or else ' twere hard luck , being in so preposterous estate as we are .
hear you , sir ?
] titinius is enclosed round about with horsemen , that make to him on the spur ; yet he spurs
what your own love will out of this advise you , follow .
the smiles of knaves tent in my cheeks , and schoolboys ' tears take up the glasses of my sight
and let the laboring bark climb hills of seas olympus-high , and duck again as low as hell ' s
adriana .
imagination of some great exploit drives him beyond the bounds of patience .
skulls ?
sirs , a word .
where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill with sorrowful water ?
more than three hours the fight continued ; where valiant talbot , above human thought , enacted wonders with his
what ' s your name , sir ?
you may deny that you were not the mean of my lord hastings ' late imprisonment .
fare you well ; i ' ll grow a talker for this gear .
; a good nose is requisite also , to smell out work for th ' other senses .
wish we all joy and honour .
m .
i ' ll believe both ; and what does else want credit , come to me , and i '
your ears should rift to hear me ; and the words that follow ' d should be ' remember mine
toucheth us both- that we may yet again have access to our fair mistress , and be happy rivals in
i had rather give his carcass to my hounds .
, thou hast beguil ' d my hopes ; nought but mine eye could have persuaded me .
why , bride !
he ' ll beat aufidius ' head below his knee and tread upon his neck .
others page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
since their more mature dignities and royal necessities made separation of their society , their encounters , though not personal
is there no pity sitting in the clouds that sees into the bottom of my grief ?
is she not here thy prisoner ?
trifles light as air are to the jealous confirmations strong as proofs of holy writ ; this may do something
prayers from preserved souls , from fasting maids , whose minds are dedicate to nothing temporal .
did you perceive how he laughed at his vice ?
a halter , soldiers !
why , thou peevish sheep , what ship of epidamnum stays for me ?
that i might sleep out this great gap of time my antony is away .
, comfort your bed , and talk to you sometimes ?
and helen so blush ' d , and paris so chaf ' d ; and all the rest so laugh
what letter are you reading there ?
it were as possible for me to say i loved nothing so well as you .
but he , sir , had the election ; and i , of whom his eyes had seen the proof
and proofs as clear as founts in july when we see each grain of gravel-i do know to be corrupt
then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends ?
i thank my stars i am happy .
and does the meanest chares .
upon some book i love i ' ll pray for thee .
him ere ' t be long .
is wretchedness depriv ' d that benefit to end itself by death ?
' it comes of accommodo .
their adversaries .
they sparkle still the right promethean fire ; they are the books , the arts , the academes , that
in them .
voice to assist my simpleness .
a right good husband , let him be a noble ; and sure those men are happy that shall have
txt and messengers <<this electronic version of the complete works of william shakespeare is copyright _num_ - _num_ by world
no , cassius , no .
i do demand , if you submit you to the people ' s voices , allow their officers , and
enter macduff .
, for mine own part , if i were as tedious as a king , i could find in my
my shame and guilt confounds me .
or i my life .
txt two of the first , like coats in heraldry , due but to one , and crowned with one
that were the means to help him ; a base foul stone , made precious by the foil of england
' father- sir , in fine , seeing how loathly opposite i stood to his unnatural purpose , in fell
and your virginity , your old virginity , is like one of our french wither ' d pears : it
why , brother , wherefore stand you on nice points ?
here , take away this dish .
ay , saw you anything ?
[the brother and the sons kneel] marcus .
villain , thou liest ; for even her very words didst thou deliver to me on the mart .
enter timon and attendants timon .
i met him ; and like rich hangings in a homely house , so was his will in his old
lines to time thou grow ' st , so long as men can breathe or eyes can see , so
haply , for i am black and have not those soft parts of conversation that chamberers have , or for
the other moiety ere you ask is given ; repeat your will , and take it .
in peace there ' s nothing so becomes a man as modest stillness and humility ; but when the blast
she is with child ; and he that got it , sentenc ' d- a young man more fit to
have you heard it ?
but i remember now i am in this earthly world , where to do harm is often laudable , to
i do beseech you , chiefly that i might set it in my prayers , what is your name ?
you have made me offer of sicily , sardinia ; and i must rid all the sea of pirates ;
exit falstaff .
the rebels are in southwark ; fly , my lord !
marry , i cannot show it in rhyme .
txt which drizzled blood upon the capitol ; the noise of battle hurtled in the air , horses did neigh
by gar , me do look he shall clapper-de-claw me ; for , by gar , me vill have it
it is a massy wheel , fix ' d on the summit of the highest mount , to whose huge
i beseech thee , youth , but not another sin upon my head by urging me to fury .
where france ?
i do not think he fears death .
' s something in me that reproves my fault ; but such a headstrong potent fault it is that it
no , by this bad .
much is your sorrow ; mine ten times so much .
save thee , curan .
yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by pailfuls .
then , good my lord , teach your cousin to consent winking .
abbess .
not that i think you did not love your father ; but that i know love is begun by time
gentleman , or give me the poor allottery my father left me by testament ; with that i will go
meets , is hush ' d within the hollow mine of earth , and will not hear it .
yet here she is allow ' d her virgin crants , her maiden strewments , and the bringing home of
at tables , chides the dice in honourable terms ; nay , he can sing a mean most meanly ;
enter octavius , antony , messala , lucilius , and the army .
have you forgot me ?
; and so , good rest .
foolish curs , that run winking into the mouth of a russian bear , and have their heads crush '
good night , and better health attend his majesty !
go with me to the duchess .
i am none , by this good light .
treasons : that you might well have signified the same unto the citizens , who haply may misconster us in
this evening on the east side of the grove .
wrong-it may not be ; and you that do abet him in this kind cherish rebellion , and are rebels
to her will , sir , or so .
itself to me .
we were not born to sue , but to command ; which since we cannot do to make you friends
at once , good night .
and so no doubt he is , my gracious madam .
yellow , glittering , precious gold ?
then lord have mercy on me !
go we to him straight .
not your gaoler then , but your kind .
where hath it slept ?
fie on thee !
nay , go not from me ; i will follow thee .
give me an ounce of civet , good apothecary , to sweeten my imagination .
wife to france , from whence set forth in pomp , she came adorned hither like sweet may , sent
titinius .
enter leontes , antigonus , lords , and others leontes .
wilt thou be of our consort ?
my salad days , when i was green in judgment , cold in blood , to say as i said
and your fairest daughter and mine , my god-daughter ellen ?
sure , it is hers .
northward look to see his father bring up his powers ; but he did long in vain .
my lord , my lord- chief justice .
my honourable friend , agrippa !
stay yet ; hear reason .
very good , my lord .
much in duty i am bound to both .
therefore is love said to be a child , because in choice he is so oft beguil ' d .
my niece plantagenet , led in the hand of her kind aunt of gloucester ?
to be the pillage of a giglot wench .
, the very blood to suck .
[falls fainting on the body] enter lucius , captains , and a soothsayer captain .
fix ' d in virtue ' s ground , the leaves and fruit maintain ' d with beauty ' s
then , pistol , lay thy head in furies ' lap .
thou counterfeit to thy true friend !
good , my lord , you are full of heavenly stuff , and bear the inventory of your best graces
only their ends you have respected ; stopp ' d your ears against the general suit of rome ; never
dead , sure ; and this his grave .
the pope , and count his friends my foes .
i am no orator , as brutus is ; but , as you know me all , a plain blunt
charles , and the rest , it is enacted thus : that , in regard king henry gives consent ,
and corrigible authority of this lies in our wills .
o juno !
believe she wept for the death of a third husband .
go up ; i ' ll bring linen for him straight .
his reasons are as two grains of wheat hid page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
lend me your hand .
that i would not for a cow , god save her !
blossom , speed thee well !
god keep you .
meisen .
o , defend me !
have i not been thy pupil long ?
crown , for that ' s the golden mark i seek to hit .
you cankerblossom !
thus do the hopes we have in him touch ground and dash themselves to pieces .
of my spiteful execrations .
even such a man , so faint , so spiritless , so dull , so dread in look , so
the tithe of a hair was never lost in my house before .
caesar , i i stood on ceremonies , yet now they fright me .
s fragile vessel doth sustain in life ' s uncertain voyage , i will some kindness do them- i '
ay , the woman ' s maid of the house .
theme and hearing ever- was in this britain , and conquer ' d it , cassibelan , thine uncle ,
mores , than e ' er i shall love wife .
justice have i found so severe that he hath forc ' d me to tell him he is indeed justice
hark , a word with you .
take me this work out .
my dear .
the noblest prisoner of the goths .
this is venice ; my house is not a grange .
where is the foolish knave i sent before ?
what , art mad ?
a frenchman ?
i think it be thine indeed , for thou liest in ' t .
my fair bianca , bid my father welcome , while i with self-same kindness welcome thine .
&c .
archidamus .
caithness .
you knew my father well , and in him me , left solely heir to all his lands and goods
i know you are of her bosom .
name of .
i was , i must confess , great albion ' s queen in former golden days ; but now mischance
no , by no means !
that was the way to make his godhead wax ; for he hath been five thousand year a boy .
with sour looks afflict his gentle heart .
the operation of the orbs from whom we do exist and cease to be ; here i disclaim all my
moon , the governess of floods , pale in her anger , washes all the air , that rheumatic diseases
works of william shakespeare .
st it cold .
thou shalt have one .
good morrow , richmond !
do not presume too much upon my love ; i may do that i shall be sorry for .
whose voices i desire aloud with mine- hail , king of scotland !
cool it with a baboon ' s blood , then the charm is firm and good .
my lords , you know , as know the mightful gods , however these disturbers of our peace buzz in
her boat hath a leak , and she must not speak why she dares not come over to thee .
i say , sing .
ay , rather than i ' ll shame my mother ' s womb .
of the city consisteth of all nations .
thou fumblest , eros , and my queen ' s a squire more tight at this than thou .
what say ' st thou , silvius ?
i heard him say brutus and cassius are rid like madmen through the gates of rome .
in faith , i will , lo ; never trust me else .
' r ' d .
i like this fair proceeding of the king ' s .
well , you ' ll still be too forward .
ah , my good friend , what cheer ?
and do you now cull out a holiday ?
do thou meet me presently at the harbor .
vouchsafe to show the sunshine of your face , that we , like savages , may worship it .
both with an r .
sir , call me what thou dar ' st .
d , there to remain .
names of fiends .
keep him out .
why , such is love ' s transgression .
let ' s set our men in order , and issue forth and bid them battle straight .
; holding them in human action and capacity of no more soul nor fitness for the world than camels in
in food , in sport , and life-preserving rest , to be disturb ' d would mad or man or
nay , that ' s most fix ' d .
having that do choke their service up even with the having ; it is not so with thee .
certain , men should be what they seem .
iwis your grandam had a worser match .
he shall taste of my bottle ; if he have never drunk wine afore , it will go near to
therefore , i pray you , as you have ever been my father ' s honour ' d friend ,
look out o ' th ' other side your monument ; his guard have brought him thither .
faith with him !
whether ' twas pride , which out of daily fortune ever taints the happy man ; whether defect of judgment
pray get you out .
kind ?
as little by such toys as may be possible .
why , that word makes the faults gracious .
who is he comes here ?
my lords , forbear this talk ; here comes the king .
the thieves have bound the true men .
yet cold under water , nor the bear half din ' d on the gentleman ; he ' s at
yes , i warrant ; speciously one of them ; mistress ford , good heart , is beaten black and
i for ever , and my faction , wear , until it wither with me to my grave , or
drops too few to wash her clean again , and salt too little which may season give to her foul
were we not born under taurus ?
now my brother .
i am compar ' d to twenty thousand fairs .
then , god be bless ' d , it is the blessed sun ; but sun it is not ,
now i arise .
look how she rubs her hands .
thou art thy father ' s daughter ; there ' s enough .
how many stand for consulships ?
come you , my lord , to see my open shame ?
what should they grant ?
enter agamemnon , nestor , ulysses , diomedes , menelaus , and others agamemnon .
think it no more .
manifest treason !
not one to throw at a dog .
; but since that thou canst talk of love so well , page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
the best of happiness , honour , and fortunes , keep with you , lord timon !
by this light , thou shalt be my lieutenant , monster , or my standard .
i told your grace they would talk anon .
so did you me , my liege .
with half that wish the wisher ' s eyes be press ' d !
- speak .
can you eat roots , and drink cold water- no ?
most wholesome physic of thy health-giving air ; and , as i am a gentleman , betook myself to walk
, or such shoes as my toes look through the overleather .
this absence of your father ' s draws a curtain that shows the ignorant a kind of fear before not
that brutus ' love to caesar was no less than his .
to the breach , to the breach !
make you a wholesome answer ; my wit ' s diseas ' d .
i ' ll be as patient as a gentle stream , and make a pastime of each weary step ,
the brutish sting itself ; and all th ' embossed sores and headed evils that thou with license of free
thou art reverend touching thy spiritual function , not thy life .
why , this was moulded on a porringer ; a velvet dish .
that ' s not my fear ; my meed hath got me fame : i have not stopp ' d
that same villain romeo .
and we mean well , in going to this masque ; but ' tis no wit to go .
hollow , treacherous , and full of guile , be he unto me !
you look upon that sleeve ; behold it well .
dark directed .
this follows , if you will not change your purpose but undergo this flight : make for sicilia , and
where then do you know best we be affied , and such assurance ta ' en as shall with either
enter worcester .
d , no hat upon his head , his stockings foul ' d , ungart ' red , and down-gyved
father baptista , i charge you see that he be forthcoming .
her lips !
enter a messenger , blowing but what art thou , whose heavy looks foretell some dreadful story hanging on thy
this is her honour !
think there ' s any , y ' are so slight .
wise ; but pardon , father nestor , were your days as green as ajax ' and your brain so
heaven ' s eye , and revel in lavinia ' s treasury .
what became of him i further know not .
they say , in care of your most royal person , that if your highness should intend to sleep and
i will the banner from a trumpet take , and use it for my haste .
till then i banish thee , on pain of death , as i have done the rest of my misleaders
tale vilely ; i should first tell thee how the prince , claudio and my master , planted and placed
it did come to his hands , and commands shall be executed .
hast thou given all to thy two daughters , and art thou come to this ?
his soul ' s rest .
crocodile .
the king your father- princess of france .
would you were not sick !
what shall he have that kill ' d the deer ?
i wonder men dare trust themselves with men .
are ye all gone ?
heart to bestow it all of your worship .
enter macmorris and captain jamy gower .
is all our company here ?
d before .
know ' st thou not that when the searching eye of heaven is hid , behind the globe , that
though for myself alone i would not be ambitious in my wish to wish myself much better , yet for
look you , i love you well ; i ' ll give you gold , rid me these villains from
now pile your dust upon the quick and dead till of this flat a mountain you have made t '
menenius .
we know ' t , we know ' t .
what , doth my lord of suffolk comfort me ?
this poor right hand of mine is left to tyrannize upon my breast ; who , when my heart ,
what , all so soon asleep !
injuries that to my self i do , doing thee vantage , double-vantage me .
silence awhile .
but yet , madam- cleopatra .
th ' other .
it is an heretic that makes the fire , not she which burns in ' t .
marry , sir , ' tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers .
doth not brutus bootless kneel ?
strike up the drums ; and let the tongue of war , plead for our interest and our being here
where is this hector ?
to sell .
upon the parting of your wives and you .
my nobles leave me ; and my state is braved , even at my gates , with ranks of foreign
sheep in lions ' stead : sheep run not half so treacherous from the wolf , or horse or oxen
thou say ' st his meat was sauc ' d with thy upbraidings : unquiet meals make ill digestions ;
now entertain conjecture of a time when creeping murmur and the poring dark fills the wide vessel of the universe
marry , i prithee , do , to make sport withal ; but love no man in good earnest ,
and , all my powers , address your love and might to honour helen , and to be her knight
do i look like a cudgel or a hovel-post , a staff or a prop ?
unless he seek to thrust you out perforce .
it was not lent me neither .
come , sir , which men shall i have ?
, to be the mark of smoky muskets ?
both varro ' s servants .
have both their eyes and ears so cloy ' d importantly as now , that they will waste their time
died , my icarus , my blossom , in his pride .
be guilty , as ' tis published .
will you help- an ass-head and a coxcomb and a knave , a thin fac ' d knave , a
exeunt omnes the end page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
my soul and fortunes consecrate .
i follow thee .
good night , honest iago .
a herald , kate ?
our good deed , though rome be therefore angry .
let myself and fortune tug for the time to come .
' ll walk to still my beating mind .
the noise goes , this : there is among the greeks a lord of troyan blood , nephew to hector
i fear some outrage , and i ' ll follow her .
' tis even so ; yet you are warwick still .
still wars and lechery !
what ' s in a name ?
do thou work .
as a friend or an enemy ?
listen , car .
but how is it that this lives in thy mind ?
i lost twenty lives .
i thank you .
is it a world to hide virtues in ?
now bound to believe him .
the manner of their taking may appear at large discoursed in this paper here .
he knows not me .
dispatch , sweet gentlemen , and follow me .
what , robert !
txt pistol .
him , if there be any law in illyria ; though i struck him first , yet it ' s
the former agents , if they did complain , what could the belly answer ?
be ' t so ; and let us , polydore , though now our voices have got the mannish crack
the duke ' s palace enter orsino , duke of illyria , curio , and other lords ; musicians attending
if i should tell thee o ' er this thy day ' s work , thou ' t not believe
dare accuse you .
doubtful it stood , as two spent swimmers that do cling together and choke their art .
well sweet queen , you are pleasant with me .
thine eyes .
i would i knew thy heart .
her cause and yours i ' ll perfect him withal ; and he shall bring you before the duke ;
will you come to bed , my lord ?
masterly done !
and , princes french , and peers , health to you all !
your patience this allowing , i turn my glass , and give my scene such growing as you had slept
i will not believe such a cataian though the priest o ' th ' town commended him for a true
now , my fair ' st friend , i would i had some flow ' rs o ' th '
make thee a fortune from me .
relation .
too cold an adieu .
sempronius ' house enter sempronius and a servant of timon ' s sempronius .
- the lion , mov ' d with pity , did endure to have his princely paws par ' d
on king richard ' s head .
talk thy tongue weary- speak .
; so desperate thieves , all hopeless of their lives , breathe out invectives ' gainst the officers .
' i ne ' er drank sack in my life ; and if you give me any conserves , give
live , that i may tell pale-hearted fear it lies , and sleep in spite of thunder .
arch-villain .
now is he for the numbers that petrarch flowed in .
i lay aside that which grows to me !
i give you welcome with a powerless hand , but with a heart full of unstained love ; welcome before
canst , unto antonio ' s house .
exeunt cominius and menenius sicinius .
my heart to thee , thou setter-up and plucker-down of kings , beseeching thee , if with thy will it
txt that shone so brightly when this boy was got , he dies upon my scimitar ' s sharp point
first sentinel .
th ' paste alive .
o , where is loyalty ?
sweet soul , let ' s in , and there expect their coming .
first man that leapt ; cried ' hell is empty , and all the devils are here .
thus kent , o princes , bids you all adieu ; he ' ll shape his old course in a
a gentleman of mine i have dispatch ' d with letters of your love to her at large .
i am sorry i should force you to believe that which i would to god i had not seen ;
meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our page _num_ complete works of william shakespeare .
as i did sleep under this yew tree here , i dreamt my master and another fought , and that
thou art welcome , caius .
i cannot think , my lord , your son is dead .
for not being at court ?
[kisses them .
how parted he with thee ?
the palace of theseus enter theseus , hippolyta , philostrate , lords , and attendants hippolyta .
flower of warriors , how is ' t with titus lartius ?
besides , this duncan hath borne his faculties so meek , hath been so clear in his great office ,
give me now leave to leave thee .
enter dull , costard , and jaquenetta dull .
o , nicholas hopkins ?
let some o ' th ' guard be ready there .
o lord , sir , let me live , or let me see my death !
speak once again .
pride hath no other glass to show itself but pride ; for supple knees feed arrogance and are the proud
gremio , ' tis now no time to vent our love .
from camp to camp , through the foul womb of night , the hum of either army stilly sounds ,
you cannot show me .
having been three months married to her , sitting in my state- sir toby .
so , the good horse is mine .
for my part , i had rather bear with you than bear you ; yet i should bear no cross
that plantagenet which held thee dearly as his soul ' s redemption is by the stern lord clifford done to
i should not urge thy duty past thy might ; i know young bloods look for a time of rest
gratiano .
o , that thou wert not , poor distressed soul !
' tis not well mended so ; it is but botch ' d .
this is the feast that i have bid her to , and this the banquet she shall surfeit on ;
well , now can i make any joan a lady .
get you gone , and let me hear no more of you .
women grow by men wife .
the devil take antenor !
you , niece , provide yourself .
' d of the whore of babylon .
but as ' tis , we cannot miss him : he does make our fire , fetch in our wood
tybalt , the kinsman to old capulet , hath sent a letter to his father ' s house .
stop close their mouths , let them not speak a word .
so , so , we draw together .
sir , i will .
lovers and men in dangerous bonds pray not alike ; though forfeiters you cast in prison , yet you clasp
flat burglary as ever was committed .
what a past-saving slave is this !
and what hope is that , i pray thee ?
come , come , my lord , you ' d spare your spoons .
this kindness will i show .
make proselytes of who she but bid follow .
now , blasphemy , that swear ' st grace o ' erboard , not an oath on shore ?
i ' ll meet you in the valleys .
good ev ' n , audrey .
would i do this ?
counterfeit , i assure you .
nothing else .
let still the woman take an elder than herself ; so wears she to him , so sways she level
take thy forfeiture .
thou art my heir ; the rest i wish thee gather ; but yet be wary in thy studious care
my lord , dispatch ; read o ' er these articles .
be a virtuous and well-govern ' d youth .
he is return ' d .
my prettiest perdita !
are there no other tokens between you ' greed concerning her observance ?
to that end , as matching to his youth and vanity , i did present him with the paris balls
hath not our brother made a worthy choice ?
make large confusion ; and , thy fury spent , confounded be thyself !
hence banished is banish ' d from the world , and world ' s exile is death .
he needs not ; it is no hidden virtue in him .
nor this i have not , brother , so denied but our request shall make me let it pass .
for his particular , i ' ll receive him gladly , but not one follower .
makes us rather bear those ills we have than fly to others that we know not of ?
, and give him another hope , to betray him to another punishment ?
mind , the sudden surprise of my powers , drove the grossness of the foppery into a receiv ' d
[aside] but methinks he should stand in fear of fire , being burnt i ' th ' hand for stealing
if i had a mind to be honest , i see fortune would not suffer me : she drops booties
camp near tamworth enter richmond , oxford , sir james blunt , sir walter herbert , and others , with
happy be you !
- and thus much for greeting .
well-tun ' d horns , as if a double hunt were heard at once , let us sit down and
i am asham ' d .
this child of fancy , that armado hight , for interim to our studies shall relate , in high-born words
i came from edward as ambassador , but i return his sworn and mortal foe .
her off and let her down the wind to prey at fortune .
by my troth , i take my young lord to be a very melancholy man .
marry , she hath receiv ' d your letter ; for the which she thanks you a thousand times ;
exeunt all but lucius lucius .
stand from him , fellow ; wherefore hang ' st thou upon him ?
which for some reasons , sir , i mean to see .
be asleep , to pry into the secrets of the state ; till henry , surfeiting in joys of love
let us be lead within thy bosom , richard , and weigh thee down to ruin , shame , and
my master sir john is come in at your back-door , mistress ford , and requests your company .
phebe , with all my heart .
when time is ripe , which will be suddenly , i ' ll steal to glendower and lord mortimer ,
i am not sick , if brutus have in hand any exploit worthy the name of honor .
your majesty shall mock me ; i cannot speak your england .
good fortune bids us pause and smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks .
nay , behold ' s !
to her cock ; her cock , a buoy almost too small for sight .
txt tell him from me- as he will win my love- he bear himself with honourable action , such as
pardon me , sir , your bad entertainment .
i ' ll weep , and word it with thee ; for notes of sorrow out of tune are worse
d that i return ' d with simular proof enough to make the noble leonatus mad , by wounding his
tower .
this was a merry message .
the widow ' s house enter bertram and diana bertram .
he must die .
so tell them , publius .
and here i take the like unfeigned oath , never to marry with her though she would entreat ; fie
but little vantage shall i reap thereby , for ere the six years that he hath to spend can change
go , bid the soldiers shoot .
for your life you durst not .
may a man do it ?
all , a man distill ' d out of our virtues ; who miscarrying , what heart receives from hence
what , goodman boy ?
harbourage within your city walls .
caesar ?
' s cow and got a calf in that same noble feat much like to you , for you have
his treasure spent ; and yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil .
thy love is better than high birth to me , richer than wealth , prouder than garments ' costs ,
exeunt , bearing the body of coriolanus [a dead march sounded] the end <<this electronic version of the complete works
know of me then- for now i speak to some purpose- that i know you are a gentleman of good
and what of all this ?
they have ta ' en note of us ; keep on your way .
i would your duty were as foolish too ; the wisdom of your duty , fair bianca , hath cost
[they exchange habits] in brief , sir , sith it your pleasure is , and i am tied to be
you are they that made the air unwholesome when you cast your stinking greasy caps in hooting at coriolanus '
fore-rank of our articles .
love , and be silent .
come , come , walk in the park .
our slaught ' red friends the tackles ; what of these ?
let him demand his fill .
pluck down forms , windows , anything .
justly as your soul should with your body .
exit first varro ' s servant .
and thatch your poor thin roofs with burdens of the dead- some that were hang ' d , no matter
it !
[aside to sebastian] i am right glad that he ' s so out of hope .
let it shine , then .
he will hear none .
all his might , for thee to fight , john falstaff .
je pense que je suis le bon ecolier ; j ' ai gagne deux mots d ' anglais vitement .
all thy tediousness on me , ah ?
didst thou see anything ?
well , what would you say ?
' tis so , i am an ass ; else it could never be but i should know her as
one word more , i beseech you .
there , at your meet ' st advantage of the time , infer the bastardy of edward ' s children
and being now trimm ' d in thine own desires , thou , beastly feeder , art so full of
ordained is to raise this tedious siege and drive the english forth the bounds of france .
when shall we see again ?
take leave of thy old master , and inquire my lodging out .
not , cressid .
why , do you not perceive the jest ?
and use .
therefore use none .
what mutter you , or what conspire you , lords ?
and then to bed .
the wrinkles which thy glass will truly show , of mouthed graves will give thee memory , thou by thy
[sings] alas , why is she so ?
from this moment the very firstlings of my heart shall be the firstlings of my hand .
and while i live i ' ll ne ' er fly from a man .
txt and never from this palace of dim night depart again .
more hath he spent in peace than they in wars .
txt to any shape of thy preferment , such as thou ' lt desire ; and then myself , i
fashions to adorn my body .
and how comest thou hither , where no man never comes but that sad dog that brings me food to
titus lartius , thou shalt see me once more strike at tullus ' face .
may it please your highness to hear me speak his good now ?
enter ceres ceres .
o , no , a lanthorn , slaught ' red youth , for here lies juliet , and her beauty
defeat .
o well-knit samson !
if ever he have child , abortive be it , prodigious , and untimely brought to light , whose ugly
i am not gamesome ; i do lack some part of that quick spirit that is in antony .
pray their graces to come near .
alcibiades .
but tell the dauphin i will keep my state , be like a king , and show my sail of
perchance she cannot meet him .
there to woo .
txt that she would soon be here .
i am not in the giving vein to-day .
our great navy ' s rigg ' d .
[clock strikes] one , two , three .
in fortune .
thy husband .
thy father ' s charge shall clear thee from that stain .
the northern lords that have forsworn thy colours will follow mine , if once they see them spread ; and
will you go to them ?
you in music .
not one word more , my maids ; break off , break off .
by some damn ' d hand was robbed and ta ' en away .
till then , fair boy , will i not think of home , but follow arms .
[aside] this punk is one of cupid ' s carriers ; clap on more sails ; pursue ; up with
now , hector , i have fed mine eyes on thee ; i have with exact view perus ' d
and do still , by these pickers and stealers !
txt angelo , escalus .
who can blot that name with any just reproach ?
how darkly and how deadly dost thou speak !
a beggar , brother ?
a change : woe is forerun with woe .
master shallow , i owe you a thousand pounds .
by heaven , he echoes me , as if there were some monster in his thought too hideous to be
saw you him to-day ?
what were more holy than to rejoice the former queen is well ?
title capital through all the kingdoms that acknowledge christ .
lord mayor- gloucester .
i ' ll hold my mind , were she an ethiope .
lower messes perchance are to this business purblind ?
